[{"Title":"One of my favorite films","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"88 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While backpacking through Europe, two friends, David Kessler (David Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Griffin Dunne), find themselves out on England's moors, despite advice to avoid them. When a wild animal attacks them, one of them dies, and the other just might be turning into a monster.Director John Landis' pet project--he had to sit on the script for 10 years before he had enough clout from other films for this one to be greenlighted--is an excellent, seamless melding of comedy and horror, with a surprising amount of brutality and one of the most wonderfully dark, abrupt conclusions ever made.John Irving once said that he loves to put comedy and tragedy in close conjunction because each can make the other more effective. That's just the effect that the combination has in An American Werewolf In London. Both the comedy and the horror in the film are fully committed to, unlike many attempts to merge the two. If the whole is greater than the sum of its parts is ever true, this is an example. The comic bits wouldn't be nearly as delightful if they didn't supervene on the disturbing, and the horror wouldn't have near the impact if they didn't arrive in the context where you half-expect the next moment to be just as lighthearted and amusing. Both the initial animal attack and the apocalyptic ending are perfect examples of this.Aside from that exquisite unusualness, An American Werewolf In London has many other superb characteristics. The cast is perfect. Naughton, who also starred in the seriously underrated Desire, The Vampire (aka I, Desire) (1982), carries the film with ease. The cinematography is excellent. The shots of the countryside (actually filmed in Wales) are actually both beautiful and very eerie at the same time. The make-up effects are awesome, and the transformation effects are unsurpassed. The music, which is primarily a number of different moon related pop songs, is also perfect, partially because of the bizarre contrasts in mood that the music creates, which echoes the comedy/tragedy juxtaposition. Unlike many other films, every scene in this one is a something I'd like to spend years exploring. The settings, the characters, the scenarios are all so fascinating.This film is a 10 out of 10 even with one hand tied behind its back. If you enjoy it, and you're open minded about newer horror film styles, the sequel, An American Werewolf in Paris, is also worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Great film, full of humor and thrills.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"76 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best werewolf movies ever made, full of dark humor and gory thrills.  As most people know, this has one of the best  human/werewolf transformation scenes in cinematic history!  The only other movie to show such detail is The Howling.  This movie is really fun to watch, and if you are seeing it for the first time you will be shocked at some of the things you see.  Great performances from the cast, and an excellent script make this a memorable experience.  Unlike monster/horror movies today, this film has no computer-aided special effects.  It doesn't need them, for this is a landmark film. "},{"Title":"Still Funny & Frightening After All These Years","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"65 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here's a film that never fails to entertain, year after year. It's almost a quarter of a century old but hasn't become dated and the special effects, which were astounding in its day, are still good. Director John Landis is so good at making entertaining movies. This is one of his best.The appeal to this film is the combination of horror, suspense, action and humor. The latter actually is the key ingredient because this can become a downright scary movie. The levity here and there is welcome relief. There is just the right amount of contrast between horror and comedy.For parents wanting to know, there also is a fair amount of rough language and there two sex scenes, one as part of the story and one on screen in a porn- movie theater where the two male leads meet late in the story.Jenny Agutter is the love interest in here, a very pretty woman whom Americans audiences aren't that familiar with. It isn't just her neither of the two leading (American) male actors in this popular movie ever became stars, either.An entertaining but silly sequel came out almost two decades later, An American Werewolf in Paris. I own both movies but much prefer this one. "},{"Title":"Going Out On A Limb (no pun intended)!!","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"61 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Film maker's film that's an homage and a refreshing take on the werewolf legend. It's scary; rich in dialogue; practical... (in a horror movie???) AND Funny! Especially in DTS sound... It's Scary!!!Specifically...for anyone who enjoys the old 'Universal Studios' classic renditions of the Wolf Man saga, this modern 'fairy tale horror' doesn't violate any traditions. If you haven't seen the old classics, not to worry;...this flick stands on its own.The story unfolds!...And the tension begins!...slowly!Actors Naughton and Dunne are perfectly cast as your typical college students, backpacking their way thru Europe for...well...for what ELSE!!?!! Their back & forth banter is priceless!! Their 'on screen' chemistry is, unfortunately, too short (that's kinda redeemed in the DVD commentary by both actors). And their trek across the fog laden moor ranks as one of the most frightening scenes in movie history. But the real star of the film is director John Landis!Along with the Cast! And make-up artist Rick Baker. Not since Bud Abbott & Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein has Comedy/Horror worked so well. The difference is unlike A&C Meet Frankenstein, this film is a horror story laced with a sharp and clever 'comic relief'. And Landis captures that fine line balance between horror/humor that is unprecedented.A near definitive werewolf movie that's bloody! scary! funny! satirical! funny! intelligent! sexy! charming!...and ultimately sad!!!...(did I say funny twice?). HEY...if you ever take time to see only one werewolf movie; then...Well...everyone's got their opinion. But this film ranks way up their in horror. A Classic!!With a soundtrack that's perfectly placed! And composer Elmer Bernstein perfectly placing the music.Grab the popcorn! And Hang On!  "},{"Title":"Our Dual Natures Served Up Hollywood Style","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"46 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Landis reveals a philosophical take on mankind in this film, namely, that we have two natures one benign, one monstrous. The werewolf legend handily serves as that proposition's allegorical vehicle, and compared to the alluded-to Nazi atrocities in two scenes, the legend actually pales. Sadly, under the dark impetus of our arrogance and vanity, our metaphorical full moon, man is perfectly capable of transforming into nightmarish beast.As a director, Landis approaches Hitchcock in terms of scene economy and symbolism. For example, the opening sequence set on the moors of northern England features the tragic hero David and his friend Jack climbing out of the bed of a truck laden with sheep - benign animals destined for slaughter. Biped sheep David and Jack meander to The Slaughtered Lamb, a pub sheltering cowering, xenophobic locals from the monster afoot on the moors during full moon. Soon the inhospitality of the town folk compels the two lambs to leave - virtually sending them to their slaughter.And so it goes throughout this brilliant film. Without revealing the ending, it can be stated that Landis makes his case against the idea that love conquers all; instead, he suggests that love only gives the beast within us pause.Beware the moon. "},{"Title":"Ooooo. Scary.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"41 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The old adage of the simplest ideas being the best is once again demonstrated in this, one of the most entertaining films of the early 80's, and almost certainly Jon Landis' best work to date. The script is light and witty, the visuals are great and the atmosphere is top class. Plus there are some great freeze-frame moments to enjoy again and again. Not forgetting, of course, the great transformation scene which still impresses to this day.In Summary Top banana "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Violent, gory yet somewhat bittersweet tale of an American tourist who has the misfortune of being bitten by a werewolf. David Naughton is young and bewildered, Jenny Agutter cute, innocent and sexy and Griffin Dunne hilarious as a rapidly decomposing poltergeist. The score is great and the special effects outstanding. This movie gives new meaning to the term Ugly American. Don't watch this on commercial TV. It can only be appreciated in its original, unedited form. "},{"Title":"1981 The year of the werewolf","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love werewolf movies, even the stupid one's with the exception of any Howling sequels. 1981 was the turning point for our hairy hero's, gone were the Elvis chop wearing dudes with terrible under-bites, and in were the really scary werewolves that walked on all fours and ripped their pray to pieces. An American Werewolf In London is one of two films released that year, that showed us what a little latex and a lot of imagination (and bladders) can do. John Landis, fresh off the heals of The Blues Brothers gives us a masterpiece of modern horror, and leaves us thinking Are there two John Landis'? The movie is brilliantly shot in terrifying fashion, yet Landis manages to throw us some off beat humor, so we don't soil ourselves to bad. Set in England (obviously), we follow two buddies as they hitchhike across Europe. David Kessler (David Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Griffin Dunne) have not a care in the world until they end up on The Moors... At night... With a full moon... Okay this is getting redundant, but I bet you get where I'm going (if not refer to title). If you ever do find yourself in merry Ole' England, at night etc, etc, etc. Stay clear of a place called The Slaughtered Lamb, in fact, just stay on sheep truck until sunlight comes around. Besides (the first) Howling, American Werewolf is the best werewolf flick out there, and holds up nicely to today's cheesy horror flops. Take warning though, if you are going to rent this film, make sure cover says London, not Paris, which is a little more like... Benji in Paris. "},{"Title":"It's not a comedy!","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Landis directed this at the early 80's. It was a screenplay he wrote when he was only 19 years old. The story is about 2 north American tourists that get attacked by a werewolf during their tour in England. One of them will become the most vicious and unforgettable werewolf ever.With stunning FX's (the guy behind this won an Oscar for this job), Landis gives us a terrifying story with a lot of comedy, romance, adventure, and friendship. And of course, gore. Some scenes were so explicit they even shock today.Yes, the plot has a lot of holes, and some things happen way too fast, and some explanations seem forced but this is a movie that is pure fun and even today is pretty enjoyable and wild.David Naughton and the beautiful Jenny Agutter star in this picture and remember It's not a comedy!But it's still funny as hell! "},{"Title":"A Horror Comedy?","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An almost impossible genre, the horror comedy is a sometimes dead genre. One of the best, An American Werewolf in London is a comical title that lives up to being a comedy and a horror movie. The special effects by Rick Baker alone, make this movie a hit. The off edge comedy and the almost slap stick style acting welcomes the horror. Many surprises throughout the movie, An American Werewolf in London has a little bit of everything. There are moments of laughter, hate, love, drama, and horror, the movie pushes the envelope in being an original work, even though it is a remake! Keep your ear open for the movie's soundtrack. Several songs with the word moon. Like the soundtrack, the movie is full of interesting tid-bits. All in all, a great movie, a near classic. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Werewolf Film Ever","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In his original review the great Roger Ebert didn't think much of this film citing the numerous dream sequences as being unnecessary . This is unfair . The dream sequences are needed to hold the attention of the audience . There's a problem with all werewolf films in that they're self limiting with  man getting bitten so audience have to wait and twiddle their thumbs till man turns in to werewolf  so Landis brings in the dream sequences to keep the audience on tenterhooks . It may not add anything to the plot but the werewolf Nazis and the following sequence where the audience are wrong footed is a very witty piece of writing The film manages to merge gut wrenching black comedy with gruesome horror and not many films have been able to do this . It also manages to mix traditional horror clichés like outsiders walking in to an Inn ( We don't get many strangers 'ere sir ) with post modernism where characters discuss werewolf movies . These mixed concepts never jar and add a charm to the film . Even the Americancentric view of England being a place of lonely moors , red buses , punks and friendly London bobbies adds to the warmth What makes the film even more fondly remembered over time is the fact that before CGI was invented FX teams earned their money . The special effects people and make up artists make AWIL a tour de force for their profession . You might complain that the werewolf itself when fully shown looks too literally like a massive wolf but nowadays we'd be drowned in CGI effects credibility would quickly collapse . Indeed this was a major problem with the sequel set in Paris . That and the blatant fact that it was unrelated to this picture There are a couple of minor complaints . One is the very abrupt ending where the protagonist is killed when you're expecting the deed to be done by his lover , especially when David did mention werewolves being killed by loved ones in movies earlier . There's also a plot hole of David transforming in to a werewolf , leaving the house killing several people including one in the London underground but never once being spotted by a passer by . What compounds the lack of logic is the following memorable comic sequence where a naked David wonders how he's going to get home but I guess this is cinematic convention in general and horror convention in particular , you have to suspend disbelief in order for a film to work But these are minor complaints . AWIL is a fondly remembered blackly comical horror film and the best werewolf film to date "},{"Title":"a lovely stroll on the moors","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE GOODterrifying and laugh-out-loud moments alternate and occasionally even coexist (not the most easiest things to blend, as illustrated by the fact that there are very few successful results out there; this is one of them)never over-the-top funny and thus manages to keep up the masterfully established eerie atmosphereterrific soundtrack, full of beautiful and cleverly employed songs (among them various interpretations of «Blue Moon» as well as CCR's «Bad Moon Rising»)references classic Universal monster horror films &#x96; whereas nowadays any kind of nods are confined to what was in theaters the previous year &#x96; I'm looking at you, «Scary Movie» (not that there's a particular reason for me to pounce specifically on that stinker, it's just used in a synechdochic way, if you will, to represent all that other revue-style garbage that there truly is no shortage of, where parody &#x96; which is arguably the kind of humor those flicks aim for &#x96; degenerates into an incoherent series of poorly written and executed sketches that cater to an illiterate teen or teen-minded audience)Mark Twain is referenced &#x96; hooray for the days when culture was cool and one wasn't frowned upon for being able to speak at least one language reasonably well!all the references feel natural, make sense within the story and often help to further itthe short but effective nightmare (and nightmare within a nightmare) sequencesthe metamorphosis classic and painful to watchthe hilarious dialogue where the undead suggest ways to David of how to best kill himself (and the way it's staged &#x96; in a porno theater, all the undead covered in blood &#x96; doesn't hurt, either...)the ghost zombies (or zombie ghosts?) concept walking the earth, yet invisible to the non-cursed, immaterial, yet with gruesome wounds and decomposing (becomes a running gag with Jack) &#x96; original and uniqueloving attention to detail throughout and filled with nice little touches keep an eye out for the disclaimer at the end of the closing creditsTHE BADnot enough of the moors and «The Slaughtered Lamb» those were easily the best, for most atmospheric and creepy sequences in the whole movie; I want more! Do you hear me, Mr. Landis more! Why not give us a whole film set in that village / hamlet / whatever and its surroundings? (a prequel, sequel, whatever)while not downright bad, the ending certainly is controversial some consider it radical, fresh and consequential, others find it cheap, unimaginative and random, and I tend to at least lean towards the latter group (what the former describe, in my opinion more applies to, for example, the ending &#x96; or the turn of events near it &#x96; of «To Live and Die in L.A.» &#x96; it's just much more convincing and fitting there, since that film is more existentialist in subject and tone in the first place)in fact, the whole film has an uneven feel to it, like they rushed into production with an unfinished script (yeah, sure, many times that's a deliberate creative choice, but whatever the reasons, it's just not fully working here); it's still much better than the bulk of its genre relatives, but its ever so slight imperfections go beyond almost expected things like continuity errors or revealing mistakes and are instead structurally; one example Doc Hirsch is a great character, fabulously played, but despite considerable screen time he goes nowhere, and a similar fate befalls the cop duo; what is there is good to great in itself, it's just that not all the parts integrate themselves into a larger whole, so that the result is not an integral whole but an accumulation of all kinds of different pieces &#x96; kind of like a patchwork rug instead of a unified wholeTHE UGLYrated R for a reason; and while it certainly can't compete with the gruesomeness, disgustingness and sadism indulged in by the legion of representatives of the so-called (for misnamed) torture porn sub-genre that's all the rave currently (and why should it?), it's still not for the squeamishOBSERVATIONS ABOUT THE NATURE OF MANThese dumb-ass kids. They never appreciate anything you do for them.HOW THIS MOVIE WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE &#x96; OR NOTdoes it for lonely night strolls on the moors (or in some metro tunnels, for that matter) what «Jaws» did for swimming in the ocean? &#x96; nah, but I'd still like to see your face in the unlikely event of hearing a howling in such a situation...THINGS NOT TO BRING UP DURING A CONVERSATIONExcuse me. What's that star on the wall for?QUESTIONS THIS MOVIE EVOKEShow came the first werewolf to be anyway? (bestiality?)what would you do if you were in David's shoes?could David be held accountable for the murders?how will Jack look in the afterlife?who slaughtered the lamb?WHAT I LEARNED FROM WATCHING THIS MOVIEHave you ever talked to a corpse? It's boring!undead people have feelings (and eat!), tooQueen Elizabeth is a man! Prince Charles is a f*ggot! Winston Churchill was full of sh*t! Shakespeare is French!British cops are exceptionally forbearingnow, not even the porno theater is safe anymoresometimes, love is not strong enoughWATCH...if you like your movies with guts in more than one wayAVOID...if you consider yourself easily offendedIF YOU LIKED THIS ONE, DON'T WATCH...«An American Werewolf in Paris» lame, lame, lameTHE BOTTOM LINEWorthy of not only watching but owning. So, go out and get it! Now! But rememberStay on the road. Keep clear of the moors. Beware the moon, lads.(Agree? Disagree? In parts or whole? Have something to correct or add? Let me know!) "},{"Title":"both entertaining as a technical marvel, as comedy, and even as horror","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Landis has one of his most memorable films, as it challenges him as a director of comedy and horror, and he's rarely done better in the latter. While many of his best films are among the comedies that he directed for SNL alumni Belushi and Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy, An American Werewolf in London stands apart from those by casting David Naughton, Jenny Aguter, and Griffin Dunne in the parts- all practically unknowns then- and giving them some of the best kinds of genre roles imaginable. The two friends played by Naughton and Dunne are out on vacation, sort of, and they stumble upon a town loaded with superstition about wolves and other things. When Dunne gets killed and something, uh, peculiar happens to Naughton, it changes both of them- principally because Naughton keeps seeing Dunne, deteriorating throughout the rest of the film, even as he both turns into the werewolf (Beware the moon, David, beware the moon) and falls for a kind nurse played by Aguter. All three roles are realized well, though it might be prudent to put a lot of good will on the male leads, as they both go under Rick Baker's still show-stopping make-up jobs.This is the kind of production that could go in a few different directions, and for someone like Landis's skills it could've gone in those directions, either one, considering his background. It could have been a send-up much like his Kentucky Fried Movie. It could have been just dumb, pure camp like one of his lesser comedies of the 90s. But here he's really sticking to his guns to make it really believably scary, but also with a sly, coarse, and crude sense of humor about it. It's almost in tune to what would come a few years later with Ghostbusters, only without the mega-wit and overall mainstream appeal. It's a cult item that probably isn't seen by many as Landis's other films, yet I still remember things very well from the film years later, indelible things like the use of songs (obvious, sure, by 'moon' being all over the place, but everything from Van Morrison to CCR to the main Blue Moon theme used during the crossover are really dead-perfect for what's needed). Aside from the obvious make-up scenes, I remember being both freaked and delighted by the undead exchanges with David, especially when it finally reaches its purest absurdity in the movie theater scene.And even the ending, unlike other Landis films, is with a tinge of tragedy and sadness. This is not the ending a typical comedy director would bring, as by now we've really gotten on the side of David, the scorned protagonist turned bloody villain by way of a curse. Some of the scenes that end up cutting back to the old rural village, as I also remember it, were not my favorite scenes as they brought more of the superstitious stuff that is not necessarily needed. It's the bits with Naughton, with Dunne, and even with the lady of the film that make it worthwhile. It's fun but not too goofy or bad B-movie-like, and it's scary without being cheap. It's basically the finest synthesis yet from the filmmaker to combine his gory theatrics with his firm, cool sense of humor. It's also one of my favorite films of 1981. "},{"Title":"Great horror movie with a strong sense of humor","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two American boys David (David Naughton) and Jack (Griffin Dunne) are traveling through England. They get stuck on the moors one night and are attacked by a werewolf. Jack is killed but David is only wounded. He recovers in a hospital in London with his dead, decomposing friend Jack appearing to him and telling him he will become a werewolf unless he kills himself. David refuses to believe it and starts to become attracted to Nurse Alex Price (Jenny Agutter). Then he's released from the hospital, and there's a full moon that night...I caught this in a theatre back in 1981. For its time it was pretty extreme but also very funny. I loved it back then and it still holds up today. I was surprised to find myself laughing out loud many times during the movie. Many people think this is a comedy or a spoof but it isn't--the violence is extreme and very bloody and never played for laughs. But John Landis (writer and director) manages to balance the horror and the comedy perfectly--that's not easy but he manages it. Also the film is beautifully directed and he's got two attractive, appealing leads--Naughton and Agutter.Naughton isn't much of an actor but he IS good-looking, has a nice body and is nude frequently. Agutter is a little better. The best performance is from John Woodvine as Dr. Hirsch. But really--this isn't an acting film. The special effects are still impressive today. Jack's body is decomposing more and more each time he's sees David. It's gross but it works. And the transformation sequence is still very good (much better than the CGI crap we get today). And the all out destruction at Pickadilly Circus is just great! Only complaint When the police shot and kill David at the end there is no way they could have shot him without killing Alex--but she's not hurt at all.This was ignored back in 1981 (audiences probably weren't ready for it) but it's now considered one of the best horror films of the 1980s and the best werewolf movie ever! I give it a 10.Best line Dead Jack to David Have you ever talked to a corpse? It's boring! "},{"Title":"A great comedy/horror flick","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There was a time when believe it or not, I wasn't into the movie. I thought the ending was a little weak. But after giving the movie another chance, I loved it. This is without a doubt one of my favorite horror films, because it has such a brilliant combination of horror and comedy that is priceless.John Landis, he was such a great director in the 80's and I learned that this was one of his first scripts. This movie was also a break through Oscar wise, this is the first film to win best make up effects. Which it totally deserved because we actually get to witness the transformation from man to werewolf on screen and it's unforgettable. For 1981, these effects were amazing!Taking place in London, as two Americans are back packing through Europe, we have David Naughten who plays David Kessler and Griffin Dunne who plays Jack Goodman. When they are warned to beware the moon and stick to the road... oops!, they loose their way and are viciously attacked by a werewolf. Jack is unfortunately killed but David is bitten and the werewolf gets killed by the town's people. David wakes up in the hospital where he is being cared for by a beautiful nurse, Jenny Agutter who plays Alex Price and is David's love interest in the movie.When David has finally gathered himself and accepts what happened as just a freak accident, Jack, a terribly dismembered and gouged out dead Jack comes to visit David from beyond the grave. It starts off as just this hilarious conversation talking about Jack's funeral while David is debating if he's going crazy or not, my favorite line is in this scene Susan(name???) cried a lot and snuck the comfort in Mark Levigne's bed David is shocked and says Mark Levigne?! Jack just playfully remarks An a*****e, life mocks me even in death. LOL! Then Jack tells David that they were attacked by a werewolf and he must kill himself otherwise he'll kill others and make them like Jack whereas he cannot go to Heaven or Hell, he's on the line until the werewolf's blood is severed. Have you ever tried talking to a corpse!? It's boring! I'm lonely! Kill yourself, David, before you kill others is Jack's last lines before David just begs Nurse Alex to get him out of the hospital.Through a love or lust story between Alex and David, David is warned once again by Jack who is now becoming more decayed, he ignores the warnings thinking it's only his conscience but is terribly wrong when he kind of goes on a stroll during the full moon killing 6 people in London. He then is confronted by all of the corpses along with Jack and just have this great scene of how to kill himself. Guys, this is a terrific movie and is a must see for horror fans, comedy fans, any type of movie fan. It's just a lot of fun to watch and it's scary and exciting and you just can't miss it. Beware the moors and maybe get yourself a silver bullet if you go to London. D10/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent classic horror that holds up really well even now.","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London starts on the gloomy English moors where two American backpackers David Kessler (David Naughton) & Jack Goldman (Griffin Dunne) are hiking, they become lost & are attacked by a Werewolf with Jack being killed & David injured. Three weeks later & David wakes up in a central London hospital to the news that his mate is dead, he quickly starts having horrific nightmares as he & nurse Alex Price (Jenny Agutter) begin to fall in love. When released from hospital David stays with Alex, on the night of the first full moon after the attack David turns into a Werewolf & kills six people & wakes up naked at a zoo. Unable to remember what he did the night before David becomes worried & after getting various visits from his dead friend Jack warning about what was going to happen he is convinced he killed those people. The only way to put an end to the bloodshed is for David to be killed but with the next full moon fast approaching who will do it...This British American co-production was written & directed by John Landis & is considered one of the true classics of the genre, usually I don't buy into what other people say & make my own mind up just the way it should be but on this occasion I can see why An American Werewolf in London is so highly regarded as it's an excellent horror film with lashings of black humour. The script modernises the traditional Werewolf story just like The Howling (1980) did around the same time although I think An American Werewolf in London is the far superior film. It has a great story that really engages with terrific character's whom you care for & make the downbeat ending rather sad, a nice pace, plenty of incident & some really cool scenes including the climax set in Piccadilly Circus which must have been a nightmare to organise. To offset the horror there's a nice vein of black humour running through the film with a funny & slightly surreal scene set inside a porno theatre where David gets to talk with his dead victims & the amusing aftermath of David's first transformation where he wakes up naked at a zoo & has to get home by stealing a woman's coat. The only problem I have with An American Werewolf in London are the abrupt nightmare sequences which don't make much sense in context & just seem to happen & I would have liked a little bit more involving the villagers who feel like they should be important but are never really used & are totally forgotten about. All in all though a classic of the genre that holds up really well even today, in fact An American Werewolf in London is head & shoulders above most new horror product.This is well made with the Oscar winning special make-up effects by Rick Baker being of particular note, the Werewolf transformation is excellent & still has yet to be bettered really. It's certainly a lot more impressive than any CGI computer Werewolf transformation I have seen. There's some good gore here too from ripped up Deer, slit throats, severed hands, rotting corpses, lots of blood, a bitten off head & some mangled bodies. The effects are good though the attack scenes are short & little is seen probably due to the limitations of the effects at the time. Several London landmarks are seen & feature in the film while the soundtrack is especially good here with all the songs featured having the word Moon in the title & the Werewolf howl very striking & one of the best I've heard.With a supposed budget of about $10,000,000 this had a pretty big budget & you can see it on screen with good use of locations, great effects work & high production values. The acting is very good too, there's a great supporting cast including Jenny Agutter, Brian Glover, Alan Ford, Frank Oz & Rik Mayall while porn star Linzi Drew appears as herself in the porn film playing at the theatre. Apparently the studio hoped Dan Aykroyd & John Belushi would be cast in the leading roles but thankfully that didn't happen.An American Werewolf in London is a classic horror film that is well regarded amongst genre fans for very good reason, it's one of the best horrors out there basically that can be enjoyed on many levels & probably is more accessible than a lot of horror. A really top film that was followed by a terrible sequel An American Werewolf in Paris (1997). "},{"Title":"...98, 99, 100! Here I Come, Ready or Not.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Being around fifteen at the time, when I first saw this movie, it was on VHS Video. I was at my aunts Cottage in the middle of nowhere. It was late on a summer's evening. The cottage was a Servants Cottage, as she was Maid to a very well heeled family. After watching I had to go home, the walk home was only a few miles, no problem back then to hitch a lift. The walk from the cottage to the main road was one mile. One mile of country lane. With no streetlights, and plenty of empty fields and trees along the narrow winding single traffic width lane.Now, you are walking down a dark, quiet and a little too peaceful lane, late at night, after watching An American Werewolf in London. I never ran so fast down that lane so much in all my life. 1982 Academy Award Winner Rick Baker has been in the business of scaring the life out of people since his very early days in 1971. Working as Make up and Special Effect's Artist on movies such as Star Wars (1977), Flesh Gordon, The Ring, Batman Forever, Videodrome and the 1976 King Kong movie to name but a few. The category for Best Make-Up had only just been introduced to the Oscars, in 1981, because of An American Werewolf in London. Rick Baker was the very first to win an Oscar for this category. To date he has won six Oscars, for his work on Best Make-up and Effects. Winning, also, the 1982 Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films Saturn Award for Best Make-up for Werewolf in London, (and Star Wars (1977) in 1978 and Interview with the Vampire in 1995, to mention a couple here). The Director of Animal House, 1978, and The Blues Brothers from 1980, John Landis, has come a long way since becoming a stunt performer in Sergio Leone's 1968 masterpiece Once Upon A Time in the West, and as assistant Director on the 1970's Kelly's Hero's movie. Though not his first Horror movie to be Directed and written by Mr Landis, this being the 1973 Schlock comedy/horror movie. He took up the role as Writer for Werewolf in London as early as 1969, when he was nineteen years of age, some twelve years before the film was filmed and released. The impact of this movie at the time of its release was phenomenal. Nothing had ever been seen like this before. Being the story of two American friends, David and Jack, back packing across Europe. It is when they reach the English Moors in Yorkshire on a cold and wet afternoon, on a night of the full moon, that they find that their troubles will begin. After upsetting the locals in the Slaughtered Lamb pub, they are shown the door. Beware the Moon, they are forewarned, this was to become one of the most iconic phrases in modern horror movies of all time. But it is too little too late, whilst getting lost on the Moors they are attacked by a lukanthropia. Jack dies and David wakes up in a London Hospital days later. The love interest here is done through the connection between the young and beautiful nurse Alex Price, played here by the ever quintessential English Rose Jenny Agutter. The next full moon rises, and David has other plans for the night. The Beast has awoken. What has made this movie transform itself from the mainstream werewolf movie to the Movie of Werewolf's is the fantastically frightening and completely original manner that David transmogrifies between Man and Beast. While other Werewolf movies rely on out of shot changes for example, here you are with him in the same room, to terrified to move. You are here as character witness, the fear locking your senses to the sheer terror that is unfolding before your very eyes and seeing every minuet detail, from Man to Beast. Every stage a transgression of a dangerous and terrifying ordeal. There is nowhere for you to run. Your next. As typical Landis style, humour, be it slapstick or dark is never far away. Even for Werewolf in London. David, in his Lycanthropic state devours several victims. The most famous being the businessman alone on the London Underground System. Classic horror. The point being that Jack and his poor victims come back from the dead to ask David to kill himself. Jack and his new found undead friends are now cursed to walk the Earth in limbo until he himself is dead. To break the curse. These undead are talking, walking and extremely decomposing carcases. The make up, at the time, was second to none. The attention to detail is truly (Oscar) inspiring.What is odd about this movie is that every musical soundtrack is a song that contains the word Moon in the title, for example Blue Moon by Sam Cooke and Bad Moon Rising by The Creedence Clearwater Revival. This works very well, and brings home the ever foreboding fear and trepidation that Werewolf in London is. Here we see the late Brian Glover and a non-speaking cameo role by the then young and unknown English comic Rik Mayell, as the second chess player. Frank Oz, the Muppet master plays a tiny role here too. This werewolf movie has surpassed them all, due to the combinations of Rick Baker, John Landis and a great team of movie people working hard behind the scenes. An American Werewolf in London is an epic special effects masterpiece. If the Academy Awards have to make an entirely new Category because of Werewolf in London's merits, then that is telling us something, that perhaps Hollywood have become Animal lovers? No, they recognise talent and hard work when they see it. "},{"Title":"The best werewolf movie ever made.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's always tricky trying to write a review of a great movie that you've loved for years. Attempting to finally put down in words exactly what makes it so great seems almost impossible ... but I'll give it a shot anyway. Ladies and Gentlemen, I give to you, An American Werewolf in London -- Two American's arrive by truck in the Yorkshire moors, as part of a three-month tour of Europe. As they walk along the country roads, they engage in realistic back-and-forth banter and we learn that Jack is unhappy with the situation and would much rather be in some continental city, whereas his friend David is glad to explore the English countryside. As the sun goes down, they take refuge inside a pub called the Slaughtered Lamb, to escape the cold. The locals are unfriendly, especially when they ask about a pentagram painted on the wall ... the two of them eventually take the hint, and leave to continue walking through the moors.Wandering off the road into the dark grassy land, they begin to hear strange and frightening howling noises, and see something big stalking them in the shadows ... suddenly Jack is attacked, and David flees the scene before turning back to help his friend, but he too is set upon by some kind of wolf-beast until the locals show up armed with shotguns. He wakes up in a hospital, and learns that his friend Jack is dead. While there, he falls in love with a beautiful young nurse. As he recovers from his trauma, he has peculiar dreams about monsters, misty woods, and killing. Then he starts having gruesome visions of his dead friend, who warns him that he is becoming a werewolf ...There are so many memorable sequences in this movie it's unbelievable. My favourite has always been the initial werewolf attack on the moors -- I first saw the movie when I was very young and that was the one that scared me most of all. I also remembered the dream sequences particularly well, and that poor man who is stalked by the werewolf in the London underground. It's an incredibly surreal movie, especially during the excellent hospital sequences, because, well, becoming a werewolf would be a pretty surreal thing to go through! All of this is helped by the high quality of directing from John Landis, and Rick Baker's infamously brilliant make-up inventions.The soundtrack is also excellent -- Landis' idea was that he would only use songs with the word 'moon' in the title. Since then the songs Bad Moon Rising and Blue Moon are automatically linked with this movie by anyone who's seen it. The cast is also very notable, and both David Naughton and Griffin Dunne give funny, competent performances as the two Americans, while the all-star British cast is headed by the brilliant Brian Glover, Jenny Agutter and John Woodvine.Some of the comedy may be a little cheesy, but most of it is still worth a few laughs. You should bear in mind that this was the first real horror comedy ever made, and these days they're a dime-a-dozen. If it hadn't been for American Werewolf, the genre would certainly not have been the same. This is an indisputable classic of the horror genre, and an incredible important movie. Two decades on, it's easily still deserving of it's title as the greatest Werewolf movie of all time. "},{"Title":"A horror tour-de-force that captures the poignant heart of the Wolf Man","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In cinematic terms, The Wolf Man has always found himself playing second fiddle to the Vampire. This is strange considering that they are both essentially carnivorous nocturnal shape-shifters (resulting in them being considered as identical in some cultures) that share a certain perennial fascination in folklore from all over the world. Perhaps this is because, despite their dead-ness, we (sub)consciously idolise vampires for their immortality and suave aristocratic eroticism. In contrast, the curse of the werewolf, even though still technically living seems far worse as he is caught between life and death and also lacks any kind of control, or even awareness, of the savage acts he is impelled to commit. It is this underlying sense of tragedy, over and above the horror and the superb black-comedy, which makes 'An American Werewolf in London' such a great film.The film begins with two young American backpackers, David Kessler (David Naughton) and his good friend Jack (Griffin Dunne), on a tour of the North of England amid the rainy and desolate Northern moors. Not one for subtle foreshadowing, director John Landis has the fate of the two men broadcast from the outset as they arrive hitching a lift in the back of a van carrying sheep and, in search of food, they stumble into a pub named The Slaughtered Lamb. The locals are inhospitable Hammer horror clichés and soon our unfortunate friends are wandering the moors when they are attacked by a monster which kills Jack and imparts a far more terrible fate to David.From there, the plot is quite straight-forward David is transferred to a London hospital (presumably there are no hospitals anywhere else) where he meets, and falls for, the charming nurse Alex (Jenny Agutter) who, inexplicably, takes in the injured young American. From there he learns of his curse from an old friend through some exchanges of dialogue which are funny one minute and deathly serious the next before the (justly) famous transformation scene which trod new ground for movie make-up and special effects in being so protracted and gruelling. Finally, David ends up wreaking havoc in Central London. Told like that, the plot is actually very thin, but the film is far more than the sum of its parts as everything (horror and humour) serves to humanise David as he struggles to understand what has befallen him adding a heart-breaking poignancy to the sudden conclusion.However, herein lies the only possible criticism I could make of the film; that is, that most opinions I've heard or read focus on the transformation scene or the comedy and overlook the real heart of what makes the film great. Maybe this is something to do with the temperament of Landis who (like Joe Dante, who would release 'The Howling' the same year) brings a certain post-modern tinge to proceedings. The positives of this are the films ability to straddle genres, its use of music, its self-consciously applied horror / comedy tropes (horror the Moors, the pub full of locals; comedy the police duo) and the references to horror classics (Hammer Horror's 'Curse of the Wolf Man' (1961) and the 1941 Universal classic 'The Wolf Man' are referenced in the film while the title harks back to the first cinematic foray of the Wolf Man with Universal's 'The Werewolf of London' (1935)). However, the downside is that it creates a distance from the character and the tragedy which really does carry a punch.However, I would be lying to say if the movie revealed all of its layers to me on first viewing&#x85;and here is the key, it is a film which rewards repeat viewing and still feels as fresh today as it must have felt back in the day. "},{"Title":"A gruesome, twisted, and hilarious masterpiece.","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The most important thing to note about An American Werewolf in London is that it is more of a pure horror-comedy than any other film in history. It isn't a spoof of the genre like Scary Movie, nor is it cartoon-ish to the point of being silly and humorous like Evil Dead II; instead it truly is a seamless blend of the genres. There are equal amounts of true horror and ingenious comedy in this 1981 John Landis classic, making it a unique and unforgettable film that will live on for generations to follow. The story is simple, a couple of friends are backpacking in England and land up on the creepy moors, the get attacked by a werewolf. One of them dies and the other becomes a werewolf. While being treated for his injury, the bitten but not dead party David Kessler, played to perfection by David Naughton, meets the film's female lead, the always lovely Jenny Agutter, and a series of tragic, horrific, and often hilarious events follow. In a technical sense it is excellent, the effects and the Oscar-winning makeup hold up well to this day and the cinematography is excellent, as evident during the werewolf attack scene in the subway. The soundtrack, basically a collection of pop-rock songs about the moon works excellently in an offbeat, surreal manner, working both as accompaniment to the film and comic relief and adding to the film's unique quality. Apparently some people find werewolves scary, which is the only plausible reason for the genre to enjoy continued popularity to this day. Personally, I never found them all that interesting or frightening, they're just men who turn into wolves, after all. The genre films they have spawned have seemingly only gone from bad to worse, with some notable exceptions- the 1941 classic The Wolf Man and Neil Marshall's superb Dog Soldiers come to mind immediately. An American Werewolf in London transcends the horror genre; it's an ingenious mix of horror, comedy, and romance that has never been equaled, and when I say mix, I mean a truly seamless blend. It really is all its genres at once, which can't be said for many (if any) other films, and it just serves to widen its appeal and make it probably the greatest werewolf film of all time. This is often remembered as a comedy, sadly, which might diminish popular opinion. It isn't only a comedy, or only a horror film, it is both simultaneously, and in equal parts, making it quite unlike any other film ever made. Most certainly a 'must-see'. 4.5/5 "}{"Title":"John Landis' An American Werewolf in London is fine horror-comedy","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After 26 years, I finally got a chance to see John Landis' An American Werewolf in London in its entirety. David Naughton, whom I first saw on Dr. Pepper commercials singing I'm a Pepper, is fine as the guy who becomes the title character. Griffin Dunne, perhaps best known for Martin Scorsese's After Hours, is likewise as his doomed buddy who comes back as the decaying undead. Jenny Agutter has great chemistry with Naughton as the nurse who falls for him. And John Woodvine acquits himself nicely as the doctor trying to help David. Loved the reference to Lon Chaney's The Wolf Man when David and Jenny are in bed. Rick Baker wholly deserved the first Makeup Effects Oscar for the believable werewolf transformation. Nice quick shots of various wolf killings. Most hilarious scenes were when Naughton wakes up naked in the London zoo and gets, first, balloons and then a lady's coat to cover himself up! Also loved his insults to the police constable like, Prince Charles is a faggot! The ending seemed abrupt to me especially when it changed to The Marcels' doo-wop version of Blue Moon in the end credits but otherwise, this was a fine mix of comedy and horror. One of John Landis' best. P.S. Watch for two Landis trademarks Fake movie See You Next Wednesday is the title of a porno flick-which we see some scenes of-playing at the cinema of Picadilly Circus where David meets Griffin and his victims and the When in Hollywood, Visit Universal Studios (Ask for Babs) slide which previously appeared at the end of Landis' last two features for the studio, Animal House and The Blues Brothers, also appears here (Babs being the AH character who was revealed to have become a US tour guide). "},{"Title":"The Werewolf and the Lady","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Almost never did werewolf pictures interest me. From the time I was a youngster and saw Lon Chaney Jr. and his werewolf persona, I always expected something more frightening from the monster. Unsettling for it's time perhaps, to me, all werewolf creatures were pretty much laughable. However, we fast forward to  American Werewolf in London  and while I the the adult viewer sat there mesmerized by the Man-Animal change while writhing in agonizing pain, I dared not move. Terrified as we all were at the full-moon transformation, this film's special effects forever change my perception of a realistic horror film. Traveling through the English countryside, two American youths, David Naughton as David Kessler and Griffin Dunne as Jack Goodman, are savagely attacked by a marauding Werewolf. While Jack is ferociously ripped to shreds, David escapes, then returns quickly to try and save his friend. Later David is visited by his dead friend and falls in love with his nurse in this black drama. Due to it's graphic and certainly authentic scenes, many TV stations will not show the uncut version without warning the audience of it's fantastic, but blood curling scenes. Still, with the additional but superior talents of Jenny Agutter as Nurse Price and John Woodvine as Dr. J. S. Hirsch, the film makes the grade as a classic in it's own right. A good scary film, so have someone with you when you see it. **** "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this a while ago on video with a friend. He's been bullying me for years about watching it since he's always said it's a great movie. I don't know if great is the word i'd use, but it's entertaining.What i liked about this movie were especially two things. First of all the way the movie successfully mixed comedy and horror. Two genres that are not easy to combine in a good way, but here it's done creating both thrills and laughs. The second thing is the visual effects. Both special effects and make-up are very well done, especially considering this movie was made in 1981.As werewolf-movies go this is one of the best i've seen. I definitely prefer these kind of special effects and make-up to computer effects. And it really looks great here. Recommended! "},{"Title":"One of the all time great horror films","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mixing horror with elements of comedy is a dangerous trick but this is the finest example of a film that succeeds at the task. Although not really a comedy it has plenty of classic dark comedy which lighten the mood in between the undeniable horror that takes place. Much has been made of the special effects and even today 33 years later the transformation of David into the werewolf is impressive stuff. There is a brilliant tone of foreboding throughout amid some great scenes of werewolf mayhem. The acting is great with plenty of top notch UK character actors making appearances. David Naughton is very likable as the main character and this is important as it makes you sympathise with the position he finds himself in. Throw in the luscious Jenny Agutter as the love interest and you can't really go wrong. Although very much an 80's film it still manages even today to be a scary, witty and wonderfully atmospheric film which you can enjoy time and time again. The tension rises throughout and the ending unlike so many horror films is brilliant.Modern horror should take a look at this film to see how it should be done. A classic which every horror fan should own. "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic Werewolf Film","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1981 I was 9 years old when the movie first came out. My family & I went to see it in the movie theater when it was new/fresh. I recall laughing and almost crying from being scared. Today, I feel like I'm 9 years old and in the theater again when I re-watch this movie.American Werewolf in London is one of the best comedy horror films ever made yet as some of the scariest moments ever filmed.This movie uses old school special effects which will give any of today's CGI effects a run for it's money! I am mainly talking about the infamous werewolf transformation scene which is still viewed and re-viewed by many today - considered to be one of the greatest transformation scenes ever! If you have never seen American Werewolf in London then I highly recommend it for viewing entertainment if you like horror and/or comedy.10/10 "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated, the template for what was to come..","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A great film. A classic. Fun. Entertaining. But if you have waded through the other reviews you already knew that. What is most interesting perhaps (aside from the fact that -- DUH -- the attempts at a sequel did not work) this 1981 film could be easily be the template for many of the hit movies and TV shows that came next. Seriously. Up to this point (except as noted below) horror films were serious and comedy films were funny. And then this film broke the mould. And then came Buffy. And TRUE BLOOD. And the werewolves. And the fairies. And the fey. And nothing has been the same since.FOOTNOTE the Hope-Crosby road picture from early in the 20th century hinted at how two radically different themes could be mixed. See in particular GHOST BREAKERS from 1940; and if you consider that GHOST BUSTERS was an obvious riff on THAT film, and you look at who was behind this production, well, Watson, the pieces do start to come together.. "},{"Title":"Howl at the Moon","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love monster movies. I guess there's just something about the visceral thrills associated with waiting for some sort of uber-gross supernatural being to spring out of the shadows and make a bloody mess of things. When the monster/horror genre is mixed with comedy, the result&#x97;as we've seen in recent years&#x97;is often gold. Whether it's Shaun of the Dead, Zombieland, or any variety of B-movie schlock, a good time is (generally) had by all.And that's the case with John Landis' 1981 film An American Werewolf in London. It's silly and punctuated by instances of extremely dark humor, and it rarely makes any attempt to work true emotion into the narrative. This, of course, is a good thing.After a somewhat slow opening, we witness two friends&#x97;who are backpacking across Europe&#x97;stumble upon a shady pub called The Slaughtered Lamb. When they walk through the door, the effect is pretty much the cliché turntable-coming-to-a-screeching-halt scenario that you've seen a million times before. A room full of hard-nosed Brits eyes them suspiciously, and the boys' seemingly innocent inquiries about a pentagram that's painted on a wall doesn't help add levity to the situation. After some awkward moments, the pair is once again traversing the English countryside. It's then that a monstrous wolf-creature attacks them out of nowhere, killing one and injuring the other.The survivor is taken to a hospital in London, where he soon realizes that, when the moon is full, he'll transform into an unstoppable killing machine complete with fangs, claws, and brambles of tangled hair.Said protagonist falls for his nurse, and they embark on a brief love affair that involves little more than intimate encounters in a shower and playful banter regarding the possibility of humans becoming creatures of the night.As you'd expect, the humor is what elevates Werewolf above any offerings of similar quality. Landis strategically places appropriate moments of dry actions/line-delivery throughout the movie, and the contrast between the horrible gore inflicted by the monster and the overly proper behavior of some of London's finest citizens makes for a chuckle-worthy fish-out-of-water scenario.The problem, though, is that are far too many moments where the story&#x97; quite simply&#x97;lags. Throw the funny but much too abrupt finale into the mix, and it seems as if Landis and company have somehow avoided taking full advantage of a great premise.If you've never seen An American Werewolf in London, it is worth checking out. It has one or two moments that will likely cause you to double-over in raucous laughter, but, when compared to more recent comedy/horror fare, it seems like little more than a fleeting slice of mildly amusing nostalgia. "},{"Title":"Lycanthropy and the  consequences thereof","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Superb, blackly comic story of an American tourist who is bitten by a werewolf on the Yorkshire Moors. His travelling companion is killed during the attack, but keeps popping back to pay him a visit, each time slightly more decomposed. The survivor struggles to come to terms with what happened - helped along the way by the stunning Jennifer Agutter and her all too eager lady parts -but ultimately must look his own victims in the eye and explain his actions. Brilliantly directed by the enigmatic John Landis, this is witty and macabre. Stand out scenes The exchanges in The Slaughtered Lamb pub and the finale in the cinema before the bloodbath ensues. A must see movie blood ghouls. "},{"Title":"Beware Of The Moon","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is still great after 31 years, I remember seeing this the first time at the theater with my dad; and it was kinda scary for a 9 year old, LOL D. I have the collector's edition DVD and it has a lot of extras, the making of it, an interview with make-up artist Rick Baker, outtakes, and of course interview with John Landis, plus a commentary with David Naughton and Griffin Dunne.The movie is about two friend that are backpacking in Northern England unaware of the horror that is kept a secret by the locals.The beginning of the movie; David, David Naughton and Jack, Griffin Dunne, get a ride with a sheep farmer. They are dropped off in a secluded area in England. They come across a pub called The Slaughered Lamb, and go inside. The place is strange as well as the people and unaware to them, the locals are hiding a deep secret that they want hidden. When Jack asks what the 5 star on the wall is for they flip out and give them some BS story and the two decide it's time to leave. The folks tell them to stay on the roads and keep of the moors; and most important beware of the moonlight.Well it's obvious what happens, they get attacked by a werewolf Jack gets killed and David will eventually turn into one. The story then takes place in London, England where David wakes up in the hospital. Everyone believes the two boys were attacked by a maniac, but David doesn't. He tries to explain but nobody will listen. He starts to get visits from is dead friend Jack who explains what happened to them that night and tells David the wolfs bloodline must be severed to stop the killing. He pleads for David to kill himself before he goes on the prowl and kills innocent people. David thinks he's losing his mind and tells his new found friend Nurse Price what's happening to him.The movie continues with Jack turning into a werewolf, and eventually killing without his knowledge of what he did until after he finds out by learning what happened through the newspapers, television, or word of mouth. He tries to stop his carnivorous way but fails. In the end the beast his finally killed and the bloodline is severed.The movie is great, I would recommend this film to anyone. It's not just a horror film, it's a horror film mixed with a little comedy. The only part of the film that sucks is the ending, it's tragic; but you kinda figured David's character would eventually wind up doomed one way or another.Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"It's About the Naked American Man in Us All, and Our Existential Quest for More Balloons&#x85;","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror-comedy seems to have gone stale, with thinning excitement or originality given to it, yet this just makes Landis's accomplishment more striking. Not simply gruesome but truly eerie, not simply funny but witty, this unapologetically uneven film has what seem to be faults, but these are offset by the film's various potent fortes The purposefully self-conscious and playful use of music is brilliantly ironic and shamelessly unsubtle, the characterization is excellent and the one-liners are incessantly unforgettable. From time to time, directors attempt to take advantage of the subtle line between horror and humor and play with our defense mechanism of laughing at uncomfortable things. And sure enough, some clever filmmakers, like Landis, tread the tightrope with ease.In regards to narrative or structure, this bafflingly moody cult hit follows the traditional lore of the werewolf curse to a tee. What makes it distinctive, if not exclusive, is its haywire matrimony between bleak, fatalistic horror and broad, absurdist comedy. Both former and latter are in equal parts effective. At the core of this schizophrenic effect is our empathy for the protagonist, whom we hope will discover some remedy for an insufferable dilemma. And Landis is not easy on his audience or his main character.The movie begins in the moors of the Yorkshire Dales, where two Americans, David Kessler and Jack Goodman, are on a backpacking trip. By the time they happen upon a hamlet close to nightfall, they're chilly and famished, so they opt to peek in on the local pub, The Slaughtered Lamb. Their welcome there is emphatically glacial, with incredulous stares from the regulars. Before leaving, they're grimly cautioned to stay on the road and not ramble onto the moors, a caution they disregard, much to their remorse.When it comes, the violence is sudden and ruthless. The next thing David knows, he's recuperating in a London hospital under the caring aid of an insatiably sexy nurse named Alex and the no-nonsense Dr. Hirsch. Notwithstanding a Bunuel-inspired cycle of tormenting nightmares, David appears to be making headway until he gets a troubling visit from the inexplicably living-dead Jack, who tells him that on the night of the next full moon, he'll be transformed into a werewolf.Apart from both being released in 1981, there are many parallels between this and Joe Dante's The Howling, which should come as no bombshell, as both were overseen by exceptional make-up guy Rick Baker, who was also accountable for transforming Jack Nicholson in Wolf. Baker, working with old-fashioned apparatus like prosthetics and makeup, crafts a progression of impressive imagery. Baker won an Oscar for his work in An American Werewolf in London, in which he elaborated upon some effects in Dante's own witty film.Needless to say, Landis integrates a diversity of elements into the film. Near the beginning, we have the unpretentious buddy tete-a-tete with Jack and David. The attraction between David and Alex is sugary without being nauseating, and part of why we care so much about David. Then, as is always true of Landis' work, there's the plethora of cryptic allusions and crafty references. Frank Oz has a triple cameo, as himself, Kermit and Miss Piggy. Landis makes his customary See You Next Wednesday reference as the title of a hilarious faux porn film. And there's an absurd car pile-up that echoes the vehicular pandemonium in The Blues Brothers but with much more succinctness and unexpectedness.Most of the cast is peopled by British character actors, including the excellent John Woodvine as Dr. Hirsch and Brian Glover as the most quarrelsome Slaughtered Lamb regular. Jenny Agutter, at the summit of her career, is delightful as Alex. The two Americans are played by David Naughton and Griffin Dunne. Dunne has most of the best one-liners, and, in the face of his increasingly gruesome appearance for most of his screen time, is close at hand for comic relief, a neat analogy for the whole of the film. "}{"Title":"Definitive 1980s Werewolf Film","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two American college students on a walking tour of Britain are attacked by a werewolf that none of the locals will admit exists. John Landis made a name for himself directing comedies like The Blues Brothers and Animal House. Horror fans (rightly) try to claim him as their own, but he is a comedy guy just as much. And it shows. Although this is an incredibly scary film, it clearly has a sense of humor. That is a big reason it works so well.Who wants to see David Naughton run around naked? If you do, this is the film for you because he finds himself naked repeatedly (and in you squint, you can almost see his special appendage if you pay attention). But, if this is the only reason you watch the film, you are missing out on many other great things.The debate, going back more than thirty years now, is whether American Werewolf or The Howling is the better film. Some might add Wolfen, but they would be wrong. Considering Howling has seven sequels and American Werewolf has only one, you might think Howling. But you would be wrong. Joe Dante is a beloved director, and the talents of Rob Bottin may even surpass those of Rick Baker... but American Werewolf is the superior film, if for no other reason than its tone. It has a balance of humor and comedy that keeps it fun and the sort of film you can return to.Worth noting are the transformation effects; these are fairly impressive, especially considering the time the film was made. Everyone knows this was the first film to receive an Academy Award for Best Makeup. As of 2014, Baker has earned seven of these. How often has a horror film changed the course of the Academy? Not often, and perhaps never before or since. This is, in many ways, Baker's film.The film has received almost universal acclaim. Roger Ebert was an exception, noting the movie seems curiously unfinished, as if director John Landis spent all his energy on spectacular set pieces and then didn't want to bother with things like transitions, character development, or an ending. As rarely as Ebert gets it wrong, he got it wrong here. Although he may have a point with character development, the lack of depth never seems to take away from the picture -- we are not to care about these people, just to gaze voyeuristically at their foibles. "},{"Title":"I'm Not Sure You Could Make A Better Werewolf Movie","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wow. With one word that pretty much sums up this absolutely stunning horror movie. Director John Landis managed one of those movies where everything just came together and almost everything is right with this. The premise of An American Werewolf In London is obvious from the title. And, yes, a lot of werewolf movies have been made - before and after this one. So, sure, you'd wonder how another one could be fresh or rise above the rest, but this one managed the trick. It is the perfect combination of a very frightening movie, a very graphic and bloody movie and a very funny movie. At times you'll be jumping and almost wanting to put your hands over your eyes, and then five minutes later you'll be chuckling at something. It's all there, and woven together just perfectly. And out of all the werewolf movies I've seen (and I love the genre, so I've seen a lot) I think this one has the absolute best transformation scene ever put together.The cast was superb. David Naughton as the unfortunate David Kessler, who gets bitten by a werewolf and is of course cursed to become a werewolf. The little known (at least to me) and very lovely British actress Jenny Agutter was perfect as Alex, David's nurse who lets him move in with her after he's released from the hospital. There's really no weaknesses in any of the supporting cast, either. The relationship between David and Alex was one minor issue. It happened too fast to be truly believable. The plot mechanism of having David's dead friend Jack who had been killed by the werewolf that bit David (played by Griffin Dunne) appear to him and warn him about what was going to happen worked for a while but became a bit tired by the end. This very fast paced movie also ended a bit too abruptly for my liking, although there was a pretty good romp of devastation by the werewolf through Piccadilly. Those are really quite minor weaknesses, though. Overall, this movie is a blast. (9/10) "},{"Title":"This is how you do it","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you make a comedy horror movie, it helps if it is both funny and scary. With An American Werewolf In London, writer/director John Landis shows us how to do it, because this movie makes us laugh and jump.The story is a familiar one - the admonition not to stray onto the moors on the night of the full moon proves one to take notice of, as failure to comply with it leads to one American tourist dying and the other being hospitalised. During his convalescence he falls for one of the nurses (and she for him) but, come the next full moon...David Naughton was a pleasingly vulnerable lead, but his career never really went in the direction one might have expected it to after this film. Griffin Dunne's steadily disintegrating buddy is a delight, and Jenny Agutter is perfectly cast.And Rick Baker's werewolf transformation effects - the first time we'd seen anything other than dissolves between four or five transitional makeups - were stunning.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A classic of the comedy/horror genre","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember An American Werewolf in London and The Howling being the big rival werewolf films of the early '80s. Both were big, scary movies with cutting-edge special effects and reputations as equally decent films, but I think London has the edge. It just feels that the narrative is cleaner and more focused, and the combination of comedy and horror works really well.The movie is also notable for its depiction of 1981-era England through the eyes of a couple of American students (and Yank director John Landis too, of course). It's tightly written, exploring the werewolf theme from a psychological perspective, which I liked, while also providing possibly the best rampage of all time come the ending. It definitely deserves its reputation as one of the big horror films of the 1980s.Rick Baker's special effects are the real star here and they deservedly won the Oscar; that transformation scene is still stunning, and unequalled even with the advent of CGI (Baker's own work in the disappointing Wolfman remake didn't come close). The blood flows freely and the deaths are vicious and unpleasant, as you'd hope for given the subject matter.The film's settings are also splendid, really bringing an age-old rural myth into the then-present day. The Piccadilly climax is brilliant stuff but the build up is equally watchable, particularly the excellent sub-plot involving John Woodvine's doctor investigating the case; Woodvine feels like a worthy successor to Cushing in this one. That's not to belittle David Naughton's fresh turn as the lead or the incredibly lovely Jenny Agutter as the object of his affection, of course.An American Werewolf in London is just one of those films where everything comes together and gels together perfectly. I particularly like the nightmarish dream sequences which allow the director and writers free reign; the bit with the demon Nazis with machine guns is a tremendously fun moment, for instance. "},{"Title":"An American Werewolf in London (1981) **1/2","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I felt it was time to re-watch this movie and give it another chance. I saw it at the theater in 1981 when I was 19 and I immediately disliked it due to what I felt was its over-reliance on comedy and not taking itself seriously enough as a horror movie. Well, today I finally decided that after almost 30 years it was time for a new viewing with a more open mind.Overall, after this re-watch I have to say I am now far less harsh on American WEREWOLF than I was in 1981. I think that what seemed so ridiculous and silly to me in 1981 doesn't play nearly as foolishly in 2009, and especially not after another 20 years of seeing so many far worse and TRULY stupid modernized horror films. In fact, during the first 60 minutes of American WEREWOLF I'd say there wasn't really any misplaced intrusive comedy that hurt the experience for me at all. As a matter of fact, I was surprised during this re-evaluation at how serious much of the film actually played to me. 28 more years and so many inferior goofy modern horror misfires really polished it up in my eyes. It wasn't comedy that got in the way during the first hour; if anything, it was the lack of anything really happening until that first powerful transformation sequence.I was really enjoying the film, and was almost prepared to give it a 3 out of 4 star rating myself; except that the foolishness eventually reared its silly head during the scene where David wakes up in a zoo and runs around nude asking a little boy for his balloons to cover himself up, rather jolly and apparently not even the least bit properly shaken up that he's just woken up naked in a zoo in a cage with real wolves and doesn't know why! Okay, so that was only a little bit of passable nonsense ... but then when David wears a woman's coat, and starts screaming loudly in public for a London booby to arrest him, shouting Queen Elizabeth is a man! Prince Charles is a faggot! Sh-t!! Cu-t!!!... well, that started sounding more like the old AWIL I remembered and despised from my youth. And the entire sequence in the porn movie theater with not only a revisit from his old friend Jack the Corpse, but now all his other victims' corpses joking around as well.... that was too much, and I found myself going down to a rating of Above Average instead of Good.A word about Jack and his constant appearances as a deteriorating corpse ... I took them all to be David's own hallucinations because he's been driven near the point of madness, so these were not a hindrance. But with the last visit in the movie theater, I wondered how David could be imagining all those other victim's faces he killed, considering he never met them? Maybe he remembered what they looked like and all their names form when he was a wolf? ANYTHING but figuring that these dead people were real and actually sitting in that theater (which they couldn't have been, as the theater was empty afterward).In the end, I liked the movie better. It's not going to be a personal favorite I'd choose to see anymore, but I guess I'd now consider it a pretty good werewolf film, and one of the more respectable of the modern versions. There was certainly enough gore and violent scenes staged to offset the light parts. I would say that if Landis cut out the whole sequence of David conversing that last time with the dead people in the movie theater, and all that junk of him trotting around town with the balloons and wearing a woman's coat, as well as that desperate yelling at the policeman to get arrested and saying really stupid things, this would have been a MUCH more effective horror film.BUT I do have to stand as correct in one thing I have maintained form the very start back in 1981 as to why I was not a big fan of the movie. After the show I played an interview on the DVD with John Landis, and the very FIRST words out of his mouth regarding the movie were Everyone keeps saying this is a COMEDY! But it's not a Comedy -- it's a HORROR FILM!!! So, after all these years of people insisting it's a comedy or at least a horror/comedy, here was Landis himself stating he meant it to be a horror movie, but it turned out to have unnecessary silliness in it that I think hurts it. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"One of very few horror movies that are actually scary! Massively underrated.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I dare anyone to watch this movie alone with the lights turned off, and the soundtrack cranked up, and preferably whilst out camping in the forest ;o) and then come to me and tell me it ain't an awesome horror.**SPOILER!!! The first attack on the moor. JEEZUS! I have seen this film a million times and it still freaks me out, because I know that if it was me and my mate crapping ourselves at the situation we'd gotten ourselves in to, then we would, in all likelihood, act exactly like they did. You know, like in most horror movies, you see the characters choose the incredibly scary looking path instead of the brightly lit yellow brick road and it just ain't right. These characters are believable, the wolf is just about the most scariest monster you ever could imagine, none of this running around on two legs malarky here! Nosiree, we have ourselves a genuine evil hound from the depths of hell. Just look at the scene on the underground and the size of the thing when it comes in to view. Shhhhiiiiiugar!Anyway, get this film on DVD, turn the lights down, and the soundtrack up. Curl up with your better half and enjoy being frightened. "},{"Title":"The BEST werewolf film ever made!!!!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There can be no doubt in my mind, that AAWIL is by far the best werewolf film of them all. Not only a dark horror film but at times incredibly funny and moving. The effects are well worthy of the Oscar that they so richly won and even now do not appear dated or silly when compared to todays standards - the use of practical effects once again showing brilliantly the pros to the use of these effects against the use of CGI in this art form. The cast is made up of little known and more well known actors and the balance is perfect, with the less known and less experienced actors holding their own against the more familiar faces. The pace and delivery of dialogue is right on the mark, and this makes the comic timing perfect for those dark humored jokes, carefully placed throughout the film in this perfect script form John Landis. An equal measure of scares and laughs make this one of the best films to come out of 1981 and the 80's as a whole. It will never get old or tired looking and that makes me hesitant at the news of the possible re-make, but we'll see. Beware the moon!!! "},{"Title":"The best film werewolf","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To me what made this movie was two things - first the werewolf, the most horrifying and most fierce in my opinion. The scene where it chased that unfortunate guy through the subway had me imagining something was going to come around the corner for me for a good while. I understand that werewolves badly maul and kill people, but this was the first were I saw it actually eat people. I wonder if David belched after turning human again ?! And the decomposing undead victims was a different twist. They kept there original personalities unlike traditional zombies that just limped along and moan and grunt. That left one for the imagination! All the people David killed would have decomposed to talking skeletons eventually!Second was the pub scene - the bald guy was hilarious ! - and those candles on the wall were quite wicked looking. "},{"Title":"Darkly funny werewolf movie","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A darkly funny werewolf movie.Not your average werewolf movie - this is much better than that. Decent plot, though not overly original. No, what sets this apart is the humour and the A-grade production and performances.There's hints of the comedy aspect early on, but those are mostly just witty dialogue and you think it is just the usual banter of young people. It is only once David is in hospital that you realise that this is almost as much a comedy as a drama. The bumbling detective, the appearance of his dead friend (on a few occasions) and their discussions, some of the other scenes. Wherever possible, writer-director John Landis throws in some humour.Production is also very good. Werewolf movies are often B-grade (at best) efforts and this is far better than that.Good cast too. Solid performance by David Naughton in the lead role, as well as from Jenny Agutter. "},{"Title":"Still comical and fun","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've enjoyed John Landis's An American Werewolf in London on multiple watches over the years, but never reviewed it. So I watched it through for maybe the 8th or so time again recently and am impressed with its 3 equal parts horror, comedy, and romance. The director manages to fit a bunch into its tight runtime. Landis has made some snappy dialog tying in British and American culture with werewolf lore as well as sexuality. David Naughton plays naive well, while Griffin Dunne is in for some added sarcasm. Jenny Agutter meanwhile heats up the screen in a wholly clichéd nurse role, but her appeal is magnetic in the movie. For not having computers much to rely on the filmmakers do an solid job considering with creature effects. At 97 min the movie seems a little cut-off, yet plausible and acceptable. 7/10 for this early 80s rock. Recommended "}{"Title":"Naughty Naughton...","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As mentioned in my comments regarding THE HOWLING, the early 1980s were a great time for Fright Film fans. There were hits and misses, as in any decade, to be sure, but there seemed to be a general AWARENESS of Fright Films at that time. Maybe that's because directors like John Landis and Joe Dante, who'd grown up reading FAMOUS MONSTERS OF FILMLAND, were more in TUNE with the genre than a lot of other directors. (A lot of name directors dabbled briefly- and very often very badly- in the genre before moving on.) That said, I was disappointed- and still am, to this day- with AN American WEREWOLF IN London because it just doesn't deliver the Goods the way it should have. Growing up on Shock Theater and the like, I was used to seeing classic Fright Films on television late Friday or Saturday nights- but I was rarely SATISFIED with the overall experience for one simple reason the Monster was usually kept off screen until the final few minutes, when s/he/it would pop out and scare the daylights out of you just before the closing credits. That was a ploy that I always resented I wanted to SEE the Monster, to marvel at his/her/its Monstrousness throughout the entire movie, not just there at the end. Landis did the exact same thing with HIS Monster. He should've known better. I like the movie- it brings back some fond movie-going memories-, but I wish there'd been MORE. (Anyone interested in Landis's take on the genre should check out his book MONSTERS IN THE MOVIES, an excellent tome that should be available at your local library; it's the closest thing I can think of to actually going back and reading an issue of FAMOUS MONSTERS OF FILMLAND.) "},{"Title":"AWIL set the standard for werewolf movies","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Has there been another werewolf movie as good as this one? I mean a pure werewolf film, not a mixture with vampires or other monsters. I can't think of one off of the top of my head, and I bet you'd have to think long and hard to come up with something even close.AWIL was masterfully done. Two backpackers visiting England have their vacation shaken up when one of them is bitten by a werewolf. The movie goes on to chronicle his transformation and the victims left in his wake.In 1981 this movie was the bomb. The main character, played by David Naughton, was witty and likable. In fact, he reminded me very much of Robert Downey Jr. But I think what made it such a standout movie was David Kessler's (David Naughton) metamorphosis. Granted I was very young, but I hadn't seen anything like it before. Until this movie I don't think werewolf transfigurations had been attempted on film. It was awesome, even today. Consider that there was no CGI, just make-up artists and camera tricks. AWIL set the standard for werewolf movies and they're all still chasing it. "},{"Title":"Well made good looking simple horror","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" David Kessler (David Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Griffin Dunne) are young men backpacking through the English moor region. They stop at a small pub in East Proctor where the locals are hiding a dark secret. They are attacked by a werewolf and Jack is killed. The locals rescue David after being mauled by the werewolf. The locals perpetuate a lie that a madman attacked the two guys. Nurse Alex Price (Jenny Agutter) treats David and they fall for each other.It's a very simple old style horror from writer/director John Landis. The makeup looks good. The dead Jack looks are especially nasty and bloody. Griffin Dunne has a fun time as the walking dead. The transformation is done really well. It's very simple like the chase in the subway where nothing is shown other than growling. It's the age before CGI. It has a bit of humor like the cheesy porno flick. There isn't much in terms of story. Basically he gets bitten and he turns. It doesn't have to get much fancier than that. "},{"Title":"I will not be threatened by a walking meat loaf!","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Landis's delightful 1980s update of the werewolf theme is one of those horror films that succeeds quite well at delivering both the chills and the chuckles. It's often as funny as it is scary, has a script (by Landis) that is very quotable at times, features an excellent assemblage of actors, and is thickly atmospheric. For this viewer, at least, it has the edge over the *other* big werewolf movie of 1981, The Howling, due to its stranger in a strange land premise. Landis gets great use out of various English locations. The makeup effects by Rick Baker are impressive and memorable, and deservedly won the Academy Award for that year. The soundtrack features both a wonderful Elmer Bernstein score and a selection of pop tunes each containing the word moon (including three versions of Blue Moon). Everything adds up to create an experience that is lots of fun.American tourists David Kessler (David Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Griffin Dunne) are travelling the remote English countryside when, after a tense encounter at the out-of-the- way pub The Slaughtered Lamb, they end up attacked by a four legged beast on the moors. Jack is killed, but David survives, and David soon ends up receiving regular visits from his mutilated pal, who warns David that he was in fact bitten by a werewolf and will become one on the next full moon. David doesn't want to believe it - and who would? - but sure enough, he transforms and starts savaging London citizens. Meanwhile, David has fallen in love with a nurse, Alex Price (Jenny Agutter), whose boss, Dr. Hirsch (John Woodvine), decides to do some sleuthing.Naughton is a very engaging lead, and Dunne is equally solid (and amusing) as his undead friend. The appealing Agutter is at her loveliest here. The excellent Woodvine leads a fine supporting cast also consisting of David Schofield, Brian Glover, Lila Kaye, Rik Mayall, Don McKillop, and Paul Kember; Frank Oz has a great cameo as the American Embassy man. Landis begins his film on an extremely ominous note; those opening minutes in the country are beautifully spooky. From then on he creates an effective balancing act of humour and horror. The gore and the principal transformation are amazing, although some fans do feel somewhat let down by the appearance of the monster itself. Many fine sequences, especially the chase through the subway system. The Nazi monster nightmare scene is also noteworthy. The climactic chaos in Piccadilly Square is exciting, and the ending is very much to the point.Looking at this now, it's hard to believe that Landis could have had such a hard time selling this script; he'd written it several years previous.Strongly recommended to all genre fans.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"Superb movie","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Seen a lot of silly horror flicks in the '80s. But this is just superb film making. John(Trading Places)Landis is a superb director. The wit, gags and a masterpiece script all blend to make this one of my all favorite films of all time. With appropriate humor when needed, matched by some genuinely gruesome moments, this makes for particularly compelling first time viewing. A definite must see. With computer generated special effects taking over, this shows just how it's meant to be done. It got an academy award in 1982 for a good reason! The transformation scene is incredible. No mistake here, I've not seen one like it before or after. It's on DVD now and the studio were wise, no visual changes. The SUPERB, unmatched soundtrack is much clearer. Miss this at your peril!! "},{"Title":"The best modern Werewolf Movie ever!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" AN American WEREWOLF IN London is probably the finest modern werewolf movie. It has humor, drama, horror, gore, sex, etc. It tells the tale of 2 American students on a backpacking trip through Europe. Apparently, their first stop is the UK midlands and it's here where the trouble for them begins. The movie is superbly directed by John Landis, who up until this movie, was known for his savage comedies like ANIMAL HOUSE and THE BLUES BROTHERS. It's by lumping Landis as a comedy director that many critics and IMDb users think American WEREWOLF is a combination of comedy and horror. Sure, this movie has some very funny moments, but in the way the scenes are played by the leading actors David Naughton and Griffin Dunne. They talk and act like any average twenty-something would cursing, making fun of themselves in not so funny situations, etc. Thus someone might mistake this for a horror/comedy, but in my eyes, it is not. It's got some very dark humor but mostly this is a very (as Landis would put it in a FANGORIA interview way back) Hard Rated R movie. There's plenty of violence and gore even in this day and age the movie still has some very shocking moments. The transformation scene earned this movie an Oscar and there are some people who might argue that THE HOWLING (which was released 4 months before)is slightly better. I beg to differ. THE HOWLING is also great fun but, to my eyes, it hasn't aged that well. American WEREWOLF on the other hand holds up pretty well. The DVD is truly a gem with its DTS sound mix which makes it a must for fans of this movie. Make no mistake AN American WEREWOLF IN London is a movie for die-hard gore hounds but commercial enough to attract casual viewers. Beware of the moon!!! "},{"Title":"Werefolf flick that continues to impress","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the bleak winter of Northern England, two American students travel Europe in search of fun, and women. But first take a pit stop at The Slaughtered Lamb a gritty pub with some shady characters and upcoming comedians. Upon noticing a mysterious five-point star on the wall, the pair ask about it, and are immediately forced to leave. But the community at the pub know full well that they are leading the two Americans to their dooms, for there's a full moon that night...Ignoring the warnings of the pub members, the pair stray far from the roads. In a scene with some great camera-work, the pair encounter a werewolf, one of them is mauled to death, the other is cursed to become a werewolf the very next full moon.The film makes some great use of the camera and some of the most unrelated music to entertain.I would say this is slightly more of a comedy, as the kill scenes are short and sharp, and the funny moments are quite memorable. The film also blends the two elements together for some great scenes like when David, the hapless survivor, is visited by his dead friend, with half of his face mauled off, yet he talks as if nothing has happened.The film also shows off it's technical know-how as it boasts the hands-down best transformation scene in a werewolf movie. There's no cheap stop-motion here as we see poor David shout in agony as his whole body slowly cracks and creaks into a new shape. This scene won the movie a Special Achievement Oscar in Advancement in Makeup. The makeup for David's slowly decomposing friend who persists in visiting him is also pretty good.In one of his first scripts, John Landis entertains the audience with gory horror, yet at the same time some ridiculously funny moments in a short, sharp screenplay. Strap yourself in for ninety minutes you'll almost certainly enjoy. "},{"Title":"Terrifying 80's horror comedy a real achievement.","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this on DVD in the dark earlier this year. I was terrified. And with good reason. This is a brilliantly terrifying and hilarious 80's comedy-horror with a lot of heart and excellent special effects for the time.Two American tourists are in a quiet place in the countryside in England when all of a sudden they get mauled by a werewolf. One is killed and the other becomes a werewolf. This first attack has a very lengthy and thrilling buildup and when it comes, it's utterly terrifying and awesome.One of the film's real highlights is the Oscar-winning makeup by Rick Baker. It really stands out in the transformation scene, when the main character transforms into a werewolf right in front of our eyes. He also keeps having visions of his dead friend in a gradually decaying zombie form. What also really stood out is the final scene, which takes place in a porno cinema. The man sees decaying visions of everyone he's murdered, who warn him that he will die. The film is also ridiculously funny in some parts, such as when he wakes up naked in a zoo and does everything he can to hide his man parts.Overall, this is a crowning achievement for director John Landis. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"These dumb ass kids. They never appreciate what you do for them.","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It doesn't matter how long ago you saw this, or how many times you've watched it, it is a classic that everyone, especially those who love comedy/horror should see.The makeup was outstanding. Of course it was, it won an Oscar.The music was really appropriate and added immensely to the film. Bad Moon Rising when he was about to transform, as an example.Jenny Agutter can nurse me back to health anytime.The script was extremely clever; especially the exchanges between David (David Naughton) and Jack (Griffin Dunne). Dunne has some of the best lines in the film.The porn theater was a really nice touch.The only flaw was the ending. Lame. "},{"Title":"A compendium of missed opportunities and miscalculations","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's difficult to imagine that Landis actually put as much thought into this thing as he's said. Money yes, especially in make-up. But nowhere else. First the good Jenny Agutter is gorgeous and the only believable character in the flick. The werewolf is amazing though not much of a wolf, more a cross between a lion and a piranha. The transformation is still mind-boggling, Rick Baker used every trick in the Dick Smith book as it was then written, and added a bunch of chapters of his own. The acting is good enough--Naughton is a very likable protagonist and works well with Dunne. The music is nice (can listen to Sam Cook any time) but distracting--after awhile you wonder whose version of Blue Moon will pop up next. I dreaded the arrival of Moon River. Then we come to the script. Alas. Nothing in this area makes much sense. After a very suspenseful opening it all falls down, logic was not part of Landis's thought processes. The running gag with Dunne returning from the dead again and again looking more decayed each time is good, but it LACKS A PAYOFF!! He just disappears. What the film needed after the werewolf is killed (badly, see below) is Naughton and Dunne walking spectrally off into the night and a line like Well, this looks like the end of a beautiful friendship. And the doctor's entire trip to the village where it all started is useless, he learns nothing we don't already know and it adds nothing to the story except length. After all the blood and murder and horror (even the contrived stuff like the whole sequence in the Tube) and an interminable and gratuitous series of car crashes (what is it with Landis and cars?), the poor ol' wolf is shot down in an alleyway like a rabid dog--and by regular bullets. Very disappointing. And then we don't even get to see him change back into Our Hero! Thereby removing any connection between Our Hero and the monster, and with it most of the scene's pathos. Hadn't Landis seen any of the other werewolf pix? Fright Night did something like it quite nicely with a very realistic wolf. And where the hell is Our Hero's family?? Frank Oz shows up as a rep of the American Embassy, but that's it. Obviously Landis wasn't interested in even that much reality. One overly pathetic phone call does it for Our Hero's entire previous life. Puh-leeze. The business with him being haunted by the ghosts of his victims is a nice touch, but again where's the logic of having his good buddy there? He was killed by the last werewolf. Oh well. It does look better in a couple of decades worth of retrospect because so much were-crap has been done since. "}{"Title":"The BEST werewolf film ever made!!!!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There can be no doubt in my mind, that AAWIL is by far the best werewolf film of them all. Not only a dark horror film but at times incredibly funny and moving. The effects are well worthy of the Oscar that they so richly won and even now do not appear dated or silly when compared to todays standards - the use of practical effects once again showing brilliantly the pros to the use of these effects against the use of CGI in this art form. The cast is made up of little known and more well known actors and the balance is perfect, with the less known and less experienced actors holding their own against the more familiar faces. The pace and delivery of dialogue is right on the mark, and this makes the comic timing perfect for those dark humored jokes, carefully placed throughout the film in this perfect script form John Landis. An equal measure of scares and laughs make this one of the best films to come out of 1981 and the 80's as a whole. It will never get old or tired looking and that makes me hesitant at the news of the possible re-make, but we'll see. Beware the moon!!! "},{"Title":"One of the Great Werewolf Films.","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London (1981) Dir John Landis / Cast David Naughton, Griffin Dunne, Jenny Agutter, John Woodvine, Don McKillop An impressive horror comedy that ranks among the best of werewolf films. It regards danger and destination as David Naughton and Griffin Dunne play two students arriving in cold London and make a stop at the Slaughtered Lamb pub where the strange locals warn them to beware of the moon. Upon leaving they wander off the road and a large hairy creature attacks but shot dead by the locals. Dunne is dead but Naughton survives and has strange nightmares. John Landis makes an impressive turn after directing two hilarious comedies in The Blues Brothers and National Lampoon's Animal House. Naughton romances a nurse but will eventually transform into a werewolf and the painful effect is makeup artist Rick Baker at his finest. Humor follows as Naughton awakens naked in the zoo. Graphic and disturbing although Dunne is hilarious as a corpse warning Naughton of what's to come. Jenny Agutter plays a nurse who houses Naughton while following a string of murders over the news. John Woodvine plays a doctor who investigates claims by Naughton. Other characters include an amusing couple of investigators, and strange folks at the Slaughtered Lamb. Horrific London scare fest that demonstrates the pains of getting hairy. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the best werewolf film of all time.","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" AWIL is easily one of my all-time favourite films. It's creepy, funny, well-paced, well- shot, fairly well acted and boasts some truly glorious effects work from Rick Baker.David Naughton plays a backpacked who is attacked by a mysterious monster and finds himself cursed to become a werewolf. It sounds like standard monster movie fare, but John Landis manages to turn it on its head and creates a wonderful, darkly comedic flick. It's only major flaw is the lack of a memorable musical score, but this is made up for by it's excellent use of moon-themed songs (Blue Moon, Bad Moon Rising, etc.)All in all, a fantastic genre piece that has stood the test of time and has cemented itself as my all-time favourite werewolf flick. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A naked American man stole my balloons.This was awesome in every conceivable way. One of the best horror films I've ever seen. Like The Shining, which was released the year earlier, it dances the line between horror and comedy perfectly. It starts with two American hikers, Jack (Griffin Dunne) and David (David Naughton), wandering through the moors of Northern England despite being warned repeatedly to stick to the road. They find themselves at a pub called The Slaughtered Lamb, full of strange locals and a five-pointed star painted on the wall. They interrupt the locals' banter over John Wayne's The Alamo and make a man miss a dartboard for the first time in his life when they question the presence of the five-pointed star, and, weirded out by the locals, set out into the moors, only to be attacked by a werewolf. Jack dies, and David wakes up in hospital where he experiences an apparition of his dead friend he warns him that he will become a werewolf, take lives, and doom them to exist in limbo between the world of the living and the dead, lest he kill himself. So with the help of a nurse (Jenny Agutter) he has sex and hangs around her flat, until he transforms and goes on a vicious rampage.The film is very clever, funny, imaginative and well made by John Landis. The photography is superb, the moors look especially beautiful. The performances are funny, the special effects are fantastic (apparently Michael Jackson loved this film so much he hired the special effects crew to help make his Thriller video), and the various set-pieces atmospheric and surreal, from the hallucinatory hospital to the porno theatre full of walking dead thinking up ways David could off himself, to the final showdown in Picadilly circus.Now a favourite horror film for me and a favourite comedy, I'd highly recommend this one to fans of good horror films. "},{"Title":"A special effects cine-moment supplemented by a buddy story gone horribly wrong","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exiled from a bar right out of Straw Dogs, David Kessler (David Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Griffin Dunne) make the classic horror movie mistake of not heeding the warning to stay clear of the moors. This modern day werewolf movie offers comic relief as the mauled Jack re- appears in different states of decay and a Florence Nightingale angle with sweet and beautiful girl next door Nurse Alex Price (Jenny Agutter). The dream sequences are interesting, but it all simply leads up to the special effects, the star of the show! The transformation sequence was amazing, while the shorter attacking clips less satisfying. The climax to the full moon with David waiting and pacing was brilliant of John Landis as I, too, was waiting for them to get it on! What keeps it together after all these years is the comedy between the two college kids. The dialog feels so Eurotrip real and yet it's a werewolf movie with the standard lycanthrope mythology explained as if every other werewolf movie is the training manual, and this is for real. "},{"Title":"It's hard to know where to stand with this movie because there isn't much to stand on.","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I find myself pulled back and forth in my feelings about An American Werewolf in London. Here is a movie put together with brilliant technical craftsmanship, with special effects and make-up that deserve to be applauded. Yet, they serve a story that feels unfocused and even unfinished. It's hard to know where to stand with this movie because there isn't much to stand on.The story is not the most original in the world. Two American college guys David (David Naughton) and Jack (Griffin Dunne) are backpacking through England and stop off at a remote pub one moonlit night to have a drink - they both order tea. The locals don't like the looks of these two yanks, and when one says the wrong word we get the standard horror movie scene in which the entire place comes to a halt while the grizzliest of the patrons warns them to stay off the moors because a werewolf lurks in the darkness.The boys poo-poo this nonsense and veer off the road anyway. Jack is killed by a wolf and David ends up in the hospital under the care of the voluptuous Alex Price (Jenny Agutter). He starts having nightmares involving killer zombies. His dreams are so vivid that at one point he has a dream within another dream. Jack's bloody and mangled corpse returns to inform David that he has the werewolf curse, which he is slow to believe, and that he must kill himself in order to break it.That's pretty much the entire story. From there it is a straight line right down to the attacks by full-moon and repeated scenes of David waking up naked with no memory of where he's been. There is some comic ingenuity in place involving covering of David's naughty bits to keep the movie's R-rating intact. Some of the comic bits work. There's a funny running gag involving Jack who keeps turning up to remind David to kill himself. His face is more and more gelatinous and rotten every time we see it.Then there's the movie's golden moment, a transformation scene, which is really the only scene in the movie that is worth your time. It is done right there in full light with hands that stretch into paws, a nose the stretches into a snout and fur that materializes out of nowhere. The real star of this movie is make-up artist Rick Baker who gives the movie everything that the script doesn't.Director John Landis who has made some brilliant comedies like Animal House and Trading Places turns in a script here that introduces meaningless characters, half-written scenes and ideas that cut short just as they seem about to get interesting. He stages elaborate special effects sequences, like an attack by killer zombies that leads nowhere and has no real purpose. Okay, they're in a dream sequence but when you consider the work that went into that attack scene, you wonder why Landis wasted it all on a silly dream. Then there's the ending, which seemed so sudden and so arbitrary that, for a second, I actually thought there was something wrong with my DVD. I thought something had been accidentally edited out.** (of four) "},{"Title":"Best werewolf film of the 80s","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror films competing with each other is nothing new. It's not always intentional, but often times it is. In 1988 and 89 sequels to 'Halloween,' 'Friday the 13th,' and 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' all came out within months of each other, all rushed into production. The studios were raking in the big bucks and knew this was a good way to do it. Another form of this was movies of the same sub-genre coming out the same year, which was the case in 1981 a year that saw the release of three films about werewolves. Two out of the three films are considered to be two of, by some the two best examples of Horror films involving werewolves and have enjoyed devoted followings to this day. Some prefer one over the other, but however you feel there's no denying that both helped redefine the genre in their own way and did an excellent job of bringing the concept up to date. Personally I prefer this film.Pros Excellent script and direction by John Landis, who does a fine job of balancing the horror and humor. Well acted by every member of the cast. Nicely scored and some good tunes on the soundtrack. Great sense of humor. Brilliant special and make-up effects that have really held up. Frightening attack scenes. Plus a few other memorable sequences, such as the transformation. Perfectly paced. Some lovely country scenery.Cons Somethings could have been fleshed out a bit more. Ends too abruptly.Final thoughts In a time when werewolves are created with computers and appear in films aimed at teens it's great that we have films like this to go back and watch again. Is it the best film about werewolves ever made? Maybe not, but it's definitely up there with the best and hasn't lost it's power. It's a fine example of a film that pays homage to films it's ilk that came before while having some new and exciting things up it's sleeve.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"We Were Attacked By A Werewolf.","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two American students are on a walking tour of England and are attacked by a Werewolf. One is killed, the other is mauled. The Werewolf is killed, but reverts to it's human form, and the townspeople are able to deny it's existence. The surviving student begins to have nightmares of hunting on 4 feet at first, but then finds that his friend and other recent victims appear to him, demanding that he find a way to die to release them from their curse, being trapped between worlds because of their unnatural death. This Film Is An Absolute Cult Classic...& I Can See Why. All The Performances Are Great. The Make-Up Is Good. The Only Problem Is That You See David Naughton's Penis In A Few Scenes...In That Way This IS A Horror. People Compare This To Its Sequel AAWIP But It Could Go Either Way To Say Which One Is Superior. All In All A Great Movie "},{"Title":"One of the best in the Werewolf Genre","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is a very good monster movie with special effects that were transcending at the time. The creature itself, unlike the ones in The Howling, another of the best, is a four legged monstrosity which is seen only in small parts, but those parts are shocking and outstanding. John Landis, the director of this movie, does what most good directors of horror films do, show you just enough to get your heart pumping, but never go too far. The old adage is still true, showing less is always more when dealing with horror films.The plot is simple. Two young hikers are back-packing along the moors of England where they are attacked by a beast. One is killed and the other survives, but we all know what that means. The dead friend returns in visions looking like a walking meat-loaf as the surviving friend calls him, and warns that the survivor will turn into a werewolf at the first full moon and kill people. He also tells him that he must killed himself so that this doesn't happen. Of course David (David Naughton in the one role he is best known for) the survivor of the attack, does not believe what he is hearing even though he's been having disturbing dreams. To complicate matters, he has also fallen for the nurse (Jenny Agutter) that has been taking care of him while recovering in a London hospital, which makes it even harder for him to take his own life. Sure enough he changes at the first full moon and goes about his slaughter as a monstrous beast.Like the Howling, this movie is known for being one of the best transformations from man to werewolf, and like its counterpart, I have yet to see a werewolf change that matches either, and that includes the newest Wolfman with all it's CGI. Also like the Howling, An American Werewolf has humor to go with the horror. Whereas The Howling has a few lines of comic humor, An American Werewolf has way too much, which detracts from the scariness of the movie. THis is why I have selected THe Howling as the better movie, even though both get high marks from me.The acting is good enough in American Werewolf, and the scenes on the moors of London, which include the tavern called The Slaughtered Lamb, (nice touch), and London itself, look great. Its too bad that since the early 80s, no other werewolf movie has matched these two, and that is twenty nine years. Truly a sad thing. "},{"Title":"Awooo!   A fun feel and sex make this one worth seeing","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My mission to watch and review horror and Halloween-themed movies and TV throughout this October led me to the video store where I found a shortage of horror classics. However, I did find An American Werewolf in London, and while I can't argue this was particularly scary, or particularly funny (although there were a few laughs), or that there's a twist ending involving the girl, I do think this one's worth seeing.The movie tells the story of two Americans, Jack and David, who are attacked by a werewolf in England. Jack dies, and David goes to a hospital where he falls in love with a nurse named Alex. But David has become a werewolf and poses a threat to the community.There's not a lot here to make the movie special until the odd nightmare scenes- is David in a hospital or running through a forest? Both? Nightmare becomes further confused with reality when David is visited by an undead Jack. Then we have David and Alex's affair- the shower and sex scenes are hot, and Alex looks good both in her nurse uniform and sans clothes. It made me wish I were a werewolf.But then come the werewolf scenes. Except for a convincing transformation scene we don't see much of the werewolf, and don't feel much horror. But I will give the movie credit for two things the doctor is worried what David will do, but doesn't think David is a werewolf in a supernatural sense, just a psychological one. This feels like a more plausible concern. And David meeting his undead victims in a porno theatre is an odd twist.Happy Halloween. "}{"Title":"The Best Horror Comedy Ever!","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After such infamous comedies as National Lampoon's Animal House and The Kentucky-Fried Movie, who would have thought that John Landis would do a movie like An American Werewolf In London? I would never have known about John Landis's love for horror movies. This movie came as a gigantic surprise. This is what a horror-comedy should be.Two backpackers, David and his roommate Jack, are walking along the moors of London when Jack is slaughtered by some kind of rabid animal. While Jack is dead, David gets off easy, only horribly bitten by the animal. Waking up in a hospital, David tries desperately to explain what attacked him. It could've been a giant dog. But then, David gets visits from Jack, his body disintegrating into a skeleton. Jack tells David repeatedly that he was bitten by a werewolf, and before a full moon approaches, he'd better kill himself. David doesn't believe Jack, until he really does turn into a werewolf, stalking the town.The origin for American Werewolf is very interesting. Like David and Jack, John Landis was on the moors of London, when he saw a few gypsies burying a body feet first. The reason they buried the body feet first was so he couldn't get up and cause trouble. Well, what if he did get up? Landis said.Landis does an awesome job of blending horror with gut-busting comedy, especially with scenes such as the porno theater and the nude transformation scene. He also offers some horror movie references, such as the original werewolf movie, The Wolf Man. But the real star of the movie is Rick Baker's amazing makeup effects. They are very believable and they look so real. They didn't give Baker an Oscar for nothing.The cast is very good, including David Noughton as David, Girffin Dunne as Jack and Jenny Agutter as Alex, David's love interest.John Landis really is a master of horror. An American Werewolf In London shows how a horror-comedy should be done with a black sense of humor, fantastic effects, plenty of nudity and very fun horror. "},{"Title":"Howling good fun","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If there was a Chinese calender for horror films than 1981 would be the year of the wolf. Two fan-praised flicks, this one and The Howling have put hair and claws back on celluloid for the first time since the Wolf Man forty years earlier. John Landis's film is definitely the better of the two with good quality black humor, sensational fun/disgusting make-up and a cast of quirky characters, This is one not to miss.It starts in northern England. David and Jack, two young American tourists are attacked by a werewolf one night. Jack is killed but David survives. He is taken to a hospital in London, where no one believes him when he tells them that the attacker was not a 'who' but a 'what'. He gets out a few days later, and his pretty young nurse (who he quickly falls in love with) offers him a chance to stay at her place. After having a few dreams about his dead pal who tells him that he will become werewolf in a couple of days, David thinks he is losing his mind. He soon realizes the scary truth, as will the rest of London on the night of the next full moon.The primary reason that this movie tops The Howling in my opinion is because of its fresh approach. The film is not satisfied with being plain camp, so it goes creative. A little romance and a lot of humor is all it takes. Unlike The Howling, Landis' script does a better job of making use of all the supporting characters. It is not just the principal characters who get good lines, everyone gets the chance to be funny or quirky, even the six or seven werewolf victims have roles more complex than being lunch in one scene each. You'll know what I mean when you see the film. And you should. You'll have a howling good time. "},{"Title":"great !!! superb !!!","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" what??? rick baker in this movie??? i don't believe it !!!! people have given a bad review to him in the incredible melting man! honestly...i haven't seen that movie... i don't care about it.. but i really have to say that this movie are not only great about the special effect,but also superb in the acting and the story line!!! look at the actors...i have never heard of them before!! but they have perform very well in the movie!!! i really love this movie,except it contain adult scene.... u know what i mean...sex and pornography.... actually i hate movies which contain pornography...but this movie is really superb!!!! i love this movie!!!i really have to say that this is the best werewolf movie in history, and the howling is the next best!! do not miss this movie if u are a fan of werewolf movie!!10/10*..... "},{"Title":"Best werewolf horror Moves ever!","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Remember back in the early 1980s when special-effects makeup artists were tripping over themselves to create the next big effect? The Howling boasted a fantastic werewolf transformation scene courtesy of makeup wizard Rob Bottin. Then along came Bottin's mentor, Rick Baker, with his own spectacular effects in this popular horror comedy directed by John Landis. An American Werewolf in London is more of a makeup showcase than a truly satisfying movie, but the film is effectively moody when David Naughton discovers that a wolf attack has turned him into a bloodthirsty lycanthrope. Jenny Agutter plays his love interest (watch out, he bites!), and who can forget Griffin Dunne as Naughton's best friend, an undead corpse who progressively rots away as the plot unfolds? All things considered, it's easy to see why An American Werewolf in London became a modern horror favorite. "},{"Title":"still funny after 27 years","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Catching this film on a recent TV showing ages after first seeing it, I was struck by how funny the cinema scene still is. An inspired idea to have all the corpses from David's recent werewolf rampage suggest how he might end his life! David and Jack, American tourists in Yorkshire, find themselves in a pub where the locals are aggressive, and when they leave they are not told the town's big secret - that there's a big wolf out there. So Jack gets ripped to pieces (that's about as gory as the film gets as the other killings are largely out of sight of the camera) but, as a member of the 'undead', he keeps appearing to the traumatised David, reminding him that he really should end his life to ensure safe passage of those he's murdered into the next world.Of course, David finds love with Jenny Agutter's nurse ...Rick Baker's special effects help this film a lot, although the werewolf looks less scary than it used to. It is the black humour of the film which has survived the passage of nearly three decades, not particularly the horror or the tension. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Landis is no artist, and no moral philosopher. He has no sense of rhythm, no sense of structure, no grasp of character, and he imposes his car wreck fetish on every story he touches. And judging from the shower sequence I don't think this man has ever had sex. But I loved this movie when I was ten and I like it now. The horror element, the British setting, and Jenny Agutter playing it straight provide tension against his oddball juvenilia. The makeup is indeed great, though they sure are reluctant to show the damn wolf (which, as anyone who has seen Ginger Snaps can appreciate, was actually probably a very good idea). The porn movie-interruptus is hilarious, and it's fun watching Griffin Dunne rot. Lots of scenes, lines, images, are still with me from my way-distant previous view, so he's obviously doing something right. Not scary though. "},{"Title":"The definitive werewolf move!","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is populated with a fine cast of talented actors who draw you into their individual personalities along with their roles in the story. The werewolf transformations were mind-blowing when I first saw the movie came came out in 1981, and gave me second thoughts about having brought my two preteen children with me. As it turned out, they seemed less disturbed by the graphic scenes than I was. The film contains a superb blend of horror, sex, comedy and tragedy. The scenery in the moors and in London is beautiful. The soundtrack and cinematography are great. I enjoyed every moment of the movie and purchased the DVD at first opportunity. This is one of the best and most entertaining films I have seen. "},{"Title":"A werewolf film that will be remembered","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" David Kessler(David Naughton) wakes up in a hospital after being he and his friend were attacked during a walking tour of London. His friend is dead an nobody will admit to what it was that actually attacked him A werewolf. During his stay at the hospital, he meets a beautiful nurse named Alex Price(Jenny Agutter) and reunites with the ghost of his dead friend, telling David that he must commit suicide because he is a werewolf and that he will kill others. He soon realizes this to be true and faces horrible realizations.This is just an all around great horror film of the eighties. Directed by John Landis, it actually happens to be quite humorous as well as terrifying. The scene in which David first changes into the werewolf is ahead of it's time and can be understood why it was so horrifying. With great writing, acting, and a great plot with ridiculous humor it is no wonder that it is still watched today. Overall, An American Wearwolf in London is a true horror classic and will be remembered.I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Another classic from the 80's horror collection","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two college buddies David and Jack go on a cross country trip in the hedgerows of England and are soon attacked by a vicious animal who is subsequently killed by the superstitious villagers. David (David Naughton) survives but Jack (Griffin Dunne) does not and David is taken to a London hospital to recover from his wounds and is treated by a gorgeous British nurse (Jenny Agutter) who likes him a great deal and falls in love with him and invites him to stay with her in her London flat. David is madly in love with her but knows something is terribly wrong with him. David is plagued by nightmares and hallucinations which turn out to be a little more serious than originally supposed. David is turning into something else and he cannot stop it. Or control it. What ensues is a combination of hilarity and tragedy as a result of Love At First Bite. If you're looking for a happy ending to this doomed little love story then keep looking because you're not gonna find it. The transformation scene is a hallmark of horror and quite a big deal. The special effects are darn good my only comment on them is that the creature looks different the second time as opposed to the first. The first time it looks like an aristocratic dog the second time it looks like a bobcat. Which is cool I guess if you like variety or inconsistency to use a better word. Another point of note is that EVERY SONG played on the soundtrack has to do with the moon. A unique twist on the werewolf genre to be sure. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  John Landis made some fantastic movies in the late 70's and early 80's, Animal House, The Blues Brothers, Trading Places etc. He also directed Michael Jacksons classic Thriller video, but you already know that and like me I bet you wish he could make films like those now. One of his best films is An American Werewolf in London a cracking comedy horror. I love that its set in England and John Landis doesn't hollywoodise England for an American audience, it feels like an English director made this film. Great performances all round from the cast, having Jenny Agutter in the film is a huge bonus! Fantastic music and awesome special effects, some of which have yet to be bettered....yes I'm talking about that werewolve transformation scene! A classic. Ignore the sequel its rubbish, wow what a surprise, but to be fair John Landis had nothing to do with it. ***9/10***  "}{"Title":"What if DAVID KESSLER said don't shoot me I am CIA?","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON is a semenal Film with cutting edge special effects. Director JOHN LANDIS has done a fine job weaving songs like Blue Moon, Bad Moon Rising and Moondance into the film. The influence of the moon on an American Werewolfs life is given almost a spiritual aspect. Griffin Dunne as Jack Goodman does a fine job of acting. His character represents PRESIDENT JACK KENNEDY who seemed like he was out on moors without enough protection unfortunately. President Kennedys brain was preserved in alcohol so it would not have deteriorated like Griffin Dunne did as the Zombie. David Naughtons character David Kessler represents President Johnson who used so many of President Kennedys people it was almost like he was still talking to Jack Kennedy. President Johnsons downfall comes when he is blamed for too many battlefield deaths in Vietnam and he is forced not to seek another term as president. Perhaps the character of David Kessler is not really dead but has resigned from a further role in the movie. What if David Kessler had said don't shoot me I am CIA? I have great respect for both President KENNEDY and President JOHNSON.         Jenny Agutter as Nurse Alex Price does a solid job of acting and the viewer really identifies with her character. I gave AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON a 10 out of 10 for the great acting. I believe in non-violent behavior but you could still joke you were an American Werewolf in LONDON if you were overly fond of McDonalds hamburgers while in London. An Ameican Werewolf in Paris is OK. Maybe next there will be AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN HONG KONG. "},{"Title":"Great acting, effects, laughs...A must-see!","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Two American students are on a walking tour of England and are attacked by a Werewolf. One is killed, the other is mauled. The Werewolf is killed, but reverts to it's human form, and the townspeople are able to deny it's existence. The surviving student begins to have nightmares of hunting on 4 feet at first, but then finds that his friend and other recent victims appear to him, demanding that he find a way to die to release them from their curse, being trapped between worlds because of their unnatural death...... An American werewolf in london is a classic example of the horror genre. The acting is good, the special effects are astounding, the script is witty, the atmosphere is well-built by the director. Perfect 10/10! "},{"Title":"Horror-comedy perfection!","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  John Landis directs this exceptional addition to the werewolf sub-genre featuring a beautiful soundtrack, some of the best comedy in any movie and a solid story. David Kessler (David Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Griffin Dunne) are American college students on vacation and wandering the English moors. On their travels they happen upon a quaint English pub with some rather unusual patrons. Unfortunately the pair seems to offend the pub regulars by enquiring about a pentagram painted onto the walls and decide that it is best to leave. Before their departure they are warned about walking on the moors at night and are told to stick to the roads. Irreverent of such advice the pair soon find themselves walking on the moors and suffer a horrendous attack in which Jack loses his life. David wakes up a few weeks later in a London hospital and is disturbed when he starts to see his dead friend who informs him that unless David commits suicide he will become a werewolf on the next full moon.From the enchanting opening scenes of the English moors accompanied beautifully by the elegant song &#145;Blue Moon' to the tragic final moments &#145;An American Werewolf in London' is one of the finest examples of horror comedy in the last thirty years. The special effects genius of Rick Baker, who created one of the most convincing werewolf transformations in film history, justifiably is what this movie is mainly remembered for but it unfortunately leaves the other equally impressive aspects of this amazing movie neglected. The sharp and strong screenplay also written by director John Landis is full of witty jokes and clever dialogue. Landis also directs this movie competently and creates an undeniably comic atmosphere yet intermingled with some shocking horror sequences. In fact the nightmare sequences that feature early on in the movie are possibly the most effectively dark and disturbing horror scenes of the 1980's!On top of the impressive screenplay and direction we are treated to some of the better acting that any horror has to offer. David Naughton plays his role so well that it is impossible not to feel sympathy for him throughout the movie and especially towards the end. Jenny Agutter in the role of Nurse Alex Price also offers an inspired performance and one feels for her during the dying moments of the movie. No comments about &#145;An American Werewolf in London' would be complete without commenting on the hilarious performance by Griffin Dunne whose occasional appearances as a zombie in various states of decomposition offer some of the most amusing scenes in any horror movie including a truly side-splitting sequence in a theatre where Griffin's character, along with other zombies, discuss the best ways to commit suicide &#150; it has to be seen to be believed! Full marks must once again go to Rick Baker for his talented make-up work which created some grotesquely brilliant decomposing zombies.Like with most movies there are some flaws such as David being sent to hospital in London after his accident took place in Yorkshire and occasionally the film drags a little (and I do mean a little) but overall these can be ignored as &#145;An American Werewolf in London' is a highly entertaining addition to the horror genre and a must-see for all horror fans. Although the exceptional make-up effects and the marvellously created werewolf transformation undeniably stand out this movie has far more to offer. Packed full of witty one liners and gory horror scenes &#145;An American Werewolf in London' stands out as one of the greatest horror movies of the 1980's and maybe even one of the finest horror/comedy films in history! My rating for &#145;An American Werewolf In London' &#150; 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Better than wolf in Paris","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the earlier good horror movies.  The transformation into the werewolf was awesome.  You don't see things like that everyday.  The only thing I didn't like about was the ending.  They killed him and that was it, but I guess it was the only way.  Also, the credit song, Blue Moon was just too cheery for the film.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Whoa, mind melding special effects.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS.... This movie's special effects make you wonder why every hollywood director has to use computer effects all the way. THE EFFECTS WERE NOT ANIMATED AND WERE ASTOUNDING!!!! The movie is about two americans attacked by a werewolf. One dies and the other survives and he is the new werewolf. David (the survivor) is constantly warned by his dead friend to kill himself before the next full moon. Again these special effects blew me away. The gore effects were gorior than what you usually see in some of these trashy year 2000+ 'horor' flicks, and along with the nudity the movie recieved a CANADIAN R-rating instead of 18A. The movie is overally well done and I recomend it to those who want to laugh and get spooked at the same time.NOTE when you see the canadian ratings on horror movies you usually see 14A (semi rare) , 18A (bigtime horor) and the rarest and most warning R ( Mega gore/scare). This again, is R. Be advised. "},{"Title":"Best Werewolf Movie Ever","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"                        POSSIBLE SPOILERSAn American Werewolf In London is without a doubt the finest werewolf film ever made. From the opening scenes on the Yorkshire moors to the final scenes in London, the movie is one big masterpiece.David Naughton plays David Kessler, an American tourist who visits the UK. Whilst hiking across the Yorkshire moors,David and his friend Jack are attacked by a werewolf. Jack is killed but David survives. However, David's life is going to change around the time of the next full moon...I cannot praise this movie enough. It has a fine cast of actors and actresses, fantastic scenes, a fair bit of humour and so much more. The werewolf appears sporadically throughout the movie but each killing by the wolf is shocking and very well done. And let's not forget the brilliant transformation from man to wolf in the days before CGI.The scenes throughout are very good indeed. The opening scenes where David and Jack get lost on the moors are very creepy indeed and put me off ever hiking again. In the movie, David also gets to talk with Jack who is killed at the beginning but is 'alive' on Earth as a zombie. In one of the scenes where David is in hospital, he turns around and sees zombie Jack for the first time. All Jack can say is, Can I have a piece of toast? Not the first thing I would say to a friend if I'd just come back from the dead.John Woodvine plays Dr. Hirsch who is an important character in the movie and the beautiful Jenny Agutter plays Nurse Price who develops a relationship with David which lasts till the bitter end. The final scenes set in busy London are some of the finest scenes ever in a horror movie.Any true horror fans needs to get to the local video store and buy a copy of this movie. It is definitely a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"An Instant Classic.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An American Werewolf In London is an instant classic film that is great with plenty of thrills and chills, along with a great sense of humor. When David and Jack  go on a hike in London, they are frightened by a terrible howling sound. They stop into a small bar, and no one will speak of the terror they will face if they go outside on a full-moon night. SO, they go out, and then get lost and are attacked by a giant, furry creature. Now Jack is dead, and David has fallen head over heels for a nurse who helped him recover after his attack. Jack has come back from the grave to try to warn David that on a full moon, he will transform into the creature,and now it is a full moon, and nothing can control David's rage.     I really did enjoy this movie, and it should be put down as a classic. I give An American Werewolf In London an 8 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"Funniest horror film ever made","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An American Werewolf in London is one of my all-time favorite horror films. It's also the funniest horror film that I've ever seen. This surprised me when I first saw it years ago, and after seeing it again recently in honor of its 20th anniversary, I'm still laughing over it. Be warned however, this is not a spoof. It's an intense horror film with a great sense of humor. One of the reasons why this movie has so many laughs is that it was written and directed by John Landis, who usually specializes in comedies. Landis has directed such hit comedies as National Lampoon's Animal House, The Blues Brothers, Trading Places, Spies Like Us, and Coming to America. That's an excellent track record. An American Werewolf in London is one of Landis' best. It's about two American students who on one dark night with a full moon are walking on the Welsh moors and are attacked by a werewolf. One of the students dies while the other ends up in the hospital. However the attacks that the surviving man suffers causes him to transfer into a werewolf himself. Even though An American Werewolf in London is very funny at times, it's also very gruesome. Overall, a superior horror/comedy.**** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Terrifyingly good!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An American Werewolf in London is great! It's all about two young men who are attacked on the Yorkshire moors by a werewolf. One is killed and the other survives with a bite. He wakes up in London and after some spooky nightmare's, escapes as a werewolf. He roams the streets killing people and after some strange hallucinations with his victims finally has to make up his mind what to do as the bite is causing it all. Worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Howlingly good! (SPOILERS)","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     No, I didn't name myself in honour of the film (I have a tattoo of a wolf baying at the moon on my arm) and yes, I know the above summary is pathetic; but despite the seeming indications to the contrary, I love this film to bits.   It's so atmospheric.  The opening scenes are really spooky and the combination of a 'classic' soundtrack set to moments of genuine terror reminds me of a (slightly less good) horror flick, Christine.  This is a film that's not afraid to go for the jugular when it scares, despite the fact that it could also be classed as a comedy.  So many films that try to mix genres like that end up feeling unbalanced - this is how it should be done.  The werewolf attack at the beginning is terrifying...   The characters and the cast that play them are all uniformly likeable.  David is the epitome of a man far from home confronted by something he doesn't understand.  Dunne would have stolen the thunder of a lesser production with his role as Jack.  Agutter is fine (and disturbingly sexy for a young boy like me, watching the film for the first time)  Even the doctor who examines David is an accomplished actor who I've seen in lots of things before (I think...)  Oh, and as other people have commented, the love scene is very sexy indeed!  If you're a Brit, watch out for the past alumni of our television screens turning up in The Slaughtered Lamb  (Great name, but you'd think twice about going in there, wouldn't you?)  Altogether now  You made me miss. I NEVER miss...   There are too many classic scenes to list fully here without descending into tedium.  The trip to the zoo is a surreal and hysterical highlight, as is the 'meeting' in the porno theatre.  And the effects?  Let's just say it's still one of the most impressive things I've seen, even in these days of fancy CGI.  Also, I struggle to think of a single more disturbing sequence than the 'attack of the Nazi werewolves'.   Let's not forget the comedy though, which, when it's funny, is hilarious.  Evidence for the defense?  I will not be threatened by a walking meatloaf! - David to his hideously scarred and dead best friend Jack - I rest my case.  For all the comedy and memorable moments, the ending is extremely potent and shocking.  Credit must go to Landis for his adroit switches between drama and comedy.  Yes, he has also made awful films (Beverly Hills Cop III, anyone?)  but we must never forget that he gave us this classic and also the surprisingly funny Murphy vehicle Coming to America.   AAWIL is a true original that stands out in a sea of unimaginative horror schlock.  We may never see its like again; after all, we haven't since.  Be grateful. "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An American Werewolf In London is without a doubt director John Landis's best film after The Blues Brothers.  I was surprised at how well the werewolf transformation sequence was done, I mean for the time the film was made.  I was also surprised at how gory it was in some scenes and hilarious in others.  My personal favorite scenes are the first transformation scene, when David sees his dead friend for the first time,  and of the scene in the porno theatre.  All in all, great film with a great cast. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A good werewolf movie","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This the best werewolf movies i've ever seen. The tranformation of the human to werewolf is one of the best in movie history. I liked the plot. It was very creative. the acting was good. I thought it was pretty scary. Especially the transformation. The ending was so dumb. I was hoping the ending would be good but it wasn't. other than that i liked it. I would recommend this movie to people who likes werewolf movies. or anyone who likes scary movies. "},{"Title":"It's a Howl","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great werewolf film with both scary and funny moments.  Rick Bakers special effects still hold up today with the first freaky transformation sequence then there's the original aspect of the dead haunting the wolves victims(like that Jack guy whose constantly decomposing).  The most hilarious sequence when he and the ghosts are in a porno theater discussing the most painless ways our hero can kill himself.  Watch this one! "},{"Title":"American proud....","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You have to love a horror movie that features a clip from The Muppet Show.And if you love werewolves, all the better.An American Werewolf in London works on so many levels, that it's small wonder so many regard it as a latter-day classic of the genre.  So many chills, so many laughs, all in one neat little package.As the Werewolf of the title, Naughton does very well, especially in scenes where his costume consists mostly of excess hair.  And as his buddy, Dunne easily steals the film with his observations and his worsening situation (I'll say no more but you'll know what I mean when you see this.).And the special effects!  Rick Baker once again makes his name supreme as makeup wizard unparalleled with so many different effects for werewolf transformations, attacks, zombified victims, etc.  But there's another side to this film you may not see coming.  This film has one of the best senses of humor in this genre since The Bride of Frankenstein.  You'll forever try to mimic the mother's response when her son tells her, A naked American man stole my balloons! (trust me).I would never dream of telling you how it ends; but consider that this was directed by John Landis, think about the other films he's directed then see if what you expected comes out in the end.  It did for me.One final note I haven't seen An American Werewolf in Paris, but I have no desire to see any film trying to ape on the greatness achieved here.  Let well enough alone, will you, Hollywood??!Ten stars.  And I had no idea William Shakespeare was French. "},{"Title":"Oog","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Another Landis masterpiece.  This director is most noted for his comedy films, and Comedy Central plays the heck out of this movie, but there's not much comedy involved.  Really, to get the full effect of this movie, you need to watch the un-edited version, in the dark, preferably on a full moon! Along with such movies as the Shining and Psycho, this movie is among the few elite in the horror-movie genre.One of the best aspects of this movie is the realistic cinematography and dialogue.  You feel as if the characters are real, and really in England, not some cheesy movie lot.  The only bad thing about the movie is the sometimes cheesy effects - Unlike others I do not think the transformation scenes are at all realistic.  But then, it was 1981.Future movies (including those by Lycanthrope Films) should look to this film as the model to try to live up to. "},{"Title":"Is That A Grin Or A Snarl?","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'll make this short and sweet, like the old lady's dance.The beginning is highly atmospheric. One night, two American college kids stop in a pub with the portentous name, The Slaughtered Lamb. This is in Yorkshire and the pub is surrounded by flat, foggy moors. The pub itself is warm and inviting but the patrons are not, especially when one of the kids, David, asks about the shrine on the wall, the shrine with the pentagon on it.They are booted out into the night by the surly patrons, with a warning to stay on the road and avoid the moors, as Sir Henry Baskerville was once told. Well, Sir Henry survived. And that's the difference.The remainder of the film, as much of it as I saw, takes place in London, which, you'll remember, is a big city and not at all as frightening as those filmy and ominous moors. However, when David wakes up in hospital there, recovering from his bites, he's attended by the kind of nurse that hospitalized men dream about and that do not exist in real life.I'll tell you, Jenny Agutter, uniformed or undraped, lightens up the picture and the city.Outstanding special effects. If you enjoy the sight of ripped and sagging flesh, with bath tubs of blood, you'll be delighted. It's also supposed to be a comedy because it's approach to the material is light hearted. Yet, the truth is, all that blood, all that brutality and violence, aren't very funny, no matter how well they're nested in a plot full of wisecracks.And the central figure, David Naughton, isn't much of an actor. He gets the comic sense of the situation across but his features and demeanor don't know the meaning of anguish. Jenny Agutter can't really act either but I don't care. She's not the sleek, naked teen ager of Walkabout, but she has an offbeat beauty and the precise diction that you could listen to forever. "},{"Title":"The perfect balance of horror and comedy","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London comes from the mind of famed comedy director John Landis and is one of the finest blends of horror and comedy ever put on screen. It can be both eerily scary and gruesome as well as laugh out loud funny and nicely quirky. The special effects are now iconic, whilst the acting is subtle and the directing is excellent which help it achieve its renowned status.The story sees two American students David and Jack on a walking tour in Northern England. After leaving a strange pub the two are attacked by a werewolf who kills Jack and injures David, while the locals deny the creatures existence. David ends up in hospital and is plagued by surreal nightmares, as his nurse begins to fall for him. However the deceased Jack starts appearing to him and telling him to commit suicide to release him from the wolfs curse which David now has. The story is told in an unconventional manner that makes it standout the blend of the weird dreams and creepy images with the mystery of the story makes the film very interesting. The plot flows really well and the story itself is always twisting meaning it's difficult to know where it will end.The cast all do solid jobs. David Naughton is extremely convincing as David, playing him in an authentic way as just your everyday person who doesn't know how to react to these bizarre events. He does a great job in adding layers of vulnerability and a witty edge to the character that makes you care about him. Jenny Agutter is very good as Nurse Alex who effectively looks after David for most of the movie. She also puts in a very naturalistic turn as her stunning looks and intelligent demeanour enhance the role. Griffin Dunne is fantastic as Jack, who even in limbo comes off as rather happy-go-lucky. His comic timing is brilliant and always spot-on as he steals the scenes he is in. John Woodvine puts in a very good turn as the intelligent and determined doctor who decides to help David out. Talented character actors Brian Glover and David Schofield are great fun as two of the weary locals.The film flourishes in its smart use of both horror and comedy, as the scary moments are quite terrifying and the comedic pieces are absurdly funny. The dream sequences, which involve Nazi Werewolf's, and the actual wolf attacks themselves are really creepy. The scenes on the moors with the howl as the only sound are very eerie too and create an effective atmosphere. The comic pieces are really funny including Jack's remarks about the dead being boring and David having to escape a zoo without any clothes on. The balance between the two gives the film some great levity to go with the gruesomeness. The effects by Rick Baker are superb and still look great to this day. The transformation sequence remains iconic and the different stages of Jack's decomposing body are delightfully grisly. The songs used, which all have moon in the title, fit in perfectly and the score by Elmer Bernstein is nicely eerie. The ending can be seen as a problem, it is just so abrupt that you don't know how to feel about it. Overall Werewolf is very enjoyable with the perfect balance of horror and humour with wonderful effects. "},{"Title":"Don't come around tonight...It's bound to take your life","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fondly remembered Horror Movie that holds up rather well when viewed Today, even after all the CGIcanthropes that have populated the Underworld Series and others. The Transformation Scenes especially. The rest of the Gore drips from the Screen at regular Intervals and the Dark Humor, while at times are Poker-Faced and Strained, is enough to keep this one going as a Cult Favorite for Years to come.On the Down Side, David Naughton is an annoyingly Bad Actor and is saved by the rest of the Fine Cast. There may be one too many Moon Songs and the Obligatory Sex and Nude Scenes do seem Dated. But none of this is enough to take away the Sheer and Blatant Gall of it all.There are some Genuine Shocks and the Piccadilly Square Carnage is just this side of Over the Top in an already Over the Top Movie but it works for a Final Blast of Mayhem. All of the Make-up is Remarkable, including the Undead, Ghouls, and assorted Monsters that inhabit the Nightmares in this Dream Factory Winner. "},{"Title":"My Review Of An American Werewolf In London","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some movies just raise feelings of excitement and pleasure inside no matter how many times you watch the film. An American Werewolf In London is one of those films that no matter how many times I watch I get giddy inside as I watch that opening scene of David and Jack walking down that county road near Yorkshire Moors. Directed by John Landis this film was released as a horror/comedy in 1981. The story follows two American backpackers in England. One is devoured by a wolf and the other is only bit before villagers shoot the beast. Madness and chaos transform the survivors life as he deals with the tragedy in London Hospital. A great set up for fish out of water story with a macabre point of view. The film has some very stereotypical aspects to it, the almost arrogant and foolish way that British intelligence is shown almost seems derogatory, as David must submit to foreign policies and beaurocracy. However the images of Londoners is mildly balanced and justified by the asinine shenanigans of David Kessler. The story is a funny and the negatives are minor unless you've seen the film like a thousand times and those idiosyncrasies are all that remain to pick at. The story stays with in a classic premise that does not rely on props or gimmicks of the time to find it's humor which make it an easy film to watch no matter how many decades pass.The special effects in this film are kick ass and organic. It is some of the best special effects make up work of the era. The film did not rely on cartoonish transpositions or tacky CGI which was all that was available in the 1980's. It kept with the basic concepts and abilities of creature effects , something that I am glad to see come back into fashion in horror. There are a few scenes in this film that really stand out as far as the FX is concerned. The scene with the Nazi Werewolves slaughtering David's family in his dream sequence is awesome and gives way to a story in the werewolf genre that I personally love. Then there is the scene when David is in the theater with all the dead whom he is responsible for. The rotting visuals are kick ass. Gross and gory and good. Plus I think this is the first time that we saw werewolves as massive beasts instead of the upright biped creature known in earlier stuff like The Wolfman. No need for a real wolf, the kind popular in todays shows and movies, nor is there any aspects of the standing monstrosity that is so terrifying such as in The Howling. This was a truly original design for the era. It made not only werewolves scary as hell beasts with almost no resemblance to man but it also made real wolves a bit more scary as well (for me anyway). Now as far as the over all effect of this film. I still find it as watchable today as I did the first time I saw it on HBO.As I said many a time in the past- my mom refused me theatrical horror films and regulated the television stuff until I was at least 11 years old. So I had to sneak or beg a sitter to let me watch something on HBO. An American Werewolf In London was something I plotted to see. I knew when it aired on a Saturday, and I knew which babysitter to favor that weekend so that I would be able to watch. It worked and I was both fascinated and scared from the first wolf attack until the final scene of David being shot in the alley. The humor, effects (especially the transformation scene) and the setting of this movie make it a true classic, American or otherwise. "},{"Title":"Pretty fantastic","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know what I expected from this film, but I will say I found it somewhat surprising. Perhaps I just expected a much cheesier, more over- the-top violent, very crazy werewolf film. But not really. I mean, the violence doesn't start until an hour into the film, and the fact that it was able to make the four before it very well done, done with the images David would see, was very well done. The transformation scene was absolutely amazing, as is the last act. The make-up is incredible as well, making it seem incredibly well done and orchestrated. The acting is sometimes inconsistent, but overall, this is definitely recommended and lives up to the hype. "}{"Title":"Very scary to say the least!","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This horror gem is to be true to its word. You have the The Wolfman back in the 1950's. But John Landis brings out the best of the supernatural in An American Werewolf in London. Here you have two American college students who are hiking out in the Moors where see an pub and stop for a drink. The locals there were very unfriendly when the duo asked about the pentagram on the wall. So when they left the pub, it's a full moon. Out in the Moors, howling occurs and a vicious creature attacks the duo. Killing one and wounding the other after the locals offed it. Thinking it was a wild dog was it, is not. It was a wolf, but none like this one. It was a WEREWOLF!! The attack left him with nightmares, and he can't see to contemplate on what has happened. He sees his dead friend every time he falls asleep. When stays with the nurse, he feels happy. But one night, when the moon is full, he undergoes a very big change lyncathropy. Going from man to wolf Werewolf! He makes a killing at night. When he woke up, he was in a zoo with the wolves. While naked, he steals a kid's balloons, and a long coat to get back to the nurse's flat. Madness seeps in as the hours goes by. When the beast dominates his life, there's no turning back. A great movie, great effects, Landis outdid himself well in that film. David Naughton was excellent playing the victim of a werewolf attack. A true gem this movie is. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Werewolf Films!","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" David Naughton, Griffin Dunne and Jenny Agutter star in John Landis' 1981 horror film. This begins with 2 American college pals, David Kessler (Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Dunne) arriving in a small village outside England. Soon, they're attacked by a werewolf with David getting injured and Jack getting torn apart. David is taken to a hospital where he meets nurse, Alex Price (Agutter) who starts to care for him. David starts seeing Jack appear to him as an undead corpse warning him that's he's cursed with the mark of the beast and will become a monster. David doubts at first, but soon realizes it's true. This is definitely one of the best werewolf films, Naughton and Agutter have great chemistry and who can forget Rick Baker's excellent make-up effects. I recommend this classic. "},{"Title":"Genius level horror/comedy","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the director of Animal House... a different kind of animal. I really love that tagline and I really love this movie. An American Werewolf in London is John Landis' first foray into horror and, might I say, it's where he belonged this entire time. The film begins with two friends who are backpacking through Britain. One night they are attacked by a werewolf, leaving one friend dead and the other a werewolf himself. Unfortunately, no one will believe him until it is far too late. This is one of the greatest blends of comedy and horror I have ever seen, and should be taken as the perfect formula for how to blend these two genres.An American Werewolf in London is simply awesome. It is legitimately scary, and truly funny. The two genres blend together beautifully. The horror genre definitely helms most of the film, but darkly and ironically funny moments pop in and out of the film seamlessly. It is the make up for exactly how this kind of film should work.And speaking of make up, one of the coolest things about this film is legendary Rick Baker's make up design. It is horrendously spectacular. So spectacular, in fact, that it made the Academy Awards create the make-up category just for Rick Baker. If this guy wasn't awesome enough already, he practically single handedly created a whole new category for the Oscars. And it's very well deserved too, as the werewolf make-up is astonishingly brilliant, as well as the undead makeup as the dead backpacker repeatedly comes back to visit his still living friend in an amusingly intelligent sub-plot.An American Werewolf in London never falters and never loses its touch, always delivering on the scares and the intense suspense, and always dishing out great laughs throughout an incredibly entertaining and unique story. This is such a great film and John Landis has excelled at making a horror/comedy that works and keeping the werewolf mythology fresh and alive through a contemporary comedy. An American Werewolf in London works on a profound level of high quality filmmaking within this genre. There were so many things that could have gone wrong because of the subject matter, but Landis and the rest of the cast and the crew instead do everything right. "},{"Title":"A classic 80s horror comedy...","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...that holds up extremely well after three decades, writer/director Jon Animal House Landis' dark homage to and update of Universal's 1941 The Wolf Man. The main twist from a straightforward doomed romance tale centers on continual warnings from the lead's dead friend that he must kill himself or wind up as a murderous monster. As in the original, things end unhappily ever after.Its box office perhaps ran afoul of the prior release of Joe Dante's The Howling and Michael Wadleigh's Wolfen, but that didn't keep Rick Baker's magnificent makeup effects from winning that first categorical Oscar (against contender, Stan Winston, for Heartbeeps), nor has that kept it from being the most highly regarded of the three. Truthfully, I enjoy all three, but this is the one I revisit the most often.Ignore the curmudgeons; the acting is fine. David I'm a Pepper! Naughton provides his doomed hero a winning innocence, and Griffin After Hours Dunne is perfect as the undead friend, while Jenny Logan's Run Agutter charmingly embodies the tragic love interest. The rest of the cast is of a piece, including John Fatherland Woodvine as the inquisitive doctor, Brian Alien3 Glover and David Pirates of the Caribbean Schofield as secretive townsfolk, and even Frank The Dark Crystal Oz in a somewhat rare human appearance. The only bad actors are the ones in See You Next Wednesday, the smutty film-within-the-film, and they're meant to be that way. And it still amuses me that Landis has gotten away with that ribald trademark for so long, and that so few people know what it really means.Never mind that; so many talented people helped make this film a genre milestone. Elmer too many to pick just one Bernstein's moody snippets of underscoring, the aforementioned Rick you have to ask? Baker's groundbreaking fx, favored Landis collaborator, Robert Thriller Paynter's aces camera-work, superb production and art design, and (of course) Landis' brilliant selection of pop songs to accentuate mood (forget that he didn't get everything he wanted; what he got worked beautifully, from the melancholy intro of Bobby Vinton's Blue Moon to the edgy jangle of CCR's Bad Moon Rising to the ironically conclusive Marcels doo-wop Blue Moon bouncing a stunned audience through the credits before it can recover from a quick and utterly---though totally foreseeable---tragic ending). Sweet! There's almost nothing I don't love about American Werewolf in London. I can't imagine that the impending remake can possibly improve on it, although I'll no doubt give it a fair chance to try. The original will always be with us regardless. If you haven't seen it yet (though truthfully, I can't imagine that, either, if you're bothering to read this blurb), do. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Fabulous comedy/horror that features the most innovative effects in horror","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two American students, David (David Naughton) and Jack (Griffin Dunne), are on a backpacking trip in Northern England. Following an awkward experience in the local pub, The Slaughtered Lamb, the two set out again and stray from the road, going against the locals warnings. They are attacked by a vicious monster that kills Jack and wounds David, who wakes up days later in a London hospital. After being discharged, he moves in with nurse Alex (Jenny Agutter) but is plagued by nightmares and visits from his slowly rotting friend Jack, who claims he is stuck on Earth as an undead. He also warns David that the beast that attacked him was a werewolf, and come the next full moon, David will transform and kill.This film had somehow evaded me for too long, so I decided to finally sit down to see what all the fuss was about. I hadn't heard much about it apart from the fact that it included a legendary transformation sequence that changed the face of horror effects forever. After viewing the film, and that sequence, I can safely say that the hype is completely justified. David's transformation, which depicts his limbs elongating, his nails sharpening, and his face becoming that of a giant wolf, is truly exceptional, even by today's standards. In a world full of lazy CGI substituting for arguably more realistic prosthetics and make-up, it was delightful witnessing a work of true genius by the Oscar-winning Rick Baker. The make-up used on Jack on his frequent visits are also truly exceptional, as he turns from torn and bloody, to grey and rotting, and finally to nothing more than a moving skull with eyeballs.Director John Landis had made plenty of money with his comedies The Kentucky Fried Movie (1977), Animal House (1978) and The Blues Brothers (1980) before making a foray into horror, and it feels like a natural move, as the film works just as well as a horror film as it does a comedy. At time it feels like a heartfelt homage to the old Universal horrors of the 30's and 40's (the likes of The Wolf Man (1941) being an obvious inspiration) and the Hammer horrors of the 60's (the rural setting), but it rises above being a mere love-letter and is a great film in its own right. I'm aware of the sequel, An American Werewolf in Paris (1997), but the absence of Landis and the cast suggests its a mere cash-in that relies on the original's reputation, so I'll probably give that one a miss.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Uneasy mixture of comedy and horror still has its moments","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Americans David Naughton and Griffin Dunne are backpacking across England. While resting at a pub, the bizarre locals caution them about looking at the full moon and getting lost in the woods. Naturally, that is just what happens when a beast attacks, leaving Dunne dead and Naughton barely surviving. While Naughton recuperates and starts a relationship with his kindly nurse Jenny Agutter, he is plagued by vivid nightmares and ultimately comes to the realization that he has been turned into a werewolf.After a drought, 1981 brought us the one-two werewolf punch of first The Howling and then later An American Werewolf in London. The in thing is to dismiss the success of the former, while overstating the success of the latter. For my money, I prefer The Howling, which had some fun and inventive ideas on moving a werewolf film into modern times. By contrast, AWIL for all of its flourishes, comes across as a fairly generic werewolf film. We have the tormented, likable hero hurtling headlong towards his doom in England. The gory hallucination sequences often seem shoe-horned into the mix for shock value and the comedy itself is rather hit or miss. Having Naughton's undead friend and subsequent victims hound him into committing suicide is novel, but the fact that director John Landis feels compelled to have this happen at a porn theater and have the on screen sex interspersed with the dialog seems more than a tad silly and obnoxious.Additionally, the relationship between Naughton and Agutter seems predictable and ill-developed. She never has much of a role in the action and seems more of a plot contrivance. She is included merely because there has to be the girl who may potentially be terrorized by the werewolf and also because Naughton needs to have a reason to hang around London rather than returning home.The film does have things to recommend it. Although The Howling broke the ground first with amazing werewolf transformation scenes, Rick Baker's transformation effects here are equally impressive. Some of the attack scenes are well-choreographed.Casting-wise, the denizens of the pub seem to have been imported from Central Casting for oddballs. Agutter acquits herself nicely in an under-developed role. Dunne is amusing as the undead friend, who pops up throughout the film. Interestingly, Naughton is very winning and sexy in the central role and seems a good sport in regard to some of the more arduous tasks thrown his way. We sympathize with his predicament and want him to come out on top, even after seeing the devastation his transformations leave in their wake. Naughton is adept at navigating the serious moments as well as the more comical passages. The extended sequence after his first transformation where he awakens stark naked at the zoo and must find his way home is memorable not only for its off-beat humor, but for Naughton's willingness to play it for laughs and provide some welcome full frontal male nudity that is quite stimulating. I hear they may remake this film and one can be certain that whoever gets cast in the male lead now will not be remotely this forthcoming with the nudity.Landis seems to have some problems marrying the comedy with the horror, and his uneven direction is particularly notable in the abrupt and unsatisfying conclusion. It almost feels as though the plug came out of the projector rather than a real ending. In the end, while I feel The Howling is an all-around better film, this werewolf certainly has enough going for it to merit attention. "},{"Title":"Done with some humor, overall a nicely entertaining film.","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" David Naughton is American David Kessler, and with his good buddy Griffin Dunne as Jack Goodman, are taking some time off to see parts of Europe. They begin in the northern part of England (actually filmed in Wales) and are wandering through the countryside on this cold, gray day when they happen upon a small village pub. They get a strange 'vibe' there and go on their way, with the caution 'watch out for the moon'. It is the night of the monthly full moon.Jack gets attacked and killed, David only wounded when villagers, feeling guilty about not telling them the whole story, show up and shoot the attacking creature, a werewolf. When it dies it becomes a man again. But David doesn't remember much, and wakes up 3 weeks later in a London hospital.As his luck would have it, pretty 20-something Jenny Agutter is attending him, she is Nurse Alex Price. Both of them seem smitten right away with each other and soon she takes him home when the hospital releases him.The story is obviously about David becoming a werewolf after his 'infection', and whether the love that he and Alex have for each other will somehow save him.Good movie, I enjoyed all of it.SPOILERS Predictably when the next full moon comes David cannot control his transformation and goes on a killing spree. When he wakes up with wolves in the zoo, naked, he has no idea what happened. The next time, he is in a theater when it hits him, he attracts the police, he gets cornered in a blind alley. Alex tries to go up to him, telling him she loves him, but when he growls is shot. As the movie ends we see the dead, naked body of David. "},{"Title":"Ladies and Gents - the REAL Wolfman film.","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film opens with two American backpackers as they trudge through Europe on what must be we've graduated, let's kill some time and let our hair down before college and maybe nail some foreigners along the way adventure.David and Jack share an easy chemistry and their dialogue is quite believable and realistic, in the early scenes you can totally get that it is just two friends wandering around sharing a laugh&#x85; Until that is they stop in at the Slaughtered Lamb for a pint (Publican Why don't we get more customers! I came up with the name myself.). As they arrive it is near dark, the customers look at them like they have 3 heads. After a few minutes one of the boys asks the wrong question, the customers look at them like they just punched Betty White in the face.A little frazzled, nervous and I guess still thirsty the boys decide to leave and head off, apparently not together enough to wonder why a local pleads with them to stick to the road they head off cross country into the dark&#x85;The title tells you what happens next, they are set upon by *Something* (wink).David wakes up weeks later in a London hospital - the living Jack plays no further part in our story. After being questioned by police David swears it was a wolf, the police similarly swear it wasn't, having already gotten the facts from the locals, they write David's story off as ramblings of a traumatised boy.Now David seems to be recovering from his horrendous wounds quite quickly, faster than the human body should allow. He also starts having some (uber) weird dreams (think nazi-monsters gunning down his family) and experiences flashes of disturbing clarity. His main nurse is a young 20 something woman named Alex, she seems to empathise with David and provides him with some personalised care (not yet dirty minds!).Then one day Jack shows up unannounced, you'll note I said previously the living Jack was gone, meet the zombie undead Jack. He informs David that he is now a werewolf and that Jack himself is floating in between the living world and the next, the only way he can permanently transition is if the chain is severed &#x96; in English this means David must die before Jack can move on. Jack matter-of-factly tells David to top himself before the full moon, or you'll transform and kill people. Good news to get as you are starting to feel a little better.Given his amazing recuperative powers David is allowed to be released from hospital, and after a You can crash at my place from Alex he does just that &#x96; NOW you can let your filthy minds run free. The next couple days are spent relaxing &#x96; Cue the Bow-Chicka-Wows maestro.Days pass, then Jack shows again, a little more decomposed, a little more desperate The full moon is tomorrow. Top yourself or I will remain in limbo.We know if David does in fact kill himself then he won't become anything more than mulch, so it is safe to say he does not, the rest of the film pans out like you might think it would, but it is a hell of a ride getting there.The makeup effects for the ever-deteriorating Jack are amazing considering that there is zero CGI used, and the transformation sequence is quite rightly seen as a masterpiece to this day. Should it depress those that made The Wolfman that a 30 odd year old movie with no computer assistance absolutely PWNS their comparatively sh*tty big-budget CGI everything effort? I vote yes. David gets to transform a couple times, each time he manages to have a little wolfie-fun at the expense of the innocent citizens of London, each time he wakes up naked in public with no recollection of the night before (insert Colin Farrell joke here). The attacks and killings themselves are not shown clearly on screen but the aftermath often is, and as you would expect it is always bloody.Of course the local police and media are a tad concerned given the 6 murders in the area, and Alex and her Doctor similarly share some information and theories between themselves.The ending is a little abrupt in that 80s way which is simultaneously strange but refreshing, the story is essentially told so it ends. In fact the entire movie is really quite straightforward1. Guys on holiday attacked. One dead.2. Second guy a werewolf but doesn't (yet) know it.3. Guy falls for a cute nurse.4. Now he knows it! Transform &#x96; Attack &#x96; Recover &#x96; Rinse &#x96; Repeat.5. Finale.There are no unnecessary subplots, no bits that go nowhere and every character is there to be eaten or to wonder why people are being eaten around them and who is doing it.All in all An American Werewolf in London probably can't be considered an All-Time classic even though the transformation sequence is, it is a little too simple and the middle third of the film lags a little too long. But it does tell its simple story very well and entertains along the way in the first and last thirds of the film.Put another way If you thought The Wolfman was OK An American Werewolf in London will blow your tiny little mind!Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. There aren't too many films of this era that hold up well against the more BOOM CRASH POW stuff of recent years. This however is most definitely one of the exceptions. Fun, scary and with a couple of very memorable scenes. "},{"Title":"Stick to the roads, as well as classics like this","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two friends hiking out in the country in England find more than they bargained for. So begins one of the best of the numerous funny horror movies of the 80s, not to mention one that holds up remarkably well. To be perfectly honest, I didn't care for all of the jokes and gags; I found several to fall flat, and found this to have too much irritating comic relief. Dunno, maybe this is Animal House(I haven't watched that one and I honestly don't intend to) to a greater extent than it's The Blues Brothers(I'm referring to the sense of humor). With that said, it definitely did make me laugh. And it is rather terrifying, with a solid atmosphere that is built up quite well. I didn't think this had the impact that it should, but to be fair, my copy had sound issues, so I did not get the full experience. The characters aren't all that interesting, or maybe that's just me. It looks marvelous, the editing and cinematography are spot-on; Landis is a highly talented director and writer. This is tense and suspenseful whenever it goes for it. The scares work, hardly any are cheap or unsatisfying. This has amazing FX, and those transformations are excellent. While it is a simple story and execution, it is immensely effective. There is plenty of bloody, brutal, gory violence, a little moderate to strong language, and infrequent nudity(mostly male) and sexuality. I recommend this to any fan of this type of flick. This entertained me from start to finish, something the recent remake of The Wolfman completely failed to. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Really good Werewolf movie","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This as got to be one of the best werewolf movies ever made.Two American students are on a walking tour of England and are attacked by a Werewolf. One is killed, the other is mauled. The Werewolf is killed, but reverts to it's human form, and the townspeople are able to deny it's existence.The surviving student begins to have nightmares of hunting on 4 feet at first, but then finds that his friend and other recent victims appear to him, demanding that he find a way to die to release them from their curse, being trapped between worlds because of their unnatural death.There is a lot of build up to the transformation and the transformation scenes was incredible , it was so well made, This movie not that gory but they add some really funny stuff in this movie, I was bit disappointed how they ended the movie, it just ended out the blue. like one moment there is a lot of action, then all of a sudden it was over.Acting was really good from the whole cast, I give this movie 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"The best werewolf movie ever made!","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London 1/6/2010Arguably the best werewolf movie ever made! In the early 1980's director John Landis was most known for his comedies like Animal House and The Blues Brothers when he decided to make a horror movie, or is it? One of the major criticisms about the movie is that it doesn't know whether it wants to be a comedy or a horror movie. While it deals with werewolves and is quite gory, there are also many scenes of pure comedy. This movie has inspired several young filmmakers since its release. Many horror comedies like 2004's Shaun of the Dead have homage's within them.This is the story of two American college students backpacking through Europe. Jack played by Griffin Dunne and David played by David Naughton. While walking through the English countryside they seek refuge from the rain at a pub called The Slaughtered Lamb The locals go silent upon their arrival, and the two are looked upon as if from another planet. This seems so typical of Americans who travel abroad, we do tend to stick out. Jack and David are a great match and totally believable as best friends in their dialogue and actions, another credit to John Landis who also wrote the script. Upon leaving the pub they are warned to stay on the road and beware the moon. In the full moon lit night sky, they start to hear noises, as if being stalked by a wild animal. They've wandered off the road. Jack is then attacked and mauled to death by a werewolf, while David is merely wounded. The towns people come too their rescue and shoot the wolf, who then turns back into a human. David wakes up in a hospital to see Dr. Hirsch and Nurse Price. They tell him that the police report says they were attacked by an escaped lunatic, while David tries to convince them otherwise. David also keeps having nightmares, one in which he hunts and kills a deer with his bare hands. Believe me this scene is incredibly funny. He also dreams of a group of Nazi like creatures with Uzi's invading his house and killing his family. It gets weirder; while fully awake he is visited by the mauled body of Jack. He asks him if he can have his toast. Jack has appeared to warn him that on the next full moon he will turn into a werewolf. The only way to sever the bloodline is for David to commit suicide. Jack utters the best line in the movie when he says to David Have you ever talked to a corpse? It's boring It's all about how he delivers the line that makes it so funny. The film is packed with one-liners like these. Each time Jack appears, he is in a further state of decomposition. Jack visits him in the bathroom and once again urges David to kill himself. David replies I will not be threatened by a walking meatloaf. Even though Jack is dead they still argue and carry on as they always have. The most famous and memorable scene is David's transformation into the werewolf. Rick Baker's effects have yet to be topped, even in the age of CGI. Baker won the Academy Award for Best Make-Up effects. The scene still holds up as one of the best ever filmed. After David's transformation we seem him go on a killing spree that he has no recollection of when he wakes up the next morning in the zoo. Since being released from the hospital he has been staying with Nurse Price. They have started quite the relationship; little does she know the dark secret that he holds.After a final conversation with Jack and his victims from the night before in a darkened porno theater, David can't be convinced to end his life and eventually turns back into the wolf. In the final scenes the wolf causes all kinds of mischief and mayhem in London's Piccadilly Circus. Several corpses and wrecked cars later, he is cornered. Faced with guns and Nurse Price professing her love for him, he is gunned down by the cops. He then transforms back into his human self. The werewolf genre is something that Hollywood has very rarely gotten right. Littered with such bombs as Cursed, Wolf, and Skin Walkers just to name a few. The British flick Dog Soldiers by director Neil Marshall is one the better films to come out in the last ten years. American Werewolf in London did spawn a crappy sequel in 1997 called An American Werewolf in Paris Often imitated and never topped London is hands down the best werewolf movie ever made! "},{"Title":"Quirky Horror","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'American Werewolf' was one of those ground-breaking movies of its time, like 'Alien' and 'The Thing'. And like them it predates the tedious age of CGI. What you see is what there is. And what you see is a mesmerising piece of metamorphosis from man into beast. It's quite incredible to watch and - frankly - rather disturbing, like Rob Bottin's gargoyle masterclass in Carpenter's 'The Thing'.Strangely, these astounding effects are employed in what is supposed to be a comedy horror. For me, this idea doesn't quite work. The horror is a little too good and a little to graphic. It deserves to be taken more seriously. To be honest, I find they jar with the odd mixture of comedic moments being naked in the park, queueing in a woman's coat, and the ghostly interviews in - of all things - a porn-movie cinema. The oftener I have watched it, the more bizarre the whole thing seems, and the less the ideas seem to mesh.There's a romantic interest with nubile Jenny Agutter, who makes a plausible Miss Innnocence as usual. Reliable John Woodbine - a TV B-list staple for years - plays the doctor. Brian Glover makes a suitably eponymous Yorkshire presence. The two young American leads are pretty forgettable, and - I've forgotten'em.There's a tremendous American-style car pile-up in 'Picky' Circus which would simply never happen, it's even less likely than a werewolf, and as to a doctor being so diligent as to drive the 500 mile round trip from London to North Yorkshire - well; anybody know one? Take it as you find it. It's seriously strange, like 'Society'. And like the latter; you won't forget it in a hurry. "},{"Title":"Beware the moon...","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This may sound strange, but this is the first werewolf film I've seen. And I am 25 years old. Yeah I know, I'm behind on my werewolf quota.I watched an American werewolf in London last night and was highly entertained. It made a good impression on me.Two American student (I think?) friends are on vacation in England. They pass through a village where the villagers don't seem to take kindly to strangers. After a strange conversation, they head out again. Mind you, it is full moon and they pass through a foggy grassland.Not. Good.As expected, sooner or later the werewolf shows up and horribly kills one boy and mauls the second. By a miracle, the 2nd boy survives. But the horror is only beginning...The story moves at a steady pace and delivers almost everything, ranging from humor and drama to gore and partial nudity. Of course, the movie has a lot of suspense and scary scenes. In particular, the almost obligatory transformation scene caught my attention.This movie received several awards for the make-up and boy does it show! I haven't seen much films with such gorgeous make-up effects. May sound strange saying that since the make-up mainly applies on the (un)dead bodies...Sadly, the movie isn't that long, so it was over before I knew it. Still, an American werewolf in London is certainly a good werewolf film. If you haven't seen it yet, and are fan a of the hairy beast, check it out! 7 out of 10 stars.Oh yeah one last thing what an unusual music score they picked for this movie... "},{"Title":"Time has shown how good this was (and still is).","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't give this a full 10 stars, but I can get pretty close to it. I first saw AAWIL just a week after it opened in theaters. I went with a co-worker of mine, since my wife did not care for the genre. About 2/3 of the way through the movie, my friend had to get up and leave the theater for almost 10 minutes. He told me later that he just couldn't handle the roller coaster ride from comedy to horror and then back to comedy.I'll second what most of the other reviewers have said about this film. Considering that it was done with practical effects, it is one of the most impressive FX films you can see. (The other film I immediately think of in comparison to AAWIL is John Carpenter's The Thing, which also relied entirely on practicals.) In my opinion, you could not remake this film using CGI or digital effects and get anywhere near the impact. Landis is truly a genius.Final comment...watch this on a big screen and turned up loud! Landis intended it to be viewed this way and you really owe it to yourself.ADDED 10/2/2009 You've GOT TO get the Full Moon Edition BD version of this film! Spectacular transfer, improved sound, and a bunch of nice extras, including two that were not on the HD-DVD version. Beware the Moon is a fine feature-length documentary about the making of the film and you should see it even if you have to rent it as a separate DVD from N**f***.Now...one more thing. I'm going to have to start an argument with some reviewers (including Mr. Ebert) who seem to feel that the ending of the movie is lame. In fact, I think it's one of the stronger points of the movie.****SPOILER ALERT!******First, the ending comes fast. It's abrupt and basically unexpected. Most viewers are at the height of tension and then it's suddenly deflated. In fact, the end credits roll and the typical viewer hasn't even absorbed the fact that the film's over. This is precisely the type of roller coaster ride that Landis has been working for throughout the film. He's knocking your legs out from under you. It's timed perfectly.Second, unlike many supernatural horror films, there's no hocus-pocus, how do we lift the curse/spell? mumbo-jumbo subplot at the end. We already know that a werewolf can be killed with a simple bullet (we've been shown once and told twice), so it should come as no surprise that the werewolf is NOT unstoppable. His death is quick, violent, and, best of all, simple.Third, some of reviewers don't seem to understand that David, in his transformed state at the end of the movie, is apparently able to remember/comprehend for the briefest moment some of his feelings for Alex. The tragedy is that, unlike in a Disney movie, his bestial nature can't allow him to do anything other than attack her. True love does NOT conquer all. David doesn't throw himself off a cliff to save her, or rush against the mob to die on their pitchforks. He tries to go for her jugular.*****END SPOILERS******The ending is one of the aspects of the film that so successfully make it a true tragedy. I'm teary-eyed every time they crank up the final rendition of Blue Moon because it's truly sad...not scary, not funny, not ironic, and not FX-laden.Get this film. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"I've never jumped so much in a movie before","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" David and Jack are Americans who have decided to travel around the English moors. While out walking, they are attacked by a werewolf. Jack dies instantly and David is taken to a hospital in London where he recovers and meets and falls in love with Nurse Alex Price. But his dead friend begins to haunt him, telling him he has to kill himself as he is a werewolf and will kill lots of people and that Jack will walk the earth as a living corpse until David is dead. David doesn't believe his friend till he turns into a werewolf and kills. He then has to decide what he is going to do live or die.Congratulations to John Landis for making such a scary film. It really scared the bejesus out of me and I haven't been scared for such a while.It is true what people say, the old ones are always the best and this film is no exception. I have grown tired with Hollywood churning out crappy remakes of classic horror films that were a success the first time round. I feel with the current outflow of horror films, they just follow the same predictable path and no-one gets scared because they know what to expect. I suppose it also has to do with the CGI, some of the films use it and the effects come across too slick and I don't think it is as convincing as the older films that didn't have this technology when they were making the films. Special mention should go to the special affects and makeup which were just incredible, particularly the scene when David Naughton (David Kessler) turns into a werewolf. It works so well and it is something I don't think we ever saw before in films. In past films, It would happen very quickly and the audience wouldn't see the transformation of the character into a wolf, this film showed more than hair appearing on the body and face, it showed his body changing fingers expanding, feet getting bigger and body getting longer. It is just amazing they were able to do that scene so well, considering they had to come up with ways to manipulate the camera so the transformation would work on the screen and didn't have CGI to fall back on. The scene that is very creepy is Griffin Dunne (Jack Goodman) popping up throughout the film, each time looking more and more like he is becoming the living dead, a corpse, no longer human in appearance.I Was very annoyed when David and Alex (Jenny Agutter) started a relationship and fell in love because I was hoping there would be a get out clause where David would turn back into a human and they would be together and the film would have a happy ending. I was really rooting for this but when David was killed by the police, I cursed John Landis for introducing this relationship and then having David die. Then I realised it was a horror film and there is never a happy ending in those.Nearly missed Rik Mayall in a small part as a chess player in The Slaughtered Lamb. Surprised to see him in the role as I am used to him in TV programmes where he is larger than life and not as understated as he is in the film.On the whole, a film that had me jumping out of my skin a lot and a story that was unpredictable which made me enjoy it more than the remakes that just make me feel bored. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While backpacking through Europe, two friends, David Kessler (David Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Griffin Dunne), find themselves out on England's moors, despite advice to avoid them. When a wild animal attacks them, one of them dies, and the other just might be turning into a monster.Director John Landis' pet project--he had to sit on the script for 10 years before he had enough clout from other films for this one to be green lighted--is an excellent, seamless melding of comedy and horror, with a surprising amount of brutality and one of the most wonderfully dark, abrupt conclusions ever made.John Irving once said that he loves to put comedy and tragedy in close conjunction because each can make the other more effective. That's just the effect that the combination has in An American Werewolf In London. Both the comedy and the horror in the film are fully committed to, unlike many attempts to merge the two. If the whole is greater than the sum of its parts is ever true, this is an example. The comic bits wouldn't be nearly as delightful if they didn't supervene on the disturbing, and the horror wouldn't have near the impact if they didn't arrive in the context where you half-expect the next moment to be just as lighthearted and amusing. Both the initial animal attack and the apocalyptic ending are perfect examples of this.Aside from that exquisite unusualness, An American Werewolf In London has many other superb characteristics. The cast is perfect. Naughton, who also starred in the seriously underrated Desire, The Vampire (aka I, Desire) (1982), carries the film with ease. The cinematography is excellent. The shots of the countryside (actually filmed in Wales) are actually both beautiful and very eerie at the same time. The make-up effects are awesome, and the transformation effects are unsurpassed. The music, which is primarily a number of different moon related pop songs, is also perfect, partially because of the bizarre contrasts in mood that the music creates, which echoes the comedy/tragedy juxtaposition. Unlike many other films, every scene in this one is a something I'd like to spend years exploring. The settings, the characters, the scenarios are all so fascinating.This film is a 10 out of 10 even with one hand tied behind its back. If you enjoy it, and you're open minded about newer horror film styles, the sequel, An American Werewolf in Paris, is also worth a watch.Rated R for Sexual Situations, Nudity, Extreme Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Unusual But Appropriate Combination of Horror and Comedy.","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf In London is a comic yet spooky movie that caught me off guard. The film opens with two travelers, David (David Naughton) and Jack (Griffin Dunne), who are walking on foot in the middle of nowhere. After stopping into an English tavern, they depart again, but Jack is savagely killed by a beast, and David suffers a bite wound. The beast is killed, but soon after the horrifying incident, David begins to have some very strange things happen to him. He begins seeing his mutilated, dead friend, Jack, talking to him as if he were still alive. Turns out that David is now a werewolf himself, and when the sun goes down and the full moon lights up the night sky, he transforms into a beast himself, and begins unintentionally killing people in the London area.This film is probably the strangest mixture of comedy and horror that I've seen - but there is no problem here, because it works. Blending these two genres is tough, because both are very extreme and opposite of each other. One would think that a werewolf film mixing these genres could easily be a mess, but this film works quite well. The storyline is based around a werewolf, which while it isn't a completely original idea, still remains unique because of the remaining elements in the plot. It's far from your typical werewolf film, and I liked that about it a lot. It's clever, spooky, and really all well-written, and this is proved with it's versatility. It can be very scary and times, but remains darkly hilarious throughout. This is not a surprise though, with the film being from the guy who directed the college-campus comedy classic, Animal House a few years before working on this project.This film isn't all laughs though, there is plenty of horrific moments to be had here. The first attack (in which Jack is ultimately killed by the werewolf) is scary as hell and completely unexpected. The scary moments in the film are mainly (and expectedly) during the werewolf scenes, and there is quite a bit of gore to be seen too for any of those gore fans out there. There is also some very stunning makeup effects, primarily being the werewolf transformations. Computer generation didn't exist in 1981, but the makeup and special effects (all handcrafted) are truly amazing, even more so considering the time they were created. The cast is led by David Naughton, who isn't the best actor ever, but it doesn't really matter. He plays the character believably enough and is very funny. Jenny Agutter is the female interest, and is also very good in her role, and Griffin Dunne plays David's dead best friend, providing quite a few hilarious one-liners, despite his grisly post-mortem makeup.While it isn't for all tastes, An American Werewolf In London is arguably one of the best werewolf movies ever made, or at least one of the best in a very long time. This film blends two genres together just right, invoking both scares and cringes, and some good laughs as well. While it may be a bit of a strange combination, it works. Recommended for those who don't mind their horror served with a side of comedy. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant horror...","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1981 was a great year for Horror, as three excellent movies about werewolves were released that same year in a once in a blue moon event Wolfen, The Howling, and An American Werewolf in London. Of the three, John Landis' An American Werewolf in London is probably the most famous, but not without a reason, as it's more than a brilliant horror movie, it's simply one of the best movies ever made. Being only 31 years old and right after the hit comedies Animal House and The Blues Brothers, Landis found himself able to finally make his dream project, a story he had conceived when he was just 19 the story of a young American who finds himself transformed into a werewolf while on a trip through England. Like the classics The Curse of the Werewolf and The Wolf Man did before, An American Werewolf in London would redefine the werewolf myth and bring it to a whole new audience.David (David Naughton) and Jack (Griffin Dunne) are two American tourists backpacking through the United Kingdom. One night while traveling across the Yorkshire moors, they are attacked by a strange beast that savagely kills Jack but is killed by the townspeople before it kills David. Weeks later, David wakes up in a London hospital, where he receives the tragic news of his best friend's death; however, this is not the worse that will happen to him, as Jack appears to him as ghost and tells him that what killed him was a werewolf and he can't rest in peace. But the worse part is that now David is a werewolf too, and cursed to become a savage beast under the full moon. Thinking it's all a hallucination caused by the shock, David refuses to believe this, but he begins to have weird visions as the full moon gets closer.Written by Landis himself, the movie is a delightful mixture of black comedy with classic horror that works perfectly together in the film. While the comedy is certainly one of the film's strongest points, Landis follows the pattern set by Universal's The Wolf Man, and keeps the tragedy of the werewolf's curse as the main theme. As in Curt Siodmak's classic story, romance plays a big part of the story in the shape of Alex Price (Jenny Agutter), a nurse who becomes David's lover, and the one in charge of stopping the beast. The story unfolds nicely, and focuses on the suspense of the events before the unavoidable transformation, giving the movie a sense of impeding doom that fits nicely with the cynicism and tragedy of Landis' version of the werewolf myth. Robert Paynter's cinematography was the perfect complement to the story by capturing all the British landscapes (both urban and countryside) with a surreal beauty.The direction of the film is simply flawless, with Landis skill as storyteller shining as he makes his story come alive. As written above, most of the movie focuses on the fear and paranoia that David feels before his transformation, showing him in the state of disbelief when confronted by the ghost of his friend; however, this is not to say that the actual action of the movie is downplayed, as when the climatic scene of the metamorphosis arrives, it doesn't disappoint. Landis proves with this movie that he can direct scenes with heavy use of special effects with the same care as the normal character driven scenes. The film moves at a nice pace, never becoming boring or tiresome, and the use of classic songs with moon in the title is just another of the small details that makes Landis' masterpiece an unforgettable film.John Landis direction and Rick Baker's awesome make-up effects tend to downplay the work by the cast in the film, but this doesn't mean there are bad performances. David Naughton tends to be the focus of the criticism, and it is easy to see why, as not only he certainly is the weakest link in the cast, his character is not really a likable one at first. As a tourist, he starts as an arrogant brat, and his disdain for Jack's petition makes him less sympathetic; but this just increases the power of the climatic transformation. Jerry Agutter is very effective as Alex, and makes an excellent counterpart to Naughton. However, the supporting roles are the ones who shine the most, as Griffin Dunne and John Woodvine steal every scene they are, the first one as David's friend Jack, and the second one as Dr. Hirsch, the only man who tries to help David.Unlike most movies from the same era, it doesn't feel dated and still looks very fresh today. The mix of black humor and tragic horror works nicely against all odds and is the trademark of the movie. Baker's remarkable work in the make-up department is now a classic work in the history of the genre, and helped him to take his career to new heights after the slight downfall he had after King Kong. The transformation scene is definitely now an iconic scene in the genre, pretty much in the same way as Jack Pierce's make-up for The Wolf Man. Still, this film is much more than impressive effects, it's a tale of fantasy and horror told in a very classy and entertaining way. With all respect to Waggner and Fisher's movies, Landis' spin on the werewolf's myth is personally, the best rendition of a werewolves' story ever put on film.Definitely 1981 was the year of the wolf in cinema, as together with Wolfen and The Howling, this movie gave new life to the legendary beasts that roam by night. It's really a shame that Landis's career became so troubled by the late 80s, as he has an enormous talent for directing. True, ever since the beginning of cinema many movies have portrayed werewolves in many different stories, but in my humble opinion, this brilliant film tops them all. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A howling success!","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A quarter of a century has passed since its original release and An American Werewolf in London still stands (hairy) head and shoulders above any other lycanthrope movie. Its perfect direction from John Landis, superb black humour, groundbreaking make-up effects, and wonderful performances from leads David Naughton, Griffin Dunne and Jenny Agutter make the 1981 classic absolutely unmissable.Naughton plays David Kessler, an American back-packer travelling across Europe with his best pal Jack (Griffin Dunne). However, stopping off to visit the Yorkshire moors turns out to be a big mistake when the two lads are attacked by a werewolf. Jack is killed, but David survives.Whilst convalescing in hospital, David suffers from awful nightmares, and is visited by Jack's corpse, who warns him that in a few days time he will become a monster and kill. David confides in sexy nurse Alex Price (the delectable Jenny Agutter) who explains that he is suffering from shock and is imagining things. Falling for the young American, Alex invites David to stay with her in her London flat. But a couple of days later, David realises the awful truth when he turns into a furry fanged beast and leaves a trail of death in his wake.Landis's movie carefully mixes dark comedic moments with scenes of absolute horror to deliver that rare beast&#151;a comedy/horror that manages to be as frightening as it is amusing. The imaginative script blends traditional werewolf lore with its more contemporary elements perfectly, and much of the humour is derived from David's inability to accept what is happening to him.Furthermore, the horror isn't diluted by the comedy; in fact, the viewer is made to feel even more uneasy about the events unfolding by the awkward juxtaposition of the two genres. The film flips from lighthearted moments to extremely gory deaths in the blink of an eye and the results are definitely unsettling.Make-up maestro Rick Baker's yet-to-be-topped transformation effects still manage to take the breath away, proving that good old fashioned prosthetics beat the hell out of new-fangled CGI any day. His other work on the film&#151;assorted bloody wounds and some nasty nazi-stormtrooper monsters&#151;are equally impressive and deservedly won him the 1982 Oscar for Best Makeup.Add to all that a killer soundtrack and a brilliantly downbeat ending and what you have is a winner from start to finish which deserves a place in any true horror fan's collection. "},{"Title":"Was the Slaughtered Lamb a tip?","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So when you're alone on the foggy moor and you run in to the Slaughtered Lamb tavern, figure you may be in for some trouble. I would guess this movie seems quite tame to the contemporary viewer, it was actually ground-breaking in several respects when released. An effective blend of 50's horror told with 80's-style irreverence. Career performances by Naughton, a stunning Agutter, Dunne and Woodvine in story of two young Americans savaged by a werewolf in rural England. Dunne becomes the (undead) dead but Naughton survives a changed man. Other than the overdone dream sequences most of the movie works very well, particularly the later stalking scenes and Dunne's increasingly unwelcome visits. And then Twilight Zone came along and we never got to see where Landis could go from here. "}{"Title":"Probably pretty unique for the times it was released","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nowadays,it seems that tongue-in-cheek movies based on a genre,particularly horror,are pretty common. Heck,parodies and riffs of film styles seem to reproduce like rabbits. But nearly twenty-five years ago,I doubt you could've said there were that many films out there that were like An American Werewolf in London.Director John Landis,fresh off The Blues Brothers and Animal House decided to go in this direction,helming a movie that could be ostensibly thought of as a horror flick. But instead,we have a dark comedy of supernatural proportions. College buddies David and Jack(David Naughton,forever the Dr.Peppersinging shill and Griffin Dunne,well before becoming an auteur)are backpacking through scenic and lonely rural northern England when they fail to find sufficient shelter during a full moon. When they are attacked by what appears to be a wolf,JAck is killed and David is wounded badly.When David awakes in a London hospital,he is only scarcely aware of what happened to him and his friend and it isn't until some horrifying dreams,unexplained maulings occur in London and the reappearance of his buddy Jack(mauled and gnarly) does it become plainly clear to the YAnk abroad what is going on.The film benefits greatly from a modest attempt at scares,relying instead on painfully ordinary occurrences,peppered by the horrific and laced with the right amounts of humor and sex. The acting is fine,with only Jenny Agutter as the nurse who falls for David standing out as noteworthy. As I recall,this film was quite the hit in 1981,but quietly went the way of cult horror movies. This could be considered a good middle ground filma horror film for people who are not really into horror,or a comedy for those whose humor is more fond of the macabre or dark. "},{"Title":"Classic horror/comedy","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American Werewolf in London was one of the first horror films I ever saw, and it's really grown on me. It tells the story of two American college students backpacking through the British moores and they are attacked by a werewolf. One is killed, one survives a bite. The ghost of the dead one comes back to warn the survivor that he will become a werewolf. He doesn't believe it, but sure enough...This is a really great horror movie, and probably the best werewolf movie I've ever seen. It has the creepiest feel to it. The scene in which they are alone in the foggy moores while being stalked by an unseen monster...Classic. The really great thing about it is the mix of comedy. When the werewolf's friend returns from the dead to warn him, it's absolutely hilarious. He criticizes him and picks on him as if he were still alive. The werewolf scenes are awesome, even though you don't see much until the end. At least one more werewolf scene would have made it a bit better, because there's only two, but they're so amazingly timed, you don't notice it's only twice.The thing that really needs to be praised in this movie is the special effects. This is quite possibly the only movie I've seen before Jurassic Park that has special effects that still hold up today. The werewolf transformation scenes will blow your mind. No computers involved. All makeup, and yet they have his hands turn into paws, his face stretch out into a snout, fur grow from his skin, all right before your eyes. It's really amazing. This is truly a great horror film. I know everybody has their opinions, but this is a classic, no matter what you say.8/10 "},{"Title":"If there was one scene that you should see..it's this one","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One scene in An American Werewolf in London sets it apart from all the other wolf movies. And that scene is..the transformation scene. WOW. That's all I have to say. When you watch the first transformation of David, turning into a werewolf, you might cringe. It looks so painful. The thing that's even more amazing is that the film was made in 1981. 1981. Not that big of special effects. Not like the ones today. But, Rich Baker does an unbelieable job at the werewolf makeup. The scene starts out with David, reading a book, the full moon out. Then..BAM! He starts to scream bloody-murder,It's so hot! GOd..umh..!. He then tears up his clothes..and the magic begins. The first real part is the hand. David looks at his right hand and sees it move upward, as if it's growing taller. Then, from there, the rest is history. His feet bulk up. His spine starts to get bigger. His face morphs into a long stout. It's a real classic scene to a classic movie. If there's just one scene to watch in that film, watch the transformation scene. It's a good one. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry I called you a meatloaf Jack","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is a movie I can never get tired of watching. All about a young man's rather unfortunate series of events that happen to him while he and his friends go backpacking in England, he gets a rude visit from one of the locals there (who happens to be a werewolf). He winds up in a hospital, and that's where the real fun begins. David Mcnaughton is just so good in this movie, I can never imagine who else John Landis could have put in this movie. He plays the role of 'David' with much humor and pathos that I was rooting for the guy in the end, even though I shouldn't have been. Jenny Agutter plays the nurse he meets while he's cooped up in the hospital, and they have definite chemistry between them. I don't want to ruin the story for people, as it's filled with surprises, scares and high weirdness (the dream sequences still get to me). But needless to say, this is one of my favorite horror movies of all time, and one that I have in my own private collection. "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who gets this movie??","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK...so these two NYU students are walking along the Moors and it turns out that they're Jewish. And the doctor that takes care of Naughton in the hospital happens to be Jewish. And the nightmare scene when the Nazi monsters with machine guns invade his parents house has symbols of Judaism. Coincidence? I think not...Although this is not the first movie (nor will it be the last) to deal with the duality thingy of human nature, I believe that Landis takes this to another level by using the Jewish guys/werewolf to explore it. For me, what Landis does here is illustrate Sartre's famous definition of the Jew A Jew is like anyone else, only more so. I believe Landis is saying here (using the Jew to represent everyman as Joyce does with Bloom) that you must redeem yourself from within. How? Because even the smart Jewish doc and the gorgeous shiksa nurse (Jenny Agutter) cannot save him. Brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"a GREAT werewolf film WARNING!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  a GREAT werewolf film has AMAZING effects by Rick Baker and it had some gory moments SPOILERS!!!!!!! we get an eaten off dear head gory wolf attacks munching on flesh and more, some of it was hard to see because it was so dark but it's there, not tons of it but enough to satisfy. i really loved the comedy/horror both together now that does not always work but boy did it ever work here it was at times downright hilarious. the acting is terrific David Naughton is GREAT here as he showed the right amount of depth and was quite likable he had some hilarious lines too i LOVED him!!!!! Griffin Dunne is hilarious as the undead he cracked me up check out that movie theater scene Jerry Augutter is gorgeous and did very good here i liked her lots John Woodvine is okay here nothing more.overall a wonderful Werewolf scene that is a must see ****1/2 out of 5  "},{"Title":"QUICK REVIEWS!","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!Time for another anti- CGI remark? Seriously, I am far from anti-CGI, I think it is completely over used though. When recreating a metallic image, or one with dark colours, or a night time setting, it is fine, as in T2. But when it is used for bright colours, as a substitute for living things, it for the most part looks fake. Watch Jason and the Argonauts, and ask what stop motion would be like with today's technology. Or even better, watch this. The transformation scene is vastly superior to any recent CGI and more importantly, it looks real. But enough of that, lets talk about the movie. Apart from having the gorgeous Jenny Agutter, we have here a mix of comedy and horror rarely seen more successfully. The opening scenes in the moors are full of tension, while the frequent appearances of the recently slaughtered Jack in increasing stages of decay are hilarious. My only problem is with the ending, but that is one of taste. Yes it's a good ending; I only wish there could have been another way <wipes tear from eye>. Each performance is effective, especially Naughton's, and while the directing may not be consistent, it is suitably chaotic enough for the movie's content. 8 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"The movie that teaches you when you see a strange symbol on the wall of a bar its better not to ask what it is.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the better werewolf movies made.  It is also one of the first to incorporate comedy and horror together very successfully.  This movie has two guys walking the countryside.  They go into a pub at night, get thrown out for being too curious and later are attacked by a wolf.  One of them is killed and the other is sent to a hospital where he has a rather odd dream.  He of course was bitten by a werewolf so he ends up becoming one.  Very well done as they have him haunted by those he kills, even his friend pays him a visit in different stages of decay.  The make-up and effects were excellent, this is much better than the cgi werewolf in Paris (I never watched that one, but I saw the previews), though this one probably has the more limited movement.  Some gore here and there, the worst is when the guy sees his dead friend at the hospital for the first time.  The guy ends up falling in love with a nurse as well.  This film is very good all the way around though those dream sequences are kind of bizarre.  Also, the whole ending was just a bit to depressing seeing how most of the movie had its lighter moments.  I kind of wish they had one more scene of the main guy and his friend walking off toward the horizon or something.  Other than that it is good. "},{"Title":"Landis Monster","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Here's the first film Landis made after his landmark Blues Brothers.  It's a dumb story, made worse by the efforts of later 80s horror/comedy films Evil Dead 2 and Lost Boys, but it still stands as a product of Landis' focus.This is your only spoiler warning...His concentration level here is moody yet distracting.  As with Animal House, he's a little too concerned about gags, some work effectively, some are lame, some are horrific.This horror film isn't afraid to show itself and, more than others in its class, mixes the horror element with the comedy.  The effects are dated, but the sound is some of the best I've heard in a horror film.I find two good scenes here to recommend alone.  The first is when David dreams he is back at home and sees his family slaughtered by the stormtroopers.  He wakes up--after getting his throat cut--and then is treated to another nightmare action.  He then wakes up for real.  That is some effectively-paced layering for an 80s movie.  The second scene--of course--is the final rampage.  I wonder if Jean-Pierre Jeunet drew any inspiration from it for his mammoth Mouse Trap chain reactions.So, in a film loaded with bad acting, bad dialog, and simple screenwriting, 'Werewolf' still has a few spooks in it.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"A cult classic","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is another of my favourite films of all time and again is a mix of comedy and horror. The first time you 	  see the dream sequence it is really scary. I've also got to say that even nowadays, whenever I'm in the London Underground 	  the scene from Tottenham Court Road goes through my mind. I suppose the film is best known for the transformation sequence, 	  but there's all manner of lines that are quotable such as Remember the Alamo, You made me miss and stick to the path.  	  Talking of which, what use would it have been if they had stayed on the path ? It didn't seem to offer much protection from 	  the wildlife to me. Finally must mention the soundtrack and the inferior by the numbers follow up made in the nineties. "}{"Title":"Best of both worlds- Gothic Horror and Comedy","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This picture has all the elements of a good gothic horror picture.  It starts out with all the warnings of the full moon, getting lost on the moors, wild animal sounds, the 5-pointed star and the surprise attack.  So the start doesn't offer anything new; only after the attack and the subsequent trip to the hospital does the picture take a dramatic turn. Here is where John Landis, director of Animal House and Kentucky Fried Movie, works in the comic elements.  Landis has experience in comedy, although his record is spotty at best, he does know how to set up a joke.  The hospital starts the encounters with his dead friend Jack who informs him that he is in fact a Werewolf.  This is only the first of three encounters and is the start of the running gag where you can watch his deterioration as a member of the undead.  The movie goes between a good gothic horror with all the elements of any good wolfman flick and a well worked comedy using the plight of a person turning into a wolf as the core of the comic elements.  The horror scenes are done well; the transition where he turns into a wolfman the first time is really good, perhaps the best in movies.  There are plenty of jumps when he is attacking the locals and the werewolf itself is a good piece of special effects.  In summary the acting is better than average, the girl is cute and the horror scenes are good and horrible.  This is a real sit at home with your date kind of movie.  Good fun, some scary scenes and an easy story to follow so you can fool around while you watch and not miss too much.  "},{"Title":"Excellent blend of horror, comedy & Rick Baker's groundbreaking Oscar-winning Make-Up!  p!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON (1981) ***1/2 David Naughton, Griffin Dunne, Jenny Argutter.  Excellent blend of horror and comedy with some truly super duper make-up special effects about an American abroad in contemporary London who, after being attacked by a beast, becomes a werewolf.  Nice little inside jokes (mostly from Dunne as the doomed friend) and kudos to Rick Baker (whose incredible transformations garnered him the first Oscar in Make-up Achievement) and director John Landis. "},{"Title":"Better remembered than seen","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing this when I was 10. It was interesting because I'd never seen a mix of horror and comedy like this film had.The effects were good, too. For a 10 year old, what's not to like?I rented this recently and realized that it hasn't aged well. Dunne's performance is still funny -- but the material isn't as funny as I remembered. Or as scary. A lot of the story is disjointed. It sets up many paths and then, boom, it's over; characters and motivations don't resolve. I do feel this film had a big impact on horror storytelling -- for instance, Buffy the Vampire Slayer seems influenced by its ironic comedy and horror mix. But its offspring are better, livelier, and more inventive. Seen today, this film is noteworthy for its inspirations, not its content. "},{"Title":"A landmark of British horror","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw this, oh, about two and a half years ago, I really didn't like it. I hadn't seen Shaun of the Dead or other such horror-comedies, and the melding of the two genres was lost on me. I found it quite awkward it was too funny to be scary and too scary to be funny. I appreciated the werewolf effects, but I thought the story was lame and the style didn't appeal to me at all. Oh, how maturity changes things.Suffice to say, I just watched the film again and I loved it. I laughed heartily at the dark British humour, I was in awe of the brilliant transformation scene, and I really felt for the characters. The script really is quite excellent; a perfect blend of comedy, horror, and romance - just like Shaun - that doesn't feel the need to sacrifice interesting characters for frightening scenes. It's got both of them. It does feel a little short, but that just means the pace is rapid and the film is never boring. Despite being relative unknowns, all three leads give solid performances, with Griffin Dunne especially standing out in a darkly comedic turn as a gradually decaying corpse.Speaking of the decaying corpse, the makeup effects are really the highlight of the film. Without them, there wouldn't be the exceptional transformation scene, and there wouldn't be the Best Makeup Oscar (created because of this film). Not only are the werewolf effects fantastic (even though there is a notable difference between the man turning into the werewolf and the werewolf itself) but the corpse is really quite stunning to look at. It's rather grotesque, but one has to admire the talent on display. It's especially noticeable in the scene in the porn theatre (porn theatre! how twisted is that?) with the myriad of corpses who return to haunt David. Add in the dark British humour, and the scene is perversely hilarious.It really is among the best in its genre - whether that be horror-comedies or werewolf flicks - and I'm glad that I can recognize its brilliance now. It's really quite surprising that an American director known for Animal House and The Blues Brothers could create something so innovative, so scary, and so... British. The film stands as a landmark of British horror, influencing later films like Dog Soldiers, 28 Days Later, The Descent, and, of course, Shaun of the Dead. "},{"Title":"An American Werewolf in London","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" But look at me. Here I sit in a porno theater, in Piccadily Circus, talking to a corpse. As you can tell from the dialogue above, Landis takes his werewolf film into a whole new arena letting it all hang out with wild ideas that somehow work despite how absurd they seem. David Kessler(David Naughton)watches as his best friend Jack Goodman(Griffin Dunne)is slaughtered by a werewolf and then gets a slash in his chest from the beast before townsfolk kill the lycanthrope.David might've survived, but he's a lot worse for ware, because he's now a lycanthrope who is warned by his friend's corpse(Dunne, who is shown with skin deterioration after each visit at first exposing a nasty neck ripped open until his visit to David in the porno theater where his entire face has rotted away), unfortunately stuck in limbo like any werewolf victim who isn't freed until the werewolf bloodline is severed. Goodman offers suicide to his pal telling him that he'll kill innocent people if he doesn't. David, though, doesn't know if his decomposing dead friend is merely a product of other bizarre nightmares so he, at first, doesn't take the visits seriously. He and the nurse attending to him, Alex(Jenny Agutter, quite yummy)fall in love and when David eventually does change into the wolf(this is the amazing transformation sequence CGI just can't top)..this complicates his life. How can he continue to live knowing that lives are in danger(in a hilarious day-after-the-transformation sequence, David finds himself naked in a cage with wolves and must walk through a zoo naked until he can find something to cover himself with)? His continual visits from Goodman end in a porno theater where he is presented the dead victims he attacked as a wolf which is a gruesomely macabre moment that is quite funny at the same time as they offer David ways to kill himself. Landis surprises the viewer with an abrupt, chaotic conclusion in Piccadily Circus where the David turns into the werewolf rampaging through the streets causing an array of devastating crashes with many people being smashed by(..and thrown out of)vehicles. "},{"Title":"The greatest modern werewolf movie!","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Outstanding horror film from director John Landis is a wild modern classic and simply one of the best werewolf films of all time!Young man is bitten by a monstrous wolf in the England countryside, with some horrific results.An American Werewolf in London is often pegged as a comedy, and while granted Landis does give this film lots of sharp humor it's really more of a stunning horror film. Landis's story is one that quickly becomes engulfing as we are given a likable hero, humorous dialog, and some well-done scenes of shock and suspense. The nightmare sequences, as well as the wolf attacks, are truly scary. The movie carries an eerie atmosphere of the unknown. Rick Baker adds some wildly impressive makeup FX to this film, frankly they stand among his best works. This film boasts perhaps the most convincing werewolf transformation ever! Kudos go to a terrific soundtrack as well, notice all the songs have the word 'moon' in them.The cast is yet another high point in the film. Star David Naughton is a sympathetic and attractive hero, it's very easy to love the poor guy. Jenny Agutter does a wonderful turn as a nurse who falls in love with Naughton. Griffin Dunne is great as Naughton's ill-fated buddy, who just won't stop coming back! A terrific and simply unforgettable film all the way, An American Werewolf in London remains one of Landis's best works.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Bad Moon Rising","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my very favorite werewolf films of all time.Jack and David are two American students backpacking their way through the rural English countryside. Warned by the locals to stay off the moors the two nevertheless strike off across the aforementioned moors by the light of the full moon after a pub full of nervous and suspicious townsfolk give them a less than warm welcome. The two are attacked by a huge animal which kills Jack and seriously injures David, who awakens in a London hospital 3 weeks later. David seems physically fine, and pretty nurse Alex agrees. She even invites him to stay with her at her flat once he is released from the hospital. But David is not fine at all. He's suffering from some very realistic nightmares. Worse still, Jack insists upon visiting David from beyond the grave. Jack, it seems, was killed by a werewolf and is now cursed to roam the earth until the werewolf's bloodline is severed. David, Jack says, will turn into a werewolf in just a few days, and he must commit suicide to end the curse. David refuses to believe this, and even questions his own sanity. But when the next full moon rises and six people are found horribly mutilated the next morning, David must accept the truth he IS a werewolf, and he must be stopped.Griffin Dunne nearly steals this entire film with his portrayal of the dead Jack, who casually shows up periodically throughout the film in advancing stages of decomposition. Though dead, his sense of humor is still very much alive and he mixes his dire werewolf warnings with bitter observations about girls he never had sex with and how boring dead people can be. Only the special effects by Rick Baker upstage Jack as, in a painful two minute long sequence, David transforms before our very eyes into a vicious beast. Very VERY impressive! John Landis has given us a brilliant black comedy with this film. The script is witty and clever, the performances are all nearly flawless and the story, though simple, is thoroughly believable simply because it never takes itself too seriously. The effects are awesome and the gore,when it comes, is quite shocking. A dream sequence featuring military werewolves wielding machine guns is enjoyably surreal, while another dream sequence featuring David with a demonic face still manages to scare the crap out of me every time. Watch for the climax in a porn theater - hilarious! The soundtrack, consisting of songs which mention the moon in their lyrics, is so weird and, at times, so out of place that it works perfectly.Don't miss this one. There's something for everyone in this film, whether it's gore, scares, comedy or love. An American Werewolf in London is a true classic. "},{"Title":"Funny and horrific, though wildly uneven film with incredible makeup and effects.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is actualy reasonably good, with good performaces from Naughton and Agutter and the best performance of Griffin Dunne's career (which isn't saying much), and good special effects and fantastic makeup that won Rick Baker the very first competitive Oscar given for makeup.  There are some amusing cameos, particularly in the pub toward the beginning.  Not Gone With the Wind, but then we already had one of those.  An entertaining, enjoyable film well worth watching.  Recommended.  "},{"Title":"A flawed masterpiece.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  John Landis is not an artistic director so this is as close as you will probably ever see to an art film from him. This movie was either made out of extreme passion or Landis got lost while making it. People have commented that it has the best transformation scene in cinema history, although The Howling transformation was pretty well done. This movie can't really be categorized and it shouldn't be put in one category or another. Landis has made a great werewolf picture and probably his best artistic achievement. "},{"Title":"when I saw this on TV...","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With werewolf in the title, we know that a man turns into one. In this case, American college students David Kessler (David Naughton) and Jack Goodman (Griffin Dunne) are attacked on the English moors by a strange creature which kills Jack and injures David. While in the hospital, David falls for nurse Alex Price (Jenny Agutter) and gets a visit from Jack's decaying ghost, who warns him of what will happen come the full moon. Anyway, David goes home with Alex, they have sex (interestingly, this wasn't cut on TV), and you know what happens the next night (don't worry Alex wasn't home).The main thing was that An American Werewolf in London had the neatest scene in movie history of a man turning into a lycanthrope. Maybe the movie didn't have any kind of message or anything, but really folks, we don't want that in werewolf movies! Other cool aspects include the bar - it didn't have a very inviting name. And Jenny Agutter was pretty hot.Oh well. If ever you're in England, you'll just have to remember to steer clear of the moors. And the next time that there's a full moon, you know what that means. "}{"Title":"A great Werewolf Flick","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A terrific blend of Comedy and Horror.Some scenes really are quite horrific, and utilise some great visual effects for the time. Yet others scenes are hilariously funny.The Cinema Scene where David is confronted by his victims casually telling hims that he needs to commit suicide to be free from the curse of the werewolf, is probably the finest scene in the movie, it still makes me laugh years later.Definitely worth looking at8/10If you enjoyed this movie check out 'DOG SOLDIERS' "},{"Title":"Original as well as surprisingly effective horror/comedy.","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What this movie does very well, and what it is so well known for, is the fact that it perfect blends the comedy with its horror, without letting the one element weaken the other. Because for instance in lot of other horror/comedies, the comedy really weakens the horror. It makes them ineffective as scary and gory ones but this really isn't the case with An American Werewolf in London.Perhaps this is because the comedy within this movie is more subtle and B-movie like. The movie doesn't take itself too seriously which allows the movie its comedy to work out so effective and subtle. John Landis obviously made the movie deliberately B-movie like in parts, especially by picking not the best actors and by not giving them the best dialog imaginable. It on top of that features some great typical B-movie like moments, which perhaps is only truly notable for the genre fans and most other people will probably write it off as lame and simplistic.Just because the movie features humor and has B-movie elements in it doesn't mean that this movie is ineffective as an horror movie. In that genre this movie also really stands out. It does this by featuring some great imaginative and gory looking sequences. but it also does this not in the least with its make-up effects. Especially the dream sequences within the movie are quite memorable. This movie was actually the first to receive and Oscar for its make-up. Before this, best make-up wasn't even a category at the Oscar's, believe it or not. But thanks to this movie the academy realized that this was a profession to take seriously and to include in the award ceremony. The award of course went to legendary make-up artist Rick Baker. It was the first out of 6 Oscar's he has so far received during his career.The movie is actually surprisingly gory. It's just not something you would expect from an horror/comedy but this movie is basically just as gory, if not gorier, than most other 'serious' genre movies. Director John Landis actually now days is surprised how gory this movie actually is when he looks back at it.Of course the movie doesn't feature a too complicated plot (luckily so) but it nevertheless know to pick an original approach with its story and all. It doesn't feature an usual werewolf plot in which the victim is battling his transformation during full moon and is plotting to kill the werewolf that bite him in order to lift the curse. I won't tell what the actual plot of the movie is, since it will probably spoil to much but fact is that it's original, which also means that the movie doesn't end in a typical 'Hollywood-way'.When watching this movie it actually becomes more painfully obvious how bad its sequel An American Werewolf in Paris, which got made 16 years(!) after this movie, actually is. It tries to achieve the same thing as this movie, by picking the same type of approach but in moments like that it becomes obvious that directing is a real important job and that some directors are simply more talented than others. Anthony Waller just obviously ain't no John Landis! John Landis would also later impress with the legendary Michael Jackson video-clip for the hit song 'Thriller'. The special make-up effects again came from Rick Baker. The clip definitely shows similarities to this movie in especially its style.A great as well as enjoyable unique werewolf movie!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Some Nice Cuts of Meat but NOT USDA Prime","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London starts out with real promise, but soon after the tragic attack on the moors, this picture dims out and only occasionally brightens.David Kessler and Jack Goodman are tagged as goners from the moment we first see them (lambs to the slaughter) and there are intermittent scenes that either start to rev up the suspense and mystery or outright take us for a thrill ride, but in the end John Landis wastes a lot of time on scenes that would have been better replaced with dawning discovery of what is going on and the need to stop it, or unraveling the sinister web of fear in East Proctor where the tragedy began. Instead, he fills the movie with tableau after tableau of David's escalating nightmares; gratuitous shower sex scenes; and far too much time in David's after feast scramble to get back home, when that screen time would have been better served on Dr. Hirsch's suspicions or breaking the silence at The Slaughtered Lamb.Griffin Dunn's scenes as the progressively ageing Jack are as hilarious as they are morbid, but when it comes to speaking simple dramatic truths for the plot ( You will change. Kill yourself before you kill others.)Dunn loses his sense of drama and the lines are painful to hear.Jenny Agutter is wonderful, Frank Oz is wasted and his scene unneeded as are the scenes between Agutter and the convalescing child who can only say No! All of the scenes I've pointed out so far stop the story dead in it's tracks. Once again we are amateurishly introduced to Scotland Yards answer to Beavis and Butthead -- when are British bobbies going to start taking offense at this stuff? -- in scenes that need severe rewrites, They just don't work and the story slams into neutral.Yes, there are moments of of truly fine craft pets instinctively snarling at the normal David (they know what he is); the corpse conference in the porno house; The overwhelming sense of melancholy captured within the film; David's touching long distance phone call; every scene in East Proctor; every single werewolf attack (high marks for us seeing them seeing it without us seeing it and when we do, it is just a scary flash-cut); Hirsh's growing sense of dread and urgency, and of course, Rick Baker's mesmerizing and flabbergasting full fledged werewolf transformation scene (it is because of this scene that AMPAS created the category of Outstanding Achievement in Special Effects Makeup). A comment about the makeup effects SFX techies yearn to have their stuff fully lit with the camera lovingly dwelling on it so they can let people appreciate what they've accomplished. Wisely, this is seldom done, as the human mind can fill in the blanks with much more depth than seeing the real thing and every good director knows this. However, in this film, it would have been nice to open the barn doors on the lighting set ups just a tad so we could get a little better glimpse of what Baker created -- in short, it's too damned dark! The finale is dizzying mayhem and exciting gore. Sadly, the ending leaves us empty. Vacant. Unfulfilled. Unfinished. It's as if Landis suddenly realized he couldn't come up with something poignant or touching, or even teasing (Mr Landis, Kessler and Nurse Price made love together, couldn't you have teased us with Son of American Werewolf in London?) so instead of turning to others for an answer, he just slapped on the closing credits, flipped up the house lights and cried out, Go Home! It's a shame to see so much potential ignored. "},{"Title":"Not a classic horror or a classic comedy but it mixes the two styles really well","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Two American backpackers are traveling around the English countryside when they get caught in the middle of nowhere late one night.  Having found only hostility at a local pub they travel out and get lost on the moors.  Jack is killed by a wolf of some kind, but David escapes with minor wounds.  In hospital in London however he experiences dreams of hunting and killing, while also falling for kindly Nurse Price.  It isn't long before the warnings of his dead friend begin to become true.It took me years to see this, I was too young when it came out at the cinema.  When it came on TV my young siblings could hear `noises' from the TV in their bedroom (small house!) and I was made to turn it off.  However when I saw it, it was worth the weight &#150; in fact I might not have appreciated it as much if I saw it young.  The opening minutes set the tone of the film &#150; the use of Blue Moon as the theme song puts the tongue firmly in cheek.  However the opening banter being followed by a vicious attack also shows that this is a horror with a touch of comedy.In fact this continues throughout the film.  We have several `moon' songs used &#150; but they fit well and aren't just a joke.  The film also makes plenty of pokes at English culture in affectionate ways.  The film makes fun of our TV (channel surfing with only 3 channels!), our pub culture (the Slaughtered Lamb), our tabloid papers and even our porn (`See you next Wednesday' with big breasted Linzi Drew!).  However it also delivers on the horror, the gore is good, the horror always has a tense buildup and the pre-CGI transformation is even more impressive looking back.It has weaknesses in that it is quite simply and seems to exist in acts, and the romance with Nurse Price is unlikely etc.  However I'd suggest you watch `AW in Paris' if you want to appreciate how good this is.  The cast are mixed.  Naughton is a straight laced Yank, while Agutter is typically English &#150; although neither are fantastic.  Dunne is good despite being dead from 5 minutes in, and the rest of the cast have some famous faces to see &#150; Rik Mayall, Brian Glover.However the star here is Landis, he has great fun mixing horror with comedy &#150; he even gets his usual car crash bit in as well.  Overall this is a great bit of film making &#150; it's not a classic horror or a classic horror but it mixes the two styles really well to produce a great end product. "},{"Title":"An American Werewolf in London","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Rick Baker's make up is amazing and the special effects are impressive. Landis has sculpted real horror, but at times it is oddly touching and even funny in a demonic sort of way.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw this movie as a young teen in the 80's. Looking back I probably watched it on Showtime or HBO, maybe even a BETA machine. I was enthralled then, and to this day every time a song from the soundtrack, especially Van Morrison's Moondance or CCR's A Bad Moon on the Rise, I think of this movie fondly. The music in this film is bar none one of the best movie soundtracks. I just watched it again with my teen aged daughters and felt the same old nostalgia I felt before. I love that it held so many aspects of a great movie; humor, love, tragedy. I remember the sadness the most though, and the intrinsic realism of good vs. evil still sits with me today. "},{"Title":"Great werewolf comedy","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Traveling through the English countryside, an American back-backer learns than an attack by a strange, savage beast has suddenly turned him into a werewolf and tries to gain the help required to lift the curse before he becomes a werewolf forever.While there's a lot to really enjoy about this one it's still slightly flawed overall. The opening here is among one of the most impressive parts to this one with the fun of their arrival in the country and their journey through the countryside, eventually winding up with the actual attack which is quite a dark and brutal effort which is far more inhuman and savage than expected before letting the big gun-down finish As well,that leads into the main section of the film here where it starts to get into the growing realization of what he's become as this is easily the best part of the film. The conversations with the gradually-decomposing friend showing up at the most inopportune times is a great building block while also managing some fine jokes at the comedic content of the situation, while far more engaging is the actual investigation done at the behest of the doctor into his condition after arriving at the hospital. That leads into some rather enjoyable times here where it really manages to continue on through a fine series of clues that gradually lead to the eventual discovery from the group which is how this one really gets a lot of good fun going along with the events leading up through the initial attack and overall build into how he got to become a werewolf. Once it gets past that into the action as well it's a lot of fun here with the series of attacks found in the suburbs of the city and in the subway station that gets some pretty enjoyable times here along with the finale in crowded London makes for a lot of good fun. The design is pretty creepy, and looks like what a man who turns into a werewolf looks like, in terms of the werewolf as it looks incredibly scary and creepy. It's wisely kept out of the shadows in the beginning so that suspense is drawn up about what it looks like, and all we get are brief glimpses of something, and when the big reveal comes, it works wonders as it doesn't look like what you expected. There are only a couple of minor quips about this film. The first one is the slow beginning, as it takes a while for the film to really get going with the cheap jumps get a little tiresome after a while. The big stuff doesn't happen until an hour into the movie, so it does finish on a flourish but the opening is a long dredge. The humor is another big distraction as if it doesn't know if it wants to be a horror film or a comedy since the comedy can be a distraction for those that are into the hardcore horror aspects in the film. The last flaw here is about the storyline as it's one of the few that doesn't try to change the werewolf mythology and instead relies on viewers knowledge of previous werewolf movies to know the background for this one. Some of it is given in the film, but not really enough for first time viewers to werewolf movie to truly understand. Otherwise, this one is a lot of fun.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Full Nudity, several mild sex scenes and scenes set in a porn theater. "},{"Title":"See You Next Wednesday","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Comedy Horror films are tricky. For years, John Landis had his script for this film rejected on the grounds that it was either too scary to be funny, or too funny to be scary.They were wrong this film really works. The scary bits are scary. The funny bits are hilarious.David Naughton's a bit wooden, but everyone else - I mean everyone - is absolutely perfect. Look out for an odd cameo by Rik Mayall, too.Rick Baker's effects were so groundbreaking at the time they created a new category at the Oscars so they could acknowledge them.It may be the perfect werewolf movie. It unashamedly deals with the pain of the transformation; the fear-stricken paralysis of the villagers; Naughton being both victim and killer at the same time; Jenny Agutter trying desperately to help her seemingly mentally-ill boyfriend&#x85; There are so many great moments of both comedy and horror, miraculously contained in one film, and that's a rare thing.Verdict See You Next Wednesday "},{"Title":"A bloody brilliant horror movie","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I absolutely enjoyed watching this film. It was just different and it seemed like new, even if it was from the 1980's! This must be a B movie because I never ever heard anyone mentioned it before! It would give you some jump-scares, especially when your man turns into the werewolf and kills people like a wild wolf dog!I really loved Jenny Agutter and David Naughton's characters relationship blossoming throughout the whole movie. I actually didn't expect that they would be become a couple but, there ya go, thats the best of unexpected surprises in films like this!Even if it was gory, this is one of the best horror movies I've ever seen and I think it needs to deserve more than one Oscar! "},{"Title":"Suspense and good Laughs","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hilarious and awesome thrilling parts that are worthy of a great entertainment feature. God actors and the script make this film a great story to share with friends or family. Another element that makes this film worth watching is the make-up. You get to see living dead and many horror characters transformations during the film which are really well executed. There is also romance involve in this film as one of the problems our hero will encounter. If you are looking a realistic portrayal of a werewolf in the big city there are scenes that you are going to love. I wasn't expecting the cinematography to be this good either. But if you are looking for a good laughs with friends or family i recommend this movie. It has a great ending too. "}{"Title":"Not given enough credit","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I recently saw this again. It still hasn't lost it's charm or power. I first saw it when I was eleven and, as you can imagine, it certainly left an impression.There are many men currently in there late thirties who will always have a soft spot for Jenny Agutter shall we say.There are 3 standout moments.1.The dream sequences that David undergoes whilst in hospital. In particular The Nazi grotesques are very powerful and Landis does a marvellous thing where David see's his family butchered and his own throat cut whilst the Muppets are on TV. A weird contrast and unsettling as, as a child, for me the Muppets were very popular and a safe image. Couple that with Agutter being repeatedly stabbed by one leaping from David's hospital room window is visually shocking and totally unexpected.2.The werewolf transformation is excellent and a credit to the special effects all done without the benefit of CGI. This brings a marvellous organic feel.3. Finally the interchanges between David, Jack and the other victims is sublime. We are given some pretty gory moments throughout and this seems to maintain our sanity but lifts the film well above the simple horror format.One last point Landis deserves some real credit for bring the bleakness and Britishness of the piece to the screen that many foreign directors struggle with. "},{"Title":"Bad moon, great movie","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maybe it ended a little too quickly? Maybe Alex should have been in peril for a bit longer? I'd like to have seen David try to change himself for another month, then end the movie. Oh, well. It's still a great movie.My sister saw this movie, as her first hardcore horror flick, when she was 17, in 1981. Scared the ever-lovin' crap out of her. When I saw it in its entirety for the first time, I had years of CSI shows, ER and Law and Order SVU under my belt. Therefore, the gore was not nearly as shocking. Certainly not as disturbing as following a bullet down someone's gullet and watching their stomach explode. In other words, if you can stomach CSI, Werewolf won't bother you too much.Having said that, it was sufficiently creepy for good thrills, without the nonstop ick factor of some of its descendants. The fact that the makeup and transformation scenes were done without CGI assistance is still amazing, and the movie well deserved the Oscar nod for the efforts. The effects are still incredible and hold up just as well today.David Naughton has such a wonderful speaking voice; I could listen to him read the phone book. And those big, soulful brown eyes.... Sigh. It makes the transformation all the more jarring.Griffin Dunne is perfect as the undead Jack. He's funny and desperate, all at once.I'm not really a horror movie enthusiast. I prefer thrillers and suspense to gore-fests. Therefore, it says something about this movie that I like it so well. "},{"Title":"A werewolf's tale","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It isn't a comedy, not a horror film. It is the story of a man who becomes a wolf and at the same time is a satirical mockery of the naivety of the Americans and the coldness of the British, at the end of all is an atypical film about a werewolf that, between scares and laughs, goes well fought on both sides. It is a simple film to pass the time that has good special effects and shows the transformation of a man into a beast and a woman who seeks a man below his hair. In short, is a great film for laugh a while, take good scares, see blood and have fun with a script well done on screen and with several references to stereotypes of two very different and similar cultures as the American and English. "},{"Title":"The best werewolf flick ever!","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Directed by john Landis and with special effects provided by rick baker this is the best werewolf film and one of my favourite films of all time. Things kick of with 2 American back packers just wandering about near the moors. They come across a pub called the slaughtered lamb and are warned by the locals after they offend them with some of there questions. Before they go they are told to beware of the moors and stick to the roads, which of course they do not. They are are attacked by a werewolf and David is bitten or scratched and his friend is killed. The werewolf is then killed before it can finish David off. We then switch locations to a London hospital where David begins having bad nightmares and is warned by his dead friend that he will become a werewolf on the next full moon. The effects in this film are amazing and to this day with all the cgi and everything i have yet to see such a good transformation. The cast do a really good job in this movie and really play there roles well. I also really enjoyed the music in this movie. To tell you the truth i do not have a bad word to say about this movie. Go watch it now!! "},{"Title":"You made me miss!!","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was a John Landis fan already i loved the thriller video and the blues brothers. But i still hadn't seen An American Werewolf In London.Someone i know already said to me You know that it's actually a bit tongue in cheek. What do you mean? Well it wasn't meant to be taken seriously it was a sort of black comedy.This didn't stop me buying it. I bought it got home and stuck it in. I loved it. As i was told it wasn't meant to be taken seriously as a horror. There was some comedy moments in this modern re-telling of the wolf man like running through the zoo naked or my favourite moment when the guy playing darts says You made me miss, i have never missed that board. i thought it was quite funny.Obviously the most iconic thing about this film is the transformation sequence it is still iconic to this very day.AAWIL is still a horror classic even if it can't be classed as a horror movie. "},{"Title":"Should Be On The Top # 250...","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is an excellent Horror/Comedy, filled with many scares and laughs. With its great acting, good plot and amazing special effects (which won the film an Oscar, and the first Oscar in that category) it grabs the audience by the shoulders and does not let go until the credits start rolling.The film starts off with two American's (Jack and David) who are attacked by a viscous beast whilst walking through the English countryside. Jack is ripped apart, but David escapes with only a few scratches after the creepy local townspeople shoot the beast. He wakes up in a Hospital in London three weeks later, where he meets Nurse Alex Price, who is friendly and helpful. He discovers that according to the townspeople he and his friend Jack were attacked by a lunatic, but both the Doctor and the Police ignore him when he tells them the truth. Over the next few days he begins to have vivid nightmares, and is payed a visit by his good friend Jack, who is now stuck in Limbo until the beast is killed, and Jack informs David that he will turn into a werewolf in two days, when the next full moon comes. From then on its all laughs, scares and gore, as David transforms into a beast and creates havoc on the streets of London.An American Werewolf in London is a great movie, being one of the first types of the horror/comedy genre. It doesn't drag and the scares are genuine, and the special effects are still very effective 26 years later. A true masterpiece, a must see.9/10 "},{"Title":"creative effects and ideas with a semi-serious dialouge combines great to form a modern werewolf classic","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London takes dazzling special effects of the time being 1981 and used a semi-serious half comedic script to make this movie both charming and chilling. Fans of the werewolf horror movie genre mark a bulls eye with this motion picture. The effects all from talking deceased past victims to the incredible werewolf morphing effects during the full moon phase have and will continue to awe audiences. This film gave the perspective of the werewolf very well, weaving even better with the post perspective of its victims. The werewolf himself as a human enjoys a warm and endearing relationship with the British nurse who helped take care of his original medical problem. Overall this film packs a hint of comedy however not enough to drown out the scares and hunt scenes. Overall, there are now films that compare however if you want films that weren't atrocious of the genre (still none rise above this film)try watching The Howling, The Wolf Man,Underworld, Cujo (I know its a dog but K-9/wolf close enough), and the sequel (although tremendously lower in quality) An American Werewolf in Paris. I rated this film and 8 because it delivered a full and complete compelling werewolf film with creative additives. If you want the suspense, comic relief, and terror of a werewolf film this is the best film to get i from and is in my opinion the current benchmark for werewolf horror films. "},{"Title":"The Best Werewolf movie ever!","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1981 when this movie hit the box offices I was eight years old. My nutty uncle took my cousin and I to see it. After the scene where David and Jack are attacked I had to leave the theater. The girl at the concession stand offered to let us go in to see Stripes. I declined in favor of having my dad pick me up and take me home. I had nightmares for months and I was 12 or 13 before I could watch the thing. Needless to say it is the most intense horror movie I have ever seen. I enjoy watching it every time I pop it in the DVD player. I sure do wish the footage of the 3 bums getting it was available. Bottom line...no other werewolf movie (including The Howling) can touch AAWIL. An American Werewolf in Paris tried to hit it big with digital transformation scenes and hit a foul ball in my opinion. It's never been done (that I've seen) like Rick Baker did it in AAWIL. "},{"Title":"An American Werewolf in London","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Distributor Vestron Video (1981 Plot AN American WEREWOLF IN London is a macabre mix of humor and horror from acclaimed director JOHN LANDIS. The classic horror/comedy tale that has become a cult favorite is made more believable by the unique and spectacular talents of special make-up effects Master RICK BAKER (STAR WARS). AAWIL tells the tale of 2 American youths whose European adventure turns to terror after they are attacked by a werewolf. One of them is killed, but the other's fate is worth than death because whenever their is a full moon, he turns into a werewolf and terrorizes the people of London.Audio/Video Since this review is based on the 1981 Vestron Video, I expected a lot worse than what I got. Sound is pretty good, but some scenes are really dark to see.Extras None. I didn't expect any from this VHS edition anyway.Final thoughts This movie was a big hit from the early age of horror movies and is still a big hit now. The DVD edition is much better than the video. This is highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Great direction and script, excellent gore effects!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" stars David Naughton, Griffin Dunne, Jenny Agutter, John Woodvine, Paul Kember, Lila Kaye and Frank Oz.Plot Two American backpackers David and Jack are traveling through London, and after going to a creepy bar, Jack is torn to pieces by a creature. David is scratched by it but lives and ends up in a London hospital with a beautiful nurse. Soon David is visited by Jack's ghost who is slowly decaying like his body and Jack tells David that he's a werewolf and he must kill himself.Review I really love this film, all except that the leading man did only a mediocre job, even though the role didn't need much acting abilities. I thought Griffin Dunne was really quite funny. Director and Muppeteer Frank Oz makes a cameo appearance as Mr. Collins from the American Embassy. The direction is excellent and the dialogue is good. The gore effects are top notch and everything looks great. I was a bit annoyed by the abrupt ending, but it really didn't bother me that much. I highly recommend this horror comedy! My rating-4/5. rated R for strong gore and violence, strong sexuality including nudity and language. 94 mins. "}{"Title":"One of the most successful crossover movies","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Very few horror movies have been able to successfully crossover so many genres horror, comedy, romance & thriller.An American Werewolf in London, however, seems to do this effortlessly without losing the pace of the story.Each genre used is done extremely well the horror is extremely creepy & atmospheric (the chilling opening sequence on the Yorkshire Moors), the comedy is genuinely funny (the double nightmare in hospital), and the romance between the two lead characters has real chemistry.Despite now looking dated, this movie is still extremely entertaining throughout and remains a classic horror movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two Americans visit England and on a trip up north one of them (Griffin Dunne)is killed and the other(David Naughton)is injured by what is believed to be a werewolf. As he recovers in hospital in London David Kessler is visited by his dead friend who warns him that at the next full moon he will turn into a werewolf.I did not expect much from this so I was very surprised that it was so good. It had a great mix of gore and humor that complimented each other very well. The make up and special effects were something special for the time this was made especially the impressive transformation of David into a werewolf.The penultimate scene where David is roaming Piccadilly circus is pretty amusing especially when he bites off the police commisioners head just as he has got out of his car. Glad there was no happy ending here, ie a cure was found for David and he was able to live happily ever after with the nurse (Jenny Agutter). This film is great fun, a fine accomplished piece of film making. "},{"Title":"Horror at it's best. (Spoilers)","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London has it all. As a horror movie it does everything it's supposed to do...it shocks, scares, and repulses. But for every horror element it gets right, it gets two more of another element right. It weaves horror, comedy, drama, and some very touching scenes of sorrow together the way no other horror movie has or done since.Landis takes the viewer on an emotional roller-coaster through the entire film. From what has to be the most vicious werewolf attack ever filmed, to the comedic back and forths between all of the characters, and eventually the main character calling home to tell his family goodbye..because he knows he has to kill himself, AAWIL does everything right. If you've never seen this movie, I recommend getting the DVD right now! This is what horror is supposed to be. And not to be overlooked......this movie features some of the best horror SFX ever.My rating.......Classic 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Beware the moon lads, stick to the road","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" an American werewolf in London. a great black comedy. what more can i say. . well. put yourself in David and jacks shoes!! after receiving a frosty reception from the locals in the Slaughtered Lamb they have no choice but to venture out onto the dark and very eerie moors of east proctor with no idea of what lays ahead of them. if they had then neither of the two would of questioned the five pointed star on the wall of the unwelcoming pub. but NO !!!!! THE NIGHTMARE BEGINS HERE !!!! Releashed in the early eighties, An American Werewolf in London has to go down as one of the best horror/comedy movies of all time a real cult classic. diffently a DVD collectable but not to be watched alone . YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED !!! "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack, great writing, great film","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Definitely in the most believable of modern horror films--only really a single outlandish element involved, and the rest seems like normal London, normal backwater England, and normal American behavior.This movie has such a fantastically appropriate set of songs. And the makeup won an Academy Award in its day, though the effects are perhaps dated now. Landis wrote it when he was at his peak, too.It isn't the best horror film ever--but it's up there in the top ten, in my book. It is definitely the best horror film music selection ever. It's some of the best writing ever. It's absolutely a Landis signature piece, and yet, it's a style that adapts tremendously well to the genre. "},{"Title":"A ripping good time...Literally. (Spoiler of sorts)","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is pure genius. the scene where the protagonist turns into the werewolf, classic. No CGI involved, which makes it all the better for me. The make up in this scene and in others is just fantastic.The nightmare sequences had the ability to shock and scare me, to the point where I could not watch it when I was younger. John Landis made so many surreal moments that just worked so well. The acting is spot on, and not a thing seems missed out. You may notice the phrase See you next Wednesday in the film. This is in every one of Landis' films. Altogether, I can simply say without a shadow of a doubt that this is an excellent horror film indeed.  "},{"Title":"One of the most lovely Horror films ever made","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  * SPOILERS *It is very rare that a film touches me in the way 'An American Warewolf in London' did. It is so perfect in every way. A perfect combination of British charm, gothic-styled classic horror, romance, romantic comedy, and even some elements of gore (at least in the last bit). The perfect elements of a cult film.When David and Jack are walking along the English countryside, desperate for a good feed, they stop in at a rather strange English pub. Although strange, they figure they'll make do, but then they see a pentagram on the wall. They ask the pub crowd what it is there for, and get kicked out of the pub. They then get attacked by warewolves. Jack dies. I think you can guess what happens to David...John Landis directs it brilliantly, the beautiful Jenny Agutter plays the role of the nurse brilliantly and David Naughton makes a brilliant warewolf, American or not.It is so rare to see such a floorless production. One of my favourite horror films ever, easily. "},{"Title":"American Werewolf...one of Landis' best! 9/10","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was a real gem!  Hilarious, but still scary and entertaining.  The dialogue is superb and Landis did a good job of getting the feel of London and the north English Moors.  I love John Landis!  He's very original and creative, and his pictures are very entertaining.  The nurse played by the English actress is gorgeous, and Dunne does a good job of playing the ghost of David's Kessler's friend.  This movie is definitely in my top 100 list, and is one of my favorites of all time.  I'm excited to visit London for the very first time.  Maybe I'll meet a hot nurse while I'm there. Ha!  I can't believe anyone could not like this movie. "},{"Title":"The best werewolf film you will see!!!","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all allow me to introduce two godfathers in film history John Landis, writer and director and Rick Baker fx and make-up artist. With these two on board you can't go wrong. A brilliant film ,the make-up effects in the film received an award. A few years on from this film a film called Company Of Wolves was released and bragged about the fx being much better than American Werewolf in London, big mistake there was no comparison between the two. On the American Werewolf in London film crew you had Rick Baker who had also produced the make up for the Exorcist and other horror titles - enough said. My favourite scenes in the film is when they enter a small village pub in Wales some where, the werewolf transformation and the classic underground tube station scene, these always somehow pop into my head whenever i use the tube in London. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok I got to say this is one of the greatest horror films ever first off because of the special FX probably the best special FX in any werewolf movie to date. Second comedy this movie is not a comedy it is very much a horror but the comedy works very very well here it is well written witty genuinely funny and perfect for the movie. Third the horror this is actually a scary movie who thought the guy that directed animal house could scare you so much the scene in the moors is one of the most suspenseful I have ever watched and it featured one of the best jump scares in horror film history.Go see this movie if you like black humor and a kick ass werewolf. The only werewolf movie that measures up to this is The howling ginger snaps is also very good  "}{"Title":"Truly creepy, excellent black comedy.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was the one for me, you know, you all have at least one movie that scared you silly when you were young.  For some of my friends around my age (31) it was Jaws or Nightmare on Elm Street, or Friday the 13th, or the Exorcist.  But for me it was this one.  This is the one that had me terrified to go to sleep at night, that woke me up in cold sweats and ensured that I never, never, ever strayed away from a path in the moonlight.Relive some of your youth with this movie and always remember to Stay on the path!By contrast in my opinion the second installment some 15 years later was just not as convincing.Cheers. "},{"Title":"A Howlingly Good Time!","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sorry for the pun, but it was to be expected from me...The Insainiak! Well, this is an awsome movie. Great effects and wonderful acting.;  The best black comedy I have seen in a long time.  Just purchased the special edition, and loved it once again! "},{"Title":"A movie way ahead of its time...","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  David and friend Jack are holidaying in England's beautiful countryside, sunny England where everyone is so welcoming and friendly. That is until they decide to stop into 'The Slaughtered Lamb' for a drink. The crowd in the pub aren't helpful at all. The only advice is 'stay off the moors, stick to the path'. You would think then they would stay off the moors, no way! They take a nice evening stroll on the pitch black moors, and run afoul of a werewolf. The scene where David changes into the werewolf in this movie is legendary and for me the special effects could rival any modern day horror movie. As for Jack, the way each time he re-appears to David, and each time he is more de-crepid is fantastic! An American Werewolf In London was a horror movie that was way ahead of its time.>  "},{"Title":"The Beast sings a tune","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     The werewolf sure as hell prowled the moors in London on that fateful night two young men were attacked (One lived, one did not). Later, the survivor begins howling at the moon and sprouting hair oh so painfully. However, with these classic horror elements, there is also a balance of dark humor, romance and change of tone with requires a special handling of the script, well done by director John Landis.  An American werewolf in London was a decently made film with interesting moments of suspense and comic, but there are some scenes that are slow, and sidetrack the tension of the movie at times. These scenes do come at intervals, and are present throughout most of the movie. I suppose the director wanted us to try and fit ourselves in the actor's shoes. Nonetheless, a classic of the genre that sure surpasses other werewolf junk movies. And did I say the makeup is excellent. The transformation still stands today because it was done by visual art, not the dominance of special effects furthermore used by modern standards. There is also some great rock and roll music Bad Moon Rising, three versions of Blue Moon with variant moods, and Moon Dance. This adds to the feel of the genre.  Rated **1/2 "},{"Title":"Kissing up to the Wolf","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I wonder whose responsibility it is to decide which movies are placed in which sections at the video store.  Films such as American Werewolf in London must endlessly frustrate those bearing this responsibility. American Werewolf, like other great films, transcends genre, foiling the attempts of people who try to fit movies into neat little categories.  Though ostensibly a horror film, American Werewolf also entertains with its comedy and saddens with its tragic romance.  American Werewolf is an amalgamation, a perfect mixture of disparate elements, each element complementing the other. Though the movie contains romance and comedy, neither of these elements distracts from the film's main thrust terror.  On the contrary, the comedy and romance enhance the film's effectiveness, accentuating its horror.  The film is a classic, the howl of the titular beast forever echoing in the ears of its many fans. "},{"Title":"It is that good!","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is a classic. It has the london flat werewolf scene that is very oddly what you think would actually happen if a werewolf were loose in London. A bee-line for the zoo and chaos on the underground - not to mention some very skeptical psychiatrists. It also has the classic horror references to keep the horror flick junkies happy.  "},{"Title":"John Woodvine's finest hour and a half","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Woodvine is great in this film. I remember him being on British TV in the early eighties doing a series of M.R. James stories that scared the hell out of me and his turn here puts him well ahead in the stakes for the successor of Peter Cushing. The other notable thing about Werewolf in London is that aside from The Long Good Friday it is the only film from the period to reflect London as it really was. Especially surprising coming from a Yank director. Interesting to that Landis makes better use of Alan Ford in his Taxi Driver cameo here than Guy Ritchie manages for the whole on Snatch. An antedote to all of the Surrey sets reimagining of London as a capuccino swilling haven.Main weakness is Landis' usual urge just to race to the money shot and the structure the film around that. Unlike The Thing which also relied on make up effects for the main stunts and where Carpenter keeps cranking up the audience expectation. Once Landis does the first wolf transformation it is obvious he lost interest in the film. The final act is thankfully swift. "},{"Title":"Stonking!","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have just finished watching Werewolf and must comment on it's comic genius. A classic from '81 that, utterly, stands the test of time (although what that means in today's film-climate who knows!?). My favorite scene David in the cinema being given suicide suggestions by his victims, oh how I laughed.This films beauty lies in it's balancing not taking itself seriously, with taking itself seriously enough to invest in some excellent special-effects. Nine out of ten (and only because I am reserving ten for that one, Life-Altering film... any suggestions?). "},{"Title":"Schizophrenic movie - but entertaining","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although this movie changes moods many times it doesn't mean it is not a good movie - it is. It is the classic werewolf story transposed into 20th century London. It is laced with black humour being undead isn't fun, drama, tragedy, action and pathos. The music (all moon-themed) is used to good effect eg. the Blue Moon played right at the end completely turns around the viewer's frame of mind. The DVD contains many extras including the making of the award-winning prosthetics/effects. Go watch it - you'll be rewarded.     "},{"Title":"80's Classic","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently saw this again on DVD and was impressed with how well its aged. This was a cult favourite of the 80's and I'm glad to report it's stood the test of time. The film is rightly famous for it's special effects and these are still jaw droppingly good. However, it's more than just an exercise in make up. It's a brave attempt to cross genres and succeeds admirably. The main leads are all excellent, with Agutter perfect as the English rose love angle. See it today! "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie on tv about 3 or 4 years ago and they had just finishing showing it on AMC tonight.  It was great to see this film over again.  Just reminds me of how advanced it was in 1981.For being, kinda, a b-movie, the scene where he first transforms into the werewolf, will always surprise me. AWiL's script, while filled with excellent black humor (i.e. the convo in the porno house), was alright. But in order for the script to work in the movie, you need good acting to back it.  Thats where it kinda lost points with me, but again, IMO, its a b movie and you dont have to expect it.Overall, it was a successful movie with me and I'd watch it again if given the chance.  An American Werewolf in London deserves a rent or even buy. I imagine its around 14 dollars.Final Grade 85%  "},{"Title":"John Landis Genius","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Probably one of the best Horror Movies ever. The Combination of Comedy with a great sense of british humor and gory horror scenes became legendary and were copied a hundreds of times afterwards. Rick Baker, as the Make up Artist created brand new technics for this movie wich also became legendary. The naturalistic acting and the true pictures of that movie gave him a very truthfull look, everything is very believable. The timing of all the scenes is amazing. Well at this time, Landis was on his zenit after directing Movies like animal house and The Blues Brothers. Later he returned to pure comedy in Trading Places and Coming to America. He tried to do a horror movie in the early ninetys with Innocent Blood with also great Make up, comedy and very bloody scenes, but the movie never hit the lightness and the genius of An American Werewolf in London.  "},{"Title":"Influence still felt","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this when I was about 8 years old and it blew me away to say the least. I am now 24 and went to London for the first time this year. Couldn't believe how so much of my impressions of London had been forged by this film. Actually found myself wishing Picaddilly was still sleazy with loads of porn theatres. Went to Clink Street (alleyway used in the famous end scene) and believe me, it was the most atmospheric part of london.if you go to london make sure you use the british tourism authority's movie map to find all the great locations from this film. "},{"Title":"The Best Werewolf Movie!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie by far is the best werewolf movie to date.  I have seen quite a few of them and none of them come close at all to amounting to its performance.  The look of the wolf and effects are fantastic Thank You Rick Baker!  The story is very good!!  The setting is great. I especially love the opening from where David and Jack start their hike through the moores to where the wolf attacks them.  All that is just worth seeing itself.  Jenny Agutter is a another advantage.  And where David becomes a wolf for the first time and makes his first kills.  All done perfect.  This is the epitome of werewolves.  I would like to see something that is remotely close to being as good but it doesnt appear to be unless Craven teamed with Baker can pull one out.The Critic "},{"Title":"One star out of four.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Two backpackers traveling through London fall prey to a werewolf one late foggy night. One of them survives, while the other carries the curse of the werewolf. And during every full moon he turns into a wolf and embarks on a murdering spree. Extremely uneven outing changes tone and style far too often at the expense of the viewer. It is noteworthy for some fine effects though. "},{"Title":"a Horror/Comedy Masterpiece","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An American Werewolf in London is a perfect example of how to make a superb horror/comedy and for some fans 20 years later remains the definitive example of the genre (not for me though, my fave is Brain Dead.) It is a rare film that makes you laugh out loud one minute, before sending you cowering behind the settee the next, but this movie manages it with something in reserve.A couple of American Lads have a three month holiday backpacking round Europe lined up, so where do they start? You betcha, sunny olde England!! Between suffering the twin indignities of having to hitch a ride on a van full of sheep and being thrown out of a pub populated by English eccentrics, they now have to cope with the inconvenience of a werewolf attack on the Yorkshire Moors. This left one of them stuck in Limbo as a walking corpse in a slow state of deteriation and the other with the strange habit of sprouting hair and tearing people up every full moon. Can David find a solution to his affliction before it affects his relationship with sexy British nurse Alex? Can Jack have peace in death at last and stop being as David brands him A walking meat loaf? And will David's family ever be able to finish off that episode of The Muppet Show without being viciously murdered by zombie Nazis? All will be revealed..The key to American Werewolf's success is twofold Rick Baker's Oscar winning make-up and an excellent storyline.The transformation scenes are all the more amazing because they were done when computer animation was practically unheard of so everything you see is manual. They still look good now over 2 decades on, however some later shots of the animal in flight may seem slightly dated. Overall though a great job considering the era's limitations. Even more impressive though is the script that successfully juggles two different styles and turns them into a solid whole. As well as the jump-out-of-your-seat scenes and the hilarious lampooning of old horror films, it actually makes us care about the characters and hope against hope that they find someway out of their situation, also in large part due to good work by David Naughton playing the hugely sympathetic hero and Jenny Agutter as the NHS love interest. Griffin Dunn is mostly there as a comic foil, but even he has some human moments that emerge from his schick.The recent DVD release gives this classic the treatment it deserves a much cleaner, digitally remastered picture and tons of extras, including a hilarious commentary with Naughton & Dunne, outtakes and a feature length interview with director John Landis himself. I recommend this for fans of the film, which will surely still be simultaniously making people giggle and scream in equal measure in another 20 years time.9/10 "},{"Title":"The literal changing of a man","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     An American werewolf in London released in the early spring of 1981 and made good money at the box office. Two college students, David and Jack, cruise the Yorkshire Moors of London, England. The early evening is perhaps cool so the two young men stop off at the a local bar.    Spoilers ahead***    After being sent an unwelcoming message by the bar occupants, David and Jack head back out on the moors. Shortly, some howling is presented as the full moon rises. Rain seeps from the sky and the atmospheric scene turns dark. A werewolf jumps from the wilderness and viciously attacks Jack, killing him almost instantly. David is scratched by the wolf and scarred eternally with the wolf's blood.     While recovering in the hospital, David is visited by his deceased friend, Jack, who now lives in limbo; His responsibility is to tell David that he is now the wolf and will morph at the sight of the next full moon. Sure enough, David transforms via pained condition into the nastiest werewolf known to man.      An American Werewolf in London is a decent horror movie that blends a good dose of black humor, with offbeat classic rock music and romance. The jokes and comments are all subtly done, and the visual and make-up effects are top-notch. Would have done better with a bit more of character development in David and Jack's friendship. Howbeit, This is still a good movie and should delight those that are into the classic mix of horror and humor. Rated **1/2  "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect - nice mix of horror and comedy","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie alot.  A great mix of the nasty with a liberal splash of humour.  I think John Landis has committed to film one of the great horror/comedies - come to think of it, it really is just a horror film as the humour is quite natural and unforced.  In fact I love this film so much, could watch it all the time.  Hey, i just might do that anyway.Just watch it and don't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I see a bad moon a risin'","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although I saw AAWIL many years ago, I now really see this as the horror classic it is.  What a Milestone in the still evolving special effects situation, which has now became the Whoever can perform best on a computer game.  Great acting, even with the pre-CG effects, they were able to pull off a believable werewolf flick, which still scares the crap out of me whenever I watch it. "},{"Title":"More creepy than cheesy...","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While it does have one-foot firmly rooted in 80's cheesiness, 'An American Werewolf in London' is still one of the best horror-comedies around. Technically amazing (even by today's standards), it's a movie with tongue planted firmly in cheek, yet still manages some good scares using both gore and the good old element of surprise.  Add an incredibly sarcastic performance from Griffin Dunne, an oddly appropriate soundtrack and the traditional creepiness of the English country side and you've got the perfect movie for a full moon.          "}{"Title":"Entertaining, terrifying and brilliant.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good history and entertaining, that mixes with efficiency the terror with black humor. The effects of makeup, still nowadays, are the best that has been done till now; not uselessly, the Academy rewarded it with a Oscar to the best makeup, and with a Saturn, to the best movie of terror.It is a movie that you would like to see it more of once.The whole jewel of the cinema of terror!!. "},{"Title":"The best werewolf movie ever!!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is a great combination of comedy and horror, and very effective on both levels. There are some truly frightening moments! The storyline about the victims coming back to haunt the main character was very bizarre and hilarious. And what an action-packed ending! Good acting all around, especially liked Griffin Dunne's high-spirited portrayal. The only downside is that it is child-killer John Landis's film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"tense, funny and scary!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Only 2 movies have ever scared me and this was one of them. I first saw this when I was around 9 or 10 years old and I can remember having nightmares about the scene where the unfortunate star Naughton is running through the forset in the nip hunting wild deer. Great edgy movie, better than The Howling which is the only werewolf movie which comes close to this masterpiece. The atmospheres and settings are superb and between the horror there is some hilarious black humour. If you like horror movies and haven't seen this I would strongly recommend it. Best moment - where the 2 backpackers walk into the local inn and get warned about the peril of hiking through the area during the full moon! - shudder. This is an all time classic. "},{"Title":"One of the very BEST werewolf movies ...","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This one, together with The Howling, belongs to the top of ALL werewolf-movies ever seen on this planet ! ;)The tranformation-sequence was a masterpiece of special effects, even today ! Animatronics, make-up effects (especially the undead guys ;)) and the settings itself are incredible ! Todays werewolf-movies (eg. Bad Moon) only set up a guy in a dark area, usually a forest, and turn on their computers to perform a CGI morph as introduced in Terminator II. This movie is old school morphing at it's best !!! The only two other transformations, nearly as cool as this one, are The Howling and Manimal ;)The Music ? Hey, I LOOOOOOVE the 'Moon' song during the morphing and the other great scores. Neah, there is a single one that I can't listen anymore... the one at the porn-cinema ;)The Storyline ? Just look at the other comments ;) They say it all... a bit outdated today, especially the two Americans, but it's still a great effort in mixing werewolf-horror/gore with comedy. And the really DARK british humour was very cool, too. Unfortunately I like Monty Python's kind of humour a bit more ;) Regarding An American Werewolf In Paris, the second part of this movie It's not as good as this one, but still has some sort of nearly equal storyline. The morph-scene as far TOO short and CGI-animated, compared to this freaky masterpiece, but it has Julie Delpy in it ;) Werewolf in Paris is more a popcorn-cinema for fast visits.The Making Of and the Outtakes on the Collectors DVD are really nice, but the special-effect Making Of a bit too short for a glimpse beyond the scenes. Anyway, the Outtakes are a really must-see, especially at the end ;)My rating ? 10/10 for the special effects but 8 of 10 points for the rest ;) "},{"Title":"One Way Ticket to Nowhere","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This horror tale plays like the supernatural version of Breaking Away and American Graffiti in which the young male character goes through painful Rites of Passage.  Except in AW the man changes into an actual man-eating beast... and there is no bicycle (or vintage car) race. Is this movie horror, a comedy... or a little of both?  Director Landis says it is definitely horror.  So let's press on...  AW is also about culture shock, post-pubescence, raging male-hormones, nihilism, & traditional and historical apathy (two vacationing American student friends are only discovering 'new ways' and new young women to lay in Europe).David (David Naughton) is the visiting Yank who, when bitten one evening by a large and savage beast on the English moors, is doomed to become one himself every full turn of the moon.The cathartic (i.e. orgasmic) last scenes in this movie (The Piccadilly Circus and The Alley sequence) are excellently played out, but the viewer might get the impression that everything here was a rush job, with no serious consideration for responsibly explaining anything previously seen or set up, plot-wise.Regarding nostalgia for the '50s and '60s, directors George Lucas and Steven Spielberg never dared to go this far, gore-wise, and for this, Landis is to be commended.  Add to this the fact that the AW soundtrack is predominantly different versions of 'Blue Moon.'  Rick Baker won the first Academy Award here for special-effects makeup (You won't dare use the The Tube when touring London).  Don't even bother seeing the sort-of sequel, An American Werewolf in Paris.Sean, there's hooligans in the park again.  "},{"Title":"Dated but superior horror film.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good points Location filming in Yorkshire (the Slaughtered Lamb pub is apparently near Sheffield) and also quite funny in places. Of course the transformation sequence still looks as good as you'd get in today's rubbish CGI dominated films. The surreal dream/nightmare sequences also work very well, and are probably the most interesting scenes. Good use of &#145;moon' themed music and the car crash scenes in Piccadilly Circus are fairly graphic and nasty.  Bad points It all seems quite dated now. The two Americans aren't very appealing, in fact they're irritating, and the acting is very cheesy in places. But overall, recommended&#133; on a dark winter night&#133; with a full moon!  "},{"Title":"Classic horror-comedy.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has to be vying with Evil Dead 2 for the title of Best Horror-Comedy EVER! As always, the rules remain 1 Take a cast of bad, OTT actors. 2 Throw in lots of gore. 3 Keep the comedy, really, really bizarre. Werewolf in London sticks to this formula really well. The jokes were hilarious (the brilliant porno theatre scene, the naked man running through the zoo, the dream within a dream), but it was still serious enough to induce a major attack of the nerves in some scenes (I'm never going near the Tottenham Court Road tube station ever again). Those viewers who are too serious might find it too bizarre to be enjoyable, and what is with that stupidly abrupt ending? Anyway, I think it's a classic, and I strongly recommend it to anyone with a sense of humour who likes the Evil Dead films. "},{"Title":"Great suspense,edge of your seat terror.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I was A little girl this movie scared the pee out of me.Now that I'm older its the reason I hate walking alone in the dark constantly expecting A HUGE FEROCIOUS ANIMAL to jump out of the dark and rip me to shreds.However,it does slow down in sections.But the acting is incredible for A B-BUDGET monster flick.A must see for the horror genre.A word of caution dont let your babes watch this or you might have A horror buff on your hands.HEHE! "},{"Title":"Very Scary & funny","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has always been a favourite of mine. With an OTT Brian Glover and Jenny Agutter in a nurses uniform how can it fail. I won't spoil the story for you but i do suggest you see it strongly.The acting is of a very high standard with David Naughton (Who should have done a lot better in his career) been the pick of the bunch.It is filled with very scary moments, (I still run if i'm on the underground) to this day. The 'changing' scene still sends shivers up your spine although it is dated now, but it still looks really good.Other good scenes include the classic porno cinema scene. You will not keep a straight face at this scene i guarentee you. And who can forget the lovely Jenny Agutter in the shower.It is just a real shame that this film was followed by Werewolf in Paris, which was to be honest a complete shambles.I GIVE THIS FILM 10/10 "},{"Title":"Amazing, simply amazing","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON was amazing. The movie delivers the audience a sit-thru of eye feasting effects, especially the scene where the protagonist (David Kessler) slowly transforms into a werewolf. Not only does that scene satisfy the audience, there are also other elements in the movie that are pleasing. Elements such as background music (amazing score, loved the score during the scene where Jack and David walk their way to the slaughtered Lamb), the comedy (The relationship between David and Jack shown thru their dialogues), the acting (excellent, all the actors and actresses did an excellent job bringing this movie to life) and the memorable quotes. Scenes are laid out perfectly well in this movie and its absolutely worth it to get the Universal release of the collector's edition DVD. I would also recommend THE HOWLING, the metamorphosis of David Kessler was rather similar to the transformation of Eddie Quist (except for the lighting).   "}{"Title":"Welcome to Fight Night...for real.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've read people here label this movie as a Horror/Comedy. Huh? There was only one part that made me laugh which was during the movie theatre when they are giving him ways to kill himself and it was only cute not laugh out loud funny.Anyhow, I really like this movie and like Fright Night is a horror classic. It carries an isolated dark feel to it. Watching it now, it will seem cheap but for back then the werewolf changing scene was amazing to me.The song by Creedance is good too and fits well.Please DO NOT watch American Werewolf in Paris, that one is awful! "},{"Title":"Best Morph Ever...","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD***  A fantastic horror film part dark comedy, part suspense, part outright gore, An American Werewolf In London is a classic of the genre. Featuring what is still the best werewolf 'morph' ever captured on film (including all the newer but inferior CGIs) it succeeds in avoiding the trappings of other werewolf films campy, cheesy or just plain bad. The score is perfect, incorporating nearly every great song about the moon. Also impressive are ferocious growls and haunting howls, along with blood-curdling sound effects during the 'morph' (how 'bout those cracking bones!). It is the story of two American boys on a Senior trip to England. The on-site scenery is perfectly eerie as they lose themselves on the country-side moors. After an attack from a 'lunatic' which kills one and leaves the other 'ill', the story begins a steady climb to climax. Although it fails as a mystery it succeeds as a tense thriller, in spite of all the catharsis. John Woodvine stands out as the skeptical yet deductive physician but Griffin Dunne steals the show as a progressively decaying, angry corpse in limbo trying desperately to convince his friend that he is a werewolf and must be destroyed in order to end his torment. Amid several excellent scenes including Queen Elizabeth is a man!, awakening nude in a zoo and a tragically sad/funny/pseudo-erotic exchange in a Piccadilly Circus porno theatre, the 'waking from a dream into a dream' is classic. Sometimes surreal and often hilarious, Werewolf In London is a must-see for any horror, thriller or werewolf fan. I give it a 9/10 with the movie an 8 but an extra point for that fascinating change scene. "},{"Title":"A quality film.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film really is one to watch, despite the fact it was made way back in 1981.  The film opens on the bleak moors of North Yorkshire, where two American backpackers (David Kessler and Jack Goodman) stumble on a remote village pub called the Slaughtered Lamb.  The scenes in the pub are quite humourous and well acted.  I don't really want to spoil the film by giving a full account of what happens, but I can say it's full of humour, suspense, excitement and occasional gore.  Watch it and find out. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, A Must-See horror movie","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a great film, and one of the few movies I've ever seen that combines horror and comedy so well.  There are some hilarious scenes and some truly scary moments as well.  A great story, good acting, amazing special effects and some nice scenes of Merry Old England.This movie also had some great music...who can forget Van Morrison singing Moondance over one of the best love scenes ever filmed?Don't miss this one.  Also, if you like this movie, Fright Night is another one to catch, similar funny/scary tone to that one. "},{"Title":"Before 'Evil Dead', there was a Werewolf...in London","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Simply put, I really, liked this movie. Pay no attention to the suffering fools who hate on it. AWiL is not meant to be a straight-out horror film but a black comedy. Granted the extreme amounts of gore draw the line between fun and spook but come on, this isn't Halloween. Some scenes like (SPOILERS!)when the rampage in Picadilly Circus and David's grisly meetings with Jack are outright hilarious in a sick manner. Sadly, I'm probably the only one to think David's dream where his family's attacked by the wicked trick-or-treaters was funny. I heavily recommend this film to anyone at this time of year. 3 out of 4. Stay off the 'sequel', stick to the original.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the greatest horror comedy","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Along with Evil Dead 2,American Werewolf In London is probably the most perfect blend of horror and comedy ever committed to film. I like that because I find those 2 styles to be the purest forms of cinema in relation to human emotion the anxiety of fear and the joy of laughter. Dramas are fine, but essentially we're getting our emotions manipulated when we find ourselves crying for the characters on screen. But jumping at a sudden scare or having a good belly laugh are certainly more primal reactions, and neither require having our emotions or mentalities toyed with to get a reaction. An American Werewolf In London certainly delivers the goods in both departments. The dark (and admittedly often sick) humor often provokes laugh out loud reactions from the viewer, and at the same time the horror scenes are simply the scariest werewolf scenes I have ever scene. Now allow me to get out of all the theoretical stuff and into the meat of the movie. I won't bother with the plot since everyone else on here has probably summarized it quite nicely. I will talk about the things I like about this film. Starting with the direction, John Landis simply does a knockout job. He guides the film with enthusiasm and style, keeping things lighthearted at the right moments and mercilessly scaring the audience the rest of the time. The cast here seems to know exactly what they're doing as well; David Naughton and Griffin Dunne both handle their roles with a great balance of serious and silly, and Jenny Agutter is just adorable. Of course no review would be complete with mention of Rick Baker's groundbreaking makeup effects. But I can't really say anything that hasn't been said about his work a thousand times over, so let me just say that this stuff still looks just as good today as it ever did! If you can handle a potent combination of horror and humor, do yourself a favor and check out An American Werewolf In London. "},{"Title":"A Horror with the bite of a dark comedy","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  John Landis, famous for Animal House and the lesser Kentucky Fried Movie, directs another comedy of sorts; An American Werewolf in London.  AAWIL starts out with two Americans in London who have a bit of trouble with a beast that has more to it than it seems.  Rick Baker's amazing effects in this film won him the first ever award for best makeup at the Oscars.  Although released the same year as another werewolf pic, The Howling, this is the better film IMO because of its humor and better ending.  A few years later, a weaker sequel (An American Werewolf in Paris) was released but didn't have the same characters, director, or Rick Baker effects as in the first one. 8/10  "},{"Title":"The best horror film ever!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just saw American Werewolf, and I must say, it is the best horror film ever!  The effects are excellent (by Rick Baker), the music is interesting (by Elmer Bernstein), and the plot is entertaining, to say the least.  The best werewolf film, just in front of The Wolf Man (1941).  A must-see for horror fans!  Blends humor and horror together for a howl of a good film!  See it before the full moon! "},{"Title":"Question for Geographers","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If the Werewolf attacked the two travellers on the Yorkshire moors, why would the survivor be treated in London? I know for a fact there are at least two other hospitals in England nearer the Yorkshire moors. BTW that scene where the zombies attack Michaels home is the most disturbing in Movie history, and the scene in the 'theatre' is one of the most surreal, funny scenes. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Simply amazing.","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a truly great film that will both chill you to the bone and make you laugh your a** off- sometimes at the exact same time.Movies nowadays are all computer animated- but the effects in this film are without a doubt the best EVER put on screen. The transformation scene is the best achievment in make up and special effects to date.Landis's direction is superb, backed up by wonderful performances and great cinematography.The characters are real, and act realistically. At the exact same moment this movie can make you wet your pants in horror and humour. And the eerie score, as well as the great moon soundtrack that doesn't fit at all. However, that is precisely why it works so well, like at the end, when the credits roll- happy music plays right after a chilling, disturbing, powerful, and frightening scene.Overall, this is one of the best films ever made, and the best horror film made (I don't count Jaws as horror, but if I did, Jaws would be best). So amazing both artistically and technically that I cannot express how great it is. And the howl of the werewolf in this movie is the most frightening sound EVER. "}{"Title":"Liked it, didn't love it","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An American Werewolf in London is a good movie, but also a little disappointing. I'd heard so many great things about it being both terrifying and hysterical, but the final result is merely a solid monster movie with some good jokes. The actors are wonderful, script is very good, and the direction works, but there's never that final push into the true status of kicking ass. There were some good jump shots, but the chase/attack scenes were a little bland, and the dream sequences never seemed to add up to much. There's also a curious lack of atmosphere - there's a way to make a matter-of-fact werewolf movie, but this project wasn't the place to experiment with the methods. Griffin Dunne also seemed underutilized, although I guess part of what makes him so funny is how infrequently he appears.Then there's the ending, which should have been either a humorous anticlimax or an exciting finale, but instead is just sort of when the credits start rolling. I'll admit that it was logical, but the script should have made another, more interesting situation even more logical.I dunno. I mean, don't get me wrong, it's a good movie, I liked it. I'm normally not this bitchy. But, AWIL got so hyped up for me, and it just didn't turn out to be that great. I couldn't help but think of what an awesome movie this *could* have been, but wasn't. "},{"Title":"original score","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hello, When I read the other messages, I noticed that someone was interested to know more about a song from the movie.  I'm very interested to know whether there was a soundtrack released for An American Werewolf in London? Specifically, I'm aware that Elmer Bernstein composed the original score, which sounds beautiful, and was wondering if this is available to purchase. At the end of the movie (on the video)it states that there was a soundtrack (Polygram Records?) with the title'Mecco's Impressions of an American Werewolf in London'.  Does anyone know anything about what I have written? If so, I would very much appreciate a reply.  Thankyou.  "},{"Title":"an irish bomb in london","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Owwwwwwww, oww owwww.  I'm sorry, when I see a werewolf movie as brilliant as this I kinda begin turning into a werewolf me self!  Pardon the howling.  Wow, this is one of the best werewolf movies to EVER hit the screens.  Howling was good too, but this outdoes that.  The special effects were excellent for its time peroid and is not totally bad for this time peroid also.  But thanks to monster creaters like Stan Winston they are no where near as respected as they were in those days.  The plot to this movie isn't all that original, the budget was a little below sufficient, and the acting was just good (nothing spectacular), and the suspense is just average.  So what makes this movie the best?  It's witty sense of humor for one thing.  The jokes are hilarious, whoever made the script was certainly not a corny individual, I mean if we can appreciate a joke told 20 years ago in a low budget movie that means it was a very good joke, and there is not a single joke that you don't laugh at here!  The atmosphere was stunning in the movie.  Very few movies can be as funny as this and yet be as dark at times as this.  Another strong factor was the ending, you genuinely feel sorry for the poor kid.  And instead of pressing on after the last scene it just ends in a snap.  Which leaves you stunned. There is just something about this movie all in all that is beyond the screen...  Why does a movie like this work?  I wish I could answer that, but I can only to some extent.  All I know was that it obviously was great because it has been copied by several other countries. "},{"Title":"Unsentimentality makes it the perfect werewolf film","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The problem with many horror movies is they feel the need to invest a lot of time telling the audience how we're supposed to feel about the characters the killer, the location. As movies like Scream further drove home a point the rest of us already knew, we don't need the help!What makes AAWIL so perfect is its absolute refusal to go smarmy, even for laughs. It takes an unsentimental, almost clinical view of the proceedings and the audience is left to fend for itself. It reminds me a lot of a film like Kubrick The Shining, although that film was dealing with less tangible material than the age-old myth of the lycanthrope.Case in point, the first transformation scene, in which David has been sitting around all night, wondering why he isn't hungry. Then, in a split second, he's suddenly in agony, tearing at his clothes and helplessly screaming. Sure the effects are good, but i find this tonal attitude more integral to why this film works. The effects just help seal the deal.Another commentator described this movie as efficient and I wholeheartedly agree. There is not a second wasted on languid exposition or unnecessary sympathy. We just watch what happens and the result is a film both wildly funny and genuinely creepy, something that not even Kubrick was able to achieve so effortlessly. "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was the first real horror movie I remember seeing in a movie theater. I was 10 years old and even at that young age, fell instantly in love with it.  What I liked most were the effects (no computer animation, thank god) and the fact that the movie seemed to get right to the point without any beating around the bush.  Truly a movie that will continue to amuse and scare many more generations to come.  Beware the moon! "},{"Title":"Funny, Disturbing and Damn Right Scary!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  1st Man Oi! You Promised You`d never cheat on me again.2nd Man I Never Promised you anything of the sort! 1st Man Not you, you twit... her!! Woman  But I`ve never seen you before in my whole life.1st Man  Oh.... Sorry!This is the great movie that Jack is watching at the Porno theatre, whilst his victims sit with him, and discuss the best way he can commit suicide.This film is very funny at times, and deserves its place in the Hall of Classics in another 50 years or so. It is often Gory, and damn right scary. Also it's rather disturbing in places, especially the nature of Jack's Nightmares, while he is recovering in the Hospital. This film was later remade as An American Werewolf in Paris, which is also good, but no where as good as this one. 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been GREAT!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There was a time when science fiction and horror movies were made with craftsmanship. In other words, people didn't program the non-existing elements in movies with computers. They made creatures, monsters and non-existing animals with their bare hands, and if they were made expertly, they were made like real living beings. Of course, there are exceptions when creatures can only be made really alive with computer animations when make-up effects and animatronics are too expensive. Jurassic Park is a great example of that. But this movie is an example of why most creatures and transformation (into creatures) are best when done with manual labor. Would Mogwai from Gremlins have been cuter and better when made with a computer? Would the very appearance of The Fly have made you want to throw up if done with computer techniques instead of with the expertise of Chris Walas? Would the transformation of the the main character in an American werewolf in London into a werewolf have been as incredible had it not been masterfully created by Rick Baker. The fact that he received an Academy Award for his skills says enough.Now about the movie When two campers go hiking in the English countryside they are viciously attacked by a wolf-like animal. One of the campers, Jack, is torn apart as David, the other camper, runs for his life. When he decides he can't just leave his friend and returns, the damage is done and Jack is dead. Out of the dark comes the animal and bites and claws David, before being shot by locals. When David, heavily wounded, looks to the side he sees that the animal that was shot is just a man.David wakes up in the hospital, gets acquainted with a nurse, falls in love with her and is taken into her home by her. When she is on nightshift and David is at her home alone, he discovers that full moon will have a new meaning to him from that moment on.Although the humor in the film was not unpleasant at times, i can't help but feel how GREAT this film could have been had it been serious. At one point, during a transformation, David even looks into the camera. Which kind of almost spoils the whole scene for me. But the horror, the incredible make up effects (there were no special effects, everything you see on the screen really happened thanks to Rick Baker's great work), and the serious parts in the movie made this one of the greatest horrormovies of the eighties for me. "},{"Title":"good quality horror flick","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An American traveler in England is cursed to roam London at night as a werewolf.  Odd mix of dark comedy, horror and romance works fairly well. Convincing special effects conceived before the days of computer simulation.Explicit violence. (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"Best werewolf movie ever. period.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  All werewolf movies have a lot of buildup before they show the creature. Usually  45 min. or so till the first attack. And the conclusion shows the wolf. This movie is like those, but during the parts of the movie without the wolf, you hear some really funny stuff and get to see some freaky yet funny zombies. Most werewolf films are boring for the first half, but this one isn't.  Also contains the best werewolf transformation EVER. I dont see how people say The howling has better effects, these effects are AMAZING. Action, horror, and humor all delivered from John Landis's AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON "},{"Title":"Landis' best film a classic horror/comedy","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With the exception of Micheal Jackson's Thriller, this is the greatest work John Landis ever produced. This comedy/horror hybrid is fast paced, brief and to the point, frightening, sexy (the use of Van Morrison during a most erotic sex scene is sheer genius), subversive (the Jewish in-jokes are really a Jungian buffet of imagery), and funny. Much has been written about the Rick Baker special effects and they are truly stunning and there isn't a hint of CGI to be found. The famous transformation scene is the best of the werewolf sub-genre as it is well-lit and performed with Sam Cooke's golden throat silking Blue Moon on the soundtrack.Landis also manages to celebrate the classic horror film while also gently spoofing it. A contemporary classic not to be missed. A 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Super","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In my opinion this is the BEST werewolf film of modern releases and is well deserving of being a modern horror and cult classic.  The effects were cutting edge at the time and I believe that only served to enhance the appeal.  David Naughten was exquisite in the lead and another thing I liked about it is that it wasn't filled with big names.  Which tends to make horror films more real in my opinion.  I mean it is easier to relate to unknowns in a fantastic setting such as this than say folkes like Tom Cruise or Brad Pitt.  You're not preoccupied with comparing their acting or how ridiculous they look in the part.  Less distractions more entrancement.This film is about two American friends who are attacked by a werewolf in the British countryside.  One of which is infected with lycanthropy and continues on to London where he must confront his first victim's gory ghost, deal with his transformations and all the antics it causes with virtually no idea as to what is happening while in hot pursuit of his new love interest.  The romantic aspects tend to be a bit forced in my opinion but all in all I wouldn't say enough so to damage the films quality.A must for horror collectors to add to their video library.  A must see for horror fans. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Moon Rising","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is it. This is the one. The one film that is guaranteed to get me every time, and the single most important film I saw in my adolescence. As a child, the Star Wars trilogy got me interested in film, as a teenager it was American Werewolf that cemented that interest and turned it into a passion.And there is so much here to enjoy. Landis very, very carefully tells an affecting, amusing and at times terrifying story of an American abroad, backpacking across Europe with his best friend, who gets bitten by an English werewolf. In the aftermath of this, he finds tragedy, love, and then sprouts hair and fangs and eats people. It's beautifully written, expertly performed, and features some of the best effects-work ever put on film.Nothing about American Werewolf is wrong, or misjudged. The story unravels at exactly the right pace, and along the way it becomes the most quotable horror movie ever made. It's also one of the best, and certainly my favourite.As an adult, I have yet to see another film that gives me as much pleasure- continually- as this. Unforgettable.Steev "},{"Title":"GOOD FILM . . . .","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I SING IT'S PRAISES!!!!  I LOVED IT!!!!  Full of fun and frolic.  Scary AND Intelligent in all aspects of it all.  Me and my friends get scared EVERY-SINGLE-TIME we see the Werewolf Transformation.  If you're looking for fear, terror, and WET-YOUR-PANTS fun, look NO-WHERE-ELSE but LONDON.  "},{"Title":"Bad moon rising, Hooowwwllll!!!!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best horror films ever...great humor. I absolutely love this movie. Two friends are on vacation in London, England who don't stick to road and are not aware of the moon, and sooner or later one of them get's chopped up into meatloaf, the other his effected by the wolf only to strike terror in London. This movie can scare the shit out of you in one scene and the next laughing your ass off. John Landis gives us a great treat in film. David Naughton, Jenny Agutter and Griffin Dunne give serious and funny performances. "},{"Title":"best of the werewolf movies","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best werewolf movies ever made, this and  The Howling. The transformation of the werewolf is really awesome. At times the movie got funny. The only thing about the movie I didnt like was the ending. I was hoping it would be a little more exciting. Over all the movie was good. "},{"Title":"very cool and scary movie! CLASSIC","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie is very cool! it has a lot of humor and gore (which i love)! it also has some very frightening background music and scenes! very cool movie! this is a must for all gorehounds out there! love this movie! 4 out of ***** stars "},{"Title":"Blended horror","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An extremely unique picture which numerous attempts have been made to duplicate but never make it. The script is the real gem here with its blend of horror and comedy. The soundtrack and the visual effects help to create that funny/scary duplicity. One-of-a-kind non-CGI transformation scene is great.  "},{"Title":"Funny and scary - a great combination.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An American Werewolf in London is an extremely funny and extremely scary movie at the same time - but it makes a great combination.The scenes with the decaying Griffin Dunne are very funny and I've always liked the bit where Jenny Agutter is talking to the little boy in the hospital bed who always says No! to everything she says.The scariest bits are when the two boys are on the moors and can hear the wolf but, at first, cannot see it.  Also the man who is pursued in the underground - it was better that you only glimpsed the werewolf rather than saw it chasing him.  And those Nazi werewolves - yikes!!The transformation scene is always usually the most talked about sequence which still works better than any computer effect that can be done today.  The god awful sequel was proof of that.A horror classic of the highest order.  "},{"Title":"Sexy Love Scene, Uneven Special Effects, Weak Character","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has one of the sexiest love scenes ever, and that's perhaps its greatest merit.  The transformation scenes are, for their time, very well handled; but the wolf-state of the character looks just like the stiff robot that it is.  The principal character is a weakling, who kills rather than face his responsibilities.  The plot consists of little more than the banal weakness of the principal character, who kills rather than face his responsibilities. "},{"Title":"An efficient horror movie","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The last time I was frightened viewing a horror movie traces back to my prime childhood.Till I saw this film.The recipe thanks to which the film works consists in gradually passing from commonplace situations to more unusual events, and finally concluding with a terrifying climax.Of course, to really enjoy it, one must display a minimum of patience, as in other situations of life... "}{"Title":"have YOU seen a better movie? I think not!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is by far the best movie ever produced! John Landis has really overdone himself! He knows how to make a movie that's intriguing, scary and fun at the same time. I've never been so impressed by a film this good. He uses no computers, just simple shots, shot second by second. With every time a simple change! If you want my opinion I'll just say to you why don't you see it for yourself? It is worth it!!! "},{"Title":"BEST HORROR/LOVE STORY OF ALL TIME","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THIS, I BELIEVE IS ONE OF THE BEST HORROR MOVIES OF THE 20TH CENTURY. DESPITE SOME OF ITS CHEESY EFFECTS, THE SCRIPT IS WELL WRITTEN AND YOU CAN REALLY RELATE TO THE FEELINGS SHARED BY THE TWO.  IT COULD DRAW TEARS AT THE END WHEN SHE IS IN THE ALLEY WHILE HE LIES DEAD.  YOU SHOULD DEFINITELY WATCH IT EVEN IF YOU HAVE SEEN IT ****  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie for horror freaks.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen lots of horror movies, but there are only two great werewolf movies (An American Werewolf in London & The Howling). This movie is very enjoyable and funny. I love this movie! "},{"Title":"dark, funny and genuinely scary.","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie had everything, great characters, acting, gore, humor and make-up(best morph in history, much better than computer effects)Definitely one of my favourites in the genre. 10/10.go rent it "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever made, holds true today","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'll admit that I saw this movie for the first time only recently after a huge referral from one of my best friends.  Well, it was definitely a worthwhile rental, and I was not disappointed in the least.  Forget the cheesy Tom Everett Scott remake, this is the one to watch.  Chilling scenes of gruesome murders, surprising moments of dark humor, an expertly tuned witty script, and probably the best werewolf transformation scene captured on camera.  I spoil nothing by revealing that Jack 's (Griffin Dunne) role is larger than you think.  But you'll end up feeling sorrier for David (Naughton).  Oh yeah . . . and the most appropriately fitting use of Creedence Clearwater Revival's Bad Moon Rising in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"A real werewolf...","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The best werewolf movie ever made, the morphing (without computers) is a real piece of art (believe it or not!), there are a lot of copies, no one has gotten close to the story and the special effects. The mix of images and music is a little weird, but it's good. If you haven't seen this, you must do it before u DIE!...  "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has what I think the best werewolf transformation scene ever filmed to date. But it also has a good and darkly humored script. It is also good on scares too. I think you should rent it on video and if you have not seen it for a long time see it again. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hmm. Oh dear. If I was to describe my experience watching this movie in just one word, it would be&#x85;underwhelming.I know there are a lot of people out there who love this movie. In fact, An American Werewolf in London is so popular this movie has gained quite a cult following and has also spawned a sequel. So many lovers of this movie regard it as one of the best horror &#x96; comedies of all time.But what actually first piqued my interest towards this movie in the first place was that John Landis himself directed this movie &#x96; the guy who directed the iconic Thriller music video. Yes, THAT video. Apparently Michael Jackson had hired John Landis after he had sat down and watched An American Werewolf in London. Michael loved it so much that he hired Landis to direct the music video for his song Thriller &#x96; and the rest is history. With such critical acclaim and praise, this movie had to be good, right? I was expecting to really love An American Werewolf in London - sadly, while this movie wasn't completely terrible it proved to be such a huge disappointment for me.First of all, let's start with the good stuff. The movie's saving grace is probably it's effective use of cinematic techniques to create genuine tension and horror, while blending it with some amusing moments of humour. And I am definitely not going to ignore how good the special effects were &#x96; this movie is practically famous for its special effects, and rightly so, considering how effective the gore and werewolf scenes looked without any use of CGI at all. Certain scenes were especially astounding to watch, particularly the famous excruciatingly painful werewolf transformation scene that that was so convincing I found myself cringing and wincing in sympathy. The ending where the werewolf wreaks havoc across Piccadilly Circus was also pretty impressive, involving some really good stunt work where cars crash into each other, heads are ripped off and one man flies straight out of a bus window. Great stuff.On occasion it also had its funny moments too - for example, where the main character suddenly finds himself stranded without his clothes in the middle of the city and he has to somehow come up with a way of getting back home without anyone seeing him naked, resulting in some of the most hilarious scenarios in the entire movie.But&#x85;I don't know. While there were some amusing moments of this movie, as I watching An American Werewolf in London I couldn't help but feel as though it was MISSING something. While it was entertaining to watch at certain moments, I didn't particularly care what happened to any of the characters because I just wasn't that invested in any of them. This movie seemed to be lacking something hugely important that would have made me love this movie so much more.And then afterwards, I realised what it was. Every movie usually always has something to say, an important message, a certain idea or lesson that the director is trying to give to its audience. An American Werewolf in London doesn't seem to have one. A man gets bitten by a werewolf, his dead friend is resurrected to warn him to kill himself before the full moon, he doesn't and then he turns into a werewolf. Finito. That, in a nutshell, is pretty much the movie. There's not really much depth to An American Werewolf in London. It is almost as though Landis spent so much time focusing on the special effects and trying to blend the horror and comedy together that he just completely forgot to work on other important elements such as character development, the plot, themes, etc.I felt that the ending was really weak as well &#x96; it ended so abruptly, leaving me staring at my screen and blinking in confusion. What I would have liked to know more about was what happened to the girlfriend &#x96; we never really know what happens to his girlfriend in the aftermath and how she was impacted by the whole ordeal. That would have been a really interesting aspect to look at, maybe as a kind of epilogue, but NOPE, roll on the credits.I don't know. Since so many people love this movie, maybe I'm the one who's missing something. Overall though, I don't really care for this movie that much. By the time I finished An American Werewolf In London, I felt that this was just a really disappointing and anticlimactic movie. "},{"Title":"Those Once Ground-Breaking FX Wouldn't Win An Oscar Today","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is famous for it's once ground-breaking man to werewolf transformation designed by Rick (King Kong) Baker which set a new standard in horror make-up in the 80s. Baker deservedly won an academy award for his work. Regrettably, that work (which was the real star of the show) is dating badly as innovations in CG have swept the film-making landscape. It's unquestionably a classic piece of work; right up there with Jack Pierce's Frankenstein make-ups and the stop motion work of Ray Harryhaussen, but it's not the show-stopper it used to be decades ago. David Naughton stars as a man cursed with lycanthropy who struggles to maintain his sanity and a blossuming relationship with a pretty nurse (played by the under-used Jenny Agutter) while fighting the murderous demon which lurks inside; waiting for the next full moon. It's quite funny at times and occasionally scary but director John Landis is working only with a series of effective set pieces stitched together rather than a fully realized script. The ending is a particular let down as the film simply halts in it's tracks as if the film-makers ran out of ideas. It was more impactful and relevant 30 years ago. "},{"Title":"great film.","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although this film is older than i, even today i will say this is one of my favorite films to date. I have always been a fan of scary films while growing up and this is in my top ten (non foreign) horror films ever. I never seen a better and more detailed human to werewolf transformation yet, I have only seen one other that is close, but i can;t remember the film, typical. Brilliant soundtrack, funny, good story line, great acting. Anyone that likes horror movies this is a must to watch, although personally its not that scary, but it sets the mood very well. if you haven't seen it already... shame on you. Horror classic. "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American Werewolf In London is just a classic horror movie, even though its old, its effects, especially the transformation into the werewolf, still even now in 2013 are pretty decent. I've been wanting to see this for a good couple of years now, after my Dad told me about it back in about 2009, but being only 11yrs old at the time and this film being rated an 18 there was no chance my parents were going to let me watch it. But today when looking round CEX I stumbled upon it and my Mum to my surprise let me buy it. I got home and sat down with my Dad and popped it into the DVD player. With in minutes I was glued to screen, just with the intensity of them stumbling across the moors after being firmly told by the rather unfriendly locals in the pub they had just left 'The Slaughtered Lamb' to stay on the road and off the moors! Hearing noises which most would associate with a werewolf they were starting to get very on edge, turning round and starting to run back in the direction of 'The Slaughtered Lamb' the noises were getting louder and closer. After one of the two friends stumbled and fell to ground, the other friend was viciously savaged by the beast which had been creating the intimidating noises. The 'werewolf' then turned and went for the other friend who had fallen, but was shot down before he managed to savage him, only being able to take one bite of the mans flesh. I have said a lot more about what happens in the film than I normally do, just because it needed to be told, for me to then talk about the points that I want to talk about. Like I said earlier the effects aren't shocking but not great either. I have to admit I did chuckle at the attack on the moors, but not because I'm a sicko who likes seeing people getting ripped to pieces but just because of the sound effects and the werewolf itself. But that certainly doesn't make the movie a bad film because the storyline the acting and the settings around London make the film great! I loved watching this film and found it extremely enjoyable. Especially when Jack who was savaged at the beginning returns, multiple times throughout the film to haunt and warn David of events which are gonna unfold and hurt him and others around him. But in general this film is just a great watch, not scary though but extremely enjoyable and very proud to be able to put it on my DVD shelf along with my 85 other brilliant films! "},{"Title":"No need to stay clear of the moors","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a great film. It is a comedy. It is drama and a love story. There is wonderful soundtrack and musical score. The comic moments are sometimes subtle and often unexpected. The special effects in the transformation scene were the best that could be at that time, and still hold up well against all of the CGI effects of today.David Naughton and Griffin Dunne are two very under-appreciated actors of our time. They were wonderful in this. Jenny Agutter adds nicely to the cast as the pretty nurse.Different from so many of today's films with English accent actors that are often difficult to understand, all actors are understandable throughout this movie.My only knock on the movie is that ending left me wanting something different. Otherwise it is a must see. "},{"Title":"The Animal of all animal movies","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is without a doubt one of the greatest werewolf movies of all time. John Landis, who is the director of Animal House, brings us something completely different, and, while it's not original, it certainly entertains. I know because I was entertained.Basically, it's about two guys who are in England, and they get attacked by a werewolf. One dies, and the other becomes a werewolf. Sounds simple enough, but it really isn't. Not only is this a horror movie that relies on a monster, but it also relies on the supernatural. I won't go into that much detail, but when you see it, you'll know what I mean.The acting here is great, but if there is one thing that really got me into this movie, it was the make-up and the special effects. Rick Baker is really a master at what he does with make-up, especially with the fake blood. And while the special effects may not take up much of the movie, there is one specific scene which proves that this movie was still ahead of its time, special effects wise. You guessed it it's the transformation scene, and this scene is filmed in full view. You see the full transformation, and it is truly scary. So, I gotta applaud those guys for being able to come up with this. This is what gave the movie its juice.Overall, a great classic. If you love monster movies, then this movie is for you. You'll only see the monster a few times, but trust me, this movie has a lot to offer. Like I said, the acting is great, and it has more elements than just a monster movie. 10/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Utterly Fantastic","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time i saw this i was around 12 years old and it scared the sh*t out of me. Now a days its not so bad, but in 1994 i was petrified. With a recite viewing i can now see the great film making incorporated with this movie. I heard some people didn't like the ending to this movie, but i thought it was a interesting one. With newer movie's there's always a Hollywood ending slapped on, no matter how unlikely the it was that the ending would turn out good. So for that i praise this film. Also the creepy atmosphere of the town where David and Jack get attacked was great. With the rolling fog and the luminous full moon, great stuff. One of my favourite scenes is when David is just hanging around at home before one of the best transformation scenes in a werewolf ever.If you haven't all ready seen this, do so, it will be worth it. "},{"Title":"The best werewolf movie of all time.","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one hell of a great horror film. The effects in this movie are freaking fantastic. The best display of these special effects is in the The werewolf transformation, which is probably the best ever. The werewolf itself is pretty cool looking. I actually like how he's four legged, and boy does the face of this werewolf look angry! It's no wonder that the guy behind the special effects won an Oscar for them. Now lets talk about the acting. Needless to say it's pretty good, nothing special, but still good. The music to this movie is actually kinda interesting. All of the songs were chosen because of the fact that the word moon was in them. Like Blue moon, moon dance, and my favorite, Bad moon rising. The plot to this movie is actually pretty good. David Kessler and his friend Jack are traveling Europe when all of the sudden, they are attacked by a werewolf. Jack is killed, but David survives and is taken to a hospital in London. Later on, the Ghost of Jack visits David and tells him that he must kill himself or he will become a werewolf. So in the end, this is a great horror flick so check it out. "},{"Title":"Much too scary to be funny, much too funny to be scary.","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is undoubtedly one of the greatest cult classics ever. It is considered by many to be a mini classic. The story begins with two Americans(well, really Canadian but whatever) name David Kessler(David Naughton) and Jack Goodman(Griffin Dunne) who are taking a trip through Europe and end up in England. They are then attacked by a werewolf, Jack is killed, but David lives through the attack. He wakes up in a hospital in London were we meet Dr. Hirsch(John Woodvine) and Nurse Alex Price(played by Jenny Agutter, our love interest. David then experiences weird nightmares that seem very realistic. We meet Jack again(in fact we meet him three times in the film) and he explains that David id a werewolf and unless the bloodline of the werewolf is severed, then all of his victims will continue to walk in eternal limbo. Without the make-up effects by Rick Baker, this movie would not have been half as effective. The werewolf transformation is the greatest in cinema history(the transformation is probably more famous the final form itself!) It won Rick Baker the well deserved first Academy Award for Best Achievement for Make-up. Overall,good acting good comedy, and awesome monster make this film a howling experience. "},{"Title":"Everything a horror movie should be","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is probably the scariest damn movie I've ever seen&#x85;period. When I saw it on the big screen, I was only five. This film terrified the crap out of me then and still holds up. Without a doubt, it is my favorite horror film&#x85;EVER. It works on the visceral, cringe inducing level (the death of Jack Goodman is harrowing). It delivers on the disturbing, psychological level (Kessler's dreams are truly unnerving). A man survives a werewolf attack, becomes a werewolf himself, innocents are shredded, and a new cinematic benchmark was reached. As such, there really isn't much I can say about this horror masterpiece. But here goes.The acting, writing, and FX are superlative. Made in an era when horror flicks still got respect, everything was top notch. John Landis' script moved along briskly, knowing how to balance bloodcurdling violence with truly disturbing imagery and some minor comedy. David Naughton, Griffin Dunne, and Jenny Agutter put their backs into their performances, like good actors are supposed to. The romance between David Kessler and Nurse Price; the friendship between David and Jack Goodman; and Kessler's deteriorating sanity in the face of his dread predicament all felt eerily legitimate. As for the FX, the transformation scene is brutal. And, the werewolf ripped into people with more bloodlust and ferocity than any ordinary, big honking wolf could ever muster.Now there is a remake in the works. Despite how much, as a fan, I may not want to see the original's memory soiled, this remake is probably still going to happen. So I'm not going to review AWIL so much as air what I think can make the inevitable re-envisioning worthy of the original. First, I'll address the lone error of this outstanding film.Nurse Price's flat should've been destroyed. A man goes through a tortuous, bone crunching transformation into a huge, quadruped in her living room. But when Alexandra Price returns home, she finds her flat to be relatively undisturbed. This is the only flaw in AWIL that I can think of. And, it's one which has led to the argument that the film's events were all in David's head. In the remake, when Price gets home, her place should look like ground zero. There should be claw and tooth-marks on the floors, the walls, and probably the ceiling too. Her furniture should also be ripped apart, as it held her scent. It's hard to believe the creature wrought the damage it did throughout the city, yet took great care to not damage a flat's upholstery. Now, on to the new additions I'd like to see.I'd like to see more of Jack the friendly ghost. Have it where Goodman's damned, and Kessler's death has no bearing on that. No, for his soul to rest, he has to wait until his body, as it lies in the grave, basically disintegrates and frees his spirit&#x97;a process which can take months. So at first he's telling Dave to go back to the Slaughtered Lamb, where they can contain him. Of course, David doesn't listen on the first or second visit. So, for the first new appearance, Jack could appear about an hour before the change. On that occasion he's all business and switches gears, yelling at Kessler to commit suicide since there isn't enough time to get clear of London. The second new appearance by Jack could be the morning after David's first transformation. Goodman could be the reason those wolves didn't tear into Dave once he returned to human form and was vulnerable.It would also be pretty cool to see more of the werewolf in all of its brutal glory, not just the front half of its body. It should be shown how agile, fast, and powerful the beast is. After all, it did get from one end of London to the other, entirely on foot and in a matter of hours without ever being seen. I just want to see this thing moving in a way that demonstrates how, without a heavy gun on hand, there is no fighting or escape.Instead of just two nights, the beast's rampage could take place over three. That middle night could feature a bone chilling home invasion, on the outskirts of London. This would show that merely being inside does not guarantee any protection from monster and serve to boost the body-count past a paltry six. The cherry on the top could be a blood-splattered Kessler waking up to see this carnage firsthand and nearly loosing his mind over it, after throwing up a few telltale bits of gore.Another thing that would be really cool would be to see a few more subtle hints things were not well with David. Before his first transformation, we should see his ears twitching at every sound the closer night gets&#x97;just like a wolf's. His sense of smell should also be off the charts, really throwing him off. Also, because his other half eats so much, his body could be seen evacuating itself in preparation. I mean, if he hasn't had anything to eat, but is excreting solid waste three to four times an hour, something is clearly wrong.Lastly, I'd like to see more on the background of Lower East Proctor. With whom did the curse originate? Why didn't the villager's eradicate that bloodline? Was the Slaughtered Lamb really safe from the werewolf? How long had they hosted this creature? Was there anything else out there? And was it just that town, or were all the neighboring villages preyed upon? If there's to be a remake, these are the changes I'd like to see in it. And the truth is, if we fans don't state what we'd like to see, we'll likely be stuck with a waste of celluloid to make An American Werewolf in Paris feel like The Godfather in comparison. And who the hell wants that? "},{"Title":"A fun horror movie to watch.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A American werewolf in London is a cult classic. It's not spectacular but it's damn good horror movie, which also offer a bunch of laughs.The name most people connect with this film is Rick Baker, the genius behind the make up effects for this film. Not only the werewolf look great, but so does the Zombie-ish ghosts, as well as the demons in the main characters dreams. It's movie with really grotesque monster, but when I say grotesque I mean it in the good way.As said earlier it's brilliant mix of humour and horror. David Naughton as David Kessler and Griffin Dunne as Jack Goodman as just great together even though it doesn't last long. Jenny Agutter as Nurse Alex Price also does a great performance. The friendship between David Kessler and Jack Goodman are believable and funny. As well is the relationship between David and Nurse Alex. SLIGHT SPOILER And the little conversations between David and ghost-Jack are just great. Rick Bakers make up on the slowly decomposing Jack is just terrific, and makes the conversations even more awkward and funny SPOILER ENDS.This is definitely horror director John Landis best or at lest most known film. much credit must go to him as well.And as every horror film I review, this is an R rated movie. The violence isn't to bad. But there's some nudity in this movie. I don't really care but I know there are many who does. So if you don't like the prospect of seeing David Naughtons crotch or having to see brief clips from a soft-porn movie that the ghost are watching in a theater, you might want to skip this film. For a very enjoyable horror film, with a bit of humour, I give this film an 8/10. "},{"Title":"I see the bad moon arising, I see a great John Landis film&#x85;","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Last night I saw for the very first time John Landis' An American Werewolf in London (released back in 1981). It was just, not counting one of the two Landis' mini movies for the Masters of Horror series (Deer Woman), my very first encounter with the not completely comedy Landis (heard pretty good things about Trading Places but sadly as for this day the only ones of his comedies that I have seen are The Blues Brothers and Blues Brothers 2000). Creedence Clearwater Revival's Bad Moon Rising can be heard in this film. Of course it is a great classic song and in a way it will help me to let you know a bit more about An American Werewolf in London (of course only if you have still to see the film) for just a moment forget to pay attention to the lyrics of Bad Moon Rising, it's like a feel good song with a really nice and gentle rhythm, its like a really nice little song. An American Werewolf in London is a very nice and extremely entertaining film with characters that will make you laugh each time they're on the screen (there's a very clumsy and very funny London Sergeant), with jokes, cool references to other movies (not only to other werewolf movies), a film with really fun stuff. But now, remember the lyrics of that Creedence song from the brilliant Green River album, we have lines like I see trouble on the way, I see bad times today, hope you are quite prepared to die. And the chorus says to us Don't go around tonight, there's a bad moon on the rise... of course in this film the end is coming soon for many people. And we all know that since the very beginning the film introduces two American friends (David, played by David Naughton, and Jack, played by Griffin Dunne) that are in Europe, in England to be more specific... but not in London yet. We see soon trouble on the way since our American characters arrive to the Slaughtered Lamb and aside of the creepy name of the place and the usual tension with the people are strange when you're a stranger thing there's something else in that place, something of which Lon Chaney Jr. in Universal Studios said that's the mark of the wolf man. Certainly the film let its audience know since always that the werewolf thing is real and gives to its main character (David will be the main character since he, unlike his friend Jack, survived the brutal attack of a, according to the official police report, maniac person and was taken to a London hospital) his memory (he is sure that they weren't attack by a normal man) and some real nightmares and the chance to keep talking with his dead friend Jack (cool as hell is that scene at the porn theater). The film is typical then we have main characters like the ones that Jenny Agutter and John Woodvine play. The female character is of course the love interest of David and the male character is of course the one that will be aware of the werewolf problem after seeing the enough. The film works perfectly when is time for the horrific things that are not quite part of very bizarre nightmares or stuff like that. It works since there are really great sequences (the stuff with the victim at the subway station is one of my favourite scenes of the film, it's really great with the danger present all the time but visibly present only for few seconds) that deals with people getting killed but still there's time to laugh (I just love the hangover part with our main character awaking not really remembering a thing about the previous night and delivering truly hilarious stuff... a naked American man stole my balloons). Of course An American Werewolf in London is perfect for these October's nights. 9.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Turning into a werewolf","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" David Kessler and Jack Goodman are two American college students, who are backpacking across the Yorkshire moors.They step in a pub called The Slaughtered Lamb, where they get basically thrown out.They've been told to stay on the road and off the moors, but suddenly they find themselves on the moor.They hear something in the darkness.David falls down, and as Jack is trying to get him up again, he's attacked by a beast.David finds himself in the hospital and he learns that his best friend Jack is dead.But he sees Jack, who is now a ghost looking like an awful corpse.He tells David that he was killed by a werewolf and that soon he will become one himself.He asks David to kill himself before he kills some others.David finds romance with the pretty nurse, Alex Price, and he moves in with her.Soon Jack's prediction comes true, and David finds himself turning into a werewolf as the moon is full.An American Werewolf in London (1981) shows John Landis at his best.It's a horror comedy that has both genres mixed right.It freaks you out and it makes you laugh.And it has some great use of music.There is Blue Moon by various artists, and Bad Moon Rising by Creedence Clearwater Revival.Also the actors playing their parts are all superb.David Naughton is in the role he's remembered the best as David Kessler.He works so great together with the British beauty Jenny Agutter.Griffin Dunne is terrific as Jack Goodman, even with a gaping neck wound.John Woodwine is brilliant as Dr. J.S. Hirsch.Lila Kaye plays Barmaid.Brian Glover is Chess Player while Rik Mayall is 2nd Chess Player.Frank Oz is seen and heard as Mr. Collins and Miss Piggy.Landis, an ex-stuntman, is credited as Man being smashed in window.This movie won one Oscar.Rick Baker got one for Best Makeup.The movie is filled with classic stuff.The nightmare sequences are all such.In one of them David is at home with his folks, when his whole family is massacred before his eyes by band of Nazi monsters with machine guns.The metamorphosis scene is a classic.Sam Cooke's Blue Moon is being played, and David's character is feeling this incredible pain as his hands turn into paws and he gets a long nose and fur.The killing on the escalators in the subway is masterful.Also the scenes in the end, when David goes to the cinema that is showing a porno film.There he finds Jack, who looks absolutely hideous now, and people David has killed.It's quite funny when they discuss about ways how he should kill himself.And then, when the moon is full, the werewolf is at large and people of the cinema dead.Then, when they shoot the wolf, David, Alex is by her side.She still sees the man inside the wolf. "}{"Title":"Piccadilly","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" AN American WEREWOLF IN London&#133;Director John Landis&#133; Central Casting must have sent 200-300 people down to Piccadilly for a night shoot on this production. None of us knew anything about the scenes we were going to be involved in so we just hung around coffee bars (Or other bars) chatting and having a night out in The West End. About 1 o'clock in the morning the production team gathered us all together and told us the scenes they were about to do. (You ain't gonna believe this). A WEREWOLF is going to be running out of a cinema in Piccadilly Circus straight across Eros causing cars to crash and have people falling out of bus windows. (I'm thinking this will do the tourist trade the world of good) On a cue from the 1st A.D. the real police clear the roads of all late night Joe Public. The Central Casting crowd are all given places to stand and out of the woodwork comes our buses and cars and stunt people. We've got permission to hold up traffic for half an hour and John Landis had multi camera crews covering every angle. It was over as quickly as it began and as soon as the camera's stopped rolling the wrecking crews were in there clearing the wrecked cars and sweeping the streets clean again. An hour later it was like we'd never been. (See the film just to see this sequence) Well done, John Landis&#133; "},{"Title":"Not At All Long in the Tooth!","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the best werewolf movies of all time. Although not as shocking for its violent dream sequences as when it first attacked our screens, the film still hits home today. The key to its success being its dark humour. Sometimes this seems very out of place. For instance, a grinning ghoul remains light-hearted even when his face is rotting off, producing a genuinely creepy effect. And that's the thing. The humour used in this film is much more sophisticated than in films such as Fright Night, where comedy is merely used for relief. Here, humour is used to increase our sense of discomfort. It jars so much with the violence and gore, it unsettles us, as we think What is this Director trying to do to us?. It's elements like this that elevate a very scary movie to greatness. Worth watching for the transformation sequence alone, the special effects do not disappoint either. But it's the strange alternations between comedy and terror that keep you on the edge of your seat. Only a comic genius like Landis could have pulled this off. "},{"Title":"Astute, unnerving and timely","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A timely satire of horror and particularly werewolf movies, John Landis here shows his astute talent for comedy as well as his ability to truly unnerve his audience.Writer/director Landis' funny, frightening story tells of two young American lads who are back-packing across Europe when they run into trouble on the moors in the north of England. The boys are attacked by a strange, ferocious animal which kills one of them and badly maims another. The survivor of the pair (David Naughton) begins to experience horrible nightmares, and starts to suspect the experience may have turned him into a monster.Landis' script is clever, in both its conception and its original premise, while his dialogue is particularly sharp and bitingly funny. Many times Landis superbly captures the essence of British humour (something rarely done by an American writer), especially during one scene inside a Piccadilly porn theatre. He compliments his incisive screenplay with controlled yet free flowing direction, knowing exactly how he wanted to present this theme to his audience.David Naughton is the perfect all American boy, and plays well his role as the scared and confused tourist who is terrified of what he has become. The British support cast are spot on, being wonderfully English with their stiff upper lip, while the Northern England players are suitably nutty and superstitious. Frank Oz drops in as a representative from the American consulate.Malcolm Campbell's editing allows the movie to build nicely to its crescendo, Robert Paynter provides some telling cinematography (especially on the moors), while the technical team's crowning glory is the superb make-up effects from Rick Baker, which breathe gruesome life into David's change and undead Jack.Undoubtedly though this is John Landis' picture form beginning to end, with his refined script and timely direction making American Werewolf what it is, thoroughly enjoyable cinema.Sunday, August 11, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"unusual and entertaining","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mostly entertaining movie that manages to have its cake and eat it - it's both a genre piece and a satire of the genre at the same time.In true horror genre mode, there are one or two genuinely scary moments. I've seen the film several times and they still work, because they are so well-conceived and well executed.Griffin Dunne's character is the main location of John Landis' gentle satire, but there are en route amusing details - for example, the pub into which our two American innocents stumble is called The Slaughtered Lamb. And of course the soundtrack of moon songs is a glory of good humour. One element that doesn't quite work is the portrayal of the bungling detectives I can't work out whether the fault lies in the performances or the writing or maybe a mixture of the two.In spite of a fair amount of blood and guts, the film has a great deal of tenderness in its central relationships, and against all the odds Jenny Agutter is genuinely moving in the finale.David Naughton is warm-hearted and charming, though maybe a little bland, as the film's hero. John Woodvine gives authoritative support as the doctor who suspects there's more to the American's wounds than meets the eye. There's a splendid bunch of Brits in other smaller roles, led by Brian Glover, Lila Kaye and David Schofield.The great transformation scene remains unique in its mixture of technical achievement and compassion at the victim's agony.It's an unusual movie, worthy of its cult reputation. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Forget 'The Howling', It's still a good film but once seen it gets boring on repeated viewings but this film just keeps improving every time you watch it. No matter how many times I hear Brian Glovers Alamo joke at the start I fall about laughing and that scene is perfect for it relaxes you and makes the following scene more shocking for its brutality when they get attacked. The casting is brilliant - every character believable.. David Naughton is fantastic, Jenny Agutter is absolutely beautiful in this, and John Woodvine plays his part perfectly as does everyone involved. The special effects were groundbreaking at the time and with no CGI which the belated sequel 'An American Werewolf In Paris' relied on - watch both films and this one is visually more impressive and a credit to John Landis. This remains his most exciting and entertaining movie and a brilliant way to spend 90 minutes. One of my all time favourite movies and a pleasure to revisit. 10/10. P.S. If there's a pub in England called 'The Slaughtered Lamb' let me know! I'd love to visit it... but I'd stay on the road!! "},{"Title":"Fantastic film!","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Simply a brilliant film. It wowed me from the start at the north york moors right to the ending on the streets of London and continues to do so every time i see it. it has a few gory scenes for hounds of that genre of horror and also a few tense scenes especially on the north york moors before David is attacked my the werewolf. Great story, great acting and extremely good special effects for it's time especially the famous transformation scene. I would recommend this film to horror fans everywhere and anyone who's looking for a bit of entertainment on a Friday night curl up on the sofa with your popcorn and get ready for fun! "},{"Title":"What a beast of a movie!","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I heard the same thing mentioned about this movie over and over again the transformation scene. I thought that must mean that that was the only good part, and the rest of the movie was utter tripe, as so often happens.This preconceived idea put me off. Later, after hearing the word excellent used to describe it, I decided that I'd have to see it to make up my own mind. So I did, and I have made up my mind. It's the best werewolf movie EVER! It knocks the socks off anything before or since.It's gory, it's got romance, the performances are great, it's bittersweet and it's howlingly funny. Oh, and the transformation scene? Oh my God! It's INCREDIBLE.Unleash this animal into your collection NOW. You'll love it. I did. "},{"Title":"One of the greats...","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'An American Werewolf in London' is one of the great horror films. Most people remember it for the iconic transformation scene. Traditionally, most special effects in movies tend to not date very well. But like Karloff's Frankenstein, or John Carpenter's re-imagining of The Thing, the transformation scene in American Werewolf continues to get better with age. The feats accomplished in this scene (when you look at it from the eyes of the post-CGI world) have never been topped. Even today, you feel David's pain as his body stretches and snaps and morphs into something else.And the film itself is just as iconic. It's such a simple story when you stop to think about it. There's no final twist. No underlined message put in by a director who thinks he's smarter than you. No room for a sequel (although the hacks in Woodtown saw fit to make one anyway in the mid-1990's). The movie hangs on a very basic plot-thread, and for a movie known for it's jaw dropping effects, it's primarily character driven.John Landis wrote the movie when he was 19, and that may have something to do with it. There's a strong sense of empathy that runs through the narrative. Just as the transformation scene makes you feel what David's feeling on a spectacular and dramatic level, the rest of the movie makes you feel David's pain, grief, happiness etc. just as affectively. You really get a sense of what this nineteen year old Yankee's backpacking in Europe is all about. Hell, he could even be you.The film does not get bogged down in trying to explain the supernatural events it chronicles. Sure, you're given basic explanation and a sense that there's something bigger going on, but for the most part the movie says that werewolves exist because werewolves exist. David is a werewolf because he was attacked by one and survived. There is no cure. He needs to kill himself. Nuff said thank you very much. Landis does a great job of planting these events into a real world surrounding. It's like he's saying, here's reality as far as this movie is concerned, and just like in our reality, life sucks. Get over it.I read somewhere that the Suits wanted Landis to change the bleak ending. They were saying ((SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT))Come on John, we've gotten to like this kid, why does he have to die? and Landis just laughed and said Because that's how it ends. You've got to respect a guy who sticks by his vision like that.There's a lot to be said about this movie. I could go on and on about the soundtrack. I could mention the hot sex scene. I could write a term paper on the significance of David's dead best friend Jack, who haunts our hero throughout the course of this movie like Hamlet's wacky neighbor. But I will leave this as my final thought in this review - An American Werewolf in London is a timeless masterpiece made by a man who was at the top of his game. Pure. Simple. To the point. "},{"Title":"A 'Bloody' good time","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is perhaps the best werewolf movie out there. I know you're thinking werewolves? give me a break ! but this movie portraits the subject in brutal realism - it will make you think what if.... At the same time, the director throws in mild comedy. When I say mild I mean it works quite well, and makes this movie a true classic horror flick for numerous scenes that you won't find anywhere else. Early on, you have a great scene were you hear the then unknown creature closing in on some hikers(the main characters) under a full moon(duh). It's a great what's that, oh no its getting closer moments. The attack on the boys on the London moores (swampy fields) is simply terrifying because the dialogue is well written and the attack is so vivid. The film keeps the rules when you're bitten you then become a werewolf, this happens to the surviving boy who gets away with a scratch. His friend however dies, but he isn't really dead... his body comes back to haunt his surviving friend. Telling him to beware the moon. If this all sounds cheesy so far, the actual movie I assure you is not. After having horrible nightmares, the surviving victim sees his friend come back. In what is the best makeup effect you may see, his friend is missing half of his face. In an example of the well written self humor of the film, his first words are can I have that piece of toast? referring to the hospital food. He warns that at the next full moon his friend (David, the kid who got scratched) will turn into a werewolf. David ofcoarse doesn't believe what he's seen until it's too late. This movie was the first to show the full man to wolf transformation in full light, it is a classic monster moment and lends to the believability of the films otherwise out there subject (WEREWOLVES??) The scene is so good it won the make up artist the award for makeup effects. I think they had to put some of the hairs on individually. The wolf itself is pretty scary looking and utterly shred its victims to bits. If you listen you'll catch all the songs in the film have the word moon in them, including Creedence Clearwater Revival's Bad Moon Rising, and another song called Blue Moon that after watching the film I play whenever I go camping at night because the hiking scene and first attack gave you the sense of this might really happen in the woods, at night, under the full moon. The main characters are all believable and good acting throughout. Plenty of action and a moderate body count keep things rolling, the good acting, special effects, and classic moments make it a fun movie to watch ) "},{"Title":"Classic Mix of comedy And Horror,","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'An American Werewolf In London' is easily one of John Landis best films, Its a clever mix of comedy, and horror, David Naughton,As David,And Griffin Dunne,As Jack, play the two young all American Pals who are backpacking around Europe, Whilst in rural north of England,they take refuge in the Slaughtered Lamb pub, which the two unfortunately encounter the less than friendly locals, who don't take too kindly to tourists, after the two over-stay their welcome, the pair who don't stay on the roads are met with a terrible fate, which see's Griffin Dunne, Slain, and Naughton wounded, David recuperates in a London hospital, were he is tended to by the gorgeous nurse Alex price,Jenny Agutter, The two fall madly in love with one another, but the romance is not going to last as David seemingly sees his best friend appear from beyond the grave,Who convinces David to commit suicide or effectively turn werewolf at the next full moon, David naturally ignores his pals warnings from limbo, and sure enough,in the film's classic Scene undergoes a full on Werewolf, transformation (Courtesy of Rick Baker,whose effects deservedly won Best Make Up at the 1981 Oscar's, The effects' still stand out in these days of 'Cgi' Elmer Bernstein contributes a haunting score, There are many other songs that make clever use of 'moon' in their titles, "}{"Title":"You made me miss.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Still one of the greatest lines in movie history You made me miss. To think that Landis got the idea for this film in 1969 and worked at for over 11 years...everything in this film works. The music, the dark humor, the violence and gore and special effects--there are few movies that scare you and make you laugh at the same time. The only problem I have ever had with this film is the subway scene; it has the best shot and the worst shot in the entire film. The worst is the continuity of not seeing the wolf during a far-away-shot when you know it has to be nipping at the guy's heels. but to make up for it, with no sarcastic music, we get a long shot of the wolf ambling up to the escalator... What Landis was doing with Innocent Blood, I'll never understand. But in London, he was genius. "},{"Title":"Horror as it should be","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American werewolf in London/this hit home with me as its set in UK and i am yes English, its a very easy to say its just a film and i know that but not long after seeing it i was in London and i was scared of getting the tube at night as it can be v v dead late at night, also i found myself taking longer ways home from a friends so i did not have to walk over a field at night. Everyone has a button that when pressed scares them and sticks with them but i just feel that its not been done much theses days, but this one remains a fav of mine, yes it shows its age in places but the change into werewolf is still one of the best bits of horror film ever full stop. If you ain't seen it then catch it on DVD, watch at night and loud!, then walk over a field in the dark.................i bet you have problems keeping calm lol.Blue moon, you saw me standing alone "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a big fan of werewolves, and as such I have seen many different werewolf movies and TV shows. Of all the movies I've seen, this one is definitely my favorite. The special effects are some of the best I've seen, even compared to today's computerized special effects, and the story line is very well-written. The movie is straightforward, it stands on its own without copious amounts of blood and gore. Unlike many of today's horror movies that can't seem to convey fear and tension without those two elements, this movie uses them only when appropriate. One of the most notable scenes (Possible spoiler) is when the character of Jack has been mauled and you can see the parts of his throat that were left in tact. The ending of the movie is abrupt but fitting. If you haven't seen this movie, go out and get it! "},{"Title":"Beware the Moon","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It begins with two young Americans, David (David Naughton) and Jack (Griffin Dunne) hiking across the Northern English countryside. Cold and hungry, they duck into a creepy pub called The Slaughtered Lamb where the locals are obviously hiding something...The classic opening scenes of writer-director John Landis' An American Werewolf in London provide the irresistible hook for his lovably quirky film. Widely noted for its savage sense of humor and eye-popping makeup effects by Rick Baker, American Werewolf gives classic monster movies a facelift. The film is nothing if not an original. The soundtrack of werewolf-ready tunes like Creedence Clearwater Revival's Bad Moon Rising is just one of its distinctive touches.In the acting department, Naughton is admirably game for his role and fares well, receiving smart support from the rest of the cast. Special mention must be given to Griffin Dunne, a scene-stealing scream as Jack.An American Werewolf in London is genuinely scary, funny, and, frankly, weird. Movies like this one come along once in a blue moon. Upon having seen it, you won't forget it.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie then, and excellent movie now.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (slight spoiler)An excellent mix of comedy, horror and romance.  No movie has done as good a job with crossing these genres before or since.  The makeup was awesome then and stands the test of time.  Definitely a 10 out of 10.  Strange that some people find the ending abrupt or out of place.  It's PERFECT.  How else could you end the movie?  And not all movies have to have happy endings - this ends more realistically, assuming that werewolves actually exist.Not only a great movie, but the best werewolf movie made thus far.  Being a connoisseur of lycanthrope movies, I find there aren't many good one's out there.  Here, in my opinion, are the next top 3 ... Ginger Snaps, The Howling, TeenWolf.  I wish there were more I could add to the list, but unfortunately there isn't.P.S. The sequel, American Werewolf In Paris, bears no comparison.  A lame attempt to cash in on one of the greats. "},{"Title":"An abrupt ending hampers an otherwise enjoyable horror thriller.","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****I wasn't really looking forward to watching An American Werewolf in London, but the film has gained a strong cult reputation over the past two decades, and that was enough for me to give it a shot.  For the most part, the film is fairly deserving of its rep.  Werewolf movies are pretty rare these days, finding a good one is even rarer.  And even though AWIL wouldn't qualify as a great film, the fact that it's among the best of its subgenre is a good implication of the lack of quality evident in movies based around lycanthropes.David Kessler and Jack Goodman (David Naughton and Griffin Dunne) are two American friends on vacation in the hills of England.  One dark and foggy night, they're attacked by a werewolf, Jack is eviscerated while David is only injured.  He awakens in a hospital, put under the care of pretty nurse Alex Price (Jenny Agutter), whom he quickly finds himself attracted to (and vice versa).  But the day he's to be discharged, he's met by the undead spirit of Jack, who informs David that he will turn into a werewolf during the next full moon, and will proceed to go on a killing spree.  The only way he can end his torment is to die, an option David is not willing to accept.The opening scenes, set in the hills of England, display a quietly creepy atmosphere (which would be evident throughout all of Dog Soldiers, the best werewolf movie ever made) that gets the film rolling to a good start. Surprisingly, once the movie settles into its London setting, it doesn't lose momentum.  This is thanks mostly to the budding romance between Naughton and Agutter, which is really sweet and believable.  The two also share one of the steamiest love scenes I've seen.Naughton is very likeable as the cursed young man, infusing his role with youthful energy and vitality.  Because of his performance, it's hard not to find his dilemma distressing and even poignant.  Agutter is excellent as David's new love, taking what could have been a cliched role and shaping it into a focused and layered performance.  No one else makes much of an impression, except maybe Griffin Dunne as the ever decaying, undead Jack.Much of this movie's fan base stands behind it because of its humor.  But to be honest, except for a morbidly funny scene inside a porno theater (involving David talking to all his victims), I didn't really get much in the way of laughs.  Who knows, I may have to give the film another look to get all the jokes, but An American Werewolf in London feels like it mostly wants to be taken seriously, and director John Landis packs in enough tense and suspenseful moments to make it work as such.The most famed aspect of the film is David's transformation, a scene that show off Rick Baker's superlative make-up work.  However, not as impressive is when the werewolf actually moves about while stalking and attacking its victims.  A couple of scenes are obviously nothing more than a bunch of f/x guys waving a furry animatronic wolf head at would-be victims, not exactly effective when it comes to evoking pure, shuddering terror.Most disconcerting of all, though, is the ending, which is so abrupt, I almost felt I'd wasted my time investing into the story and characters. It's truly regrettable the film had to end in such a whimper because for a while, much of the film teetered on genre greatness, almost deserving of its reputation. "},{"Title":"22 years on, more astounding than ever.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I freely admit that I am prone to superlatives when it comes to early John Landis films, but in the case of this particular gem that is because he went so utterly against the mainstream and still carved something accessible but with myriad layers of depth, which still gets the synapses firing a generation later. The joy of the script is perfectly complemented by the offbeat improv of the central characters. The naturalistic tongue-in cheek tone that the 2 American protagonists maintain throughout most of the movie has not dated but, if anything, become more enjoyable, as filmgoers today are much more receptive to genre-bending than they were when this first came out. Indeed, this was one of the first films to successfully combine horror and comedy, which has since become a staple sub-genre in itself (see the Scream saga, Dog Soldiers, etc.) Many dismiss the ending as too abrupt, or downbeat, or just out of keeping with the rest of the film. But the same people will also be unable to come up with a better alternative. Building through the the film is a dark undercurrent, and this sense of malaise comes to a head when David attempts to take his own life in the phone booth in piccadily. This comes directly after trying to contact his parents for the last time, only for his youngest sibling to pick up, alone in the house, and we are left with the distinct impression that the parents will never in fact get the message David asked Max to pass on. If the film had been edited around Jenny Agutter's Alex, we would have a great modern tragedy. Watching it through her eyes is heartbreaking. Istill remember the first time I watched this; it scared the pants off me. The second time I laughed my arse off. On every viewing since then I have come away with something different and new. This is a film that has already proven it can stand the test of time and gets better with repeated viewings and age. Give it a few years, I think it'll be in more than a few official top 10 lists. Oh, and did I mention the special effects? "},{"Title":"A good version of the werewolf legend ...","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I often don't care for movies that mix horror with humor, but this one pulls it off well. A good version of the werewolf legend in which two guys backpacking in England are attacked by a werewolf. David Naughton, the actor from the 80s Dr. Pepper Commercials, plays a guy who becomes a werewolf, having to deal with the changes his body goes through. While watching the movie, I kept trying to place the nurse who befriended him. I looked it up and the actress is Jenny Agutter, who starred in the Australian film, Walkabout (1971). The movie does interject nice bits of dark humor like having his dead friend come to visit him throughout the movie. But don't be lulled into thinking it's not a classic werewolf film, as there are several gruesome scenes of werewolves attacking innocent people.*** (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"The real horror is the film's screenplay","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is widely considered to be a cult classic. However, I consider it to be the mostly widely shown film if ever I start my own Mastercheese Theater. When the film tries to be funny, it isn't and it often pokes fun at many of the wrong things. Not for the easily offended and especially not for those with weak stomachs.   "},{"Title":"A template for modern horror films","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  John Landis is fond of insisting that American Werewolf... is a horror film, and not a comedy.  For the time, the sudden switches in tone between crude humour and gory horror were an unheard-of combination. To look at the two elements of comedy and horror in isolation, then the comedy is primarily of the fish-out-of-water type, with two New Yorkers adrift in the British countryside - lost, not just in the landscape but also in the culture.  Abruptly, after a blackly comic scene in the Slaughtered Lamb, the horror kicks in with a vicious attack which kills one and leaves the other destined to transform into a werewolf the next time a full moon appears.  And so it proceeds throughout the film, sometimes broadly funny, sometimes sickeningly horrific, and sometimes both. Many people have a problem with the sudden changes in tone, and this perhaps depends what you expect from this film.  If you want an out-and-out horror film, go and watch Nightmare on Elm Street.  If you want a comedy, watch There's Something About Mary.  If you're prepared to watch with an open mind, however, the stark contrast between styles only makes the horrific scenes more disturbing, as you're lulled into a false sense of security before being bludgeoned over the head. Rick Baker's make-up effects stand up to scrutiny to this day.  The werewolf transformation scene especially has never been surpassed in films of this type, particularly the hand stretching into a paw.  The fact that this was all achieved before CGI makes it more impressive to watch. Nowadays it's possible to computer-generate anything that can be imagined and put it on the screen, but with this ability comes the temptation to show off.  The most astonishing special effects were in the days when this was not possible and you watched, not believing your eyes, wondering how the hell they did it. American Werewolf is an early film in the lineage of the Evil Dead films, and later the Scream films, culminating in every post-modern, self-referential, self-parodying excuse for a horror film that clogs up the video shelves at the beginning of the new millennium.  The difference is that John Landis' film manages to be both scary and funny, while almost all of it's modern descendents fail miserably to be either. "}{"Title":"Still a good old howler...","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Still a good old howler more than 20 years after its original release, John Landis' quirky, witty and (when it has to be) scary tribute to the 'Wolf-Man' genre offers plenty of bite as both a comedy and horror.  David Naughton is the American tourist who survives a grisly werewolf attack on the Yorkshire Moors, only to find his murdered friend later returning to warn him about the curse which is upon him.  The trouble is David has wound up with a beautiful nurse (Jenny Aguter) and is living slap-bang in the middle of London; he's not going to take any of this and when he does there's more than enough for him to get his teeth into. The script is finely tounge-in-cheek and clever, balancing the horror and suspense with light but sharp parody and humour (e.g. the excellent soundtrack plays upon the 'Moon' theme).  Naughton's metamorphosis in the living room is still literally a hair-raiser (far more intense and frightening and if that isn't enough for you, there's that chase in Tottenham Court Road station to send chills down your spine.  On the negative side, Landis' skilful use of suspense rather than gore is all thrown away in the film's climax in Piccadilly Circus, which plays like a display of violent excess rather than any leaving any important dramatic effect.  Generally, though, Werewolf in London is a sensible and rewarding entertainer, not for its later descent into gore (which many other films past and present have indulgenced in from start to finish) but for its freshness, suspense and winning tounge-in-cheek approach.  And of course, London.        "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warning potential spoilers!!David Naughton & Griffin Dunne are hiking on the British Moors,until Dunne is killed by a werewolf,while Naughton survives.Well scripted horror film that has a lot of laughs.Dunne shows up after his death scene,but everytime he is more decayed than the last.The transformation is pretty cool but quite unsettling.Written & directed by John Landis.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Great film spiced with violence and sex...","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a great film that had the gore, the violence, the laughs, and the sex to satisfy all horror addicts. I give it 9 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, language, sexuality, and nudity.  "},{"Title":"The Benchmark Of Werewolf Movies And The Original  Self-Aware Horror-Comedy","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Landis is a self-confessed horror fan. The director with an already established strong cult following from a string of adolescent comedies in the 70s and proved box office gold.He gained enough pull that he took a gamble and proposed a horror film to his producer John Folsey Jr from a script he had originally penned at the age of 18 in 1969. Polygram Pictures green-lit the film and Landis had a $10 million dollar budget to get the picture made. An American Werewolf In London had sat on the back-burner for 11 years waiting for this watershed moment. Landis immediately called upon his pal, ingenious make-up artist Rick Baker. But Rick Baker had other current obligations to another werewolf production called The Howling. An animate and insistent Landis finally convinced Baker to turn over the reigns of The Howling to his protégé Rob Bottin while still acting consultant to that film. Rick Baker jumped aboard An American Werewolf In London. And due to proper financial backing Landis turned Baker loose on the world and both made cinema history together.John Landis hired two newcomers for the leads, David Naughton and Griffin Dunne. David Naughton previous work includes being the representative Dr Pepper singer/dancer and the star of a short lived television sitcom. Griffin Dunne is the son of producer and writer Dominick Dunne. He also landed a gifted young beautiful English actress named Jenny Agutter, a veteran (Logan's Run) of the big screen to play the strong female lead. The performances are superb. The cast and crew experienced excellent rapport throughout the shoot inspiring improvisation that naturally transitioned into the story. The story is simple enough, on the twilight of a full moon, a pair of backpacking American tourists, David (Naughton) and Jack (Dunne), literally stumble upon a village in Northern England hiding a terrifying curse. They enter a pub with an appropriate name of The Slaughtered Lamb seeking warmth from the evening chill but once our two intrepid travelers are introduced to the inhospitable locals they wisely choose to make a very quick exit. But it is not before being issued a series of bizarre warnings to stay on the roads and avoid the moors and beware of the moon. But their departure proves to be late and the warnings are naturally taken lightly. The Americans do realize the error of their ways when they consequently are stalked and terrorized by an unknown beast. One is killed, the other lies convalescing in a London hospital bed to fully recover. Under the light of the full moon, a legendary monster will run amok upon the unsuspecting city of London.John Landis singlehandedly breathes new life into a classic film monster while simultaneously producing the first genuine modern horror-comedy masterpiece. An American Werewolf In London is stocked full of references to its early B&W predecessors. A rich horror pedigree. Landis, like pioneer Siodmak, laid down new ground into werewolf cinema lore. Which includes the internalized werewolf, in that David Kessler experiences lucid dreams of hunting in woods like a wolf chasing down prey and consuming it raw. And the curse of lycanthropy burning into his splintered subconscious with vivid nightmares working like a slow acting inexorable poison, the beast breaking down the resilience of his humanity until all is lost upon the ineluctable full moon. Murdered victims of a werewolf are equally bad off, in that, they are eternally cursed restless souls doomed to walk the Earth as decomposing zombies until the werewolf bloodline is completely severed. This leads to a grisly juxtaposition of horror and black comedy as his dead friend Jack visits him, always returning more worse for wear than the last time to warn David of his carnivorous lunar activities encouraging suicide that Jack his friend can finally be put to rest and to spare more innocent lives. Unfortunately, David is slow to be convinced by these waking visions are genuinely real and slower to act upon them before the next full moon, further complicated by a new mutual love interest in his own nurse, sympathetic Alex (Agutter) who takes him in into her home. News of grisly murders splash all of London's papers. To David's horror the zombie apparitions are multiplying ... fast. Griffin Dunne plays the talking corpse with an infectious relish. Finally, one of the most monumental landmarks ever found in horror. The Werewolf Transformation. The juxtaposition of David Naughton's convincing emotionally pitched agony combined with creature effects is simply jaw-gaping wizardry to witness, flowing seamlessly from start to finish. One will be hard pressed to rank any other special effects and make-up in horror above this one. Never before and never since, have movie audiences bore witness to such an explicit and astonishing on screen metamorphosis.This film is not only groundbreaking but also set a new trend. Nothing previous attempted to simultaneously scare the pants off audiences with straight-faced terror and make them laugh with witty one-liners and self-aware comic undertones. In that An American Werewolf is a triumph right through from the first reel to the final reel.Also featured are rocking tracks provided by from Bobby Vinton, Sam Cooke, Van Morrison, Creedance Clearwater Revival, and The Marcels. And original music by Elmer Bernstein. John Landis and Rick Baker are the dynamic duo. Baker, recipient of the first ever Academy Award for Best Make-Up.(One important final word, Naughton and Agutter have a terribly *good* tender chemistry in this film. Beautifully orchestrated and captured by Landis. But the one detail that really slammed home for me are the final words between the two during their final two meetings. First. David at Trafalgar Square, I love you ... I love you ... I love you, Alex. Final kisses and flees without any returns.Second. Alex in the alley, with David's death imminent, I love you, David. The perfect ending.)10/10 "},{"Title":"John Landis's best film along with The Blues Brothers","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like John Landis and his films, and An American Werewolf in London is up there with the best of them. For me, there is so much to love about this film. There is John Landis's perfect direction, he manages to revisit the horror genre and parody it at the same which is very difficult. There is the wonderful cinematography and beautiful scenery. There is Elmer Bernstein's superbly atmospheric score. There is the funny, scary and above all brilliantly written script. There is the great special effects and some of the scariest and most effective transformation sequences I have seen in any horror movie. There is the adeptly constructed story, with never a dull moment. And there is the acting, David Naughton carries the film well, Griffin Dunne is very good and Jenny Agutter is simply perfect. All in all, brilliant film and one of the best of the genre. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Howling with laughter?","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Landis' werewolf odyssey certainly deserves its recognition as one of the most unique lycanthropy tales of all time, and I won't argue that its popularity is unmerited. But the film doesn't ever seem to decide what it wants to be. Is this supposed to be a horror film with comedic elements? Is this supposed to be a comedy with horror elements? Or is this actually a spoof of horror films? Whatever category American Werewolf falls into, it's certainly an enjoyable movie, but this indecisiveness makes the film frustrating at times, and edges it out of the classic category.Landis never quite figures out what the tone of his full moon follies should be, and Werewolf errs at both extremes of the line it straddles. Although there are some great humorous bits, the film isn't really funny enough to be considered a straight comedy, and the graphic violence pushes it out of the realm of light-hearted escapism. Conversely, the film isn't altogether scary either, and though there are some thrilling moments, many of the scare opportunities are played for laughs instead. As a result, the film ends up being a bit disjointed, never fully realizing the strong potential it demonstrates during its finer moments.The real star of the show here, and perhaps the reason this film has endured as it has, is Rick Baker's stunning special makeup effects. It's hard to gauge how impressed today's audiences will be by the still-inspiring full transformation scene, since modern film-makers can use CGI to create any illusion with very little effort. But Baker's work here is true magic, and those who appreciate the intricate artistry of the golden age of special effects will marvel at each step of the process. It's telling that a special make-up FX Oscar was created to honor Baker's work in this film, and he certainly deserves it for that indelible scene alone. I won't say definitively that he trumps Rob Bottin's work in the much scarier and much better The Howling, but in terms of climactic morphing scenes, the two are at least in a dead heat.However, even with these superlative effects at his disposal, Landis still can't keep this ride on an even track. Yes, Baker's werewolf make-up is spectacular, but when we see the finished product, it bears almost no resemblance to the physiology shown in the transformation scene. While we witness hands and feet stretching and distending, becoming longer and leaner, the final stage of the werewolf's gruesome metamorphosis is more akin to a common bear. The beast moves on all fours with short, stubby legs and has a squat compact body that belies any possibility of it standing upright. So, do those massive hands and feet shrink again during a part of the process we didn't see? Both the form implied during the transformation and the complete creature are impressive on their own, but they simply don't match up with each other.Another sequence seems tacked on just because Landis found some cool masks in Baker's studio. I'm still not sure why getting bit by a werewolf would cause a man to have a dream about demonoid World War II infantrymen storming his house and massacring his entire family, but this American Werewolf apparently fears this scenario so much that he has a dream WITHIN a dream about it. Yes, they are cool masks, but their usage doesn't ultimately have a real purpose in the scheme of the film.Also confusing is the notion that victims who are killed by a werewolf must remain in limbo until the werewolf itself is dead. It's commendable that Landis wanted to implement his own twists into the mythology of lycanthropy, but this idea really doesn't make a lot of sense. Getting torn to pieces by a werewolf pretty much makes you dead, not undead.I know it sounds like I'm pulling a werewolf on this film, but that's assuredly not my intention, since American Werewolf definitely has a lot of fantastic elements that elevate it above the genre's implied guidelines. Some clever usage of beloved music adds immeasurably to the amusement value of the comedic undertones, and tense scenes like the stalking of a commuter inside a subway tunnel show that Landis can definitely direct a scary scene when he sets his mind to it. The authenticity and classic horror sensibility of the Slaughtered Lamb pub, and the secrets its denizens hold, are the basis of a truly compelling mythos. Plus, the climactic crash sequence in Picadilly Circus is a decidedly gory and delicious bit of inspired mayhem.But, in the end, none of this is enough to make Werewolf a truly frightening film. And on the comedic front, it's certainly important to note that the funniest scenes in the film come courtesy of See You Next Wednesday, a movie within the movie.This is a very good little diversion, indeed. But for as much promise as it has on the surface, it doesn't ultimately deliver as much as it should. This Wolf's teeth just aren't sharp enough, and neither is the satire. "},{"Title":"Werewolves Have a Sense of Humor Too","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An uneasy blending of horror and comedy makes this werewolf picture slightly uneven. It might have been better if director John Landis had gone for straight horror, and looking back now, The Howling seems to me the definitive werewolf movie. But there's no denying that An American Werewolf in London does have some extremely memorable moments, like a ghoulishly creepy werewolf attack set in the English moors, and at least one scene, the first time we see the hero turn into a werewolf (which won the film the Academy Award for makeup in the first year that award was given) obviously influenced The Howling greatly.Grade B "},{"Title":"Boy cries wolf and nobody listens","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pretty good remake, but still the same old story. Effective use of make-up and some good graphics did spice up this old tale some, but the first hour was way to slow. The last 30 minutes made up for it though with lots of car crashes, bitten off body parts, and quite a few squashed, mangled, and mauled folks lying about. No big deal, but worth watching. "},{"Title":"Effective horror-comedy with an abrupt ending...","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1st watched 1/4/2015 -- 6 out of 10(Dir-John Landis) Effective horror-comedy with an abrupt ending that leaves the viewer wondering why the Director, John Landis, closed out the story the way he did. The movie is about a couple of American friends vacationing in England who are attacked by an animal, killing one and wounding the other. The locals know something strange is going on in their area, but don't do what's necessary to keep them out of trouble. They do however get there soon enough to save David, played by David Naughton. If this was a werewolf that attacked them -- the legend is that if you survive you will turn into one at the next full moon, and this is David's fear. The doctor and nurse that initially take care of him get involved in a couple of different ways. The nurse, played by Jenny Agutter, takes him in and starts a romance. The doctor eventually tries to find out what actually happened as the authorities say they were attacked by a human lunatic not an animal. The movie is scary and funny(with most of the humor coming from Griffin Dunne, who plays David's dead friend who keeps showing up in a degrading state trying to get him to kill himself before he kills others and to send him to his final resting place). Rick Baker's makeup takes center stage especially during the initial transformation scene where David turns into a werewolf. The gruesomeness is a little overused and is a slight negative to the movie, in my opinion, but the movie keeps your interest until the final 15 minutes where it finishes way too quickly. The movie is unique in it's ability to fuse many genre's into one movie somewhat successfully. Landis appeared to either run out of money, or just didn't have a more dramatic ending prepared(to it's fault) but still the movie was worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Could've been great","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Whenever I get the rare chance to watch this film, I usually end up shaking my head as to what could've been a terrific horror film, but I feel there's too much comedy blended in which prevents it from being one of those special horror films that I prefer. This is still a solid, entertaining movie with many memorable scenes and characters, the unimpressive David Naughton not being one of them. I'm still baffled as to why John Landis chose him to play the lead role, as Naughton's resume before and after this film isn't all that impressive; I think Griffin Dunne would've been a better choice to play the lead. Some of the reasons I did enjoy this film is the great scenery of soggy England, the pub scenes, and the performance of John Woodvine as Dr. Hirsch. The beast wasn't as scary as the one from The Howling(1981 also), and I thought the transformation scene wasn't as good as many say, but overall, this is a fun film which added too much comedy rather than horror. "}{"Title":"The greatest werewolf film ever!","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For this masterpiece, director John Landis updates every werewolf cliché in the book and makes the film wholly original by adding Rick Baker's masterful special effects and his own superb sense of humour to the mix. The result is the greatest wolfman movie of all time. David Naughton and Griffin Dunne are two American college students backpacking on the English moors. They are attacked by a ferocious werewolf (which we, cleverly, only get glimpses of) and Dunne is slashed to death. Naughton survives, wakes up in a London hospital three weeks later and discovers he was bitten by the werewolf that night. Then, in a sudden shift from dark horror to gruesome comedy, Naughton is repeatedly visited by Dunne's rotting corpse, who tells him to commit suicide to stop himself from becoming a wolf on the next full moon. While the film remains wholly enjoyable throughout, the undeniable highlight remains the breathtaking transformation sequence. On the night of the full moon, Naughton becomes a flesh-eating werewolf before our very eyes. Overall, I feel that this delightful combination of horror and comedy is a frighteningly funny spectacular that is sure to remain in the horror-loving heart of any fright-flick fan. "},{"Title":"Thong Dental Floss","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the Primortial Mists of The Planet Earth, The Droids R2D2 & C3P0 Survey & Scan The Environment for any new unique signs of Life...Most of the Lifeforms which are moving about The Droids have one strain of Mammel...Canine...The Owner of The Planet Earth, Sir Christopher Alan Green Esquire, comes in to escape his Family Line & The Fans of his Alter Egos which include Superman...Beer, Generator, Television, Portholing Foodbox & Dope soon have The Lone Human Inhabitant of The Planet Earth moving about seeking The Droids...The Moon...Moving about, The Angel Sir Christopher Alan Green Esquire, The Immacualte Conception Of The Planet Earth (MALE) & Planet Camphor (FEMALE), is soon overflowing with The Fluids OF Life...Breed...CamphoreAs The Shiver nears your spine in The Dark Of Night remember The Rules Of Life or Thee will be ALPO...An American Werewolf In London...He can get you pregnant...No matter what! "},{"Title":"Still One Of The Greatest Werewolf Films Out There","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf In London is still one of the greatest films about a lycanthrope ever made. It never fails to entertain us with its black humor as well as scare us when needed. It spawned a semi-remake in 1997 titled 'An American Werewolf In Paris,' which was/is a great effort, but still falls short of the film at hand.One of my favorite scenes near the beginning of the film, is when the two backpacking Americans, David and Jack, enter a little pub called The Slaughtered Lamb. That name alone screams, STAY AWAY! ...but as we know, they enter regardless and the locals inside don't seem much like the friendly type. Anyways, after short conversation, they are warned not to stray from the beaten path (which, for those of us who have seen this film, we know what comes next).Packed with the dark humor and scares, the special effects for this film are also top-notch for back in the day. The werewolf transformation is right up there with 'The Howling.' If you've only seen the Remake In Paris, and enjoyed it, then you have to seek this film out and watch it. Even if you haven't seen the Remake In Paris, you still need to watch this film. EVEN if you HAVE seen this film, go back and watch it again for old times sake! Highly entertaining. Highly recommended. ...and highly worth your time, if not for anything other than the dark humor! 9 out of 10! A classic horror film for the werewolf in us all! "},{"Title":"Funny & Scary","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf I London starts quite boringly actually but that all changes when David and Jack are jogging through the fields and one of them gets attacked by a werewolf, and starts getting ripped to shreds whilst the other guy just runs away like a girl, (good decision).Then we see David in hospital and Jack visits, but he's got his neck ripped open and he is covered in blood, is he dead or alive you will have to find out!Good Every Second!10/10 "},{"Title":"A Fun And Terrifying Thrill-Ride!","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the late 1960s, a young, upcoming filmmaker named John Landis wrote an amazing werewolf screenplay. Unfortunately, at the time, did not have the money or connections to make the movie. So, the screenplay collected dust until ten years later, when Landis was given the backing to make his first big horror film An American Werewolf In London. The film ended up being one of the best werewolf movies ever made.The movie begins with two young American men named David and Jack. While David and Jack are visiting London, they are both viciously attacked by what appears to be a werewolf. Jack dies, and David barley lives. He is sent to the hospital where he is unconscious for three weeks. When he wakes up, he begins seeing Jack's corpse coming back from the grave to tell him that he is about to turn into a werewolf, and that he has to kill himself. Now, David has to figure out if he has gone insane, or if he is soon to become a vicious werewolf.There are so many great things about this movie that I don't even know where to begin. I think that first and foremost I need to point out the thing that amazed me the most, which was Rick Baker's amazing special effects skills. The character Jack basically rots away in front of our eyes as time goes by, and it is pulled off perfectly. The scenes where David transfers from man to beast are astonishing. The scene where he transfers for the first time is one of the most shocking and painful scenes I have ever sat through.John Landis' screenplay is incredible, and he directed it out perfectly. Landis showed with this film that he could make a movie that is terrifying and hilarious as the same time. The movie is also very suspenseful, especially at the very beginning when our two main characters are being stalked by a werewolf out in the moors.All of the actors in this movie did a great job. Granted, there are no academy award worthy performances in it, but the cast was believable and acted out their parts well, which was good enough for me.American Werewolf is a terrifying classic and a must see. Ten stars out of ten! "},{"Title":"Scathing","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American Werewolf is a riot.Two young American backpackers are hiking around the British moorlands. They are dropped off in a remote village in Yorkshire and enter a public house called the Slaughtered Lamb, with a picture of a huge, blood-drooling wolf on the board. You know from that exact moment things aren't going to be pleasant. After entering they a received with contempt by the group of exclusive villagers. Outsiders being considered rather unwelcome, and for good reason, after a small sit down inside they leave, with strict warning from the villagers Stay clear of the moors. And beware the moon. They leave. It is pitch black, and the moon is full. Unaware of where they are going, they trek out, rather stupidly onto open fields. Soon enough they're on the moors, and all around a perilous howl is heard, echoing from all directions. It is even heard back at the public house, the villagers terrified and guilty. Knowing they just sent the young men to their doom. Next comes the carnage as after a tense session of stalking the wolf finally strikes. Killing one of the lads (Jack, played by Griffin Dunne) and almost killing David (David Naughton) if not for the villagers turning up to blast the beast away with a heavy gun. --- Injured, David awakes in hospital. In London. The story given by villagers being that an escaped mental patient tried to kill them. David knows better. --- He recuperates some. He's visited by Jack's decaying corpse who is stuck in limbo. The werewolf's curse must be broken, the remaining part of it's bloodline must die. Unfortunately for David it is him, he's survived the attack, but is now cursed to become a beast on the next full moon. According to Jack. David doesn't believe him, and after being taken home by the hospital's nurse, he seems to be fairing well. But the next full moon arises, and he transforms whilst the nurse is out, and goes on a rampage. --- No he believes, and must stop himself. Unfortunately he hasn't the nerve to commit suicide, and as the next night comes, he transforms again, amidst the busy bustling lights of London's Piccadilly Circus. After a chaotic car crash sequence and a chase into the dark London back alleys of which the beast is finally slain, and the film ends. ---This film is as stated. It seems scary, but is dotted with scathing humour, and some of the most memorable horror moments I can imagine. With daring scenes, shot in real life locations, this film is a amazing, it helped advance film make-up to where it had never been before, of which real, before your eyes man-to-beast transformation can be seen.An masterpiece of cinema accomplishment, and of comic horror that is laugh-out-loud funny, and spine-chillingly scary. Fantastic. "},{"Title":"The best movie in the running for the top","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is awesome. I'm watching it now, David Kessler (gorgeous young hunk that he was) is about to turn into the werewolf for the first time.Excellent music. Compares to no other movie but the Rocky Horror Picture Show as a cult classic.Ever poignant, whimsical and borderline scary the first time you view it, it's well worth 90 minutes of your time.We get to see the mastermind Frank Oz of Muppets fame at work, and we get to see David Kessler transformed into a werewolf.Rated 100 stars "},{"Title":"Howltastic","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie. It is the perfect combination of Horror and Comedy. In fact if anyone can be said to have invented this genre splice it is John Landis. This film came out before any of the other Horror Comedy classics like Evil Dead or Brain Dead. Not only is it the truly great Werewolf movie just nudging past The Howling by a Fang it it also manages to inject a touch of the Ealing magic. Forget the Anglo Phobic comments of ctomvelu the two American leads are very ably to supported by the British cast. I can only assume he is not familiar with the differences in acting styles of British film and TV compared to American film and TV. Oh well! I am sure the people who flock from all over the world to see world renowned British actors will stop in their tracks now they know how bad at acting the British are ... Yeah and I am really a Werewolf. But back to the movie. As David has to negotiate the trials of being a Werewolf he also has to cope with the culture clash between Britain and America. Thereby fusing Body Horror with the Fish out of Water comedy. The romance between David and Nurse Alex is touchingly played and you really believe these two have a special bond despite the very short duration of their relationship. I think this film offers something for everyone, gore for gore lovers, romance for those who still believe in it and comedy for everyone. Finally Landis makes superb use of his lunar themed soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A fun werewolf movie!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two American boys backpacking in the English countryside, make a pit stop at a pub called The Slaughtered Lamb one evening to get out of the cold, where they are greeted none to warmly by the unfriendly patrons of the bar. When one of the boys, Jack asks about a pentagram that is scrawled on the wall, both boys are asked to leave & to stay on the road, beware the moon & stay away from the moors. While trekking away, both men get talking & forget, travelling off the road & thus getting lost, where they are both viciously attacked by what appears to be a very large wolf. Shot & killed by the townsfolk who go out to look for the boys, with the survivor of the attack David, sees a dying man riddled with bullets but no wolf only to pass out & awaken in a hospital in London three weeks later, where he is informed his friend is dead & that the police & townsfolk claim that Jack & his friend were attacked by an escaped mental patient, a conviction they stick by, despite Jack's insistence that both he & his friend were attacked by a rather large wolf. David soon starts to suffer from very strange, bizarre nightmares that feel very realistic wherein he is running naked in the woods chasing down a deer which he soon devours, turning into a monster to attack his nurse Alex, & travelling through the woods like an animal & watching his family being slaughtered by Nazi monsters in his home, dreams which just get more & more disturbing, bloody & violent. While at the hospital, David is visited by his badly mutilated friend Jack, who insists that David make away with himself, otherwise he will turn into a werewolf & attack more people, causing them to wander in a state of mutilation as spirits which will stay with David unless he severs the werewolf's bloodline by killing himself. David shrugs it off as mere nightmares at first, he falls in love & moves in with Alex his nurse & tries to resume a normal life, but strange things soon begin to happen, cats & dogs all the sudden down right hate him, he no longer has an appetite & he feels bothered. Soon the full moon rises & David discovers much to his horror that his long dead, badly mutilated friends visits were no nightmares or even hallucinations, as David transforms in a vicious, violent werewolf monster! that prowls all off London savagely mutilating three street people, a young married couple & a man in the subway, whose angry spirits soon come to haunt David. Can David find another way to end the curse without having to kill himself or is death really the only way out?An American Werewolf In London has to be without a shadow of a doubt one of the top five best werewolf movies ever made! Released the same year as THE HOWLING, both films are a prime example on how to balance genuine wit, irony & comedy, not to mention a very self aware tone with horror in a very even balance. The film has a very witty & sharp sense of humour, the gore effects here are real nasty & plentiful, while the werewolf monster suit is equally as impressive (courtesy of special effects wizard RICK BAKER) as is the really impressive on screen werewolf transformation sequences, which even to this day, despite all the advancements in special effects & CGI technology, still holds up well & puts most of, if not all of, the special effects werewolf transformations seen in many of todays current monster movies to shame. I also was really impressed with the zombie make-up done on all of David's victims, with Griffin Dunne's frequently rotting Jack being the real highlight. The suspense & tension, are very well crafted & eerie & should get even the strongest of wills who have seen their fair share of horror movies on the edge of their seats & give them a real jolt. The acting works, with each actor bringing their characters to life & making them feel very believable. The romance angle between David & Alex gels really well & works with & within the story, wherein such a plot device would only have served as a distraction in most other movies. The direction by JOHN LANDIS is really good here, as his camera captures all the horror moments at all the right angles & really soaks up the eerie atmosphere of the English moors & the characters are very well developed as is the plot. The only downside? The ending, which despite have an incredibly good build up leading up to it, is somewhat of a letdown. I was really hoping for a much tighter, more suspenseful & satisfying ending. Apart from that, this is a near perfect horror/comedy combo & is a model for all to follow. If you haven't seen this one yet, my advice is do so! you won't be disappointed! An American Werewolf, along with THE HOWLING (released the same year) are not only the two best werewolf movies ever made but deserve to be watched on a double bill. Followed by an unrelated, in name only sequel in 1997 - An American Werewolf In Paris**** stars "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best Werewolf film yet made","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm a big fan of werewolves, so I've seen a lot of films about them, and so far no film has surpassed American Werewolf in London. Some come close, Ginger Snaps and Dog Soldiers for instance. What seems to work best in the genre is an absence of Americans. Completely yank made films like Silver Bullet and Underworld tend to fail completely in terms of major elements involving werewolves. Transformation scenes, gore, and attached metaphors and themes all come together perfectly in AWiL, in so many others they are missing. I can't disparage on Underworld enough really.Anyways, in AWiL, the effects still look good today (no cgi at all of course), we have a straightforward but interesting story, sharp humour and dialog, and well rendered carnage. The sum is a great all around film. "}{"Title":"not what I hoped but not too bad","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well the hype was just too much for this to live up to. It is quite good in parts,but is just too uneven. The story is very tongue-in-cheek and has some dark comedy to lessen matters quite a bit. It wasn't near as frightening as reputed or as gory. The transformation sequence from man to werewolf  is breathtaking(Rick Baker says he and John Landis decided that the character should go through intense agony as he transforms..you hear the bones crackle and skin stretch..this is a thing of power). The attack of the werewolf in Piccadily Circus in London is a standout because of the car wrecks and carnage. The visits from Naughton's dead friend Dunne (who's body is slowly decaying with each ghostly visit)is the best part of the film next to the transformation I thought. This is not a comedy I believe,but a horror film with splices of humor. Not a masterpiece but good entertainment. ***/***** "},{"Title":"Still a favourite","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this film over 20 years ago, but it remains one of my favourites.Key ingredients are the black comedy and the 50s/60s/70s soundtrack - I can't hear Blue Moon or Bad Moon Rising any more without thinking of this film.  However, there are also some moments of genuine horror including one - the nightmare within a nightmare sequence in the first half of the film - that I think ranks up there with a couple of scenes in Psycho, in terms of its shock effect the first time you see it.The transformation scene is also well done.  It's the evident painfulness of the process that gives it an edge. The special effects used in the scene are also excellent, although I seem to remember that I slightly preferred those in Company of Wolves which was released about the same time (but which I've never seen since because, unlike AWIL, it's never shown on TV).So it's a hardy perennial.  If you've never seen it, watch it.  And if you've seen it before and liked it, I bet you'll enjoy it on repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Too funny to take serious enough!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The makeup is astonishing. It sure puts Lon Chaney Jr.'s Wolf Man to shame. However, there is too much humor and sometimes, the seriousness of a werewolf lacerating people's faces seems redundant. It's all in good fun really! Rent it! Rated R for nudity, sexual content, werewolf violence, and language (language includes adult themes). "},{"Title":"Top notch.","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ***1/2This is a very good thriller, that never takes itself too seriously. Which is probably the reason why it is so good. There are some frightening moments, though. Especially, the scene where David is first transformed into a werewolf. Top notch. "},{"Title":"Nihilism goes mainstream","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***The late seventies and early eighties marked the high point of nihilism in mainstream (to say nothing of independent) movies, as directors and screenwriters alike seemed more determined than ever to push the envelope in terms of providing surreal, shocking and disturbing scenes to jolt the increasingly jaded public out of their seats. Despite its reputation as a comedy-horror, AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON is actually a pretty decent example of the kind of film that would just not get made nowadays.The most problematic scene, especially from a post-political correctness point of view, is David's nightmare sequence in which he witnesses his family ruthlessly slaughtered by howling, grotesque monsters in Nazi stormtrooper regalia. His father, mother and two younger siblings are machine-gunned and his house is trashed and torched as the terrified David is forced to watch. This scene still packs a powerful punch today, and still seems like very strong meat. I doubt if this jaw-dropping moment of violent insanity would even make it to the final script draft in the 21st century, let alone the final cut of the movie.The werewolf's slayings are also remarkably gory, especially those in the Eros cinema, and the Piccadilly Circus scenes are over-the-top in the best eighties tradition. Landis throws all kinds of brutal mayhem into the finale, really going for broke, and the end result will stick in your mind for a very long time. Animal lovers will doubtless wince at the dream sequence where a naked David catches and dismembers a deer, which is uncomfortably realistic, to say the least.The film, however, has aged well, and is always entertaining. The incidental characters are great (the loudmouth hospital porter, the London cabbie who can't keep his eyes on the road, the jolly young couple who remain remarkably perky even after being slaughtered, the little kid who keeps saying NO!) and the performances are mostly good, but the cameo by Rik Mayall finds the future alternative 'comedy' star in early predictable form, mugging and gurning for all he's worth in a shameful display of ME! ME! ME! attention seeking. And Frank Oz is subtly funny as an American Ambassador, even if he does use his Fozzie Bear voice! And the 'See You Next Wednesday' film looked like a real winner...NOT! "},{"Title":"Stupid, Embarrassing Crapola","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  *  out of  ****If not for the cool transformation sequence (which doesn't even look as eye-popping anymore), I'd give this comedy masquerading as a horror film the BOMB.I suffered through this dumb, silly, nyuk nyuk nyuk, tongue-busting- through-and-outside-cheek embarrassment way back in 1981 (not much has changed for horror since then, sadly). It SUCKS. I used to blame Freddy Krueger for turning horror movies into a joke factory. Well, I was wrong...it happened here first with this non-serious laughfest. It was probably the inspiration for TEEN WOLF and TEEN WOLF TOO (Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha!) "},{"Title":"Best werewolf transformation scene ever.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WARNING  This review contains plot details!  If you've never seen this film, you may not want to read this.This movie has the best transformation scene from a man to a werewolf, out of all that I've ever seen.  I didn't like the progressive states of decay that Griffin Dunne went through; I thought it was pretty gross.  That's one reason I don't rate it higher than a 7.  But it still has a lot of good parts.  And David Naughton,Jenny Agutter and John Woodvine all turned in excellent performances.  I also liked the unique-sounding howl of the werewolves in this movie. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking transformation effects put all previous movie werewolves firmly in the dog house.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a rather offbeat horror/comedy which is mainly remembered for the painfully realistic transformation scenes ( feel those bones distort ), and the resulting werewolf which really looks like its ready to dish out some serious damage - the scene in Piccadilly Circus when the beast goes on a slaughter rampage is great stuff. The problem is that I'm not sure if the humour and the love interest with Jenny Agutter add anything, or if it would have worked better as a straight horror. The film is undeniably fun and the pace never slackens throughout, but the fact that it is still the effects which everyone remembers suggests that without them the film would have quickly been forgotten. Enjoyable but maybe too lightweight - the slightly gimmicky ending does work though and overall the film is well above average.Look for British TV comedy star Rik Mayall as one of the customers in 'The Slaughtered Lamb'. "},{"Title":"COULD HAVE BEEN SO MUCH BETTER.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Two American tourists are attacked by a werewolf; one dies, one lives and now turns into a werewolf when there is a full moon. Its humorous scenes are funny, its scenes of terror are scary, the direction dynamite, and the special effects are convincing and horrifying.BUT, the film is very uneven, jerkily changing tone and pace, the film is prolonged and protracted, and the ending feels like it was just thrown in because the film had nowhere else it could go. Great performances all around though. My rating 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"That was one scary movie","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie is about two boys hiking in England.When they come to a bar called the slaughterd lamb.Everybody in the bar was scared silly.The two don`t know why.When they hike away from the bar.They find out a werewolf attacks them.He kills one of the boys.And hurts the other.When the boy is brought to the hospital he starts having wierd dreams.He is running around naked in a forest killing things with his teeth.He also meets a lovely nurse who he kinda of gets personal with.Then he meets his dead friend.He tells him  he will become a werewolf.And that he can`t die until he is dead.So he will be a living rotting corpse.Why would he kill himself when he was having a swell life.Anyway since he has nowhere to go the nurse brings him to her house.He should of listened to his friend because one night he changes into a werewolf.And makes more rotting corpse people.He wakes up naked in a zoo.He knows what he did so he turns himself in to the police.Who don`t know why they should put him in jail.No one to turn to he sees his friend a third time at the movies.He shows him all the people who he killed.And he turns into a werewolf and the police shoot him in a alley.That was a good movie to watch on a halloween night.For sure!      "}{"Title":"A Different Kind of Horror Movie","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I generally avoid horror movies, but I found American Werewolf in London strangely compelling, partly no doubt because of the effort to give the film as much verisimilitude as possible. The result was one of the most accurate evocations of London in cinema, making the real horror of the film (seeing someone you love transformed horribly in a way you can do nothing about) almost believable. As in Claude Chabrol's thriller Le Boucher, the real horror comes from a gradual realisation of the truth and of its implications, and, somehow, the transformation scene contributes to that. Definitely a worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Dated, but still effective","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While the film is now dated and choppily edited, WEREWOLF still packs quite a punch. Two students backpacking in the U.K. countryside are attacked by a werewolf. One student dies, the other survives, only to turn into a werewolf himself. And he's in London, no less, having been been moved to a city hospital after the attack. David Naughton, a long-forgotten actor who wasn't much of an actor, plays the werewolf. Griffin Dunne (where is he these days?) plays his buddy who becomes the werewolf's victim. John Landis made this comedy-horror flick on a shoestring budget. The best bit has Naughton turning into a werewolf in full prosthetic glory. No CGI here, folks. WEREWOLF is a decent update of THE WOLFMAN, with lotsa gore interlaced with plenty of dark humor. "},{"Title":"Brilliant horror and still good effects after all these years","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Despite being one of the scariest flicks of all times, one of the most notable things about this film is the special effects. An American Werewolf in London has great realistic special effects which I think even now are better then computer generated ones.Everything about this movie is excellent John Landis's expert direction, fusing together a monstrous hybrid which veers crazily between pure comedy and absolute terror, plus, Rick Baker's Oscar winning special effects which outclass any digital trickery by today's Hollywood. By the way, Baker is the guy who is also responsible from special effects / makeups of Planet of the Apes, X-Men and Hellboy.An American Werewolf in London isn't just scary, but at times can be brutal. A great film and a must-see for every horror buff. This is black humour at it's best and there are scenes that will make you jump out of your skin! I can assure you on that.9/10 "},{"Title":"Great horror and comedy film","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One thing i liked about this film is that usually when i see a film when an American directs a film based in England it makes us(English) Look like football(Soccer) mad annoying people our posh weird people. But it was surely not anything like that. It was so accurate to real English life. The film also has great thrills and very funny moments. The end in Piccadilly circus is very exciting and in my view one of the greatest moments in cinema history or at least horror moments the film dose not use all the original myths -SPOILER-silver bullets wont kill it-SPOILER But keeps some of the original stuff -SPOILER-He will become a werewolf in a full moon-SPOILERThe film is smartly done rarely any mistakes very smart story and an edge of your seat thriller. Well worth to watch you cant be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Film that can achieve Funny and Scary should earn 2 Oscars","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Back in 1981, nobody had seen anything like AWIL. The affects defined a generation and won Rick Baker an Oscar. Today, CGI is used to lower the budget of films, though they aren't that good. WARNING Plot contains spoilers!David and Jack are hitchhiking around Northern England and come across a pub where they absolutely alienate the local villagers and are opted to leave the pub. They are warned to 'Beware the Moon' and stick to the roads. But of course, they find themselves deep in the moors on a full moon. Howls are heard around them, and they run into a werewolf. Jack is ripped to shreds as David runs away. David comes back to find Jack a bloody mess, and the werewolf goes for him, but is shot by the villagers.He wakes up 30 days later in a hospital in London.The rest you'll discover upon watching it.BEWARE THE MOON "},{"Title":"An American Werewolf in London is awesome","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Landis, director of Animal House, shows what an ingenious genre-mixer he is with An American Werewolf in London. At its best points, American Werewolf is a special-effects masterwork of splatter and gore as well as a darkly funny tale of death and the supernatural. My only regret is that I didn't see American Werewolf sooner; it's portrayal of a scary story as funny could've lightened up my viewing of horror films as a kid.American Werewolf is the story of David (David Naughton), a naive American tourist who embarks on a backpacking trip with his best friend Jack (Griffin Dunne). The trip takes a nasty turn when they're kicked out of a British pub full of suspicious villagers. As they're leaving, a bartender yells We CAN'T let them leave!, a classic indication that they're probably not the most hospitable crowd. But David and Jack discover there's something lurking out in the night underneath the full moon. As they venture off the road, they're mauled by what seems to be a rabid dog. David is saved at the last minute by the villagers; Jack isn't so lucky.As David recovers, he is aided in more ways than one by an insanely hot nurse. This recovery is plagued by increasingly strange nightmares, which give the movie some of its eeriest and most gory spectacles. The dream sequences are very originally done, implementing shock factor and a ton of primitive violence to show how David's mind is being somehow affected by that strange animal attack. From there, things get a little hairy.The movie's use of music fits, but in an ironic fashion. The movie's theme is Blue Moon (it uses it three times, each a different version). The soundtrack also includes CCR's Bad Moon Rising and Van Morrison's Moon Dance. The music insures you won't forget the real bad guy in this story.An American Werewolf in London has an original plot, some real scares thanks to excellent special effects and suspense building, awesome music choice and a hot nurse. What more could a horror movie have to offer? "},{"Title":"best werewolf movie ever made","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" many people believe the Howling to be a better film than An American werewolf in London.i happen to disagree.i do think The Howling is a pretty decent movie,but i don't think it measures up to An American Werewolf in London.in my opinion,it has better dialogue than The Howling,better characters,better creature effects ie.transformations.i also found it much more suspenseful.the tone of the film is much more serious(for the most part)than the howling,and there aren't any unintentional laugh out loud scenes,as i felt there were in The Howling.The Howling may have been played partly for laughs,but it didn't work for me.A.W.I.L was played mostly straight though there are some comedic elements in the movie.In A.W.I.L these scenes work.but in The Howling i don't think they do. many people say that The Howling is the best werewolf movie ever made,but i don't agree.it's a pretty decent,fun movie to watch,i just don't think it's as good as An American Werewolf in London.i also think A.W.I.L is more substantial as a horror movie.these are just my thoughts,of course and others may disagree.anyway,for me An American Werewolf in London is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not many films pull off a combination of horror and humour as well as this one","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This may not be the best werewolf film some other top werewolf films include Ginger Snaps,The Howling and The Curse of The Werewolf,but it is certainly one of the best horror comedies. Horror comedies are extremely difficult to pull off,and usually end up toning down the horror element. Not this one. An American Werewolf In London contains some funny scenes and has a spooflike air about it,but it's horror is sometimes quite strong and is generally played totally straight.There are some really memorable and even slightly scary scenes in this film-the werewolf attack on the moors,a nasty dream scene involving werewolves killing the hero's family.and most memorably an amazing transformation scene. It still astonishes and unlike most transformation scenes looks convincingly painful. There is no way that CGI could improve such a scene. As for the humour,than how about the endless playing of songs with 'moon' in the title,or the helarious scene where the hero desperately tries to get a policeman to arrest him so he can't kill any more people,or the dead friend constantly showing and looking more decomposed each time again,very convincing effects by Rick Baker? For the male viewers,there's also the fantasy of Jenny Agutter as a very sexy nurse to enjoy! The film may seem a little slow-it's an hour before our hero first becomes a werewolf,and a subplot with a detective investigating the village where it all began seems a little redundant. There are not really enough scenes with the werewolf-he transforms twice and after the second time the film soon ends slightly abruptly. Nonetheless,the ending is genuinely sad,director John Landis avoiding the temptation to play it laughs.An American Werewolf In London has it's flaws but it's still an example of something which is extremely hard to pull off. The sequel,An American Werewolf In Paris,is a fun watch in it's own right but not nearly as good. "},{"Title":"It's not a comedy but a true horror","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American Werewolf in London is not a comedy but as a few funny bits ,But it is a horror and you might want to put the dog in the garden before you watch it. No other werewolf film can match this one its the best by far.The acting is better than mast 80's horror films and it as got a good cast in general and a good story line as well. Rick Baker's effects are 100% and still look brilliant after all this time.I will recommend this one for any horror fan who as not seen it yet.PS Beware the Moon... "},{"Title":"one of the best were wolf movies!!!!!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was one of the coolest were wolf movies. It's packed with excellent special effects, A good script and some cool gore scenes. The cast did a great job, and so did the director. 4/5. "}{"Title":"Terrifying and hilarious; a truly original horror film.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Landis, a comical director by nature, ventures into the horror genre; creating a film both horrific and humorous.  This tale is anything but a cliche, as we watch a young man named David deal with his curse of lycanthropy (changing into a werewolf.)  The movie is filled with frightening sequences, including the now famous transformation scene.  The lack of computer technology is a plus here because the effects are all real, making them all the more scary.  The shocks, however, are matched with jolts of comic relief, such as when a walking corpse complains that the other undead are all boring to talk to.  Many movies try to mate comedy with horror, but this is one of the few times it actually works.  These elements mix with Landis' strong visual style, producing an exhilarating film experience.  The movie's one flaw is the lead actor, David Naughton.  His acting just isn't up to par with the rest of the cast (highlighted by Griffin Dunne, who plays the wise-cracking corpse.)  Overall 7 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Way too much padding","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" AAWIL is a modern day setting of a hoary old horror cliché. Man gets bitten by werewolf, becomes a werewolf himself and then goes on the rampage etc. All this is familiar stuff, done to death many times, but here we have the addition of a strain of darkly morbid comedy, represented by the regular appearances of Jack in increasing degrees of decay throughout the film. This raises the film above the average, but it does not save it from the boring musical montages (there are 3 of them!) or the frequent gimmicky nightmare sequences (too many to mention) which pad out the middle portion of the film.The film starts well on the Yorkshire Moors, with the local inhabitants of a village pub (the wonderfully named Slaughtered Lamb) playing the part of ignorant and fearful villagers in films we have seen made many times. Then David is bitten and Jack is killed by the werewolf and then David wakes inexplicably in London (why? Are there no hospitals in Yorkshire?) Nurse Alex takes a liking to Jack and gives him a treatment beyond that usually available on the NHS. (It is not standard practise for English nurses to watch over patients at night or read them to sleep with stories but Americans seem to romanticise much about the NHS). There is some laboured comedy involving 2 detectives investigating the case. Then the padding nightmare scenes start. First David running naked and killing animals, then one involving his family being killed by masked Nazis(huh? what relevance does this have?) from which he awakens to see Alex being killed by another masked Nazi -but this turns out to be just another dream. This is such a cheat that I almost feel like giving it a 1 rating just for that.Things perk up with the re-appearance of Jack. Then Alex whisks David to her flat. This brings about the first montage, a love making scene to Moondance. Soon we will get bad moon rising in a rather pointless montage quickly followed by Blue Moon during the actual transformation scene. This transformation is very impressive.Eventually David goes to a porno cinema to meet Jack again, who is now very decomposed. This scene, we the appearance of a host of people who David has killed, demanding he kill himself is the comedy highlight of the film.The final climax is overblown but the effect is rather ordinary. "},{"Title":"Good effects with quirky dialog and interesting soundtrack","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If The Evil Dead could be described as slapstick horror, An American Werewolf in London is screwball horror. Two Americans hiking around England, bickering about their choice of vacation and generally teasing each other with every step, end up getting kicked out of a creepy inn in a creepy town, only to get attacked by a werewolf. One of them dies, but returns from the dead to tell the other one that he must kill himself before he get turned, whereas the other one is more interested in getting into a cute nurse's (played by the lovely and charming Jenny Agutter) pants. Hilarity and horror ensues.In terms of straight-up entertainment value, there is little equal. The dialog is at times funny, at times sassy, and in some compelling ways realistic (especially the opening dialog and the moment in the porno theatre). There are enough thrills here and there, plus some gore for fans, though if you're looking for something scary, there's more chilling out there. On the other hand, the special effects are second-to-none and, these days, a real treat away from the CGI diet. This movie is probably retroactively better than it used to be, simply because it's so simply produced and well thought out.Another point of interest is it's classic rock score. There are some unusual music tastes in this film away from the typical tension-building score, and it helps add an idiosyncrasy and humor to the film beyond what's happening on the screen.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A New Kind Of Ugly American...","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Landis directs this popular horror/comedy about two backpacking Americans who are attacked on the moors of England by a werewolf. One dies, but the other survives, only to discover to his horror that he is now cursed with being a werewolf himself, and his friend really isn't all that dead...Released the same year as The Howling, this does have impressive makeup F/X, but almost nothing else to recommend it, being an exceptionally violent, crass, and heartless film, that keeps everyone at arm's length throughout, entirely dependent on the F/X and shock sequences to keep the viewer interested, which didn't work on me. It ends so abruptly that, even though you're glad this unsavory film is over, you still can't quite believe it. "},{"Title":"A Classic Werewolf Film","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American Werewolf in London, An (1981)*** 1/2 (out of 4) Classic horror film has friends David (David Naughton) and Jack (Griffin Dunne) backpacking through the fog drenched hills of London. One night the duo are attacked by a werewolf where Jack is ripped to shreds and killed but David lives. Soon he's going to regret surviving because when the moon is full he too turns into a wild beast. I watch this film after every five years or so and it's rather amazing to see how well it holds up with each passing year as time has certainly been kind to the movie. This isn't really a horror film or a comedy but instead it's pure Landis, which means you're going to have just about everything thrown in from graphic violence and gore to some great comedy moments and even some rather sad moments. It seems Landis wanted to make two or three different movies but crammed everything into this one and in the end everything mixes quite well together. There's no question that in the end this is still a horror film as it's these moments that are most memorable. The most famous sequence is the transformation, which is still rather eye opening nearly thirty-years after being created. This sequence is certainly amongst the greatest in any werewolf picture and they rightfully got Baker an Oscar. Another great moment is the opening attack, which is pretty intense. I love the way Landis keeps us guessing as to where the beast is and then throws in a brief moment of humor just to throw us off guard. The humor that works is Dunne's decomposing corpse that keeps showing up to warn his friend of what's coming. The make up on him are terrific and really adds some great dark humor. The performances are another major plus as Naughton really makes for a believable man trapped with this curse and he makes us care and feel for everything he does. Jenny Agutter is wonderful as the love interest and she helps make the ending so moving. The soundtrack is another major plus as Landis picked all the moon titles he could get. This early part of the decade delivered quite a few different werewolf movies but after all these years I think it's pretty clear that this one here was the best of the bunch. "},{"Title":"The combination of horror and comedy doesn't work here","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is often praised for being one of the first to combine both horror and comedy elements, a style that would go on to inspire countless other films. But my main criticism is that I don't think this combination works. The film flows between the two well but it results in an uncertain atmosphere. The comedic elements remove the tension that makes horror films what they are, and the comedy itself is never strong enough to justify this loss.The exception to this is the cinema scene which I think is the strongest in the film and the only point were I felt the genre combination worked well. The transformation was another excellent one. The effects are phenomenal and the performance is captivating. The undeniable chemistry between the two actors did not make up for the stiff acting and uncertain deliveries. A few strong scenes were not enough to push this film higher than a 5/10 for me "},{"Title":"Meatloaf in a Box","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a technician's movie, not an actor's. I say this about John Landis' An American Werewolf in London because many of the performances and much of the humor are forced. Don't get me wrong--I have a great deal of affection for Landis' work in general and for his brave but failed attempt to mix his sharp and snarky humor with the natural tragedy that is the story of werewolves. AAWIL simply tries too hard to be an everyman, a modern retelling of the classic tale of the innocent who is attacked by a lycanthrope and must decide if he will end the bloodline of the monster by his own hand.Landis' has crafted a grim, gory, occasionally funny, and usually gasp-worthy film narrative of a college graduate on a walking tour through England who survives a werewolf's attack only to fall victim to its curse. The technician remark at the start of this review pertains to how hard Landis works to force us to care about the characters with slick plot tricks, startling violence, sex (the romp in the shower between David Naughton and Jenny Agutter, with Van Morrison's Moondance in the background, works better than the de-icer you sprinkled on your walk last winter), and his trademark mixing of modern humor and old-school jokes. You feel creepy laughing at the supernatural interplay between Naughton and his college buddy, long after said buddy's face has begun to shred and slough off from decomposition. But, you laugh anyway.That's why I said the movie feels forced. It works--and it sometimes works very well--as a horror movie, a comedy, and a snapshot of London in 1980, but the viewer feels manipulated during and after the film. It's as if Landis said to himself, Today, I will be fresh and spontaneous, as I was in Animal House, or I will die trying!Instead of fresh, there are fresh kills littering the streets and alleys of London. Instead of spontaneity, there's one set-piece of film construction after another. It's like watching a box store being built, and you only occasionally wonder what's going to sold in the store. If Landis had been able to maintain that wonder throughout the 97 minutes, he would have delivered a masterpiece instead of a blueprint. "},{"Title":"A melange of genres that doesn't always mix well","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  American Werewolf is a great concept two unequivocally 80s American college kids trekking through the bowels of England's moors stumble upon a cursed lycanthrope who turns both their lives upside down.  It has a sizable spattering of dark humor, sex, outstanding transformation scenes courtesy of Rick Baker, creative death chases (watch out London commuters!) and a terrific soundtrack, especially CCR's Bad Moon Rising. There are also some weird extraneous elements that are completely unexpected (including a very memorable dream sequence); all of this helps AWIL stand out well above most other werewolf epics. Unfortunately, towards the climax it's a little hard to figure out what John Landis was really going for, because the movie ends perfunctorily and leaves the viewer unsatisfied overall; there are too many loose ends that aren't closed, and the jarring transitions between humor and gore don't always work so well.  Still, it's a worthy venture in this subgenre, easily better than passable fare like Silver Bullet but still lacking when compared to The Howling.  Avoid the sequel, any magic the original possessed is absent there and the CGI lycans are pretty weak (as most horror fans would agree!)  "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Two American hitchers in London fall prey to a werewolf on a lonely stretch of road one foggy night. One survives, but the other one dies. The one that survives is plagued by strange dreams and his supposedly dead best friend telling him to kill himself before he turns into a werewolf and kills.This film does have some rather funny moments, terrific special effects and a game cast, but is extremely uneven. It's problem is that it keeps changing tones way to often and jerkily and this fault is mainly caused by the director and scripter. As a result of it changing tones so often, we never really care about the characters or what is happening to them and the ending seems rather abrupt too boot.Rated R; Graphic Violence, Nudity, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Full Moon","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A great horror movie that can be funny too? Here it is and it works! John Landis is absolutely against the term horror-comedy being labeled on this movie. Whatever you want to call it though, it is a great combination, of scary and funny moments he dishes out here. Not to mention one of the greatest transformation scenes, like ever! But to reduce the movie to that particular scene wouldn't be doing it justice at all! While Mr. Landis does everything that he shouldn't be doing (if you would follow a painting by the numbers kind of approach, to get your movie right), everything he does fits perfectly. You have people/characters in here, who are not really serving the story or have any particularly purpose to the story. In other words, the movie would have worked without them. But as in his other movies, he has this strange people in, who actually elevate the movie and make it different. It's great to hear people, who wouldn't even have a line in other movies, getting not only screen time, but also some weird/strange funny lines. This all works fantastic with the horror, that slowly builds up ... a classic, that is a must-see for anyone! And it hasn't dated! "}{"Title":"AN American WEREWOLF IN London (1981)","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As one who enjoys both ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN (1948) and AN American WEREWOLF IN London (1981) equally a great deal, I have been reading Joe and John's last posts with interest and not a little amusement! As Joe has often said is it so hard to find the comedy funny or the horror bits scary &#150; in either film?I have written at length about ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN earlier in this thread, so I will concentrate here on AN American WEREWOLF IN London. This is another film, like BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935), that seems bound to meet with some detractors in view of its unexpected mix of horror and humor &#150; in fact, some critics actually called it a 'spoof', which it most certainly isn't.I've watched it a number of times &#150; in fact, you might say I grew up with it this was still fairly new when it appeared on our local TV back in 1985, although I wasn't allowed to watch it (I was only 9 at the time!). Later on, I caught up with it and loved it immediately. Thankfully, I did not pick up the early bare-bones (and reportedly subpar) DVD edition &#150; also because I entered the game, so to speak, fairly late in December 2000, and by this time the disc was already OOP &#150; so when Universal announced the 20th Anniversary Special Edition last year, I hastened to pre-order it. Now, out of some 320 DVDs, only a very small percentage are films made after the 1970s &#150; so its immediate inclusion in my collection goes some way in explaining my affection for this film, which I consider to be the finest werewolf movie ever made.AN American WEREWOLF IN London is full of marvelous scenes &#150; in fact, the script is very well written economical but intelligent, scary yet funny, at once moving and exciting. The early section on the moors sets the tone perfectly for the film's juggling of audience sensibilities the humorous anecdotes of the locals in the pub (the 'Remember the Alamo!' gag is my favorite), until they are overtaken by fear of the supernatural, leading to the monster's savage attack on the two young American students in which Griffin Dunne meets a painful and bloody end, and the werewolf curse is passed on to his surviving companion.The numerous hallucinations that plague the David Naughton character are among the best and most inventive scenes in the film (by the way, did anyone notice the similarity of the scene &#150; even down to the music - where David is running through the woods and the opening sequence of DEMONS OF THE MIND 1972?). In the interview with John Landis on the 20th Anniversary DVD (I would have cherished a full-length commentary by him as an alternate to the one provided), he admits to being influenced by Luis Bunuel in his writing of the screenplay, and these fascinating/disturbing moments live up to the array of surrealistic dream imagery that colors the Master's own work. Griffin Dunne shows up again as Jack's gradually decomposing corpse who informs Naughton of what's to come, and even takes care to advise him to take his own life so as not to hurt other people.The first transformation sequence is justly celebrated taking place as it does in a suburban setting, punctuated by the nostalgic song (the appropriately-titled 'Blue Moon') that plays over it, Landis allows us to feel the inherent loneliness of the situation, not to mention the excruciating pain that we can only imagine the character is going through! Now this is where it differs from other contemporary werewolf films &#150; THE HOWLING, THE COMPANY OF WOLVES and even this film's would-be follow-up, Anthony Waller's ludicrous AN American WEREWOLF IN Paris (1997) &#150; in all of which we get a plethora of werewolves where one would suffice. We feel pity for a lone man, involuntarily turned into a monster, as we also do for Lon Chaney Jr.'s Larry Talbot and Oliver Reed's Leon in THE CURSE OF THE WEREWOLF (1961) &#150; but too many cooks (or, in this case, wolves) invariably spoil the broth and lessen the impact considerably rather than heighten it!The werewolf attacks are striking without showing too much these sequences are undeniably violent, but thankfully do not linger on the gore, while the film's unique razor-sharp wit is never too far away. The scene in the London Underground, for example, is extremely well handled &#150; a supreme example of hair-raising suspense - and the glimpse we get to see of the monster (there is more of it in the 'Outtakes' section on the DVD) is a satisfying foretaste of the film's memorable climax. The 'meeting of the undead' in the porn theater could very well have been in poor taste, if not for Landis' matter-of-fact presentation and the sheer oddity of the whole concept!The climax is again very well handled the police inspector losing his head, the mayhem in Piccadilly Circus, and finally the death of the cornered werewolf with its undeniable touch of pathos &#150; and then the abrupt fade-out to the strains of yet another cover of 'Blue Moon'. Frankly, I have yet to see a horror film made since its release which can match it &#150; or indeed approach it - and it's a pity that Landis has never made anything even remotely as good afterwards. "},{"Title":"More noteworthy than entertaining","Date":"27 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Time is a cruel judge and there are few better examples of that than An American Werewolf in London. This is a well made and very clever film which, in its day, was more remarkable and historically significant. The passing of the years, the coarsening and acceleration of our culture and the movie's own impact on popular imagination have unfortunately robbed it of most of its appeal. Now, the most noticeable things about it are its weaknesses and not its strengths. As cliché as it sounds, sometimes you really did have to be there to appreciate what all the fuss was about. That's the case here, so I'd first and foremost encourage anyone who watches this flick to keep that in mind.David and Jack (David Naughton and Griffin Dunne) are a couple of puffy coat-wearing Yanks who are backpacking their way across England when, on a night when the moon in full, they're attacked by a savage beast on the moors. Jack is slaughtered, the beast slain by villages and the badly wounded David only sees the animal transformed back into a man before he wakes up weeks later in a London hospital. There he flirts with a beautiful nurse (Jenny Agutter) and chats with Jack's undead spirit. The beast, you see, was a werewolf and Jack is condemned to spend eternity in limbo until the monster's bloodline is ended. David survived being bitten, which means he's going to become a werewolf. So, the only way for his friend to rest in peace is for David to kill himself. And he's better hurry up about it because the next full moon is only a few days away.There's a lot to admire in An American Werewolf in London but I'm going to start with its flaws, since those are what most modern viewers will primarily see in it. The plot is painfully sparse and nothing more than the bare bones of the werewolf story everyone learns growing up, with no attempt to expand, extend or amplify the tale. Writer/director John Landis uses some startling dream sequences to fill time, but there's no disguising that little happens for the first hour of this year. The special effects, while cutting edge for their day, have been far surpassed. Anyone who's grown up with horror-comedy as a fully formed sub-genre will also detected the abrupt and severed nature of how the two are blended here. The ironic, self-referential distancing that has come to traditionally lubricate the mixture is almost entirely absent. Even when the occur virtually side-by-side, the laughs and screams the film means to provoke are separate impulses. The movie has funny bits and scary bits and there's not a lot of connection between the two.Those are the things that will cause a lot of viewers to react negatively to An American Werewolf in London and that's a shame. There are some genuine laugh-out-loud moments here. Landis demonstrates his skill by succeeding where so many lesser filmmakers fail by making his characters talk and act like believable human being who are just living their lives, rather than designated victims waiting to be killed. The horror genre has also developed a look, sound and feel where if you see any random 15 seconds of film, you instantly know it came from a horror flick. That's not the case here. This looks, sounds and feels like a regular movie that just happens to deal with supernaturally violent subject matter in comedic fashion.And while it may not have been the first to do so, An American Werewolf in London might have been the most important factor in changing lycanthropy in Hollywood. The image of the werewolf in entertainment used to be someone in regular human clothing who was really hair and had an animalistic face. Landis rejects that concept in favor of a four-legged creature with a snout and mostly non-human aspects. In the wake of this film, werewolves stopped being guys in costumes and became puppets or CGI creations and that visual interpretation helped establish the parameters for everything else about the notion. The pop culture evolution of the werewolf could have gone in a completely different direction. Instead, John Landis became the midwife, if not the father, of all the howling beasties we see in the Underworld and Twilight franchises and most every other werewolf story told since this one.I liked An American Werewolf in London, but more as a museum piece than as entertainment. It has its charms. It's also going to seem dated to those to young to remember what werewolf movies were like before it. As long as you understand that going in, you'll probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A messy mix of genres that will let you shaking...; no, laughin...; no, crying...","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Despite its status as cult movie, this one is a rather bad flick and that for so many reasons. We may start with the messy, confusing, mix of different genres and the bad acting by the lead. But there is also an obvious lack of focus in the plot itself, a tendency to meander from anecdote to anecdote, rather than go gradually feeding an initial mood or atmosphere, as it must be the case for any self-respecting horror flick.The story is basic guy's bitten by werewolf, turns into one, but not before falling in love with girl. He's shot dead while out in town for a night of werewolfing; girl weeps. But not even that simplicity keeps it from running into trouble. First, there's no building up of tensions here. Things just happen, we watch them happening, and we may as well forget about them as soon as they disappear in the screen. The basic reason is that there's no additional emotional moment generated at every step of the way and, as the result, at no point along the movie we get into it, psychologically involved in the story. So much so, we could stop viewing at any time without feeling we have lost anything. That's what happens when you mix a loose plot with flawed direction and flawed editing. Every time the film starts building up mood, momentum, Landis has to bring it to a screeching halt with some gimmick, joke, and that from the very beginning. Here, an otherwise promising start, a mood maker--two guys walking in the midst of a barren wilderness--is promptly ruined by the trite dialog about one of them banging some girl. Minutes later the tension created amongst patrons in the town's pub by their sudden arrival is promptly dissipated when someone starts telling a joke, for no reason at all! Later we got a clumsy detective-a British Clouzot--distracting us from the starting point of what could have been a thrilling crime investigation. That's how the movie stumbles along, in a purely anecdotal way, as there's no emotional charge being added in every scene, as it should be the case, the tension generated in one particular episode dissipating along it, which eliminates all chances for a crescendo and a spectacular finale.What manages also to considerably cool the mood of the flick is the bad acting by the lead. I had a few chuckles reading the reviews here, some people wondering how his career could have gone nowhere later and even why he was bypassed for the Oscars! Truth is, his acting is pretty unconvincing. When lying dead on the street, at the end of the flick, he looks like just taking a nap and when devouring his first prey, in a dream sequence, he looks like just munching a pizza in some cafe terrace. For most of the movie he's incapable of conveying any anxiety, pain, horror in his facial expression. So much so, the best scenes are those in which he doesn't even appear, as when the doctor goes to the provincial town to investigate and when he reunites with the girl to try to solve the mystery. The movie would have been a lot better if it had focused instead in their investigation, leaving what happens with David in a suggested, understated way.In many scenes, especially at the end, Landis seems to be showing that he hasn't got a clue about how to mix horror & comedy. See, if you want a successful mix you got to leave tragedy out. Deaths cannot be painful or sad in your flick. Even if they are tragic, they just have to happen and happen in a funny way. And if someone has to cry for the dear departed, that got to be funny too, not heartbreaking. If you still don't get the idea, watch Polanski's Pardon but your teeth are on my neck. The main problem about the film is that it doesn't even know what it is Tragedy? Supernatural flick? Comedy noir? All along we are being led into thinking the third, only to be told at the end that this is a tragedy. Consider for ex. the meeting in the theater (and why would a ghost ask for a meeting in a dark room, does he think this is a spy thriller? See, even characters are confused here about the genre). During that meeting David's victims expose their horrible wounds but then they chat in such a casual way you'd think they are just planning for their next barbecue. And this is typical of many scenes, where the juxtaposition of two or more genres in one scene, dialog, leads to the elimination of any possible intended effect, be that of any kind. In this case, the theater scene is not tense, spooky or scary--because of the humor in it--but as it is neither funny, which makes it at the end lamer. That's what plagues the entire movie, until the last shot.In all, a mediocre flick, barely entertaining for a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Werewolves at their peak !","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the golden age for horror. Just like the 40's were for monster movies, the early 80's were great for a couple outstanding werewolf-films. The first half of this decade has brought us the Howling, The company of wolves and Silver bullet and this one from John Landis...I recommend them all. This film sets one of the best atmospheres I've ever seen. The movie opens with great shots of the British countryside, while the song Blue Moon is playing (the calm version, the more Rock 'n Roll version appears in the end) I don't think a better opening scene is possible for a film like this. It's obvious right away  although John Landis made his name in comedy (Animal House) he knows what he's doing in the field of horror. Everything in this movie is in the right proportions. There's a good amount of creepy scenes, a great soundtrack (all the songs are about the moon...and songs like Bad moon Rising by CCR always work) a good acting by the main characters (Naughton convinces, Agutter is adorable and Dunne is GREAT !) There's also a lot of humor in the film, but the film never makes fun with the genre of horror or the myth of Werewolves. That's an achievement on itself, I believe. And last but not least the make up effect are sublime. The transformation from man to wolf is now, more than 20 years later, still one of the best scenes in horror ever !! The film got an Oscar for that and it surely deserved that.If your wanting to see a good old-fashioned Werewolf movie  Look no further, you found it. I assure you'll love it. More than 15 years later, they made a sort of sequel. Set in Paris this time. That one contains a few good scenes (and a lovely Julie Delphy) but it isn't half as good as Amercian Werewolf in London is. "},{"Title":"It has some good moments, but it's not worth watching","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie tries to be a blend of horror and comedy. Unfortunately it fails in both respects. There are some '80s movies that successfully combine horror and dark humor; this is not one of them. In the '80s, special effects weren't as capable as today so film-makers needed to rely more on mood and atmosphere for horror movies. This movie had no sense of danger, no tension, nothing. One year after this movie, Carpenter released The Thing. That is how you make a tensionate atmosphere. Compared to it (and others of its time), An American Werewolf in London seems like a joke as a horror movie. Add to this the fact that it's not exactly brilliant in the comedy department either and you get mediocrity.But it's not even mediocre; it's bad, due to its script. I couldn't help but notice the many plot errors...if the movie would've been released in present day, it would probably be destroyed by critics (and for good reason the script is worse than that of today's action flicks like GI Joe, which aren't really known for their great story). I don't know who approved the script, but he must've been drunk when he did. In the beginning, the two tourists can't stay on the road. This is pretty much impossible, even if you talk to a friend. But hey, it's not a big deal. Towards the end though, the script falls apart. After hearing about the 6 people killed, David goes crazy and tries to get himself arrested (which he fails). Logic dictates he should've listened to Alex and be kept under observation and probably taken to the police by the doctor (which he tried himself without result). As it is, the writer just needed a reason to keep David in the street and chose a stupid way of advancing the plot. Not to mention the ending scenes with the mob that (unrealistically and illogically) gathers around the cinema's entrance just to stop the police from doing their job...people usually run; i wonder in what alternative universe would people gather near the place where strange growling sounds are heard. There's also the scene where Alex couldn't be held by 3-4 policemen and escapes the police line and into the alley, but the doctor (a strong man) is successfully held by only two policemen. Another evident and stupid plot advancement technique, necessary to have the ending between David and Alex. And David's death scene...that scene is an example of bad direction added to a bad script. First you're shown a wide scene, in which there's at least 50 meters (i think there's actually more) from the police line to where David(werewolf) and Alex are, with Alex between the police and David. Then the police shoots and kills David. Two questions come to mind 1)were there snipers on the roof?(because the policemen that we see shooting are too far away) 2)how did the bullets go around Alex and into David...maybe the policemen could bend bullets PIt really doesn't stand the test of time. It has some good moments, but it's not really worth watching. You could probably find better horror-comedies to watch (i recommend the Evil Dead series). As a conclusion, I regret wasting my time watching this movie. The only good thing about it, is the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A near-masterpiece","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The only thing that keeps it from being the greatest werewolf movie of all time is some crappy acting, mainly on the part of the Brits in the cast. Scary, funny, ferocious, bleak, and David Naughton should have become a big star after this. So much for predicting anything to do with Hollywood. The scene where he transforms is right up there with THE HOWLING. In some ways, this may be the better of the two films. "},{"Title":"a little overated","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  good werewolf flick but not great and a little overrated it has ample gore though and great makeup effects by rick baker and its a little slow paced and uneven but it had lots of effective moments to keep me watching maybe i missed a little something i will watch it again one day to find out anyway this is well worth seeing *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"New-fangled horror movie homage...morbid humor and gore, yet nearly always with tongue-in-cheek","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Writer-director John Landis' amusing comedy-thriller, a throwback to the monster movies of the 1940s, underlines its nostalgia for the past with black humor and outré shocks--but, surprisingly, the film isn't heavy and only occasionally seems mean-spirited. Two likable American tourists, back-packing through Northern England, run afoul of a werewolf; one of the men survives, much to his eventual regret. Landis has great affection for the werewolf entries which came before this; he alternates between a cheeky sensibility and full-throttle horror, and his handling is just nimble enough to distinguish the wit from the gore. Oscar-winner for Rick Baker's trenchant makeup effects. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Bela, Claude, and Lon did it better...an un-necessary revisitation","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a pointless remake of a classic film...made not to shock or scare...because it really does not do either ( if it does..it does so minimally), but for pure entertainment value. It was one of those films made when Hollywood was suffering from its malaise, not to be revived until Spielberg came through with Raiders and E.T, etc. This film, in retrospect, was part of that malaise. I recall having seen it during its original theatrical release...I did not particularly care for it then, nor do I care much for it now, having seen it again recently. It simply has too many flaws, and was made in what I can only mercifully call the 'Hollywood assembly-line' fashion. It is not especially well worked out or thought out, though the make up and technology have improved tremendously since the days of Boris and Bela and Lon, Jr. In the older films, the high dramatic quality and atmospheric terror compensated for the tech short-comings. In modern times, it seems to be the other way around. We have technology up the rear-end, and we fall miserably short on the quality of the scripts and the acting and, sometimes, with the directing. This film failed to find the middle-ground, if such terror-terra exists. Filthy language, nudity, and straight-up indecency also rob the audience of any claim of morality or moral tone to the movie ( and I am NOT one of these fundamentalist Bible-thumpers...but let's face it...there was a moral under-pinning to films of the 30s, 40s,and 50s, and I think it was a good thing...it made us think and feel...and we were not de-sensitized by any of those films as we are by to-day's gory celluloid !)or of our humane bent. There...I have had my say. The film has acquired 'cult-status',and so be it. But the subject matter had been better stated some 40 years earlier, and John Landis and crew had little if anything to add to it that was of substance. In some instances it is better to leave well enough alone...that is, unless you have the skills and the craftsmanship to improve upon it, which clearly was not the case in this instance. "},{"Title":"A great idea badly executed","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON is arguably the most brilliantly creative vehicle from the 80s, but ideas alone don't make full-length feature films.The film's script provides its audience with precious little story, and what there is of it is illogical and therefore unconvincing.  Instead of story, Landis fills the screen with gimmicky sequences that undermine the impact of the truly substantial ones that work.  Provided that the dialogue, which is really quite awful throughout the film, be reworked--the nightmarish home-invasion, the second visitation of the protagonist's savaged friend, the protagonist's transformation, the hilarious balloons-in-the-park and the haunted theater sequences are all keepers.  The rest of the script should be scrapped and replaced with a story that makes sense.Further, the film's lovers, David and Alex, are virtual strangers--not only to the audience, but to one another.  The audience needs to know who these people are and understand what motivates their love.  Given that Alex invests the most and is willing to put her life at risk, it is especially important that we be given some clue as to why she apparently comes to love David so much.  Reducing David's and Alex's relationship to what appears to be a casual affair while depicting acts of great devotion is confounding and seriously undermines the impact of the film's horror.  Also, the film's comedic element is introduced too early in Landis' version.  This should not occur until after the romantic element is well established.Landis' film is a B-movie, unconsciously presented as something more, but not in the tradition of the great, classic noirs of the 40s and 50s.  This film really is mediocre.Not withstanding, the film's makeup, for which it deservedly won its only Oscar, and some of its special effects are really quite excellent and continue to hold up against today's standards.  And though its effectiveness is somewhat undone by the film's shortcomings, the juxtaposition of real horror and comedy is stunningly imaginative.I give it a 5 out of 10 for creativeness and effort, and strongly recommend it to film lovers, as this is a potentially great film still waiting to happen and should not be allowed to languish as a cult classic, namely because it isn't, i.e., a classic.  I recommend Michael McDowell to write and Tim Burton to direct the remake. "}{"Title":"One of the most overrated horror movies of all time!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know what people see in this movie. It's not that entertaining. There's nothing scary in this movie. Couple times I laughed in this movie. It's a semi-ok movie, but well over-hyped. I give this movie ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"More of a landmark in makeup.","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had watched it this movie a long time back and so totally forgot that I did that when I saw this movie featured as one of Empire magazine's Top 500 Movies list, I decided I really should rent it and watch it. Well I apparently didn't like the movie then and I decidedly still don't like it now.The achievement of Werewolf, it seems, from reading various comments on IMDb, is in its makeup, and yes, after so many years, the scenes in which man becomes werewolf are still remarkable for their smooth and realistic transformations and into a werewolf that looks... well, like a real werewolf. But, as with Citizen Kane, movies known for their landmark technical achievements or how they brought what to movies yet to come, doesn't exactly move this layman moviegoer.Still, all that would be irrelevant if Werewolf were a good movie. But it's not. It borders on both camp and humor but doesn't quite reach either, and as a horror, I certainly wasn't horrified at any point, though, admittedly, I might've zoned out later in the movie. So yea, beyond its excellent makeup and special effects in the few transformation scenes, the appeal of this movie mystifies me. "},{"Title":"How disappointing!!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie lost all credibility and suspension of disbelief in the last fifteen minutes. If he really cared as much as he was whining about the whole movie, then why run away when he was being brought to someone who wanted to help. And the Doctor character was rendered totally useless after doing some great Children of the Corn type of investigatory work.My only guess is that we are left to think of the werewolf, who out loud is crying in his milk about his sanity, must just be really, really dumb. Oh, and everyone in London, especially the bobby's are idiots to boot apparently.Instead he does nothing until its too late and kills more people!! What a shame... this really had great potential, but bad character decisions (really inconsistent character decisions) shot this movie in the foot. "},{"Title":"Typically overdone John Landis flick","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw An American Werewolf In London when werewolf movies and transformation scenes in horror films were all the rage back in the early '80s. I love horror films and went to see as many as I could back then. Gore or violence never bothered me even though I prefer horror movies which are on the subtle side. Well, I didn't like this movie at all and subtle it ain't. I actually walked out of it halfway through because my friend wanted to leave. She hated it while I wasn't too impressed by it, so we agreed that we had better things to do than watch this thing.With time, I eventually saw the whole movie and I still didn't like it. I recently caught it again on cable and AWIL is clearly a disappointment. There were so many things going for it. Some scenes were effective, certainly at the beginning but the movie devolves quickly after his dead best friend starts visiting David, the werewolf-to-be, and when a nurse (Jenny Agutter) brings David to her house (totally improbable) and those annoying, unnecessary dream sequences. Those dream sequences have almost nothing to do with the werewolf angle. Certainly the bizarre Nazi mutants who kill David's entire family dream sequence. IMO, those scenes took away from the main story and basically told me that Landis was bored with the werewolf storyline and felt the movie needed to be punctured with gratuitously violent dreams.Then there's the whole moment when the werewolf is trapped in the movie theater by the police and eventually escapes and causes chaos in London is yet another typically gratuitous John Landis scene. Preceding the history making car crash scene in THE BLUES BROTHERS, the escaping werewolf (which, btw, looks totally unconvincing or looks like a bear more than a wolf) causes a massive car pill-up where we see people being run over, being hit by cars and going through store windows or crushed between vehicles. This moment is unnecessary to the storyline and yet Landis felt the need to show us in gory details bystanders being killed senselessly.Because of these numerous unnecessary scenes peppered throughout the movie's length the story barely hangs together in a cohesive manner. And the much vaunted emotional ending is basically a replay of the one in KING KONG. The mix of (slapstick) comedy, violence, horror and romance doesn't work at all here. Only Jenny Agutter comes out looking good in this feeble special effects project. David Naughton is also amiable enough but his character is just a cypher to the scene stealing fx. Watch the beginning, up to when the two guys are attacked by the werewolf and then turn off the TV. Aside from Jenny, there's nothing worth watching after that. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing film!","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I went to see this one with high hopes but left the theatre wishing I could get my money back. The plot was good, as was the initial transformation scene but Rick Baker should've quit halfway through that. The finished werewolf looked more like a scruffy Chow dog than a ravening werewolf, certainly NOT as good as the werewolves in The Howling, Bad Moon, or Dog Soldiers! Anyway, every Horror movie buff knows you need silver bullets to kill a werewolf. The movie had a few scary moments but they were cheapened by the director's attempts to slip in some bathroom humor and low comedy for the teenagers in the audience. the nude sex scene was pretty good although Jenny Agutter really needed to be fed some cheeseburgers...she was so skinny she looked like a Twiggy wannabe. The man who played the Dr. in London and the guys in the pub were the best actors in the whole film. Actually, the old 1950's film, The Werewolf, was much better even though it was made on a shoestring budget. "},{"Title":"I'm a werewolf, you're a werewolf...","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm old enough to remember David Naughton's debut as the Dr Pepper dancer in a series of famous commercials in the '70s.  I'm a pepper, you're a pepper.. and so on.  He should have stuck to dancing in commercials.  He's charming to look at and is a good straight man for Griffin Dunne but he's no leading man.But it matters little in this case because John Landis glued this turkey together in such a haphazard manner as to belabor criticism of the finished product. I am finally giving the video away after letting it hang around for years collecting dust. I've watched it a few times thinking there must be some hilarious and subtle undertone that I've always missed.  There is nothing subtle about 'An American Werewolf in London'.  It's about scary make-up and zippy one-liners delivered with comedic aplomb by Griffin Dunne, one of the greatest comedy actors ever who has been ignored since Martin Scorsese's 'After Hours' sank like a stone.Jenny Agutter is also very good and her final tragic scene is well-tuned but leaves the viewer completely confused as to the intent of the director. Suddenly what had been a farce on horror movies turns deeply tragic in the last 30 seconds.  John Landis was one of those stoned, self-annointed, cool heads from the '70s who reached the limits of his talent with regurgitated episodes of 'The Twlight Zone' the famous film that cost three actors their lives under Landis's irresponsible direction.You can skip this one.Basil Seal Rides Again! "},{"Title":"Sadly typical.","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror fans always rave about An American Werewolf In London as if it were the only film of its godly kind, alike, and, likewise, matched by nothing other movie. But don't they pretty much say that about every other movie that's even slightly better than average? It would take five pages to sit here and list every movie horror fans say is a masterpiece, then I watch only to find it's downright average at best. That's the same sad story with An American Werewolf In London.After you've seen a certain about of movies&#151;genre makes no difference&#151;it's impossible to look over they fact that they're all the same, with maybe a handful that really stand apart. I've personally seen hundreds, if not thousands, of films, and by this point most of them blur together because they're all, basically, the same. Characters all blur together because most of them lack any distinguishing personality whatsoever. That's why I give most of the movies I see low scores. It takes a lot for movies to stand out of the blur, and An American Werewolf In London certainly isn't one of them.From open to close, An American Werewolf In London follows the same predictable plot as every other monster film. I'm a werewolf, oh no! I have to kill myself, oh no! An angry mob is after me, oh no! Though it's arguable that this movie did have a very large impact on the werewolf films to come, and it certainly did, I just don't care. I don't write reviews on cinematic importance; that's for the pretentious clones who wouldn't have their own opinion of a movie if they were forced to. It was typical at best. Ginger Snaps, Dog Solders, and even Underworld all put this to shame and I didn't even really like any of them.Also, the effects are absolutely horrible, even for the 80s. The werewolves all look like they're made out of plastic with fur taped to their backs. I've literally seen cheap Halloween masks that are more effective and realistic than those worn by the dead in this movie. Whenever I started to get into a cool scene, these effects really killed it.With that said, I didn't give An American Werewolf In London an even lower score because it tried. Some of the moments were actually funny. The directing/writing was slightly better than average. A few of the plot points were reviled in a way that was slightly original for the genre.But none of that can save it from being just a typical monster movie and nothing more. It's forgettable. Is it worth a watch? Eh. It doesn't matter either way. Just don't believe the hype this is perfection in the horror-comedy genre, because there are much better horror-comedies out there.3/10 "},{"Title":"A Non-Existent Horror Movie","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the most pathetic horror movie I have ever seen,With week acting and a crappy plot which makes no sence. Its the worst movie that you will watch and you will find yourself wondering 'why did they make this movie?' Its just awful. AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE3/10If you like this try An American Werewolf in Paris  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but lame","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok story, but lame.  Back in 81 the special effects were amazing, now they represenet how movies start.  With realistic computer graphics, better models etc, and the pushing the envelope on FX, this move is the stone wheel compared to the all season tire.  Not a bad movie, but by todays standards it ages poorly.  Rent it if you want, but I warn you this film will be disappointing. 5/10 "},{"Title":"An American Werewolf in London","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One late night two Americans (one being David Naughton) have come to England and are lost somewhere in the country. They find a pub and ask for help and they do not warn them about the known creature outside. It's not long before David and his friend are attacked by a werewolf. David's friend dies but he only got a scratch. Anyway, later in the film David seems fine, but his friend as a ghost keeps warning about turning into a werewolf himself, David obviously assumes he's dreaming. David's transformation scene is very scary and good effects, but its also amusing. Look out for Bottom's Rik Mayall and The Muppets' Frank Oz (not just on TV in the film). The film won Best Makeup at the Oscars. It was number 16 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments. Very good! "}{"Title":"Sorry, but its Over-rated!!!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really do suggest you avoid this silly film. It really is a waste of time and (if you intend to purchase it) money.I have found that people who like this movie primarily do so based on nostalgia. The special effects are beyond belief i.e. rubbish. Okay some of the first transformation into a wolf is rather good (the prosthetic work gives the scene a much more realistic feeling) but overall, it's silly. Notice how shots of the werewolf are always kept to a few seconds only. Why? Simple. Because it looks like a Muppet or something you can buy in a fancy dress store!Overall, lousy effects or not, it is still a rubbish film.  "},{"Title":"What an overrated piece of rubbish!","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"13 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I gave this film a 1 out of 10.  I just don't know what people see in it.  So what that it has a few snazzy special effects?  Special effects are meant to be the sauce on the meat, not the basis of a whole film.The plot just wandered about all over the place until it reached its pointless ending.  The humour wasn't dark, it was just unimaginative American comments on what they *think*, in their insular minds, England is like.  Americans need to get out more, that's all I can say.Then there was the acting, or lack thereof.  The actors, if I may call them that, presented themselves as appendages to the special effects.  It is as if they said 'See!  I can turn into a really, really realistic-looking werewolf (or zombie or be in the same film with people who do) so I don't need to bother with characterisation or even try to deliver my lines in a believable manner.'And then there's the music.  Does anyone bother these days to come up with anything *original* or are we just doomed to soundtracks being made up of rock songs which add nothing to the film?  Music is supposed to add non-visual depth to characters, and help to explain or tie together the plot not just be put in because the filmmakers can't think of anything else better to do.Don't waste your time and money renting this film.  Go do something more interesting and enjoyable, such as staring at a blank wall. "},{"Title":"Oh, the Horrors!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have nothing bad to say about this movie. This is one of those rare movies that happens to be atmospheric, witty and scary all at once without any compromise. The cast was very appropriate; my favorite character was definitely the doctor whose ice-cold demeanor was very effective. My favorite scene The first werewolf attack on the English moors. Talk about atmosphere!  "},{"Title":"Worst film I've ever seen","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After half an hour I turned off this piece of utter pigswill. I got the video from a Charity shop for a quid and this morning its going straight back. Its not too bad doing something for charity but giving this mindless garbage even one is only because I can't give it less so its really for the photo on the sleeve. The national news is more frightening but if this is supposed to be horror it doesn't make it.And neither does it as a comedy it just makes you feel bad What else is there to say about a film which does nothing other than yet another excuse for 4 letter language and bedroom scenes.How boring can you get? The money spent on making this film should have been given to charity-these morons have more money than sense and have total contempt for those who are tricked into viewing "},{"Title":"Could've Been Worse- They Could Have Used Sock Puppets","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What can be said about American Werewolf in London? First of all, the actors cannot do what their name implies. There would be far more emotion if they were cardboard stick figures with speech bubbles. Ugh.Normally while I'm watching a movie I will do play-by-play commentary. Normally, this annoys others. However, while we watched this movie, it was seemingly encouraged. Especially when he turns into a werewolf! Oh! Oh my gosh, my head! My head, it hurts so much! I'll rip my shirt off! Yes, that'll stop it from hurting! Wait, it didn't work! Maybe if I take off my pants neatly and carefully! Honestly, this movie's plot could not be seen if it were right in front of you. It is nonexistent. The film ends abruptly and it wasn't soon enough.Ugh. I was honestly startled to find out it was not only made into a collector's edition, but it had a sequel. And the special features! Wow! Bloopers that aren't funny and don't have audio! An 15 minute long piece about the actor's hand being cast which was dreadful yet somehow more interesting than the film itself! Do not rent it. Nothing is worth the torture. "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKED","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is completely defenestrate. It is so dumb and definitely not scary for adults. It starts off with two men walking in the woods (but on a field part) and one is bitten by a wolf. But we don't know it's a wolf. The other guy goes to the hospital and his friend is dead. And the guy in the hospital was bitten too but because he didn't die he will now become a werewolf in London.It's one of those weird movies because the dead guy shows up and starts talking when the other guy is watching a porn! The director tried to make it look like his face was falling off but it looked so fake. The whole entire movie wasn't scary and it had lots of parts where it turned out to be a dream, which got confusing and made it difficult to understand what was real and what was just a part of the man's dream (the werewolf). If they had taken these out and added better special effects it would have been a bit better. "}]