[{"Title":"Atmospheric Blend of Two Horror Sub-Genres.","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hell Night is a fun little 1981 horror film from the producer of Halloween. The plot is as follows - Twelve years ago, a man savagely murdered his wife and three of their deformed and disabled children, leaving only one son as a survivor, then hanging himself in his family mansion. Now, twelve years after the horrible murders, four college pledges for the Alpha Sigma Ro fraternity/sorority are forced to spend the night in Garth manor for their initiation. All seems to be going well, and the upperclassmen play a few tricks on the newcomers to try and scare them. But the jokes become horrifyingly real when the pranksters and the pledges begin to die. Could it be possible that the fourth son of the Garth family is still lurking somewhere on the grounds? I'd been wanting to see this for quite some time now, and I finally got my hands on the DVD and I thoroughly enjoyed this film. Is it clichéd? Sure it is, very much so, actually. The plot (while it isn't as original as it could be) is well paced and entertaining all the way. It blends both the slasher and haunted house horror sub-genres, and it does it with style. Sure, the horror clichés are present, but these clichés don't take the film down. The mansion was large, old, and creepy inside, adding to the classic haunted-house horror film feeling. Not to mention the pledges are dressed in period costumes reflecting the olden days. The acting was decent, not perfect but good enough. Linda Blair of The Exorcist is our main leading heroine, and her innocent character of Marti is likable. Peter Barton plays Jeff, and Vincent Van Patten plays the tough surfer dude along with Suki Goodwin as the party girl. All of the actors performed well for the most part, no real complaints there.There are some memorable scenes in the film, especially the rug scene and the chase in the underground tunnels with Marti and Jeff and the old deformed psychopath. Speaking of the villain, he was actually rather creepy and the makeup effects were decent, although we don't really get to see his face until the finale. There are some creative murder scenes that have surprisingly good special effects considering the time the film was made. But the film's overall atmosphere was the best part if you asked me. It kind of reminded me of a Scooby Doo episode with it's style and story, but much more violent than anything you'd ever see on a cartoon show.Overall, Hell Night is one of the most fun '80s horror films out there. The whole film has a fun, festive tone, and there are some pretty spooky scenes and the atmosphere was perfect in a classic, haunted-house horror kind of way. The atmosphere is killer (literally), there are some scary murders, and Linda Blair is the leading lady! What more can you ask for? Definitely check it out if you are a fan of the genre. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good with a great ending","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Overlooked this one when it was released but after seeing the DVD on sale and reading some positive comments  on this site decided to part with my cash. Was I disappointed? No. Once you get past the cheesy opening with its  gloriously B-movie style credits it turns into one of the more interesting stalk and slash films of the 80's. The set up  is simple - 4 frat pledges have to spend the night in a mansion with a sinister past and a killer on the loose... who will  survive? Do we care? Well yes, these kids are surprisingly likeable and, by cleverly putting them in pre-20th  Century fancy dress in a candle lit house, removes them from the contemporary  teen horror genre. The killings are  pretty conventional &#150; decapitation etc.&#150; but the film then builds up to a tense and exciting final 30 minutes with a  few surprises and a brilliantly staged ending. I'm probably over-praising this film somewhat but my expectations  were low and my rewards were a decent 6.5/10! "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love slasher films and this is one of my favorites....it seems one of the biggest complaints about 'Hell Night' is the lack of blood. Am I the only one here who remembers two other horror classics that have little bloodshed....'Halloween' and 'Texas Chain Saw Massacre' and before you disagree....watch them again. And notice that all the times that Leatherface smacks heads with the hammer and carves bodies with his chainsaw- very little blood hits the ground.....even 'Prom Night' shows black screen when someone is getting hacked up with an axe... And not all slasher films have to have the 'guess who the killer is' theme....in 'Halloween' we knew it was Michael Meyers and 'Chain Saw Massacre' we knew it was Leatherface and his family.... Back to 'Hell Night'...I thought everybody gave really good performances throughout...Linda Blair and Vincet Van Patten standout the most. I enjoyed the background story about the house's history...the house itself was an excellent setting. Character interaction was interesting...it didn't seem like pointless time filler. The killers were alot more scary than most of the slasher villains...plus the fact that they didn't get a lot of screen time which added to the suspense. A very under-rated slasher film. 'Hell Night' and almost any slasher film post 1979 are called 'Halloween' rip-offs...but, remember 'Black Christmas' came out years before 'Halloween' "},{"Title":"Underrated gem of a horror movie","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw the late night, television version of this movie as a child of 10 and was absolutely terrified. Back then it was perhaps my favorite horror film and I can remember recording it off TV on my Beta VCR.So naturally I thought when I tried the unedited, theatrical version as an adult, that the scares and tension would be gone, only to be replaced by B-movie cheese. Boy was I wrong! Hell Night, much like Friday the 13th and Halloween, is a horror movie that has, for me, stood the test of time.From the creepy setting to the scary villains, and horny, screaming college kids, this one has it all. The acting and characterizations were competent and believable (for a horror movie), with fine performances from all involved.Many of the typical horror clichés and dumb moves by the characters to serve the plot and score more victims were absent here. In fact, most of the characters didn't even realize a psychopath was on the loose until late in the film, when it was really too late.The setting was really milked for all it was worth by the director, with scenes not only throughout the creepy mansion, but a number of them below the house and within the extensive grounds. Some of the blue lighting in the outside sets really lent a spooky, almost supernatural ambiance to several scenes.I can't think of too many flaws here. Some gore hounds have complained about a lack of blood and guts. Did they see the same movie as me? I recall plenty of violent murders. The camera did not linger on them overly, but neither did it quick-cut away instantly like so many films of today. Some of the dialog was cheesy, but I don't have much of a problem with that if the story is good and the characters reactions to their dire predicament are believable.Overall, I found this to be a highly enjoyable, terrifying film experience. Certainly one of the most underrated horror movies. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Group of coed's for pledge night have to spend the night in a manor that local legend says a father went insane and murdered all of his family. The lone survivor, his deformed son, is rumored to be haunting the premises living in the underground tunnels and killing off unwelcomed visitors. Guess what, the legend is true as the coeds start to disappear one by one.Spooky teen slasher builds up a good amount of atmosphere and delivers suspense instead of the usual nudity and gore. It also takes the time to build up characterizations for some of its characters. Linda Blair ( a highly underrated actress) turns in a very appealing, strong & sexy performance and is supported by a better then usual cast, including Peter Barton. The finale is especially exciting.Rated R; Violence.  "},{"Title":"Talking in terms of 80's slashers...this is a good film!","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Linda Blair, everybody's favorite head-tolling girl, stars as an extremely cute college girl named Marti. Together with 3 other students, she's locked overnight in a haunted mansion as some sort of fraternity initiation rite. The house used to be inhabited by a family of weirdoes (figures&#133;) and the deformed son is believed to still dwell around in the tunnels underneath the mansion's basement. While the other fraternity members are playing pranks to increase the eeriness, the real killer comes to interfere&#133;Of course, you can't really refer to this 'Hell Night' as being a good film. It's an 80's slasher, produced in-between two 'Halloween'-films. The only reason of this film's existence is to raise more money, so you can't be too demanding for plots, logic or credibility. In it's own specific category, this is a more than decent film. I can name you over a thousand similar films that are worse but only a few that are better. It's amazing what a competent director (Tom DeSimone &#150; specialized in 'Women Behind Bars'-flicks) and a devoted cast (Linda Blair!!) can achieve. There are quite a few suspenseful sequences in Hell Night and the gore is not exploited for once. The settings are decent but sometimes underexposed, which is a bit of a shame. Overall, this a lot more tolerable than the average flick in which teens are slaughtered by the dozen. "},{"Title":"One Hell Of A Night","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Basic Plot = four pledges must spend the night in Garth Manor, twelve years to the day after the previous resident murdered his entire family. Two of the pledges, Marti (Linda Blair, The Exorcist) and Jeff (Peter Barton), ignore the rumours that the now-deserted mansion is haunted by a crazed killer, until one-by-one, members of their group mysteriously disappear. Could this be part of the fraternity prank or is it a demented former tenant seeking revenge? When the seemingly innocent rite of passage turns deadly, these college students will do anything to survive Hell Night. Hell Night is a fun way to waste a couple of hours, a definite popcorn flick which isn't a bad thing, the cast are clearly having fun with they're roles, Suki Goodwin, as Denise, is a scream; providing the film's main comedy moments without really grating. She sails through the film on a wave of booze, Quaaludes (whatever happened to those?) and double-ententes. Linda Blair is also as effortlessly likable as you'd imagine, as the slightly tomboyish girl (with the handy mechanic skills).Hell Night never fails to be entertaining,It's the fun early 80's slasher flick - designed for retro thrills, fun scares and popcorn munching. It takes itself seriously enough to stop from descending into self-parody funny to talk about innocence in a film where a bunch of people get carved up in creative ways, but HELL NIGHT is a perfect twilight genre example of the slasher flick before it descended into self parody and rapidly shrinking budgets. "},{"Title":"not bad for a wannabe","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  At first glance it seems that Hell Night is just cashing in on the success of proven box office draws, that being, Linda Blair's name from the Exorcist and the slasher genre which was doing so well at the time that Hell Night was made.  However for a wannabe film Hell Night is very well done.  The premise of the film is set up nicely and there is enough suspense and cool death scenes to make the film enjoyable.  The problem is that after seeing the movie and witnessing the obvious talent behind the camera you realize that Hell Night could have been so much more then it is.Hell Night has several good things going for it, a creepy mansion, creepy tunnels beneath the house and an eerie killer.  All three are under used.  The mansion and tunnels are rarely seen.  The people in the house don't go exploring and when we finally get to see the tunnels, which are mentioned a few times to wet our appetites, we are quickly ushered out of them.  The problem here is the film makers focus on realism.  Realisticly if you were told to spend a night in a creepy old house would you explore the place?  Probably not, ditto for creepy tunnels, especially if you discover evidence of someone/thing living there.  Perhaps with a bit more imagination and/or bigger budget the house and tunnels could have been explored a bit more.  As it is they are still a good source of suspense.Finally we have the killer.  The killer is used quite well and is really eerie looking.  The problem is that a couple of interesting things are mentioned and shown about him but we don't learn what exactly is going on (you have to see the movie to know what I mean).  It does provide for some interesting conversation after the movie is over but I think the film would have been more enjoyable if questions had been answered.Hell Night is a little slow moving and doesn't keep it's pace going once things start to happen and Linda Blair's acting is atrocious, but that aside Hell Night is a nice addition to the 80's slasher flicks.  Good suspense, creepy locations and some nice scares earn Hell Night a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A slight cut above most eighties slasher trash","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is everything most slashers are - i.e. redundant, pointless, silly and all the rest of it. However, unlike the majority of the sub-genre; this one isn't all that bad. The plot is hardly original in it's fusion of the haunted house tradition and eighties slasher trash, but at least it gives the film a slight edge over it's less imaginative counterparts. The plot sees a group of four high school 'kids' having to spend a night in a creepy old house as an initiation ceremony for the fraternity they want to join. However, this isn't just a creepy old house and by way of a super-camp story telling sequence, we learn that the master of the house killed himself, his wife and three of his four horribly deformed children. This, of course, means that one survived; and that one, is course, rumoured to still be hanging around the creepy old house. That is, of course, a rumour that turns out be true! What then follows is the usual slasher sort of stuff, with the kids inside getting sliced and diced along with the ones outside, who were just trying to make their new frat-mate's stay a little scarier.Linda Blair, now all grown up since her role in The Exorcist, takes the lead role and does pretty much what you would expect the heroine to do. There's some nice murder sequences in this film, but the gore is never over the top. I actually like over the top gore, but despite not having much of it, it never really harms this film. The murders are stylishly shot, and the way it portrays them allows it to be shocking without the need for a lot of bloodshed. In a sub-genre that is primarily concerned with bloodletting; this is actually quite admirable. The sets are one of the best things about this film. The Gothic mansion gives it that great atmosphere that is usually reserved for haunted house movies. The movie doesn't always make best use of it's settings, however, with too many scenes being restricted to close-up's when a shot that takes in more of the surrounding area would have been better. The fact that the killer is deformed gives it a bit of an edge over the likes of Halloween because aside from there being a killer, you also want to see him to find out how badly deformed he is. It is a disappointment when he's finally revealed...but the wait holds some suspense. On the whole, this isn't all that good; but it's not bad either. Slasher fans will find something to like. "},{"Title":"You could do far worse than Hell Night","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" - As part of their initiation, two fraternity pledges and two sorority pledges must spend the night in creepy old Garth Manor. Before entering the house, the pledges are told the story of the Garth family - twelve years ago, old man Garth murdered his whole deformed family before taking his own life. However, some say that at least one member of the Garth clan survived. During the night, some of the other fraternity and sorority members try to scare the four pledges locked in the spooky mansion. But when people start turning up dead, it's obvious that this is no college prank.- For the most part, Hell Night is a standard 80s slasher. A group of young people in an isolated location are picked-off one at a time until only the end girl is left alive. I don't think this is much of a spoiler because most anyone could guess who is going to be left alive at the end of the movie. In fact, it's easy to predict with a fair amount of accuracy the order these people are going to die. The murders aren't extremely violent and some are left to the viewer's imagination. This was probably the result of budget constraints more than anything. The killers' make-up is bargain basement and not nearly as effective as some of the other movies of the period. Some of the acting is terrible and Vincent Van Patten is extremely annoying.- So, if the movie is predictable with poor special effects and acting, why haven't I rated Hell Night any lower? Other than those areas I've mentioned, the movie is reasonably well made. The house is fantastic and almost outshines any of the humans in the cast. Secret passages and long, dark corridors always make for fun in this kind of movie. Hell Night would have actually benefited had more emphasis been placed on the house. The movie is at worst competently directed by DeSimone. He does an above average job of creating atmosphere and creepy moments. And, on a personal level, I always enjoy Linda Blair in just about anything she does.- While it will never be known as a great movie, you could do far worse with a teen slasher than watching Hell Night. "}{"Title":"Better Than Expected.","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Linda Blair stars as one of four college pledges who must spend the night in the creepy old mansion(reputed to be haunted, with a murderous history) in order to join the sorority and fraternity. Seniors plan to pull pranks on them for fun, but discover to their dismay that reputed turns out to mean factual...Surprisingly effective thriller may not be original, but has good performances and direction, which create characters you come to care about, and a genuinely spooky atmosphere, especially when it moves underground. Scary and (reasonably) smart, this one stands out from the usual slashers of the period, and results are above average, with a memorable ending. "},{"Title":"Hell NightPray for Day","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Four college students, wishing to join the Alpha Sigma Rho fraternity and it's sister sorority agree to spend the night in the infamous Garth Manor which has quite a notorious mythic history with the gate locked. No escape until dawn and all that jazz. Peter Bennett(Kavin Brophy)the fraternity president and his pal Scott(Jimmy Sturtevant)decide to play tricks with them staging scare-pranks. May(Jenny Neumann)is the sorority pres and she comes alone for the ride since Peter is her beau. Gearhead Marti(Linda Blair)decided to give the sorority thing a try and will stay the night at the persistence of May. Love interest Jeff(Peter Barton)is a kind product of wealth joining the fraternity to please his rich father who was once a member himself. Seth(Vincent Van Patten)is the horny heavy-drinking student who wishes to bed uber-naughty hottie Denise(Suki Goodwin)who carries a number of drugs on her person. What all these guys and gals do not know is that there's merit to the Garth myth as a lurching Mongoloid mental-case, born deformed, comes out of hiding from his lair below the manor to stalk and kill them one by one. Will anyone be able to survive hell night? No originality in sight, but stylishly directed by Tom DeSimone who keeps the flick surprisingly suspenseful doing what he can with rather mediocre material. There's the number of aspects associated with the slasher genre here..car that doesn't start, killer who climbs to the top of the car as heroine tries to drive away from horror, character walking away alone, killer awaiting victims behind bushes and doors, and the super-ability of the killer to withstand pain & death..while also breaking through doors with his bare hands. The castle setting is a particularly good setting for a slasher so that may give this flick some extra brownie points. The deaths are graphically tame by today's standards. Good, likable casting helps. I wanted to see it more for Linda Blair who is shown in hysterics trying to get away from this massive beastly man all over the grounds. The death toll..one is decapitated, one's neck is snapped all the way around, one is tossed outside a window from high-up, and another is stabbed through the stomach with a reaper. "},{"Title":"Strange slasher that's amusing enough.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Greek pledges find themselves in an abandoned mansion that is rumored to still be occupied by the deformed offspring of the owner. This is a typical 80s slasher where nothing really happens until the final half hour. The most unrealistic part of the movie is when the assumed Big Man on Campus is hitting on the campus hottie who is ready to bed him, but then he turns around and says Who is THAT? in awe of someone else's beauty. The camera then shoots across the room, focusing on little Linda Blair. I've got to give the filmmakers props for setting up certain scenes with horror movie clichés, only to break them down in really unbelievable ways. "},{"Title":"Like a bad, cheesy and horny SCOOBY DOO episode","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched FRAT FRIGHT (also known as HAPPY HELL NIGHT), NIGHT SCHOOL, SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE and this film, HELL NIGHT, one after the other during the span of an entire week, and I have to say that all horror films in academic settings pretty much suck. HELL NIGHT is totally cheeeeeeeesy. If it weren't for the (very) few sex scenes and the little gore seen here and there, this would play exactly like a SCOOBY DOO episode. 4 college students stay in a mansion with a bloody history. Some other students roam around the mansion to scare the 4. As expected, the 3 other students are killed first by the creepy people inhabiting the mansion. Then the 4 college students are next. Who's going to survive? Well, that's easy to figure out.The story doesn't make any sense whatsoever. If the students do this every year, why do the people living in the mansion suddenly decide to kill off the students now? No reason is given for why they decided to go on a murderous rampage.Anyway, the whole thing was a total bore. The only thing that kept me awake and watching was trying to spot the *many* moments where the microphone was clearly visible at the top of the frame. Too funny.The ending was the only good thing about HELL NIGHT. The last shot at the gate is very good. But it's too little and too late.  "},{"Title":"Not That Bad At All.  Really!","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, let's be honest.  This isn't a GREAT movie.  It's never going to be revived as a midnight cult film, it's not going to be remembered as an innovative groundbreaker and, quite frankly, I'll be surprised to see its DVD release.  But when Hell Night is held up alongside the other slasher flicks that came out around the same time (or even the mindless, neverending deluge of cruddy sequels to really GOOD slasher movies that plagued us throughout the 80s, i.e. Friday the 13th , Halloween & A Nightmare on Elm Street) Hell Night still manages to stand on its own.  It's well made, it's tense and scary and the characters are lifelike and likable.Hell Night takes a tired premise and, to be quite honest, doesn't do much with it.  Drunken college students make four pledges (2 boys and 2 girls, how convenient) spend the night at Haunted Garth Manor, where 12 years earlier, Old Man Garth allegedly killed his wife and four children and then killed himself.  The storyline trips a few times; like, I had to wonder why Old Man Garth and his son Andrew did not come out and kill prior to this night, if they've been running around Garth Manor for the last 12 years.  Were they hibernating? But if you can manage to forget about clumsy plots and hastily thrown together details and simply sit back and enjoy the film, Hell Night is more than halfway decent.  Of course, a small group of frat brothers and sorority sisters (an insufferable lot that you won't be sorry to see go) attempt to scare our heroes and heroines with some cleverly rigged sound effects and projection equipment.  Slowly, the scares become real and one by one, the cast shrinks.  Soon, only Linda Blair remains, and since she's obviously a good girl, a virgin and has a boys name (Marti) she simply has to live, right?  Right.  Sure, she runs, she screams, she falls down in her absurdly long dress, but she also knows how to fix a car that won't start and does so without too much panic, and she viciously dispatches the film's villain in a brutally satisfying ending that will make you wince.  No, it's not a masterpiece of film making, but it's good, harmless fun.  "},{"Title":"Extremely tame R-rated screamer...","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Group of sorority and fraternity pledges must spend the night in a supposedly haunted house as part of their initiation--how much you wanna bet something evil really lurks there? Schlock thriller with terrible cinematography and a draggy pace does boast some talented names in the credits (co-producer Irwin Yablans had a hand in the original Halloween), but the drawing card is of course Linda Blair, and she's attractive and professional as always (though looking a bit sheepish with this third-rate material). Supporting cast is less interesting, with Peter Barton perhaps an escapee from the Osmond family. A better director might have worked up more suspense by drawing us closer to the characters--and a better screenwriter might have given the director something to work with. It's a suspiciously mild drive-in quickie, not really deserving of its R-rating, though the big finale is well-staged. * from **** "},{"Title":"Sweet old skool slasher fun","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before anything else, I've gotta say, I love old skool slasher pictures. Even when the film making standard is low, I just love the slasher film format, and so Im sometimes inclined to enjoy them more than they deserve. I found Hell Night to be a cracker, although the fairly low amount of bloodshed threw me at first. The great thing is that the director (Tom Desimmone) aimed for genuine tension and scares and not just generic teen slaughter. The kills aren't that bloody, but are on the whole pretty gnarly and satisfying. The atmosphere is generally quite creepy, since Garth Manor is a good location with a cool haunted house feel, and the killer is not really revealed until the end, so the film never gets redundant or boring. The acting is OK by the standards of this type of film, with Linda Blair coming across best. I don't have any real downers on this film, the only one that I can think of is that it does seem very Halloween influenced in places, which reminds that Hell Night is still an underdog compared to the big slasher classics. Still an essential viewing for slasher hounds, but not quite the best. "},{"Title":"UHmmm... An Ok horror flick","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When this movie came out, the slasher movies were at it's top. Films such as Friday the 13th, April Fool's Day, My Bloody Valentine, Halloween 2, among others were getting a lot of attention. Hell Night has the key elements for a slasher film  Horny teens, a stalker (at times I thought it was something like an ape), gore, and a scary score.   Give this movie a try, it's not the best horror movie from the 80's, it's not even one of the bests , but it is a film you should check if you are into the 80's horror glory. "},{"Title":"Slow going chiller is worth a night in Hell.","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HELL NIGHT comes from the long-defunct studio who brought the ever popular HALLOWEEN to the big screen (Compass Int'l Pictures). This was partially what I expected, mixing the good with the bad. At times, it's chilling. Other times, it isn't. Possibly the best way to make a low-budget picture was to have the whole set turn dark and let the actors move around in a ridiculously slow pace until the point where something frightening happens. Hold your breath until the conclusion, folks, because that's when Linda Blair actually steals the film on purpose for the last few minutes. Some electronically scary sound effects help create the real feel of being in the dark, though. As a personal commemorative bonus, this is the 10th movie I've seen that shows off mics at the top of my TV screen! Can anyone spot the shadows of actual crew members standing in the way? It's nice to see films like this come back from the grave due to the recent rebirth of Slashermania, but this is just plain ordinary and similar to what we've seen before.   "},{"Title":"Hell Night is A Hell of A Horror.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Audiences will best remember Linda Blair from her starring role in the hit horror film The Exorcist, but some will also remember this forgotten gem of 80's horror. Blair stars as a college student who, along with three others, is tricked into spending the night in a haunted mansion. The four are talked into staying in the house so the other students can play tricks on them, but soon the four characters realize that maybe the house really is haunted. This film offers top notch performances from Vincent Van Patten and Linda Blair. This horror film is not on the level with Halloween, but you will have a fun time watching this little film. "}{"Title":"An underrated horror classic","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think this film gets overlooked a bit because it came out shortly after Halloween, and Friday The 13th which pretty much set the standard for the slasher genre and within a few years later with A Nightmare On Elm Street's release that would solidify the horror and slasher genre for all time and they would be known as the next big three in horror. I thought Linda Blair's performance in this film was one of her better ones she was really on her game. I loved her character in that there was much more there than a pretty face when she tells Peter Barton's character Jeff what she does when she's not in school I thought was pretty cool and creative and it packs some interest to the story. Peter Barton was excellent in this I also thought he was great in Friday The 13th Part 4 The Final Chapter. He and Linda Blair had great chemistry together. I liked the balance between the humor and the horror it never got to campy which is key in making a good horror flick. I thought the mansion was pretty creepy and I thought that Kevin Brophy's character Peter Bennett did a phenomenal job in the beginning of the story where a group of college students are heading up to this creepy mansion where he describes all of the horrible things that occurred there. And these pledges had to stay the night there for their initiation. There's pranks that are pulled in good fun in the beginning shortly after horrible things start to happen and the pledges have to figure out how to survive the horror that ensues at the mansion. Vincent Van Patten and Suki Goodwin were great in this film as well. They made it fun and scary that's why this is a must have if you love horror movies. "},{"Title":"Ghost train ride masquerading as a film","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HELL NIGHT is a run-of-the-mill slasher flick from the early 1980s, notable only for the casting of THE EXORCIST's Linda Blair as a college student who decides to spend the night in a haunted mansion along with some of her equally unaware companions. Of course, what starts out as a night of fun and hijinks soon turns into something a lot darker.To be frank, HELL NIGHT has little to make it stand out with other slashers from the era, except that it focuses more on building the usual creepy stalk-and-slash atmosphere rather than providing more gruesome thrills (the bloodshed is limited this time around). The characters are the usual archetypes, and nobody can go into this expecting Blair to deliver a good performance; she's here to show off her cleavage, and that's about it.The eventual unmasking of the villains makes for an effective spook-show scare, however, and I admit to liking the last half hour or so, where things really start to kick off with some great chase material. The presence of British actress Suki Goodwin in the cast was a nice surprise for me, even if the male actors deliver completely undistinguished performances. In the end, HELL NIGHT is one of those ghost train rides captured on film; good fun at the time but completely forgettable afterwards. "},{"Title":"Not Bad!","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Linda Blair, Peter Barton, Vincent Van Patten, Suki Goodwin and Kevin Brophy star in this 1981 horror film. Blair (The Exorcist) plays college student, Marti who pledges a sister sorority of Alpha Sigma Rho. She and 3 others are forced to spend the night in a deserted house, Garth Manor where murders occurred 12 years prior. Soon, Marti and the others become terrorized by a mysterious killer who may be a surviving member of the family. Barton (Friday the 13th The Final Chapter) plays Jeff, a boy who Marti finds romance with, Van Patten plays Seth, Goodwin plays Marti's friend, Denise and Brophy plays Peter, President of the Alpha Sigma Rho frat. This isn't a bad film and Blair is good in it. If you like horror/slasher flicks, give this one a try. "},{"Title":"Well made and fun with good scares, needed better Characters","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Four fraternity pledges must stay the night at creepy Garth Manor on Halloween night for their initiation into the fraternity. Of course the place is booby trapped by the fraternity brothers and sisters for fake fun. At the gates of the manor before they enter, fraternity brother Peter (Kevin Brophy) tells the scary back story of the place. He tells of how the owner of the house murdered his entire family except his retarded son Andrew who is rumored to still be around. This turns out to be more than a rumor. As the older members play harmless pranks, all of them are being stalked for real. Hell Night is part haunted house, but mostly slasher with the monster creature running about decapitating and twisting heads around. Director Tom Desimone gets some decent atmosphere with the cool location and delivers some good stalk and slash. The plot is simple, almost too simple as everything happens in predictable fashion. The characters are pretty wooden and the actors here are trying to sound convincing with poor dialog. There is way too much walking around waiting for something to happen, but the climax with Linda Blair struggling for her life with the monster on the prowl is high energy horror. The gruesome demise of the killer is inspired and memorable. Hell Night is well made and fun, but could have been better with a tighter script and better pacing in the second half of the film especially. "},{"Title":"80's slasher","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Four teens are going to sleep in a manor with terrific stories about it.Yeah,very original for the time.The acting is good,except Linda Blair.I especially liked the Vincent Van Patten performance,and Suki Goodwin is good in her role of bad girl.There isn't much blood and the murders aren't original.The special effects are poor and we didn't see breast and there the scenes in bed are very innocent.The setting is amazing and one of the best settings in the horror story!!I give it a 5 and not a 6 or a 7 because the killer back story isn't clear and that's upsets me.Megamagdaleno's mark5'2SPOILERSThe favorite killPeter,who is cornered and pierced by a scythe.Then,the Peter's flashlight falls into the floor as we hear the killer's grunts "},{"Title":"Hell Night","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hell Night is an 80's slasher with a little added class and sophistication to it's production. Linda Blair, star of the Exorcist, plays Marti in this thriller about a group of pledges that have to stay in a haunted mansion over night as a part of their initiation. The mansion is Garth Manor and the story goes that the man who lived there more than a decade ago, murdered his entire family. The legend is that one member of the Garth family survived, and roams the empty corridors of the deserted estate. Once inside the manor, Marti and her three friends soon discover that two frat boys are playing pranks to spook them. But very soon, they realize that something is very wrong when one of their own turns up dead.I really like the style of Hell Night. It is an eighties film, but definitely has the feel of the old classic monster movies from the fifties. There are also some genuine scares when the ghoul pops up out of nowhere to strike his next victim. The monster's make up is also done really well. He looks realistic and almost human like. The characters are pretty likable too, with Linda Blair and Peter Barton leading the way. Pretty decent acting all around.Some things I had problems with where the overall legend of Garth Manor and whether or not there were two killers or one. The story is never really fully explained to the viewers, it almost would have been the same if they hadn't had a back story to the manor at all. There is also the question of is their two killers. I always took it that there was just one. That's how the story of Garth Manor is also written. Check this one out, it's one of the more unique of the 80's slashers flicks.8/10 "},{"Title":"Linda Blair + college hijinks + a spooky old mansion + a demented killer= Horror movie gold!","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It must have been fun to be on the set of a low budget Horror movie back in the 1980s. Most of them involved teenagers and you know they must have done some partying during their time off set. Of course just because they had fun doesn't mean the final product will be. But more often than not the opposite is the case with these movies, which may not be some of cinema's greatest offerings, but they have an undeniable charm. Slasher movies seemed to be the ticket to making lots of dough at the time and so many were made that would make your head spin. Not many really stand out though, but then there are films like 'Hell Night' that are a little more than just dumb teenagers being slaughtered.Pros Cast is game and you can tell they were having a great time. A really goose bump-inducing score. Fantastic location that makes the house in 'The Amityville Horror' look like a charming little cottage. Doesn't take it self too seriously. Emphasis is more on atmosphere and tension, of which there is plenty. Moves at a pretty good pace, but slower than most of these to allow things to unfold. A few really good scares. Director Tom de Simone does a pretty good job at creating suspense.Cons Not much plot to string this all together. Has some clichés typical of Slasher films.Final thoughts Most films of this ilk at the time are really bloody and have their share of nudity. 'Hell Night' is a blend of that and the more Gothic Horrors of the 1950s and 60s. It's really successful in that respect and also at being a really fun and pretty scary movie. Without a doubt a film that belongs near the top of the heap.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"definitely worth watching","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A bunch of drunken college students...a creaky old house...a group of innocent pranksters...and a mysterious man lurking in the shadows...could it be a slasher movie? Yes, as a matter of fact. And a surprisingly good one at that. The plot is paper-thin (four kids are locked in a creepy mansion for their fraternity/sorority initiation, menacing stranger comes out of the woodwork, heads start rolling). But hey, it's a slasher movie - a deep, thought- provoking story is not required. The plot is served with generous side helpings of cheese and corn - I almost felt like I was watching a comedy up until the first disposable character was offed. However, the scare factor ramps up later, with suspenseful kills and some excellent chase scenes. There are even some wonderfully creepy shots from the killer's point of view, a device that manages to hit my personal scare buttons every time. The setting provides a creepy and relatable backdrop - after all, who among us hasn't been to some supposedly haunted place and worried that the rustling in the bushes isn't just our goofball friend? Unusually for a slasher, I actually felt a little sad to see some of the characters go. Despite being a collection of horror-movie stereotypes, the main cast manages to be likable and well-rounded (except perhaps the obligatory slutty girl, whose lines could probably fit on a single page). Linda Blair stars as the serious girl who is exasperated with the whole initiation affair.Now, don't get me wrong. This is not one the of the great horror movies of the ages. It's corny and immensely cliché, but it what it does, it does well. If you're looking for an original, ultra-serious horror movie, the run away from this one as fast as you can. But if you want a fun late-night popcorn-muncher, definitely give it a try. "},{"Title":"Much better than you'd suspect","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This better-than-average slasher offering is bolstered by fairly strong performances from a quartet of solid lead actors and a well-scouted location to stage the horror. The film is also augmented by a very cool and grisly back story that gives weight to the eventual stalk-and-slash happenings, and as a whole, the weaker elements here are out-shined by an overall spooky atmosphere and characters who make smart decisions more often than not, thus making it a lot easier for us to care what happens to them.Linda Blair is especially endearing, and considering some of the awful films she would later slum in, it's nice to see her playing a decent character here. Likewise, the presence of Peter Barton should be a treat for splatter fans, who will undoubtedly recognize him from Friday The 13th The Final Chapter. Barton is also considerably more likable than most disposable splatter film victims, and since we spend so much of the runtime with him and Blair, this certainly helps along our interest in the steady and methodical build of the film.Though the core of the story revolves around four college pledges who must spend the night in cursed Garth Manor to be accepted into their desired fraternity/sorority sects, there is a nifty little subplot centered around a pack of their classmates rigging up the dilapidated house with special effects intended to scare them away. Hell Night runs a bit long because of this, but the body count gets a push as well, so it kind of evens out. Some of these special effects are a little far-fetched, especially a ghostly manifestation the tricksters somehow summon with a simple film projector; but it looks pretty neat, so I'm inclined to let the logistical problems slide.The house itself is a great find, perfectly suited for the story and large enough to believably allow for the hidden passageways and underground lairs the plot calls for. It's certainly a creepy locale, and it's not hard to imagine the legend of Garth Manor playing out between those rotting walls. The expansive grounds surrounding the property are also well-employed, and since the horror isn't limited to the inside of the Manor, there are plenty of opportunities for fresh frights throughout the film. Of course, we wouldn't have much of a movie if there wasn't some truth to the tale of Garth Manor, and when our pledges finally begin to encounter the deranged and deformed Garth children, the film plays out as a nice balance between a monster movie and a slasher film. The surviving Garth offspring aren't averse to using tools like meat cleavers and schythes for their deeds, so we get a bit of standard issue splatter along with the tooth and claw work our monstrous foes seem to enjoy. Blessedly, the MPAA was relatively kind to Hell Night, and though nothing in the film reaches Fulcian heights, there are enough gruesome images intact to please discerning gore-hounds.When our monsters are revealed, the results aren't quite as horrifying as the teasing glimpses throughout the film seem to promise, but the relatively restrained make-up certainly gels with the realistic base the Garth Manor legend is rooted in. Even after we've seen our killers, they manage to rustle up some quality scares, so the film doesn't lose much impact by delivering us protagonists that are more human than beast.This isn't a must-see by any means, but Hell Night is far better than one would expect, offering a generous enough balance of gore, humor, and genuinely scary jump scenes to ensure a fun ride. Any serious horror fan has undoubtedly seen much worse than this. An iffy recommendation, perhaps, but a recommendation nonetheless. Call it a 7.5. "},{"Title":"Very Creepy House -Little Plot Resolution - But What Were You Really Expecting?","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Linda Blair and Suki Goodwin play two sorority pledges along with Vince Van Patten and Peter Barton playing two fraternity pledges who all must spend the night - 6 hours after a crazed drinking and partying session - in an old, supposedly uninhabited mansion. Well, we know what is going to happen. The leader of the fraternity and his tech expert have set the house up with all kinds of gadgets with the intent of scaring(but ends up scarring permanently) the pledges. We get what you would expect in a film of this ilk girls open to easy sex and having IQ's well below 60, a body count that starts out with seven possible deaths(of which we get - yes, you got it right - 1 left), murderer(s) that keep on ticking after they take a licking, and the usual slasher stuff that has been used, reused, copied, and stolen over and over and over and over again through the last 30 years since the films Black Christmas and more importantly Halloween came out in the 70s. Hell Night is; however, one of those earlier examples and with that in consideration - one should be much more generous. Sure, it has a ridiculous plot that is never in any way explained at the end of the film. We are just to assume that the intriguing story of the Garth Manor told by Peter is true with the survivor Andrew. Who is the other guy? Where have they been that whole time? We are given a glimpse of what their purpose might be in the subterranean tunnels and the dinner table - but nothing is explained. The acting is a bit on the below-average end with Blair giving a fairly average performance but looking very pretty in a very wholesome way. the other girls look trashy and act accordingly. Goodwin gets the nod for most alluring. The male leads have all the depth of a flat line. Director Tod DeSimone, a director beforehand after for x-rated films, provides some nice shots of suspense and really does nice camera-work with the house, grounds, and tunnels. The house is the real star. Hell Night is virtually bloodless or enough so for more desensitized viewers of today who want to see it all, but it is an early slasher film and much, much better than much of the copies that have been made since 1981. "}{"Title":"80s slasher fun with Linda Blair.","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1981, producer Irwin Yablans attempted to replicate the success he had with Halloween with teen slasher Hell Night. Although not nearly as effective as Carpenter's classic, this routine shocker, directed by Tom DeSimone, still manages to deliver a few classy moments and a couple of decent scares, particularly in its final frantic moments, and is worth persevering with to the end.A rather chubby Linda Blair plays Marti Gaines, one of four college pledges who must spend the night in deserted Garth Manor, rumoured to be the stomping ground of Andrew, a deformed freak who, twelve years earlier, witnessed the slaughter of his family by his father.With the gates locked behind them, the foursome make their way to the manor house, where they encounter a variety of scary practical jokes that are being orchestrated (via remote control) by fraternity head Peter and his pals, who are hiding in the manor grounds.The spooky fun stops for everyone, however, when Andrew proves to be not only very real, but also rather insane. After murdering the jokers lurking outside his house, the twisted maniac heads inside to continue the killing...For much of its running time, Hell Night offers very little in the way of originality and decent scares, with its teens indulging in the usual and predictable shenanigans before the deaths begin the promiscuous characters (Vincent Van Patten as surf dude Seth and Suki Goodwin as party girl Denise) drink alcohol, do drugs, and have casual sex, whilst virginal Marti and good guy Jeff (Peter Barton) look for a place to sleep (but not together, of course). The freaky killer is also rather unoriginal, lacking the inventiveness of a Freddy or a Jason his victims are dispatched via decapitation, hanging and stabbing, and most of the death scenes are fairly bloodless when compared with other slashers of the day.Fortunately, however, it is worth tolerating the clichéd antics and rather humdrum murders for the exciting finalé, which features a thrilling chase through underground caverns, several solid 'jump scares', and a very satisfying ending in which Marti finishes off the bad guy in spectacular fashion.For maximum enjoyment, viewers are advised not to think too hard about the storyline, since it features several glaring plot holes, some unbelievable contrivances, and plain confusing moments that might ruin the fun if considered for too long (how did Andrew remain in the manor house for twelve years without food, light, and heat? Did previous Hell Nights take place at Garth Manor, and, if so, why didn't Andrew attack them as well? Who the hell was the person shot by Seth? Do American police stations always leave easily accessible firearms and ammo laying around on tables?).Instead of wasting your time trying to answer these questions, just sit back, switch off your logic centre, and have a laugh at how poor Jeff is repeatedly expected to push Marti's fat ass to safety (I'm surprised he didn't put his back out!). "},{"Title":"Children of the 80's unite","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like many of my fellow children of the 80's, I remember watching the edited version of this movie late one night. I remember being absolutely terrified. I thought it would be fun to watch again as an adult, as I didn't remember much of it. I purchased it from a vendor on amazon b/c this film is now out of print.Thankfully, I was not disappointed. Even with 21st century eyes, it was not nearly as cheesy as I thought. Although the damsel in distress, is a typical 80's heroine-- i.e. slow moving and stupid.But overall, I loved watching this movie, even as an adult. This was a fun little horror movie. The film had its share of gore, but it wasn't gratuitous, like some modern horror movies, i.e. Hostel, which is more like torture porn and not a true horror flick.What happened to good old fashioned scary movies, like The Thing, Halloween, The Shining, Hell Night, etc.? Now, instead of true suspenseful, creepy, horror movies, we get a new Saw film every Halloween. Why? As of late, the closest thing I've seen to a decent horror movie were last year's The Mist and 30 Days of Night. Both were pretty good.Anywhoo, if you're looking for a classic 80's horror movie, then look no further. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very Very Bad","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For a fan of 80's slashers the premise of Hell Night seems like it can't miss. You've got Linda Blair in a serious horror effort, the spooky castle with a horrible past and four school kids who have to spend the night there. And of course there's a deformed murderer there who intends to insure those kids will not live through the night.This should have been a mini-classic. And apparently some people think very highly of it. Can't imagine why. Despite having a wonderful idea to work from the film doesn't manage a scare or anything resembling a creepy atmosphere or mood. When a film fails on those fronts a hardcore fan can take solace in inventive kills or gratuitous nudity. It scores a point for nudity but the kills are pretty lacklustre, when compared to some classics such as Friday the 13th, Halloween 2 and The Burning for example. Even watered down flicks like My Bloody Valentine and Friday's 2 and 3 come off way better.I can't find anything good to recommend here. The pacing is way off, the acting is ludicrous and the script pure toilet paper. The effective castle surroundings are not used in any imaginative ways and every effort to create a scary mood gets completely squashed. Blame the director? Well, I always do. Just think what a young John Carpenter or Tobe Hooper (when he did good things) could have managed with this flick.Not every 80's slasher has something going for it. Hell Night is living proof of that. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before being able to join Alpha Sigma Rho fraternity and its sister sorority, four pledges must spend the night in Garth Manor, twelve years to the day after the previous resident murdered his entire family. Some, however, say that one member of the Garth family survived, and still resides somewhere in the now-deserted mansion.Spooky teen slasher builds up a good amount of atmosphere and delivers suspense instead of the usual nudity and gore. It also takes the time to build up characterizations for some of its characters. Linda Blair ( a highly underrated actress) turns in a very appealing, strong & sexy performance and is supported by a better then usual cast, including Peter Barton. The finale is especially exciting.Rated R for Violence. "},{"Title":"highly entertaining!","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really liked this movie. Okay, it's a bit outdated (1981), and okay, it's a Linda Blair vehicle, so that doesn't exactly makes you expect Oscar-winning material, as less as the credits of this director DeSimone do, who seems to be especially renowned for gay (adult?) movies. And sure, the guys in this movie look either like Donny Osmond in his puppy love days or like long-haired surfer dudes, while the girls look like&#133;, well, like Linda Blair. The acting may be mediocre, the special effects simple and the story a rather predictable blend of several horror-cliché's. But still&#133;.. I liked it. How come? Well, because it's high-paced, because it's actually pretty d*d scary and because all the cliché's are upgraded with some very inventive direction and photography. For instance, the main characters are presented as real persons that you come to like and regret to see getting killed. The setting is a very convincing scary house. The dark atmosphere is authentically photographed with no extra lighting, so for a change you don't see people prowling around with a torch through supposed 'darkness while you think hey, why bother! The use of the musical score, alternated with stretches of dead silence, is very effective. The alarm and panic of the characters is never over the top but actually very realistic. Surely there are flaws too. There are some improbabilities in the script, like this frat initiation in the spooky manor seems to be a yearly recurring tradition, so how come these killing maniacs never before went havoc? Or how stupid and irresponsible can a police-station be to let their weapon-room open for everyone to barge in and grasp some! And there are some inconsistencies, like what's the silly appearance of a ghost supposed to be? a prank of the hazing friends? or something stirred up by the deformed maniacs? It never gets explained. And how long can a night take?? The president of the fraternity says that he'll be back at dawn within six hours, and all the goings on in the house, included some time sleeping and waiting, impress as a lot more than the passing of 6 hours! But these few flaws are of minor importance. The most important of this movie is that there is actually a very genuine and effectively build up sense of suspense. There are no graphically displayed killings here, so if you're looking for that, don't bother. But if you like to be spooked and goose bumped and made jump up in your chair now and then, this is really a treat. It only proves that good horror doesn't necessarily needs gallons of blood or the flying around of chopped-off body parts. See for instance the scene with the carpet in this one, or the scene on the roof earlier in the picture. Or the scene where Van Patten tries to climb over a high and sharp-pitched fence to escape, nothing much actually happens there but it makes you sit on the edge of your chair and cringe with anticipation! I was highly entertained throughout the whole movie, and the extended ending has some pretty surprises to top it. I only felt so sorry for Linda who so much deserved her (very cute!) love-interest Peter Barton after all that she had to endure, but alas&#133;. "},{"Title":"A little dated, but not bad...","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Pity rich old man Garth. He just wanted a normal family but all four of his children were born as deformed mongoloids. As legend has it, one dark night he slaughtered his entire brood and then took his own life in the gigantic mansion that bears his family name. Now, twelve years later, a group of pledges from Sigma Alpha Rho fraternity have to spend the night in the decrepit, abandoned Garth Manor in order to become members. However, the story goes that one of the deformed Garth young'uns survived the massacre and has been hiding in the Manor's dark corridors ever since, picking off any intruders... There's your set up for HELL NIGHT, a derivative but still enjoyable early 80s slasher romp that featured such then-young talent as Exorcist vet Linda Blair (who never looked hotter than she does here), Peter Barton (a blink-and-you-missed-him teen heart throb of the era, best known for the Powers Of Matthew Starr TV series) and Vincent Van Patten (the I hear it's raining cats and dogs in Idaho guy from Rock N Roll High School). In 1981 Hollywood the post-Halloween slasher movie craze was in full swing and these movies were a dime a dozen. The rules that they set (i.e. the sex-crazed teens get killed, but the lone pure virgin character survives, etc.) have become well worn clichés to 21st century viewers, but HELL NIGHT managed to provoke a few decent jumpy moments for me, mostly due to the creepy set design of Garth Manor and the foreboding Halloween style music. I got a laugh out of the idea that the local cops would leave their evidence room full of firearms wide open so that a panicked Van Patten could steal a bunch of guns and then go roaring back to Garth Manor to save his friends after the cops throw him out!! I've seen better, I've seen worse (a LOT worse), but if you come across HELL NIGHT in a DVD bargain bin (as I did)it's worth a look for a cheap price. "},{"Title":"Far from entertaining","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like horror movies, especially old ones. I don't care if the acting, or the story is cheesy as long as I enjoy the movie. But I found this one far from entertaining. The death scenes aren't anything to look at, there is barely any blood, and the suspense just isn't there. The whole movie is covered in darkness, half the time I couldn't see what's going on the screen, because there isn't any lighting. As hard as I tried, I just couldn't get into it, I forced my self to sit through the rest of it hoping it would get better, but there is nothing there. And that's a lot to say, when Halloween is just around the corner, and I was watching this at night with a couple of friends. "},{"Title":"Hell Night is hell of fun!","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Marti (Linda Blair!), the chubby, innocent one, Jeff (Peter Barton) the gentlemen, Seth (Vincent Van Patten) the fun one, and Denise (Suki Goodwin) the sexy British one, all want to join Alpha Sigma Rho fraternity and its sister sorority, but they first must spend the night at an old mansion while three tricksters (Kevin Brophy, Jimmy Sturtevant, Jenny Neumann) scare them silly. However soon a crazy murderous ape-like mutant comes to crash the party.From the director of Bad Bad Boys, Erotikus, Good Hot Stuff, and Wet Shorts comes HELL NIGHT!It's one of those super fun horror movies. You will no doubt be yelling LOOK OUT! HE'S RIGHT BEHIND YOU! and NO GIRL, DON'T GO IN THERE! Throughout the whole movie.It's like a grown-up-way-scarier version of Scooby Doo, and that's a good thing! So come on and enjoy all the decapitations, impaling, and gore of...HELL NIGHT! "},{"Title":"Linda Blair, mutants and a Van Patten.  What else do you want?","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A gorgeous Linda Blair stars as a sweet young thing who, during pledge week, is forced to spend the night in Garth Manor. Years ago this was the setting of a massacre as Daddy Garth snapped and took out his wife and kids before killing himself. By the time the police arrived two of the bodies were gone and thus began a local legend.This film, aside from being beautiful to look at, features something that was in short order in the eighties - restraint. Instead of focusing on special effects, the movies concentrates on building suspense and as a result is often criticized for being slow paced and having a low body count but this film, despite the modern setting is really a fun throwback to the fifties old dark house movies. The big plus is that unlike most of the films of the classic genre there is no man behind the mask. There is actually a creature (well, two to be specific) that is after them.Linda Blair does a terrific job of anchoring the cast of this low budget effort. As her career has faded over the years it is easy to forget how good she could be. This film along with Born Innocent and the original Exorcist stand as the best examples of her abilities. Vince Van Patten (Rock and Roll High School), Peter Barton (Powers of Matthew Starr) and one hit wonder Suki Goodwin are all well cast and the writer wisely lets the audience spend some time with the characters before the horror begins which is very rare in this genre.As good as the cast is, the best in show is truly cinematographer Mac Ahlberg who gives this movie a beautiful rich look. Few low budget horror movies get this level of care as every frame is perfectly shot with many scenes lit entirely by candlelight (a process developed for Barry Lyndon).Linda Blair fans, in fact more mature horror movie lovers in general should enjoy this fun thriller whose climax still stands as a high water mark for villain dispatching. Although people with short attention span will find it rough going patient viewers will find it well worth tracking down a copy. "},{"Title":"Hell Night is Great!!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Welcome to Garth Manor, Andrew is still believed by some to be living somewhere within this house! One of the best of all time for this guy. Hell Night it is very creepy, the atmosphere is amazing and the house GARTH MANOR is like a separate character in itself. All the tunnels under the house leading in and out of our unexpected victims rooms, the huge staircase, the giant fence with razor sharp blades at the top!! And last but not least the huge Garden or The Maze as I call it!! Maybe my favorite location ever for a horror film, everything just works for me. The cast is solid with Linda Blair as your leading lady.. However my personal favorite is Seth played by Vincent Van Patten. He makes the movie for me in some ways. This dude is super cool, he is the cool guy that is also actually kind of a bad ass. He tells stories to the lady of his choice to help himself score but then later proves to be very much a real hero. After escaping Garth Manor safe and sound and at a very safe distance he returns to attempt to save the others. Hes a refreshing change from the cool jock douche in most horror movies that we usually want knocked off, hes one to root for!! There are a million amazing scenes but for those who haven't seen it I won't ruin it. Check out this classic. "}{"Title":"Long Live HELL NIGHT","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After viewing this movie not more than twenty-four hours ago, I must admit that this horror gem of the 80s has its qualities to keep you at the edge of your seat. Though tame by today's standards, this spend the night in a haunted mansion movie is different. The acting was superbly done right and the characters were well played out as in any horror movie. Linda Blair is at her finest here, aside from from THE EXORCIST. On the Anchor Bay double feature DVD, you can enjoy commentary from Blair, and producer Irwin Yablans, the original movie trailer, and like most DVDs now at days come in wide screen format. Horror movie Fade To Black is on the flip side of the double feature disc. If you haven't seen this movie, go to your local video store and rent it, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Nice mix of two horror subgenres...(Some Spoilers)","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was always one of my favorite HBO/The Movie Channel late-night offerings when I was a kid in the early eighties. It's definitely a slasher movie but the creators nicely mix it with a classic haunted house tale. Hell Night takes a break from drunken, oversexed counselors being hacked up by a deranged, deformed hillbilly living in a decrepit shack deep in the woods. Instead we have a deranged, deformed, would-be heir killing drunken, oversexed fellow silver spoon kids in costume finery who dared to enter his sprawling Gothic estate (Love that house, by-the-way). Like an old haunted house movie, it relies more on tension and suspense for the chills and like a slasher movie it does have a few brutal slayings but very little gore. The psycho-at-large is fairly chilling since he spends most of the film in the shadows (or under the floor as in one very creepy scene). I don't mind gore at all but when I want to feel chills and goosebumps from a movie an atmosphere of heightening tension and a mostly unseen killer will always do it. As others have said on here, I found the heroes/victims to be pretty likable and their acting above-average for this kind of film. Yeah, there are some slasher movie regulars the drunken slut(Suki Goodwin) the jerk guy (Kevin Brophy), slut number 2 (Jenny Neumann). Vincent (son of Dick) Van Patten's surfing monologue is actually funny and I felt bad when he died because he DID come back to help the others even when he was free and safe and couldn't get the cops to go back with him (he was also kinda hot, lol). Peter (Matthew Star) Barton played the sensitive nice guy/aide to the heroine part well and I felt really bad when he died (because he was really HOT). So that leaves the movie's sole survivor Linda Blair (best known for appearances on a few 'Circus of the Stars' episodes and some Ellen Burstyn flick when she was a kid). You know she makes it because she's the virgin girl and she has top billing. It was nice to see her character's backstory didn't make her out to be connected to the psycho in some manner or recovering from an emotionally traumatic event in her past. She simply is a good girl from a poor background running with the rich and beautiful. Yes, she survives the night because she is poor (and she also knows her way around a car engine). She screams a lot and occasionally runs in the wrong direction like most slasher film girls but she's not so-dumb-you hope-he-gets-her type; you want her to make it. Also, don't get me wrong, I like strong female characters but in this type of movie she played it right. Her job is to run from a practically unstoppable ghoul or die, not to stop and decide to channel Sigourney Weaver. I feel the psycho already loses some of his menace when he steps into the light--having the heroine face him in hand to hand combat would only diminish him further. The goal of the movie should be to keep the fear of him strong and the upper hand his until the last moment. The film did that here, Blair just ran and when a chance to take him out for good presented itself she took it. I thought was a pretty original and satisfying finish at that. *** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable 'Scooby Doo' episode- Rated 'R'!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What impressed me the most about this slasher movie is I honestly cared about the characters and felt bad when they died! That never happens with me & horror movies-- usually the characters are annoyingly lamebrained oversexed fools and I can't wait for them to get axed. HELL NIGHT has much going for it, including an amiable atmosphere, enthusiastic & easy-going performances (especially by the Boom Mic, who I thought deserved an Academy Award for his brief but frequent appearances), decent sets (including the outdoor ones, a bit reminiscent of The Shining), and villains who I swear looked straight out of SCOOBY DOO. (Not that that's a BAD thing, but it's just not too scary.) I honestly thought the script was well-constructed and funny and character exposition was given in an unobtrusive but helpful way (i.e. Linda Blair working as a mechanic.) There is absolutely nothing new or groundbreaking in HELL NIGHT, but it's a sterling example of how to polish up an old apple and make it look appealing and new-- and taste good. (Sorry for that awful metaphor...) Contrary to what others might tell you, Vincent Van Patten really grew on me, and I loved that surfing scene. He's my boy! Rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"solid slasher film","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  being a horror movie fanatic i came across Hell Night at a store and so i gave it a chance and picked it up. since it came out in 1981 i thought it might be good since the 80's were the good days of horror. Linda Blair stars in this, and Hell Night was a very good slasher film. there are times when the movie can get a bit slow, but it was all around good enough to keep me watching. reading some reviews for Hell Night i was thinking that i made a bad choice, but i made the right choice. the mansion setting is perfect and gives a creepy feeling through out. and Linda Blair is very cute in the lead role. towards the end there were some good scares, i have to admit i jumped back a few times. i give Hell Night 8/10 "},{"Title":"Finally, a slasher movie with class!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Linda Blair and her friends are stranded in a remote mansion with a homicidal maniac, who loves to hack peoples heads off and slash their throats. Sound like a simple, predictable premise? Yeah, it pretty much is. But, the direction is smooth and on target, and the acting is very good. There is a little gore, but not too much, and there is plenty of good suspense. You grow to like the four teens tormented in Garth Manor. A successful, highly watchable slasher movie. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Horror","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A fine, actually scary little B flick with a fab B cast Linda Blair, Peter Barton and Vince Van Patten, all battling a creepy, grotesque mutant out for blood in the film's obligatory old dark house setting.  Watch out for the rising rug scene  maybe I'm a wimp, but it elicited an Omigod! out of me, at least!  7/10 "},{"Title":"A good movie.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I LOVE LINDA BLAIR!! And who can blame me? She is one of the nicest looking people in films. Sure, she made a lot of bad movies (I'm talking about Bad Blood here) and even worse ones (Savage Streets, The Exorcist II) but however bad the film she's in, she takes it to a higher level. She improves the movie itself. And Hell Night is no exception. Without her, I suppose the movie would be okay, nothing to wet your pants over, but because she's in it, it turns Hell Night into a must-see event! I'm not going to talk about the story because I'm sure the concept was devised in about two minutes, but the thing that makes Hell Night stand out is that it's actually scary, everything that a horror movie should be. And it's also very interesting, for once I didn't look forward to the next stabbing or decapitation but I found myself actually interested in their conversations! As for the death scenes, there's little violence and that's fine with me, it makes the film more acceptable for the faint hearted and gives the film what it deserves, a bigger audience. As for that idiot Leonard Maltin, he wasn't complaining about the lack of nudity and violence in Halloween, was he? Get a life, Leonard. The one problem with it is that some scenes are just too dark, but it doesn't help when I watch a 1982 videotape. I guess that this problem has been fixed on the DVD edition, something that I intend to buy. Finally, for once the killer (and I'm not spoiling anything here, you know it's going to happen) dies an original way. A great ending to a great movie.AUSTRALIAN CLASSIFICATIONR18+Released when I don't even think they had classification here (the R rating on the cover was a sticker) this film is hardly violent, no sex, no nudity, and I don't think there was any bad language, this could easily get away with an M rating. "},{"Title":"Linda Blair in BOOM MIKE","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most beautifully photographed horror films of the 1980's is HELL NIGHT, an under-rated, atmospheric thriller starring Linda Blair and a cast of characters light years more interesting than the cardboard dolts of the SCREAM and I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER variety.  HELL NIGHT's charm lies in its ability to create characters the audience comes to care about. Thanks to co-producer Irwin Yablans, the man behind HALLOWEEN, HELL NIGHT begins with a slow expository build-up that eventually gives way to some truly frightening sequences that have you squirming in your seat towards the film's conclusion, even after repeat viewings!  The Kimberly Crest House and Gardens in Redlands, CA doubles as the exterior of the ominous Garth Manor, a horrific abode in which a man reputedly killed his entire family before hanging himself, and leaving one son, Andrew, to remain in the house. Andrew, now an adult, is believed to be still in the house.somewhere.  A group of college kids pledging a fraternity and sorority must stay in the house for one night.  Naturally, all hell breaks loose!The 1980's have garnered a reputation for being responsible for some of the worst horror films ever made.  This reputation really applies to most films made after 1984's A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET.  Try to remember that HELL NIGHT is one of the decade's classics.  Re-released on VHS and DVD by Anchor Bay Entertainment in September 1999, HELL NIGHT looks better than ever. The film's earlier incarnation on Media Home Entertainment's original SP and SLP VHS transfers did the film a great injustice not only was a boom mike visible during the surfing scene, but the colors were washed out.  The cinematography alone makes this film worth owning.  This film makes a great triple feature with HALLOWEEN and TOURIST TRAP.  Had this film been made today it would in no way look as it actually does.Another plus is the score which has never seen the light of day as a soundtrack album, which is a shame considering that it manages to create scares with mood and sporadic stingers during some truly tense moments. This score is far more effective than the constant barrage of hit songs that pass as a soundtrack in today's pathetic horror market.HELL NIGHT is a great flick to watch on a cold and rainy October night.  "},{"Title":"RIP OFF OF HALLOWEEN","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just a direct rip off of Halloween.  Horrible performance by Blair, and about 90% of this movie is walking around dark areas.  Not good at all. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but not the worst...","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, this horror flick has no nudity and no explicit violence (as noted by Leonard Maltin).  What this movie has is the formula that all great horror films have -- virgins live, sluts die, druggies die, and above all, the horror ends as the sun rises.  I first caught this movie on late night cable, and have been a fan ever since.  Linda Blair is enjoyable as the virgin heroine, and the deformed freak is a formitable foe.  Not to be missed by true horror fanatics. "}{"Title":"Worth a peek....","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Linda Blair finds herself in a mess when she is initiated into the Alpha Sigma Rho fraternity by staying the night in the creepy Garth mansion. I agree that this film is very underrated. Good plot, good pace, and good effects. The house itself was a real spooker also. I loved it, it's perfect for a boring weekend, and I'd watch it again. Try it out! "},{"Title":"Hell Night Fun, Scary, Bloody, Atmospheric, Very Underrated!","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hell Night. What an unbelievably cheesy title for a horror film. And a very delightful one too. This 1981 slasher ride could have been another carbon copy of all the other films that were taking over the 80s. But surprise, surprise...Hell Night is one of the best slasher films to come out of the 80s, along with Friday the 13th, Prom Night, Terror Train, He Knows You're Alone and Halloween II. The plot is simple Alpha Sigma Rho is having a blast with their new pledges. There are four of them the sweet, fragile Marti, the calm and protective Jeff, the surfer dude Seth, and party girl Denise. The festivities are only the beginning of the four teens' transition to Alpha Sigma. In order to become a member, they must spend a night in the ominous Garth Manor, where Raymond Garth supposedly slaughtered his entire family and then committed suicide. No problem, right? Wrong! What starts out as a fun little prank slowly transforms into a fight for survival. Because Marti, Jeff, Seth and Denise are not alone in Garth Manor. Underneath the mansion, there is a disfigured maniac who doesn't enjoy having unwelcome guests in his house.Like I said before, Hell Night could have been your average slasher film. But there are a lot of things going for it.First off, the atmosphere is perfect. Garth Manor provides an unsafe, inescapable tone to it, and becomes quite a creepy place. Points for that! Next up, you have a surprisingly good cast. It's always a joy to see Linda Blair in a horror film. Yep, I'm talking about the terrifying, possessed little girl named Regan from The Exorcist. Blair can really scream and she's a very good crier. Peter Barton(Friday the 13th The Final Chapter) does a good job as Jeff. Vincent Van Patten seemed a little bit uncomfortable playing Seth, and therefore, his performance does not come off as sympathetic, but a little bit unbelievable. However, he provides several funny moments, and in the end, he's not terrible. Suki Goodwin made a very nice party girl playing Denise. She had an elegant British accent, and I enjoyed her performance. And Kevin Brophy, Jenny Neumann, and Jimmy Sturtevant were entertaining in the roles of Peter, Scott, and May, the pranksters from Alpha Sigma, whose prank backfires violently.Secondly, the music is awesome. It made me reminisce about John Carpenter's classic score for the 1978 masterpiece Halloween. Techno and piano mix together perfectly for the music of the film.And thirdly, at times, the movie was scary. The killer was weird and creepy, and although Hell Night was a slasher movie, it had the elements of a wonderful haunted house tale, like the 1958 schlock classic The House on Haunted Hill. Garth Manor reminded me very much of that house, only House on Haunted Hill didn't have the scares that this movie did. Some of the kills and BOO! moments came out of unpredictability and excitement. I especially enjoyed the gore. Even more points for that! There you have it. Despite a few flaws, including Vincent Van Patten's performance and just a little bit of slow pacing, Hell Night was a great surprise for me. So many trashy movies came out of 1981, and this movie showed that there was still life in a disreputable genre. It was atmospheric, scary, gory, and entertaining. I enjoyed every minute of it. Hell Night is a nifty little haunted house-style/slasher romp that puts movies like Graduation Day and Girl's Nite Out to shame. Slasher wannabees, eat your heart out.P.S. Looking for another fun monster-slasher? Then Tobe Hooper's The Funhouse will go perfectly with Hell Night. "},{"Title":"Hell Night brings this cool & hit & scary film to the screen!!!","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hell Night has the talented Linda Blair in this scary flick. I originally hate old movies in the 80's and under but for some reason this is one caught my eye and it now is one of my favorite films of all time. If you guys liked this movie you should also try (Ginger Snaps) & (Witchouse). The mansion that the characters are staying the night in in this flick is amazing it looks scary and it looks cool and very old inside of it. Just everything about this set on this movie will give you all chills. I recommend that everyone picks up a copy of this horror movie at there local BlockBuster. Hell Night will truly give you all the creepies. WATCH IT!!!! "},{"Title":"Highly underrated effort","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hell Night is one of the most impressive slashers of the time period.**SPOILERS**Participating in a fraternity initiation, Marti, (Linda Blair) Seth, (Vincent Van Patten) Denise Dunsmore, (Suki Goodwin) and Jeff Reed, (Peter Barton) are gathered together by fraternity leader Peter Bennett, (Kevin Brophy) for it's annual ritual. Taken to an abandoned house nearby, they are told a legend about the house's former occupant and are locked inside the grounds for the night. During the time, other members Scott, (Jimmy Sturtevant) and May, (Jenny Neumann) arrive to help set up a series of pranks to try to scare them, but as soon as they get started, each of them turn up missing. Going through the house, they all start to realize that the story involving a serial killer who had murdered his family is real and they try to leave before anything happens to them.The Good News This one is a really interesting slasher. The fact that it takes a really clichéd and predictable story and manages to go somewhere with it. From the fact that the pranks are figured out nearly as soon as they start is a nice twist, as they all immediately realize that it's something neither of the groups are committing and search the house, finding the rigged equipment, making it quite early that the ruse is found out. The rest of the time is spent with the killer knocking off the fraternity members pulling the prank before turning to the fraternity members. From there, the stalking the teens are where it really gets going, giving it some really fun moments. There's a rather great chase through the house grounds inside a maze of shrubs. The suspense is really great as the fact that they're trying to dodge the killer lurking about while trying to find a way to get out of the place to get help. From the few times of seeing the killer go off in the distance and trying to duck them while maneuvering through the disorienting nature of it unscathed makes it that much more suspenseful, and is one of the best scenes in the film. The chase through the tunnels under the house at the end is another one of the highlights, starting off in a creepy location to begin with and then goes out onto a really great finale with a lot of action, a fun set of events with a grand payoff. There's even a couple of nice jump scares here, as the killer suddenly jumps out of everywhere to ambush the victims or even the fact that the kills are highlighted by the killer grabbing the victim in the face before the fatal blow, leading to a great way of getting a few jumps as the hands comes out of nowhere to grab them. That also leaves the kills in here as good parts, which are really fun. There's a decapitation, a really brutal impaling with a scythe, a couple of bloody gunshots with a shotgun, slashed across the throat and having their head twisted completely around to break the neck, among more. These are just fine for the time period, and are just part of the reason why this one works as well as it does.The Bad News This one really only has one big problem, and it involves the rather extended story. This one is easily a good ten to fifteen minutes too long and should've been snipped down a little bit at the least. This extra length comes from the film's rather extended middle section, where it tries to make some suspense out of the situation but instead things are dragged out longer than they should be. The preparations for the pranks are way too long, the search through the house trying to find the others is so full of fake scares along the way that it starts to get monotonous after a while. There's a couple of other scenes like that which come into play to stretch it out far longer than it should be, but that's the main one to be noticed. All in all, this isn't all that bad.The Final Verdict With a lot to like about it and only one real, somewhat important flaw to it, this one easily ranks with the bigger slashers of the era. Highly recommended for those who enjoy these kinds of slashers or find it somewhat interesting, while those who aren't big fans of the style should at least take caution with it.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language and a mild, shadowy sex scene "},{"Title":"Hell Night... for you if you watch this crapper!","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Here's yet another example of 80's horror with no real soul or originality. But you know what it does have? Linda Blair. That's right, her career careened straight into doing sh*t like this. Oh don't feel bad for me, I got this on video for free. I grabbed it because of it's title, because I think it's funny as all hell. Let's get on with this&#133;And, oh my god! Here we go During a big ol' college bash, some young pledges for the local sorority and fraternity are forced to spend a night in a big ol' scary mansion that just happens to be just down the road from the college houses, and just happens to be abandoned. The house was once occupied by a super-crazy mutant family of retards who killed each other and themselves all except for one little freak who managed to survive and got to watch all the others die. Or something like that. Anyway, they start getting all killed, of course, by the mutant sh*thead still in the house&#133; Or is there more than one killer mutant dude? SPOILER Yeah, there is it would seem. Here's the breakdownThe Good--Believe it or not, the atmosphere isn't bad.--Shockingly enough, there are some decent scares. Not a lot, though&#151;and none related to the killer!Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--The music ranges from typical 80's horror fare (which works well enough) to total crap (which sucks).--The big abandoned house makes for a pretty cool set, but then again, how many other films of this nature take place in some big abandoned house? So it's not real original.The Bad--The acting is pretty damn craptacular. Sometimes it appears to be okay, but usually it's just sh*t.--Awful dialogue.--College campus horror? Ooohh!! Original!! Oh wait! No it's not!--College campus horror with sororities, but no naked college chicks? If you're making cheesy horror, go all out! Damn!--Unoriginal kills, yet again. Twisted neck? Check. Lopped off head? Check. Killed off-screen? That happens twice. Stabbed with sickle? Okay, I rather liked that one. But the Children of the Corn use sickles better.--We see a ghost once, for no real apparent reason! We don't even find out who the hell it is!The Ugly--The movie's greatest strength seems to come from the idea that Linda Blair is cast in it, as if that guarantees a super high quality movie. Linda Blair isn't why Exorcist was good, it was the story, direction, scares, originality, and acting. Linda Blair does not equate quality horror, people. Remember that.--Poor, uncreative make-up. One of the mutant crazy killer-guys actually looks like the goddamn Wolf Man! I'm not kidding, the Lon Chaney Wolf Man!! Luckily, you only see him for about 2/3 of a second.Memorable Scene--Linda Blair somehow drives a car relatively competently while holding her hands over her eyes and flailing her feet all over the floor while a guy is on top smashing through the windshield. No kidding.Ha ha, believe it or not, the description on the back of the box (and remember, I have it on video) is wrong! POSSIBLE SPOILER Says three college kids, actually four plus three antagonists trying to scare them. Says one half-man, half-monster is killing the kids, seemed like two&#133; So how good could this movie be if even the description is bad?Acting 4/10 Story 4/10 Atmosphere 7/10 Cinematography 6/10 Character Development 0/10 Special Effects/Make-up 3/10 Nudity/Sexuality 0/10 Violence/Gore 5/10 Music 5/10 Direction 3/10Cheesiness 2/10 Crappiness 7/10Overall 3/10Another one for just horror buffs and completists, and even that might be a stretch. Maybe if you really, really really, beyond a shadow of a doubt, love nothing else but cheesy, thoughtless 80's horror, then you might like it&#133; But I think we're all better off without.www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"Entertaining slasher with many creepy moments, but not a classic by any means.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The producers of the horror classic HALLOWEEN, IRWIN YABLANS & BRUCE COHN CURTIS of COMPASS INTERNATIONAL & Joseph WOLF, (the latter whom would be responsible for bringing horror fans another famous screen villain, three years later with A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET) return to bring horror fans a second hideous fiend gork ANDREW GARTH. Four sorority pledges led by EXORCIST'S own LINDA BLAIR, must spend the night at a creepy old mansion known as Garth Manor, that has a decidedly nasty history to it. It turns out the Mansions owner RAYMOND GARTH, brutally hacked up his wife Lillian, & three of his four hideously deformed, handicapped children, all in front of his son Andrew. When the police arrived the next day, they found Raymond hung, his wife & only two of the four children, with Andrew & one of his siblings missing. Once the pledges are inside, they goof around & laugh the story off, until Andrew turns up for real & does them all in one by one.Released during the very early days of the slasher craze, HELL NIGHT pretty much came & went at the box office & is now pretty much forgotten by most horror fans, save for a small handful & to be truthful, it's really not all that surprising to see why the film wound up basically in the long forgotten bin along with a slew of other horror titles. First I will get into what I liked about the film & then the negative.The Good For the most part, the atmosphere is really well captured on camera & plays a big part in the movie, you can never have a real horror movie without some form of atmosphere & HELL NIGHT delivers in spades. The overgrown hedge maze was a nice touch & the mansion itself was super creepy, both inside & out (sadly we never get to see the full structure of it, mainly the front of the house & a few rooms inside) the film also sports a somewhat Gothic look, such as the kids wandering the halls with nothing but candle light, to help them see through the dark mazes & corridors of the mansion & the deep, dark, gloomy tunnels underneath. The Gothic structure etc. The acting for the most part is pretty strong (despite the kids playing somewhat dull characters) & the direction by TOM DE SIMONE is really good, as he is able to deliver a few effective creepy moments, my favourites being the chase in the underground tunnel, where future Friday The 13th The Final Chapter actor PETER BARTON & LINDA BLAIR are trying to escape an ominous black tunnel under the estate, whilst being chased by ANDREW. The ghost of the mansions owner appearing before Linda Blair while she is trapped in a living room. Andrew rising up from underneath a rug & walking behind Barton & Blair, whom are relaxing in a room & completely unaware he's behind them (in way, this could be construed as a back handed tribute, to the scene from HALLOWEEN, where Michael Myers appears in a door frame, wearing a white sheet over himself to fool an intended victim.) the film also has a pretty cool twist ending, although die hard horror fans who have seen their fare share of these movies, are more than likely to figure out the films twist early on. There are basically two killers in the movie, Andrew being one of them naturally, but the film-makers never do tell us who the other one was? one of the children was described as a girl named Suzanne, that looked like a boy, was it her? Andrew's brother Morris? The film also displays a number of really good jump scares & the monster make- up done on the killers reminds me of the freaks seen in THE HILLS HAVE EYES (2006) & it's sequel.Now for the bad The film tends to be overlong, clocking in at 101 minutes, with much of that feeling like sheer padding in area's. I felt if the film-makers has cut their running time down to a much crisper 85-90 minute movie, it would have made the film not only move faster, but had made it better. Another negative thing the film does is shy away from the gore, much like HALLOWEEN did, while I understand perfectly that a horror film doesn't need gore to be scary, still what worked for HALLOWEEN, doesn't seem to work here. This was a poor choice by the film-makers to not feature any gore in my opinion, since HELL NIGHT could definitely have benefited from some cool gory kills & the film really adds or does nothing new for the genre to really make it stand out. All in all, while I enjoyed the film for what it is, there is still to much here that could have made the film better, but was seemingly ignored by the film-makers for whatever reasons & as a result of some of the poor choices made, I feel that is what harmed HELL NIGHT's reputation. It appears as though the film- makers were attempting to aim higher than what the film actually is (a slasher) & perhaps that is what caused it to sink at the box office & into eventual oblivion. Those who came to see a fun, scary slasher with some cool gory kills, were let down & those in the higher up in the film industry (whom no doubt the film-makers were trying to impress in order to get themselves jobs on more higher class films) wouldn't be caught dead in a theatre to see a movie like it, which is probably why COMPASS INTERNATIONAL went out of business after this film came & went from theatres. Still it is worth a look for horror fans. Co-produced by future A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 helmer CHUCK RUSSELL*** stars "},{"Title":"The ultimate hell is sitting through this movie!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This has all the elements of a bad horror movie, but unlike some so-bad-it's-good low-budget fright flicks, this one takes itself seriously--and therin lies the problem.  I always say the sign of a bad horror movie is when you want every character to die, just so the movie can end.  That was definitely the case with Hell Night.  I was literally counting how many characters are still alive, so I'd know how soon it'll all be over.  Even at approximately an hour and 40 minutes, I felt the film went on way too long.  That goes on to prove that a good movie is never too long and a bad movie is never too short.  The acting is decent, though nothing special.  But I'd rather watch a fun horror flick with bad actors than a clunker like this with decent actors.  This is the only movie, besides The Exorcist, that I've seen of Linda Blair's.  Apparently, she made a consecutive series of bombs after gaining fame from that debut role.  Aside from one exciting scene where one of the characters tries to climb over a pointed gate, the movie is devoid of any real thrills.  Most of the scenes are composed of characters walking through dark locations for about 5 minutes before something actually happens.  The movie itself has almost no originality.  The score is cheesy, and so are the horrendously dated 80's hairstyles and wardrobe.  Even for low-budget horror standards, this is one awful flick!My score  2 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Linda Blair saves this otherwise nondescript horror flick","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HELL NIGHT (1981) **½  Linda Blair, Vincent Van Patten, Peter Barton, Kevin Brophy, Suki Goodwin.  Linda Blair stars as a sorority pledge who, along with three others (Van Patten, Barton and Goodwin) must spend the night in Garth Manor, an old abandoned house, as a part of her initiation.  According to legend, the house's former owner killed his wife and three children there years before, though one of the children (who was said to be horribly deformed) is rumored to have survived and may still be lurking in the labyrinth of tunnels below the house.  After Blair and the others start finding the mutilated bodies of their classmates on the grounds of Garth Manor, they begin to wonder if the legend is true.  Blair turns in a surprisingly effective performance as a teenager from a working-class background who feels a little out of place among her well-heeled counterparts.  She manages to make her character seem almost three-dimensional, which is rare indeed for a slasher flick.  It's just a shame she didn't get more screen time.  The film has some pacing problems after a great setup in the first 15 minutes, the film really lags, making the middle third tough going at times.  But the intense final minutes of the film feature some terrific scares, and are definitely worth waiting for. "},{"Title":"Tame by today's standards, but a quality production that holds interest","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so if Hell Night was a shampoo, it would be a simple lather, rinse, repeat formula.  Like many early 1980s horror films, its ingredients were college students partying.  This time fraternity and sorority pledges must spend a night in an old mansion.  Is the mansion haunted?  At each sign of danger, the youths go TOWARDS the scary sounds into darker areas or upstairs and will either get chased around or killed, or both. Then start the process again.  Hell Night is guilty of this over and over, but....Riding the wave of slasher flicks post-Halloween, Hell Night at least holds its own with a talented cast, solid direction and a lot of care put into the production -- particularly the excellent lighting scheme.  For a film that takes place entirely at night, everything LOOKS correct for night time. No day for night shots or false levels for flashlights or moonlight. People are probably not aware of all the work that really went into this production.Kudos too for opting for suspense and some character importance over the usual distractions of naked gals and gore.  When films load up on bare breasts in particular, you know the film is distracting the male viewers more than anything else, trying to cover up the fact that the scares are lacking (Friday the 13th Part 2 is an example). This film allows everyone including the female viewers to enjoy and focus on the story rather than sitting and waiting for the next T & A moment.  For reviewers to complain about lack of nudity (you know the type of guys that complain), there are plenty of other films to satisfy that need. Funny how when in some films you see a naked guy instead (like in Strange Behavior or Fear No Evil), the male viewers get all uncomfortable and look away (always fearing viewing that will cause others to accuse them of being gay), but never seem to think about how constant female nudity will annoy female viewers.  Hell Night uses a very mild approach to sex and effectively conveys the scenes without being gratuitous or even too cute.  Even the cussing is very mild, with no F words. I wouldn't be surprised that if this exact film were made today, it would get a PG-13 (although a not-so-nice word was used to describe a female character that I haven't heard in a film other than Blazing Saddles! It begins with a T in case you're wondering).During the usual wandering through the corridors and chase scenes, there is at least a sense of suspense since the characters and production are well above the usual standard fare.  Compare this to other productions of its time and you don't seem to mind since the interest level is decent.  Take a film from that time like The Prowler -- that was a film that had no sense of spookiness and spent so much time having characters just wander around endlessly.For viewers seeing this film for the first time (especially if you have been weened on more slicker productions), Hell Night might seem quite bland by comparison. However, take into consideration the time it came from, and the fact that it didn't rely on gimmicks like breasts, extreme gore, or a possible hits soundtrack, it offers quite a lot of fun despite the appearance of usual slasher fare.  I found myself interested in each character caring if anything happened to them, and found the almost late-1960s Scooby Doo mystery element a treat.  You have to give credit to films from way back when, the danger situations had to be thought out better since teens in peril didn't have cell phones to call for help!  Sure, there was a lot of crap passing themselves off as horror films, but Hell Night had some creativity to carry it through.Sure, I've seen plenty of scarier films, but Hell Night offers just enough fun and those not being too picky will enjoy it as a mystery that holds up after all these years.  Could be too that faces like Linda Blair and Vince Van Patten were noticeable faces in genre films and guest-filled shows like The Love Boat back then, and there's a fondness that I know I have for those fun times.Like Hell Night or don't, but it definitely deserves its respected place in the history of thrillers. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Hack and Slash Excursions.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Another film to appear just after the dawn of the slasher frenzy with producer Irwin Yablins himself taking part after producing the film that pretty much signalled the birth of the afforementioned genre.Anyone with a likeness to horror should not be scratching their heads to work out the identity of this masterpiece.Linda Blair had become a firm association with exploitation horror (and sleazy action films)after her successful potrayal as a bile vomiting head turning demon chick in The Exorcist so it's very neat to see her here playing a voluptuous well to do Innocent fraternity pledger facing her initiation night in a haunted house.Along with her for the ride are all the other cliched types...The Horny anything goes foreign girl,the tough as nuts jock,and of course,the well to do Innocent guy of the situation,One from the misunderstood side of the tracks..(A neat little exchange of dialogue on the issues of misunderstood upbringings takes place,before the slaughter with the two well two do's.)What unravels during the course of the pledgers indoctrination makes for some geniuinely scary and atmospheric thrills haunted house/slasher style..A mysterious presence who may be the topic of myth is also in the wailing halled mansion too,with murder on it's mind.Although some of the suspense scenes are so long and anti climatic, There is a decent amount to recommend about Hell Night.The murder scenes do not look as poorly done as previously indicated and there are some pretty neat little action/battle scenes between the two male heroes and the mysterious presence.Of course the horror film cliches are ever present,the heroine who falls down for no good reason during a chase,a seemingly invincible killer with no explanation as to why a pointblank shotgun wound does not effect the killer slightly and why the silly twits in mention always roam off alone and act surprised when their is no response to Who's there? But these are standard puns for horror films and anyone who watches these films and picks the absolute dirt out of them does not appreciate the films face value...TOTAL UNREALISTIC CHEAP MINDLESS FUN and for the most part....That kinda fun is cool...There is one scene in this film that made me JUMP out of my chair,hopefully upon seeing the scene,you'll guess which one it was too. The version i watched was on an old VHS MONO cassette with the volume turned down at the time.I can only imagine the race of my heart if i'd seen a 5.1 version of it...Enjoyable,mindless and definately in the top 20% of this seemingly endless and tiring (ressurected) genre.Recommended. "}{"Title":"Another Slasher on the pile","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD...Better than average slasher film with lots of plot holes, cheesy direction from De Simone (usual porn and exploitation director) and the occasional unintentionally comic scene.The story concerns four pledges, including Marty (Linda Blaire) who must spend their evening in the foreboding Garth Manor. This small group is unaware that members of the fraternity have sneaked onto the grounds to scare them. Unknown to the pranksters is that two deformed murderers are also loose on the grounds.Irwin Yablans, responsible for producing Carpenter's Halloween (1978), among other low budget exploitation movies delivered Hell Night. It is an effective, if somewhat confusing towards the climax, cheap little slasher. The performances are quite decent when compared to minor films of the period. The gothic setting, unusual costumes and interesting cinematography all add to make this combination of Animal House and Halloween a better example of the genre.  "},{"Title":"Dull and boring 1980s slasher-by-numbers. For obsessive Linda Blair fans only.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Linda Blair has had a very checkered career, but is always worth a look because she appeared in one of the best horror movies of all time 'The Exorcist', as well as one of the 1980s most enjoyable exploitation movies 'Chained Heat'. Unfortunately 'Hell Night' was made between the two and is a deathly dull slasher-by-numbers that only an obsessive Blair buff would bother to sit through. Director Tom DeSimone went on to make the women in prison spoof 'Reform School Girls', a much more enjoyable movie than this. Blair plays Marti a pledge for a sorority. She and three others (including Vincent Van Patten of 'Rock'n'Roll High School') are asked to spend the night in the creepy Garth Manor on the twelfth anniversary of some murders committed there. They don't realize that the sorority plans on playing some scary pranks on them. NOBODY realizes (apart from we the viewers who have seen dozens of these kind of movies) that there is someone else in the house and they are.... well, you can guess the rest. I don't mind watching formula movies like this if they aren't TOO predictable, or if they find some new and inventive twist on the tired subject matter. 'Hell Night' doesn't manage to do either. I've seen plenty worse than this movie, but even so, I can't think of any reason whatsoever to recommend it. "},{"Title":"Gothic Terror","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about Hell Night.I saw this film on the big screen, and at the drive-in when it made its debut.It actually frightened me pretty good as a child, since it was the first Horror Movie I went to see, accompanied by two adults.When I saw the first killing, of a young woman getting decapatated by a shadowy figure in what appeared to be an underground dwelling, I was shocked.The killer scared the daylights out of me, as a kid.There was something about this hulk-like, semi-retarded killer that sent chills down my spine as a youngster.SPOILERS Basically, the plot revolves around a  group of college frat kids that as an initiation into the fraternity, Alfa Sigma Ro, must spend the night in Garth Manor, a gothic style old mansion equipped with secret trapdoors, underground passages,  and a  unique garden, but with no electricity or telephones.The former resident of the mansion was named Raymond Garth, and he and his wife ha a number of apparently retarded and deformed offspring.Mr. Garth one day killed most of his family, and then hung himself after his deed.He apparently left two mongoloid -like sons alive, however, Boris and Andrew.And it is the latter who goes on a murdering rampage of all the frat kids, by various means.Linda Blair stars as the sexy young lady Marti, who is the sole survivor of this murdering spree, in which Andrew takes out 5 other frat brats,--Peter, May, Scott, a cute little British-accented  Denise,and Seth the partying surfer boy.Each victim is dispatched by diff. methods, Peter is hacked with a sickle whilst stumbling through the garden, Scott has his neck broken, May has her pretty head decapatated,and in a scene that chilled me as a kid, Denise is kidnapped from bed and murdered offscreen.Finally Seth gets apparently blasted with a Police-Riot, pump shotgun,(although we don't see it, but hear do hear it),and Jeff, a near-hero, gets tossed by Andrew from one of the multi-story bedroom windows to a stone pillar below.(ouch!)The movie sarts with the kids partying,fondling, and chattering amongst one another while 3 others conduct prank activities on the group inside the mansion.The 3 pranksters outside are killed first, andthen Andrew makes his way inside, where the 4 of Seth, Denise, Jeff, and Marti are stalked.In one scene that frightened me as a kid, Seth, who is paired with Denise, gets up to use the restroom, while Denise sleeps,half-passed out in bed.Andrew, apparently, hidden behind the door in a small bathroom adjacent, creeps in and towers over Denise, and as she opens her eyes, he places his hand over her mouth.In a cruel twist, he hides the head of May under the covers, as a little surprise for the returning Seth.Seth climbs the lofty gate of the mansion, which is equipped with sharp spikes at the top, to a police station where the officers ignore his pleas for help.There,in corny fashion, rips off a shotgun and carjacks a man in a parking lot.       He drives Danny Sullivan-style back to Garth Manor, where Boris (seemingly Boris) accosts him, and Seth pumps two shot loads into him, the first dropping Boris into a pond, the latter killing him.But Andrew swipes the shotgun away inside, and behind a corner Seth receives a little dose of medicine, from the business end of the gun.Andrew, a hulking, grunting,rag-laden killer,was an interesting character indeed.The film is not a classic by any means, and is flawed with plenty of cheesy scenes.But still, it has its qualities too.The scenic beauty of the mansion,with its old gothic ornamental styling was affective indded. This is a fun flick to watch.              "},{"Title":"Waste of A Rental","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I know that there are still some die-hard Linda Blair fans out there, but, trust me, folks, this is no Exorcist.  If you are looking for something as half as entertaining, don't go there.  This movie was poorly written to began with, the plot was extremely weak; that being said, I know it's a horror movies, but the shock value was extremely weak as well.  Horror movies are not really supposed to have very strong scripts, and that is where the shock value usually makes up for.  However, this movie had minimum blood/guts, etc., and I thought that it was just a little if not a lot overrated.  Also, the scenery was so dark you could barely make out what little action was going on. I guess because Linda Blair was the star? Right?  Anyway, to tally this up in a nutshell, save your money, it's not worth renting-and, for Heaven's sake, please do not buy this dated junk! "},{"Title":"Excellent Haunted House/Slasher Movie","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"     I saw this movie for the ghost story. Kevin Brophy does a great job setting up the atmosphere at the top of the movie as he tells the back story to the house as night among burning torches. The resulting story about the madman prowling the creepy estate works well within this set-up as well as the fact that the house is always in shadow so that you never see much of it. The combination of the atmosphere and the set-up makes this movie a lot better than all the slasher movies put together. The plot also runs well and intelligently without the unnecessary blood and gore that ruins so many horror films. Barton is one of the jerks trying to scare the characters out of the house without knowing that the house is well equipped to do that on its own. He somehow comes up with a sophisticated hologram device to scare Linda Blair who plays a heroine with a brain. Peter Barton is her dashing hero who doesn't mind being sensitive. Vincent Van Patten of that forgotten show business family has another crucial role as a jock who learns the harsh side of living up to a stereotype when the police don't believe his stories. You never see the killer either and it is that sense of the unknown that keeps everyone on the seat of their pants. One of the best scenes is when peter and Linda are talking as the killer rises up out of the floor under a rug. You've already developed a fondness for these characters as you want to try to warn them. The twists and turns in the plot keep you and the characters guessing, but the estate with all of its secret rooms and creepy alcoves compliments the movie very well.   "},{"Title":"Hell Night is one Hell of a movie","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say a fully grown Linda Blair. Who wouldn't love this movie.The movie has been done before and yes done better but it is Linda Blair that makes this horror/slasher movie work.College kids must stay a night in a haunted house. What starts out as a prank turns into full horror as the legend of the house being haunted by a killer comes true.Some nice camera work as well as lighting and acting make this an above average horror/slasher flick "},{"Title":"Overlooked slasher","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A group of co-eds for initiation have the spend the night in a house where a series of gruesome murders were committed earlier. Doesn't go overboard in the gore department, contains acceptable acting, decent direction, and is fairly suspenseful and scary. An overlooked slasher film worth your time and money. Rating 7 out 10.  Rated R and contains only violence and no nudity. "},{"Title":"Hell of a waste....","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Excuse me, was this supposed to be a horror movie or just a horrible movie?Hell Night makes the grave mistake (pardon the pun) of casting a bunch of long-in-the-tooth geezers as teenagers and making them slog through the old spend-a-night-in-a-haunted-house plotline while the ghost stories of a long-dead maniac still living in the house turn out to be all too true.  Yee-haw.There is NO suspense, NO tension, ZERO shocks, little to no blood (sorry, gore-hounds) and if the only talent in a movie like this is Linda Blair, that should tell you two things the rest of the cast are no-names and - SPOILER(?) AHEAD - there's only gonna be one survivor. Look, what kind of aficionado of these kind of films hasn't done the research on Blair?  She's a battle-hardened veteran and has put up with much worse (just check out her filmography), especially when there's a killer as bargain-basement as this one.  And it doesn't help to have Matthew Star and a Van Patten kid along for the ride.Anything good about Hell Night?  The mansion this is set in looks appropriately spooky and Blair is cute enough...and that's about it.You want blood and shocks?  Watch the news, it's more entertaining.One star.  For Blair.  Darn it, if she wasn't so cute.... "},{"Title":"If you want a good laugh then this is the movie for you!!","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hell Night is probably one of the most boring movies I have ever seen! The entire movie was basically two of the characters having sex in one room and the other two just sitting around asking each other if they heard a noise! The was not much of an enjoyable plot, just a typical 'slasher' movie. The death scenes were HORRIBLE, and not scary horrible by CRAP horrible...what ever you do skip this film an rent something worth watching....like 'Halloween'!!! "},{"Title":"Aged well? Well...no.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Saw this in the theater in 1981. Had a blast.Saw it when it first got released on video in 1984. Had a laugh.Saw it on cable last week. Had a fit.To be fair, it was almost original during its original run. But now that all the clichés have been run into the ground, it's not worth a second look.Linda Blair was the best actress here. And while Vinny Van Patten has done some good performances, this wasn't one of them. He didn't seem comfortable playing a surfer 'dude.' For Linda Blair fans/completests only. "}{"Title":"A bit dull","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had heard that Hell Night was an overlooked slasher flick - that is true, but it is nothing special or original. In fact it's rather boring. It's just about watchable but to be honest I almost fell asleep a few times and I was glad when it ended. The storyline reminded me a bit of Madman - so nothing too original - but that wouldn't matter if the film had been more interesting. Everything just takes too long to get going and too much time is spent on the boring characters. Linda Blair seems a bit bored all the way through and her acting is rather limp. There is little gore, at least little gore that you can see because it all happens in the dark. And that's another thing this film suffers from - lack of lighting. Sometimes darkness can add to the atmosphere, but in the case of Hell Night it just makes it more boring. There's a decent scene at the end, but really it isn't worth watching the film for. If you're after an entertaining horror flick it would be best to skip Hell Night and watch something like American Gothic or Scalps instead. There's much better material out there than this. "},{"Title":"Yes...Linda Blair did have one Hell of a night...","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It seems this movie has been unfairly lumped in with the rest of the early 80's schlock horror/slasher films...in my opinion, very unfairly. OK - it didn't have the production values of Gone With the Wind but it did accomplish what it set out to do ~ namely scare you from beginning to end! It seems from many other reviews that many thought this film to be boring (?) I think that there's much confusion between boring and suspenseful (What a helluva lot of horror films seem to lack these days) Linda Blair and the rest of the cast seem to be having a lot of fun with their roles, the atmosphere of the film is very creepy, and it's almost refreshing to see that (SPOILER) not everybody makes it out alive...there's no happy ending, no long drawn-out explanation - just good old-fashioned scares! It's almost like being on the receiving end of great ghost story around a roaring campfire...grab you girlfriend (or boyfriend) and hold on tight, there's something roaming around the old Garth mansion...all this and Linda Blair! Good God ~ This must be Heaven!  "},{"Title":"And this is how it began!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HELL NIGHT is one of the first sorority slashers, and that's why it's remembered.The genre started to get in shape like this sex scenes, 90 mins. running time, gore, creepy music, cheesy dialogue, and a clichéd plot. It didn't bring anything new or set standards but it surely followed the basic rules imposed by Halloween, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and Friday the 13th (among the most popular slashers).Decent amount of gore, dark settings, creepy music, scary killer (s), and a good lead character (Linda Blair). The mansion looked very creepy and the correct use of lights made it even creepier with that Gothic look.Linda Blair, one of the most recognized actress in the genre is part of the slashers history. She gave a decent performance, unlike the other characters that were painfully awful. Special mention for Linda's tight dress. Her breasts were also a key moment in the movie.*SPOILERS* I liked very much the decapitation scene and the final confrontation with the Garth Manion killer. The scene was brilliant (for the genre); and it has been copied by many other movies like this. This one came in the right moment! 1981 was a great year for slashers Friday the 13th part 2, Halloween 2, My Bloody Valentine, Happy Birhtday to Me, and the infamous The Burning, being the most relevant.HELLNIGHT has a place in the horror history book for the reasons above. In fact, it's not that bad as some people say. Recommended only for die hard fans of the genre.6/10. Deserves a watch. "},{"Title":"Watching this film isn't hell...but it's close.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I finally got around to watching this one (it mysteriously proved to be pretty hard to find), and it was not worth the wait. It begins with some promise, but soon becomes a forgettable horror thriller, with too dark photography, and a killer who violates all the laws of logic by having to be killed about seven times, and also by being able to teleport himself from one place to another. And, with apologies to Linda Blair fans, she makes a very dull, wimpy, uninspiring heroine here.     (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Why does this film have so many good reviews???","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A huge fan of the slasher genre, I finally got around to watching this and was enormously disappointed. Cool credits and a fun opening soon degenerate into some of the worst dialogue (which 70% of the time does nothing to develop character or forward the plot) and acting I've seen in a horror movie. Vince Van Patten's constant overacting and Linda Blair's whining (watch her jiggle up and down as she pleads for Van Patten not to climb over the gate - It's hilarious!!!) especially stand out. The paint-by-numbers plot involves a bunch of teens being knocked off in a haunted house, and this film takes no pains in trying to add anything new to the genre. The only difference I can think of is that rather than the strong, resourceful heroines normally found in these movies, we instead have a wimpy Linda Blair who, despite being a tough mechanic, freaks out at every little locking door and bump-in-the-night that happens. Adding to the boredom are the seemingly neverending shots of characters wandering off and tiptoeing about (I swear this must be at least 20 minutes of the movie). Truly a movie not worth your time - Avoid!!! "},{"Title":"Definitely overlooked","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this and I was surprised on how good it was. I figured it was going to be stupid like the previous one I watched (the last slumber party). If you want to know it scared the hell out of me. It was scary. The ending is worth waiting for. Do rent this one if you see it. "},{"Title":"Not scary, not funny, not entertaining","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" College kids (ie killing fodder) locked in a spooky house where they need to stay as part of their initiation into their fraternities/sororities. Nice premise, now where could they have gone with the story? They could have been presented it as a straight ghost/haunted house flick which they didn't. They could have did it as a whole-hog over-the-top slasher gore fest which they didn't. They could have presented it as a parody which they didn't.What they decided to go with was a TV style, watered down lame excuse for a horror movie. I mean come one, Freddy, Jason and Michael were slashing up the screens in Hollywood during the 1980's and this is the best they could do?There is no suspense build up, the kills are quick and unsatisfying. We all know the elements of good horror/slasher movies. So let's do a recap of what Hell Night hadScary? - No. Gory kill scenes? - No. Creative death scenes? - No. Suspense? - No. Great last scene where the protagonist has to rise from the brink of death to defeat the killer? - No. Gratuitous nudity? No. Sorry, this movie has none of the usually elements needs for a good horror/slasher film. The action was slow and plodding, you could tell Linda Blair just was there for a paycheck. If you want to see a good horror flick, keep looking as this isn't the one. "},{"Title":"Meh!","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was OK, and really only because I happen to be a semi-fan of clean slasher flicks between 1975-1982. No nudity and no sex scenes, and very little profanity; that's how I roll.There's action here, but most of it is boring and stupid. The kids are just so insipid at the sorority and fraternity. The Garth house overnight kids were the best of the bunch, but Linda Blair is a bit slow. I kinda liked Seth; he shouldn't have come back, he should have just let those idiot police officers lock him up for safety.What happened to Denise anyway? Did I miss it? The other guy in the house (not Seth) is a fool. He's seen dead people and one girl go missing, and yet when he spies a light in the garden from the upstairs window, he has to go investigate and thinks it is smart to leave Linda Blair's character behind, telling her not to worry. Uh, why not fool? She doesn't say that, she just whines that she doesn't want to be left behind. Then why don't you follow his stupid butt stupid? Lots of other idiotic things go on here. "},{"Title":"Are the other reviewers kidding?","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I didn't expect much from this film. I figured it would be a campy 1980s horror flick. Let's face it, if you've seen Linda Blair act before, then you know this movie can't be all that good. The only time she did a convincing performance was in the Exorcist and even then the makeup and effects pretty much did all the acting for her.I watched this movie anyway so I could see the exciting and clever ending, of which many of the other reviewer have spoken. Are they kidding? Exciting, clever? All she did was drive the car into a fence and the guy got impaled. So what? It wasn't even that good and certainly not worth sitting through the rest of the movie. There wasn't even nudity to give this movie at least some value. Even when they came close to nudity it was the most lame sex scene that I'd ever seen in my life. Basically it was two kids in their underwear rolling on the bed and laughing and talking, the scene of which was peppered nearly throughout the entire movie.Sorry other reviewers, this movie isn't worth the time to watch it. "},{"Title":"The things we do to be accepted.","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Conventional, but well presented slasher with a large dose of dark Gothic atmosphere, remarkably garish art direction and spirited performances led by the delightfully charming Linda Blair. This item is another slasher that's not all that interested in exploiting (with gore taking a back step), but director Tom Desimone keeps things rather old-fashioned, slow burn and rallying up successful slabs of random suspense and hysterics. Sure the material is quite brief, but there's occasional wit, an odd air to it and the characters have personality. Co-stars; Vincent Van Patten, Peter Barton, Jenny Neumann and Kevin Brophy chip with amusing turns. The menacingly forlorn tone is laid on thick, where the creaky, old mansion becomes a prominent character and the deformed killer of the piece keeps mostly in the shadows. The make-up is not that imaginative, but still manages to hold a creepy vibe. Dan Wyman's lavished synthesiser score chalks up plenty of ominous stings, which perfectly fits right in and does a lot for those tense moments. Although the slickly decorated production has some bumps, mainly found in the pacing, where at times it can become ponderous and probably being 10 minutes too long. The death toll is little, and the violence comes across swift and to the point, but still maintaining a cruel edge to it. The story can get predictable and some developments seemed all a bit to easy for the overall plot progression, but I found it too enjoyable to really care a great deal. "}{"Title":"Hell Night","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was about 9 years old when I watched this movie at my cousins house when this movie came out. This is the best scary movie that I have ever seen in my whole life. I enjoyed watching this movie every time I went to up to his house to watch this. I would recommend everyone to watch this movie that is really best in all time best picture and creative and really what would be good to watch as a kid. I would like to watch this movie again and have my son watch it with me. I think that he would really like it. And I know that everyone that I have talked to about they would like it also. My oldest brother and sister would watch this every time that we would go up to my cousins and spend the night there over the weekends we we stayed with them over the weekend. "},{"Title":"Terrifying mix of slashers, ghost stories, and creature features!","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hell Night is, without a doubt, one of the most underrated horror films of the early 1980s. Starting as a wild, carefree frat party, the tale takes a quick, terrifying turn when a small group of fraternity and sorority pledges are forced to spend the night in a supposedly haunted house on the edge of town. The plot is simple enough to begin with, but as soon as the kids are locked in, the film springs to horrifying life.Within minutes, the film becomes a splendid mix of slasher, ghost story, and creature feature - with gruesome stabbings, beheadings, ghouls floating through the air, and malformed monstrous man-things! Linda Blair headlines the wonderful cast, showing a lusty talent she had surprisingly grown into in the years following The Exorcist. By her side is Dick Van Patten's handsome son, Vincent; and Peter Barton, who would later go on to become one of Jason's most memorable victims in Friday the 13th Part 4.With top-notch gore effects, a thrilling score, and one of the most haunting mansions ever seen on film - Hell Night is a roller-coaster of horror that should have been one of '81's biggest terror hits.As it, its all but forgotten... so if you're a fan of horror, do yourself a favor and get the newly-remastered DVD of this gem. You'll have a Hell of a time! "},{"Title":"Heck Night!","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's not everyday one finds a teen-slasher flick that's REALLY entertaining! This some-what forgotten gem is just such a film. Linda Blair and her friends are pledging 'n' shackin' up at the Gothic home of a dead killer. Unfortunately for them, it seems that someone is out to whack them all.Hardly original, right? But it's great fun with the help of a likable cast, some good suspense scenes and some great set pieces. Blair adds a wonderfully campy feel. Vincent Van Patten is a memborable joy as Seth, the fun-loving surf dude. Locations for the main setting are quite nice, it must have been a huge pain to light in the dark! Also check that groove-worthy theme song playing in the opening credits. Even though the story is nothing too new, it's still a horror treat thats a few notches above the average slasher movie. Check it out horror fans!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"If you're desperate...","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Four college kids (2 girls, 2 boys) must spend the night in a haunted house to get into the sororities and fraternities they pledged.  What they don't know is the house IS haunted by a seemingly unstoppable killer.  Who will survive?  Sound familiar?A very by the numbers horror film utterly devoid of chills or imagination.  It was one of the crummy films that everybody was making back in the early 1980s in the wake of the inexplicable success of Friday the 13th.  This film DOES have Linda Blair in it...but she's pretty bad.  The only good acting was from handsome, hunky Peter Barton who actually gave us a sympathetic character (despite the lousy dialogue).  The worst acting was by idiotic Vincent Van Patten.  Apparently he was no joy on the set either.  He was supposed to do a nude love scene with his costar (not Blair) but refused at the last minute--he didn't want to tarnish his image!  Like being in something called Hell Night was going to give you a good reputation!The movie has no nudity, very little swearing and next to no violence, blood or gore---how did this get an R rating?  Very dull--not even good enough for laughs.  Avoid.      "},{"Title":"Pray for...the movie to end","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hell Night is your run of the mill slasher film and definitely not one of the better executed (no pun intended)ones from the golden age of these movies from the early 80s. The movie doesn't develop or introduce any of the characters but rather jumps into the party scene where a big brother and little sister fraternity are having the titular hazing Hell Night.  Linda Blair looks very cherubic and is supposed to be the lead aka the survivor but she spends most of the movie running around squealing just like all the other female characters in this movie.  Didn't they learn that what made Halloween work was that we had a female character that was able to use her wits to battle the killer rather than being a damsel in distress.  Anyways, the teenagers are taken to an old abandoned mansion where a brutal mass murder took place years before and the grotesquely deformed son was never found.  The whole back story is literally recounted by one of the characters and then we just have a bunch of people being seperated and wandering around for ages in dark corridors before being killed.  I watched the trailer on the DVD and realized that it gave away the whole film in only 3 minutes while I wasted 90 minutes watching this tedious rehash of other similar slasher films.  The marketing campaign seemed to emphasize the fact that Linda Blair was in the film and that this somehow would make it a masterpiece like The Exorcist?  I couldn't even say this movie is bad in an entertaining, campy way, it is just plain boring. "},{"Title":"Do you believe in ghosts?","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Hell Night is Linda Blair's second best horror flick.  Okay, it's a far cry from The Exorcist, but it's still a solid horror outing.  It's one of the best of the fraternity/slasher sub-genre.  The story centers around fraternity and sorority hopefuls who must spend the night in a dark and spooky mansion.  Once locked inside, the pledges (and a few other pranksters) are then picked off one by one by the remaining mongoloid family members who live there.  The story reminds me a bit of Castle Freak and the execution mirrors Halloween.  It may feel a bit cliched today, buy you must remember that this is one of the films that made those cliches. "},{"Title":"One bad, bad film","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I came across Hell Night quite by chance in a 2nd hand video collector's shop in Croydon. I love 80's horror so I thought I'd pay the £5.00 charge and see what the film was like. I needn't had bothered. The entire production was a shabby one to say the least. The acting was hammy (even by the genre's standards). The make up effects for the so called monsterous killer was poor. Poor Linda Blair, she tries so hard to impress but apart from the terrible script she has little to do but to look scared. This would be ok if the rest of the teeny cast could make something out of this boring flick. Bad horror is sometimes funny and this film does have it's share of unintentional humour. My favoutite scene is where Vincent Van Patten discovers his girlfriend's head in his bed. His scream is soooo girlie it makes the film. My marks out of ten? 2. If this is Hell then so's Allo Allo. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First horror film I ever saw on HBO. I couldn't believe I was watching a bloody decapitation on TV! Otherwise, there's not much to say for this teens trapped in a mutant killer's house although the shambling, oversized killer has at least one great moment, chasing the kids down a long passageway. "},{"Title":"A must own and a must see","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hell night is a very great watchable movie.  Nowhere did I find this to be a boring and slow moving.  The movie was scary and creepy as if you did not know what would happen next. I did not know at first that there was more than one killer.  My rating is 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Slasher film that actually has a plot","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unusual slasher film for having a fairly believable plot plausible story of frat/ sorority pledges who have to spend a night in a haunted house as part of their  indoctrination.  Pledge masters play tricks on them to heighten the experience,  but inside the house lurks a murderer.  Plot becomes slightly murky with what  turns out to be two killers on the lose. And, in the spirit of more common teen  slasher movies (Friday the 13th, et al) the baddies just won't die, but happily  most of the film remains grounded in a logical progression of events.  Alsounusual in allowing the audience to get to know and like the characters before  the body count begins.  Decades ahead of Melrose Place for using all goodlooking actors. Even the pledge masters, who would usually be portrayed aspock-marked, buck toothed, or just nerdy are easy on the eyes.  The sexuality is  tame by today's standards, but this is probably the one of the first films to  provide equal opportunity for one of the guys to run around in his underwear in  addition to the obligatory female underwear scene. No doubt the producers got  the money to make a standard slasher film, but because we come to like thesecharacters it would have been better to have the four principals overcome the  killers, rather than just Linda. (It's still okay to kill the pledge pranksters).  Vincent's escape from the grounds to go for the Police is also an unhappydeparture from the isolated tone set in Act 1.   "}{"Title":"Poor Linda Blair -- possessed by the devil as a child and now chased all over a mansion by disfigured psychopaths...","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (***1/2 out of *****)You could probably find a lot to criticize in this derivative kids-in-a-haunted-house-with-a-killer flick (and, from the sounds of most of the reviews here, it sounds like a lot of you have), but I don't care -- for some reason, I love this movie!  I think it's one of the epitomal early-'80s slashers -- a scary, fun time-waster that leans more on setting and suspense rather than blood, breasts, and guts.  Linda Blair (apparently all cured from the devil-possession thing a few years back) stars as a wet-blanket sorority pledge who must spend a night with three other pledges in the deserted Garth Mansion, the site of a long-ago brutal family slaying at the hands of the psychopathic father.  The deformed, idiot son of the family was never found, until Blair and friends crash the place, cranking the radio and making the rusty bed springs squeak.  In spite of brief shots of a decapitation, a neck being twisted and broken, and a scythe going through a stomach, this movie isn't quite as violent as others of its sort.  But there are a number of suspenseful sequences involving hidden trap doors and secret underground tunnels, and most of the characters (including Vincent Van Patten, Peter Barton, Jenny Neumann and Kevin Brophy) are fairly likable.  The setting is also great -- a huge, dark mansion sitting in a large, gated estate that's sprawling with maze-like vegetation.  There's a twist toward the end that's reminiscent of other past slasher movies, such as Tower of Evil and Just Before Dawn.  This is just one of those movies that clicked with me.  I watch it once or twice a year and enjoy it every time.  Drinking helps.HIGHLIGHT  Blair and boyfriend Barton think they've safely barricaded themselves in one of the large bedrooms of the mansion until the rug behind them starts to rise. ... "},{"Title":"makes you long for split-pea soup","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ***mild spoiler alert***A voluptuous and somewhat zaftig Linda Blair is pledging the college Greek.  In order to get in, she, and the other pledges will have to endure Hell Night  --a hazing ritual conducted at a creepy mansion, on a large, sprawling estate in some dark, secluded location.  The pledges arrive at the supposedly haunted mansion and they are promptly told an urban legend about it's murderous past.  The mission, should they choose to accept it (and unfortunately for us, they do) Spend the night in the mansion.  And there's no way out --the property is surrounded by a 12 foot fence with razor-sharp spikes along the top, and the gates to the driveway are chain-locked shut.Well surprise, surprise.  Turns out the urban legend is for real and the first of our pledges is found brutally murdered.  After they discover their dead friend, our posse of brainiacs run out of the house and frantically rattle the front gates to no avail.  They conclude that, no, that padlock they saw the frat leader put on the gates was not a figment of their generic beer-addled imaginations...and, yes, they really are locked in.Fear not The very blonde and very handsome Vince Van Patten has the token brainstorm (hey, what gives? he's the blond one!) and decides to brave the razor-sharp fence and (un)dramatically climb over, something the others are apparently unwilling to do.  A nice-size gash later, Timmy has made it over and promises to run a Boston Marathon-type distance to the closest police station and bring back help.So how do our college geniuses respond?  They go back inside the house to wait.  INSIDE the house...you know, where the KILLER and the DEAD PEOPLE are.  Yes, this is their master plan for survival.  So instead of, say, digging a hole under the fence, or... dragging that gothic furniture out of the house and building a ladder to get over it, they opt to do things like wander around the house alone and explore underground mazes where the killer surely awaits.  Yeah, I know, since when are horror flicks credible? But still...Hell Night is a poorly-acted, mostly gore-free, mind-numbingly brainless exercise in viewer patience.  I saw it 20 times, it's a definite must-see!   "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a fun horror film  It is nothing amazing, but it is really entertaining and worth a look especially if you are a Linda Blair fan(like me). This is one of the better teenage slasher films of the 80's. "},{"Title":"Not really very good at all.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In this dull, uninspired, tedious, uncreative movie, some insipid fraternity and sorority pledges must spend the night in a haunted house while other insipid college types play sub-Scooby Doo pranks on them, like projecting ghosts and using remote controlled door locks. Our protagonists include a scummy girl who brings Quaaludes and Jack Daniels; Vince Van Patten, who gives a stirring monologue on surfing while riding the aforementioned girl as a visual aid; a dull lad who claims that in his youth he saw an elf; and Linda Blair, who is Linda Blair.I almost forgot There are also a couple of disfigured psychopaths intent on killing all the characters. They are the movie's real heroes, as they provide some excitement and action in this otherwise worthless flick. There's not much gore, but there is a neck snapping, a scythe through the gut, and a passable, if quick, decapitation. There is also a good scene at the film's very end with the killer riding on top of car, so this movie isn't totally devoid of some enjoyment, but there's not enough here to recommend unless you're a connoisseur of visible boom mikes. "},{"Title":"Some films just get worse by the day ... this is a shining example","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought i would try to be too judgemental, after all it was made 19 years ago, so I felt it unfair to compare with todays teen horror offerings.  What I thought when I was watching this film, was that it was so very unoriginal, the storyline was just stupid, and even worse it just was not scary- not even in the slightest.  Even compared to other films that were around at that time, Halloween, Friday the 13th, The Fog and Prom Night this film is clearly the worst example of an early eighties horror picture. At least some of the others were suspenseful to a certain degree.  Some horrors even keep you guessing as to who the killer is, this one took the most straightforward explanation and then continued to bore audiences for 90 minutes.  A total waste of time- even with Linda Blair as the star. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite 80's Horror flicks.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great flick!  It mixes haunted house and slasher style both very cleverly.  The chase scenes are intense,  and the house with all the underground tunnels and no modern utilities is a fantastic touch.  It also has a very strong and likable cast (unlike many 80's horror films) If you like horror flicks you have got to see this one.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good slasher flick.","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Four students have to spend the night in the dark old mansion called Garth Manor only to be murdered by a deformed killer.Tom DeSimone's Hell Night is a surprisingly decent horror film.There is a little bit of gore and a nice amount of atmosphere,unfortunately the film is too darkly lit to be completely enjoyable.Still Hell Night offers some shocking scenes that will make you jump,but overall isn't scary.The acting is actually decent and the direction by Tom DeSimone is well-handled.The film has a dark,almost Gothic feel,which I liked.So if you like low-budget slasher films you can't go wrong with Hell Night.8 out of 10.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Long and Dull","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is like many you'll find from the 80's LONG, and DULL. It's just as bad as Halloween. If you like Halloween then there's obviously something wrong with you because that movie is terrible, But I liked the remake, so what does that tell you? I don't Know. I have a very specific taste when it comes to movies, and I love horror movies, but so many of them are just plain bad. Like this one.Nothing happens, nothing happens, nothing happens, Then the only good part of the whole movie happens; Wes I mean Seth escapes from the Mansion and goes to the police station where they tell him to F off so he steals a shotgun comes back to the mansion and blows the Villain away, now this doesn't kill him but getting spiked on a gate does... that makes sense. So the only good character in the movie Seth gets killed and then there's a dozen scenes of Linda Blair trying to escape, then it ends. Yes I spoiled the movie for you, but it's justified because you can hardly call this a movie.It's so boring that after half way through I thought it was almost over, more like I wished it was, but it wasn't, and I seriously didn't even want to watch the rest of the movie, even when the villain finally shows up, it made it just as uninteresting.The movie is crap, and don't let anyone tell you different, just because they seem like they know what they're talking about, they don't. This movie is boring! I mean there's nothing artistic about it, nothing different about it, nothing even remotely interesting, just save your time and never watch this, If your looking for good slasher movies this is not one. "},{"Title":"the worst film I've ever seen","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I thought I had seen the worst film ever made when I saw a B-film not-to-be-mentioned on TV some years ago, but Hell Night is in fact even worse than that film. Incredible ! Unbelievable how dumb and stupid some people can get - how is it possible to make such garbage ? The technical quality of the film is really bad, especially the lighting, or should I say lack of lighting. The story is thin as the ozone layer, the actors stumbling around as in some sort of life crisis. Sound is poor, direction is poor, and the only point in seeing this film is to have a good laugh. Really, really bad. Unbelievable lack of sense of quality and cultural heritage characterize this garbage. "},{"Title":"pretty cool movie","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I finally got around 2 watching this movie off Showtime 3 & I enjoyed it. I would say its 1 of the better 80's Horror films in the decade. I am not a L. Blair fan but she does an good job. This is 1 of her best films she's done, yes even better then THE EXORCIST, which wasnt that good in my opinion anyway. If u r looking 4 an older Horror film 2 see, check this 1 out, its worth seeing.   "}{"Title":"Very creepy slasher flick...","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Four college kids(2 girls and 2 boys)find themselves being initiated into Garth manor,the local spooky house.Unbeknownst to them the mansion is haunted by a horribly deformed monster.This very underrated slasher flick relies more on suspense and dark,brooding atmosphere rather than gore.The acting is surprisingly decent and the characters are well-developed.Linda Blair is great as a final girl.There's a bit of gore but not much.The killings are quite brutal for example you can see here a nice decapitation,pitchfork stabbings,scythe slashing and some more.If you love slasher movies you should watch Hell Night.It's more creepy than highly overrated Scream.Check it out. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, the film did scare me once and it was a fake scare! But I didn't watch it for the scares. I watched it for the entertainment. I was worried cause Leonard Maltin's book said there was no sex and killings, but after watching it I find out he was wrong. The best killing is when the monster breaks the guy's neck! "},{"Title":"Good 80's Horror","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I remember being a young kid and loving this flick.  This was one of the many films my friends and I would rent on special occasions, like Halloween night.  True, it is cheesy compared to the big budget films of today, but it has that 80's quality about it that most modern horror movies lack. "},{"Title":"Under-rated.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film gets a lot of slack for being a bad slasher flick. It shouldn't get any flack at all because the first time I saw it, I was scared. Great horror films are hard to come by, good horror films pop up every now and then to surprise you. I was surprised how much I enjoyed this film. "},{"Title":"A must see movie for all horror fans!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite horror movies of all time and also one of the scariest horror movies I have ever seen!  Four college students have to spend a night at Garth Manor to be admitted to a college fraternity.  It ends up being a long (or short) night for some of them. This movie features everybodys favorite Linda Blair as Marti.  The editing and directing of this movie is great and their are plenty of jump out of your seat thrills. The storyline is also excellent and well written, also the music in this movie really sets the tone.  You will be scared and excited as you watch this movie, a must see for all horror fans!  Definetely a movie worth buying (preferably on dvd).  I give this movie 10 out of 10 stars! "}]