[{"Title":"awesome werewolf flick","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"53 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is an excellently crafted piece of work from former Roger Corman student, Joe Dante. I won't go much into the plot, but it involves a news woman who gets attacked while in a porno shop viewing room. To get her mind off things, a psychiatrist recommends she goes to his private retreat to be treated. After that, spooky happenings and strange deaths start occurring. This film has great direction and great atmosphere and mood. The lighting and use of fog is excellent and really hightens the spookiness of the film. One of the best werewolf transformations is shown in this film, rivaled only by the one in An American Werewolf in London. Although this movie starts out slow, the tension keeps rising and keeps you interested in what will happen next. The spookiness doesn't always lie within the content but also the claustrophobic feeling and the uncertainty of who you can trust. A very good movie, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The beast of the best when it comes to werewolves","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In 1981, horror movies were on the verge of their greatest comeback. The 1970's gave us Alien, Jaws and the Exersist, but we had lost the creepiness of the classic Universal monster films, such as Dracula, The Mummy and (my personal fave) The Wolfman. Pop culture had come to know the werewolf as a guy that hadn't shaved in a while and grew fangs. Joe Dante had a different idea. I was a freshman in high school in 1981 and some friends and I played hooky from school and went to see The Howling. After about 10 minutes I was so scared, that I actually found myself wanting to go to math class. Dante's film is full of suggested terror, although once he shows you, he never lets up. Karen White (Dee Wallace) is a popular newscaster who has managed to catch the eye of a serial killer. She decides to help the police trap him, but unannounced to us is the fact that the killer has a secret... A very dark secret. After a terrifying encounter, Karen and her husband Bill (Christopher Stone), take a long needed vacation. A retreat colony up in woods is their destination and the townsfolk (including the late, great John Carradine) are just normal everyday people who welcome them with open arms. As the days go by, strange things begin to happen and we realize that the colony is actually a colony of... Anyway, the visuals are great and this was long before the computer generated crap that they throw at us these days. Eddie Quist (Robert Picardo) is the resident bad dude or (wolf) as you may, and has one of the most classic transformation scenes I have ever witnessed. His sister Marsha Quist (Elisabeth Brooks) is definitely the hottest werewolf I've ever seen, and the cast is rounded out by Sheriff Newfield played by the one and only (Slim Pickens). The Howling certainly revolutionized the modern werewolf which has come a long way since Lon Channey Jr wore an afro wig and a pig nose, and there's not a lot of werewolf stranglings in this one. I have seen every werewolf movie ever made (literally), and The Howling has always remained my favorite, with An American Werewolf In (London)comming in at close second. If you have never seen this classic film, I urge you to go rent it, turn off the lights and pull the blanket up tight under your chin (for faster head covering action). You won't regret it, after all werewolves were meant to be big, ferocious, violent beasts that rip their victim apart. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"One of the best werewolf movies ever made.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"49 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The HowlingEasily one of the most historically popular werewolf films out there deserves some attention, right? Well of course. And since lately I'm getting more and more into werewolf films, I figured it was high time I actually bought this one and reviewed it. This, along with American Werewolf in London, were the two films that revolutionized werewolf movies and transformed them from just some guy running around bein' all hairy and strangling people. On top of it all, we have Joe Dante (Piranha, Gremlins) directing. Good times will be had by all!This film revolves around a news anchor-woman who is helping the police track down a serial killer, made all the easier by the fact that he's taken an interest in her. Well, everything goes just awful and she ends up traumatized. Her shrink suggests she and her husband take a comfortable, soothing vacation in a community that he's a major part of. Of course, the movie is helped along by the fact that the town just happens to be chock full of werewolves who can't seem to decide whether to eat these new people or have them join up.Here's the breakdownThe Good--We've got some beautiful and unique looking werewolves here. The first one we have a very clear view of, in the doctor's office, almost resembles some creature that's part wolf, part man, and part cat. It just kind of had that feel--not that it's bad, I liked it.--Interesting story, one of the better ones in the world of werewolves.--The acting is pretty good, one has to consider the fact that a lot of actors just don't take these kinds of roles seriously enough. So finding a movie like this where they do is quite nice.--Naked transforming werewolf sex scene by a campfire. Hmmm... maybe this should be the Memorable Scene....--Average amounts of violence--more a suspenseful werewolf film than a visually disturbing one. The gore, while only occasional, is really good.--Nice mystery story wrapped up in here.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--Decent music, somewhat average for these kind of movies.--Dee Wallace-Stone's acting occasionally isn't quite up to par, shall we say...--One werewolf transformation sequence is actually animated--like with cell animation and it doesn't look very good. It's brief and small, and doesn't detract from the film's overall quality.--Dee Wallace's friends in the movie really seem to adopt the notion of werewolves rather easily--I would think it would be hard to accept that idea... oh well...The Bad--Some two-dimensional characters.--This film is in a series notorious for it's much crappier releases, but that's really about all there is that's not to like.The Ugly--Robert Picardo (the hologram doctor from Star Trek Voyager) plays the ultimate bad-ass werewolf--and boy, his face doesn't look good all charred with acid...Memorable Scene--Robert Picardo's werewolf in the Doctor's office. Oh, and that werewolf transformation sex scene. That was pretty hot.Acting 8/10 Story 9/10 Atmosphere 9/10 Cinematography 8/10 Character Development 8/10 Special Effects/Make-up 8/10 (some less than fancy stop-motion, and one bit of obvious animation) Nudity/Sexuality 4/10 Violence/Gore 8/10 (Average amount, but very high quality) Sets/Backgrounds 9/10 Dialogue 7/10 Music 7/10 Writing 8/10 Direction 9/10 Cheesiness 1/10 Crappiness 0/10Overall 8/10 A horror must-see. One of the classic werewolf films. Personally, I think Dog Soldiers may still be a little better, but that's just me. For horror fans and a great piece for non-horror fans to find out what a good werewolf movie should look like--sans CG werewolves.www.ResidentHazard.com http//bartboard.proboards3.com/index.cgi The Board, movie message board. "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Attractive reporter(Dee Wallace Stone)is coming to a small health resort.What she doesn't know is that all the residents of this resort are werewolves.The Howling is one of my favourite werewolf flicks.It features some of the best transformation scenes ever filmed,excellent special effects and a bit of irony.The acting is pretty good,and Joe Dante's direction is well-handled.There's a nice amount of blood and gore too!This shocker offers also some delicious sleaze(sex and full frontal nudity).However I'm not going to waste my time writing about its sequels,because they pretty much suck(still I haven't seen the fourth and fifth installments of this series).Joe Dante also made the kick-ass Piranha(1978). "},{"Title":"'The Howling' is one of the all time best werewolf movies.","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Most of my favourite horror movies of the 1980s were small, indie movies made outside the major studio system e.g. 'The Evil Dead', 'Maniac', 'Basket Case'. Most of the big horror movies then (like now) were pretty lame. 'The Howling' is a notable exception. Watching it over twenty years after it was originally released is quite an eye-opener. It not only holds up well, it is in fact, a damn fine movie. Joe Dante must take the credit for this. For me in the 1980s Dante was like a smarter, more inventive Spielberg. Dante, who learned his chops working for Roger Corman as an editor, writer and director, is a knowledgeable horror buff (Universal, Hammer, Bava movies) with a sly wit and great sense of fun. 'The Howling' is full of in jokes and ironic nods, but never goes all the way into comedy. Dante takes the material seriously. This is a pretty scary movie and the werewolves are some of the best ever seen. Dee Wallace ('The Hills Have Eyes', 'The Frighteners') is a TV reporter who is traumatized after a close encounter with a serial killer (Dante regular Robert Picardo). Dr. Waggner (Patrick Macnee of 'The Avengers' fame), a charming psychiatrist she knows and trusts suggest that she and her husband Bill (Christopher Stone) join him at his therapeutic retreat The Colony. I won't spoil the movie by going into detail about what happens next, but it's creepy and entertaining. Wallace is very good and Picardo, who usually plays comic roles, is convincing as Quist the psycho nut job. 'The Howling' was co-written by John Sayles, who pops up in a cameo, as does Roger Corman, and super fan Forrest J. Ackerman, former editor of 'Famous Monsters Of Filmland'. Dante is a loyal guy who always likes to acknowledge where he is coming from, so as well as Corman and Ackerman there are roles for horror legend John Carradine, Kevin McCarthy ('Invasion Of The Body Snatchers'), Kenneth Tobey ('The Thing From Another World'), Slim Pickens ('Dr Strangelove') and Dick Miller (as Walter Paisley his character in Corman's 1950s b-grade classic 'A Bucket Of Blood'). 'The Howling' is sure to be enjoyed by every horror buff and for me is one of the all time best werewolf movies along with Universal's 'The Wolf Man' and Hammer's underrated 'The Curse Of The Werewolf'. "},{"Title":"Listen to the critics, it's actually one of the best","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yes! For a change in the horror genre this film does deserve all of the praise, hype, cult following and respect it receives, even from the critics. I would go so far as to even admit that I find this Joe (Gremlins, Innerspace, The 'burbs, Matinee, Small soldiers) Dante flick one of his best crafted works, followed by PIRANHA.It's always been a toss up between THE HOWLING and AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON for the most effective lycanthropy picture of postmodern horror cinema (anything since Psycho). Where John Landis used comedy more blatantly, the humour in THE HOWLING is far more satirical and subversive. Undoubtedly, Rob Bottin's  effects steal the show as well as they did for John Carpenter's THE THING. The transformation of Eddie Quist, especially on the revamped DVD is something to behold.For anyone with a passing interest in the horror genre this is a film to include on that 'TO SEE' list. For fans of werewolf movies this should go on that 'MUST SEE' list. "},{"Title":"Slow starting, but this werewolf picture finishes with a bang.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This classic werewolf movie is not as good as An American Werewolf in London, however it is a pretty good horror movie in its own right. It is also one of the first (if not the first) to do an on screen transformation scene not using the old frame by frame technique. The story has a female reporter traumatized after she helps the police track down a serial killer. A friend psychiatrist sends her to a retreat known as the colony to help her unwind and get to the root of her problem. Well lets just say her first impulse was right as she really seems to think her and her husband are out of place in this retreat. I would agree, I do believe I would have left after seeing the first little beach party where the guy about to throw himself in the fire seemed the most sane. For the most part this movie has a bit of a slow setup, but once it gets going near the last 20 or thirty minutes it really gets going. The werewolves look rather good, there are a couple of scenes where they appear to be nothing more than cartoons or something, but for the most part they look like working models. There is a bit at the end which puzzles me as it seems to add humor into what was otherwise a movie that wasn't trying to garner laughs. However, for the most part you get a rather nice horror movie with lots of stars, something of a rarity this day and age. "},{"Title":"AAAHHHOOOO... werewolves of California.","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Terrific modern werewolf film from director Joe Dante remains one of his best movies.News Anchor has a terrifying encounter with a lunatic murderer, then decides to seek rest in an isolated colony of weird characters. It's about to become a hairy situation!Writer John Sayles (who does a humorous cameo as a morgue attendant) makes The Howling a clever and deeply spooky picture with some nicely tongue-in-cheek humor. The story references lots of old-school horror movies, notice how many of the characters in this movie are named after directors of old werewolf films. Dante lends some well-crafted direction, giving the movie a truly haunting atmosphere. He builds some great suspense and the occasional good shock. The art direction by Robert Burns is also quite good, making for some creepy settings. Rob Bottin's makeup FX are impressive and frightening. Pino Donaggio's music score is splendidly dramatic.Dee Wallace Stone does a strong performance as the film's troubled heroine. Patrick Macnee, Dennis Dugan, Belinda Balaski, and Christoper Stone are also good in their supporting roles. Elisabeth Brooks and Robert Picardo make for some truly scary villains.Along with Landis's great American Werewolf in London, which ironically came out the same year as this film, The Howling ranks as one of the very best modern werewolf movies!**** out of **** "},{"Title":"THE HOWLING They were right, it's one of the best werewolf movie ever made","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw for the very first time THE HOWLING last weekend and I must say that the critics were right, it's one of the better werewolf movies ever made.It looks like another typical werewolf movie but it's not, this one is far different to other werewolf movies. It revolves around a TV newscaster (Dee Wallace) that has the mission to catch a insane serial killer who has been murdering people on the city with the try to get a amazing number of audience, but the encounter changes everything, she gets traumated with the events and didn't get to see his face. Then she is sent to rehabilitation for remember what happened with her attacker and at the same time two of her best friends investigates more about the serial killer they discovers very suspicious clues about the attacker. And when the newscaster's husband is attacked, one of her friends goes to the zone and finds the answers to all the clues and will try to warn her that where she's now living is not all peaceful as it seems when a wolf is stalking around the woods.Had a great story, good actings and a very good chase scene, anyway, I loved this. I give The Howling a 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A deserving cult classic.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are few fence-riders where this movie is concerned. Most fans of the genre of Horror and of the sub-genre of WereWolf movies either love this movie...or hate it.Let me begin by saying that I admire this movie very much. I enjoy watching it, and the two subsequent sequels. In my opinion, after the third Howling, they got stupid, hokey, campy, and just plain bad. Also, let me warn you that this movie is dated, slow, and has large blocks of uneventful moments where even the most base character development is not being utilized.But, with that having been said, the story is a good story. It is poorly executed due to the large slow spots I mentioned before, but the story was a sound and well-written one. Everything does not just magically come together. The reporting team there as moral and emotional support for ace reporter, Karen White (Dee Wallace), is working very hard to put it together. Their discoveries do not come easy, but rather as a result of hard work, open-mindedness, and diligence. Not luck.The cinematography is mostly unremarkable, except for the scene in which Bill is attacked. The filmography is beautiful there, with the moonlight streaming out from behind two great trees, and the scene between is clear and lit by a beautifully brilliant silvery moonlight. Very good stuff.I also loved the use of The Wolf Man, 1941 with Lon Chaney, Jr. as a source for information in their research. This is an instance in which a movie used a real movie to quote, rather than some made-up movie. Wes Craven's use of this element was highly praised in the Scream Trilogy, and yet, here it is, twenty years earlier.This production also features a cameo by Forrest J. Ackerman, movie actor with credits in over 20 B-grade horror flicks, and a very good (if somewhat over the top) supporting performance by John Carradine.Naturally, most fans of the horror genre want to compare this movie to An American Werewolf in London. That is, of course, like comparing apples to submarines in that the former is a B production, with a small budget and the latter is a much larger funded project at exactly TEN times the budget. The Howling had a 17M return from a 1M investment, while AWiL had a 30.5M return from a 10M budget. Let's see...17X the investment/3.5X the investment. I'd have to say The Howling is the big winner, here, as far as profit goes. I use profit as a measuring stick, because it seems that profit is all Hollywood cares about anymore. Art and artistic expression no longer seems to be the point of film making these days. But for the sake of art, I loved both movies, this one and its competitor. The make up artistry used here was excellent, and actually worthy of the story. That, along with truly professional performances by Dee Wallace and Christopher Stone, make this an enjoyable and memorable film, which I have recently added to my DVD collection.All in all, I consider The Howling to be a benchmark film in the sub-genre of werewolf movies.It rates a hard-won 7.9/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"A Howling Good Time","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Joe Dante is a great fan of the horror genre, and most of his films are dedicated to that passion directly, as in his film creations, and indirectly, with his use of inside jokes and references and his use of beloved figures from the genre itself in small roles.  It is this passion and love that makes his films special, and The Howling is no different.  It is a boost for the relatively weak sub-genre of lycanthropy.  It has marvellous special effects which are still quite good by today's standards, some good humour, well-choreographed chase scenes, and some good acting.  The script is weak and laden with cliches, but remember it is a parody in ways.  Dante names characters using the names of great horror directors(his idols I imagine) such as Terry Fisher, Freddie Francis, and Erle Kenton.  Forrest J. Ackerman, Roger Corman, John Sayles, Dick Miller, John Carradine, Kenneth Tobey, and Kevin McCarthy make appearances.  Patrick Macnee is quite good in his role, and Dee Wallace is excellent in her screaming way.  Overall a fine film! "},{"Title":"Joe Dante's The Howling has plenty of scares throughout","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Earlier this week, I saw An American Werewolf in London in its entirety for the first time in my life. Now I just saw another werewolf movie from 1981 from beginning to end in my first viewing The Howling. With direction from Joe Dante and a script co-written by John Sayles, this flick was almost as awesome as the John Landis' England-based comedy-horror pic. Dee Wallace, who would later be better known as the mother in E.T., is fine as the television reporter who is recovering from an unpleasant encounter with a serial killer as she and her husband (Christopher Stone) take in a retreat in the woods with a community waiting there for them. Many effective werewolf transformation scenes abound although some may take so long that you want to laugh after a while. Still, good support from Robert Picardo, Dennis Dugan, Kevin McCarthy, Slim Pickens, Patrick Macnee, John Carradine, and in cameos, Roger Corman, Sayles, Forrest J. Ackerman, and frequent Dante regular Dick Miller as Walter Paisley, a name he first used in Corman's A Bucket of Blood. Great use of scares throughout up to the ironic finale. So give The Howling a try with maybe An American Werewolf in London as its second feature...P.S. Like AWIL, there's references to The Wolf Man with clips shown on a television screen and a picture of Lon Chaney, Jr. in a cabin somewhere. "},{"Title":"You can't tame what's meant to be wild, doc. It just ain't natural.","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ The Howling is my favorite werewolf film, undoubtedly. It's a great movie about an underground society of werewolves living in the colony. Dee Wallace Stone plays a reporter who is convinced to take a leave of absence by her doctor (Patrick Macnee). Guess where she ends up. She ends up in a dark, humorous, and very scary situation. John Carradine, Slim Pickens, Dick Miller, Kevin McCarthy, Noble Willingham, and Robert Picardo are also wandering around in this picture. Who ever thought Robert Picardo (Star Trek Voyager and Dante regular) could be scary? I sure didn't. That's the magic of Rob Bottin's effects. Bottin's brilliant, I give 1000 praises for his work. The Howling has the best transformation scene EVER. American Werewolf fans won't agree with me there. I love An American Werewolf in London's transformation scene as well. But I have to give The Howling the edge for coming first. We're talking about 1980 here, and the effects are still amazing today. I guess the only true way to determine the best would be for Rob Bottin and Rick Baker to fight to the death. Most will probably not enjoy the sequels (a few of the later ones are worthwhile), so I'm not going to strongly recommend seeing them.Note for genre buffs Roger Corman is the guy in the phone booth and Forrest J. Ackerman and John Sayles are in the movie somewhere too. "},{"Title":"Growls and bites  in the right direction!!","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now, The Howling is a great movie in all aspects. The plot is beyond amazing and it's events are very well connected. Surely, the movie starts great with the serial killer's situation, then it becomes slow moving but that's good because it gives you important information. The ending is shocking, brutal... The direction is great. It has a feeling of old monster movies mixed with 80's Slasher craziness, and even some comic book references. The werewolfs are extremely cool and believe me, you can't get better werewolf f/x than this. The gore is great also. It's not hidden truth that the movie is cheesy at some points but I think that it fits perfect with the movie. The atmosphere is creepy all the time and that is mainly because of the excellent cinematography. This is a dark movie in all the sense of the word.Please, watch The Howling because it's probably the best Werewolf movie in twenty years and because it's an important Horror movie from the 80's. The movie starts directly to the point. A brave t.v. reporter (Dee Wallace Stone) meets with a serial killer known as Eddie in order to get important information that could lead to solve the mystery of a killing spree in the city. When she meets him in a XXX store, he tries to attack her but police quickly shot him before. This traumatic events lead our heroine to seek the help of a psychologist who recommends her some rest in a special place he owns. Along with her husband, Wallace's character go to that place just to find fatal fates. As time passes, and many strange things occur, she suspects that something is just not right. The community is very weird. This community is a Werewolf community which has members such as serial killers, sexy vamps, and even old men among it's members. What is the mystery about the community? Who can help our heroine? Could it be that human society has something to do with it? The Howling is a perfect example of how something is much more better than what it looks. Watch The Howling to answer these interesting questions. The answers are scary, violent, but emotional. "},{"Title":"Investigative reporting gets hairy and hairier.","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This puppy is the one that started a small franchise. Not saying that the sequels were any more popular or even better made. An attractive and ambitious television reporter(Dee Wallace-Stone)takes on an assignment at a rehab center hoping to get a quality story and ends up with actually more than she can handle. Upon investigation it is discovered the patients at the clinic are werewolves. THE HOWLING is a gruesome thriller with elements of cheeky dark comedy and a pioneering sequence of on-screen man-to-wolf transformation. The finale you may say is extreme reality TV.The intense cast directed by Joe Dante includes Kevin McCarthy, Patrick Macnee, Slim Pickens, John Carradine, Dick Miller, Belinda Balanski and a cameo by Roger Corman. "},{"Title":"So Under rated!! This movie is the real deal!","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What some of the younger viewers, by that I mean the 18-24 year olds seem to forget is for early 1980's the effects and dark nature of the story was revolutionary. This movie was shot in 1979, where most of the heroines survive at the end.Unfortunately we all know that isn't the case with this movie. To give some readers some insight into the book, the author basically wanted to comment on the dark nature of human beings and our gradual desensitized outlook on pornography and violence. Mankind (in the story and in our reality) is becoming steadily and increasingly more violent, and as result more sexual. He's trying to create a link between sex and violence, although it maybe be an old notion, he's right on the money. In addition the world that he creates is totally believable. I totally got this element of the story and therefore realized it was a metaphor for the beast, or monster that lies within us all. I think Joe Dante does an excellent job of bringing the darkness of the characters to life. Remember what sets this werewolf movie apart from the others of that time, is that the main werewolves are not ashamed of their demonic nature. In fact Eddie, TC and his sister Marsha all revel in the monstrous behavior. These aren't your father's werewolves a.k.a Lon Chaney. In the Curse of the Werewolf, the Werewolf is seen as a sympathetic character similar to that of a tragic romantic hero. There is nothing tragic about these werewolves. They love who they are and aren't trying to fit in. That aspect of the film scared the pants off me when I was 10. Most of us are used to seeing werewolves as self-hating and self-loathing but Dante flipped the script and decided to make them very self-absorbed and self-accepting. I guess that was his dark satirical spin on getting back to nature, psycho-babble. I hope some of the younger viewers will re-examine the under-lying themes of the movies and somehow get a better appreciation for the film. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype, I wasted my time for this crap...","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At first I saw good reviews, praise for the movie. From beginning to middle movie dragged and later on movie went downhill with the worst acting ever, cinematography and so on.... Main characters seeing werewold did not scream, did not ran, they were blunt as a wood and walked with worst acting ever, car blew up after several shots, silver bullets were magicly reloaded... have no words...Acting 2/10 Costumes 8/10 Plot 5/10 Cheese 2/10Just over hype... There are too many plot holes too... Unnecesery one stop motion scene... Similar transformation to American werewolf in London but much more cheesy...Just pick up another werewolf movie and don't waste your time... really "},{"Title":"Don't watch in the dark!","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't watch this in the dark on your own.Joe Dante knows how to craft a horror flick. He maintains fear throughout, camping it up at times, without ever letting the show become corny. Makeup and special effects are pretty impressive for their day.Dee Wallace was ideal for the part of Karen, the journo haunted by an encounter with a serial killer. The rest of the cast spend most of their time metamorphosing, or whatever you call it.John Sayles and Terence H. Winkless adapted Gary Brandner's novel to the screen with little flair. It was director Dante who turned it into something special. One of the best ever werewolf pics. Shame about all the stupid sequels.Sunday, February 15, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Definitely not one of the best werewolf movies","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After a near fatal attack by a Serial Killer A young news reporter named Karen White(Dee Wallace-stone) and her husband Chris(Dennis Dugan) head to The Colony,where Karen hopes to try and remember what happened the night she was attacked and try to get over it.When she arrives,She meets the others folks there.Later that night,she hears strange howls in the woods,And when he husband refuses to help her,she must slove the mystery herself...The Howling,while entertaining,Is not the best werewolf movie ever(Ginger Snaps takes that place).The transformations are quite impressive,And the other effects were good.The plot was very original and the acting was good,except for Dee Wallace-Stone,Who just dident look right in this type of movie.The direction is good,Although sometimes the camera just cuts away to quick.It is actually pretty dull until the end,Where as the last twenty minutes are amazing and action packed,And the very end was chilling.  "},{"Title":"Passably good lycanthropic howler!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Certainly no great work of art - what COULD be, boasting Christopher here's my impersonation of a tree Stone? Speaking of genealogy, I notice the credits here list Dee Wallace-Stone as playing Karen White. In fact she was only Dee (remember me in ET?) Wallace at this stage of her arguably uninspiring career. She and Christopher Stone only became an item during and after this movie.Inevitably compared to AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON, coming out the same year, it never had a hope of usurping the latter's glory, if for no other reason because of the chronically boring first half. However the werewolf transformation of Eddie is the film's highlight and is way better than the actor under the floor version that was Landis' contribution to the vault of screen horror.I have always enjoyed this flick, the original of the appalling HOWLING series which only saw in the wash-up, one decent sequel, HOWLING 6 THE FREAKS. Some colossally boring and wimpy characterisations here and calling the resort THE COLONY?.....hello? how stupid do the makers think the typical audience is?  Yeah, well maybe we shouldn't get into that either!The film is lifted immeasurably by the very LAST word uttered, just ahead of the closing credits!  "}{"Title":"furry monsters","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not only is this film creepy,and scary, but the effects are top notch! this is THE best Werewolf film ever.....and it has Patrick Macnee in it, from the Avengers..the film is believable as lycanthrope movies go! its smart,witty,and scares the Heck outta ya!!! the setting is good,and the characters are done well...with Dee Wallace as a woman dealing with a nervous breakdown,and seeking solace...and saneness in a getaway....up where the wolves are!this one is a ten all the way around! although where did the hairy white dog come from on the news at the end??? werewolves to weredogs? hahaha "},{"Title":"Best werewolves, best werewolf movie.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Werewolf movies usually aren't worth much. The Howling is a rare exception. John Sayles thankfully threw away most of Gary Brandner's terrible source novel and wrote something much better. For once, characters who run up against werewolves don't have to go and find an old person to explain the plot to them because they actually live in a world where werewolf movies and tv shows and books etc exist.There are plenty of injokes, from casting John Carradine, Roger Corman, Forry Ackerman etc to naming most of the characters after directors or previous werewolf movies, but this is only part of the movie's appeal, instead of seemingly being the whole point as is too often the case in low-budget horror movies. The script is clever and witty, the characters behave intelligently most of the time, and it's well acted and well directed.Perhaps most importantly of all, Rob Bottin's creatures are the most impressive werewolves I've ever seen. Rick Baker's work on An American Werewolf in London was superb and equally groundbreaking, but when you finally saw the monster it didn't look like most people's idea of a cool-looking werewolf. Bottin's designs are fantastic, and the transformation scenes are as good as Baker's.Some people have commented that The Howling is a dumb movie that doesn't make sense. They've either accidentally seen one of the sequels, in which case, yeah they're all appalling, or else they weren't paying attention. Or they're on crack or something, I don't know. What I DO know is that all the good werewolf movies since can be counted on your left thumb. And there weren't a lot of good ones before it, either. I give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"Dee Wallace rules","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" TV reporter Karen White (Dee Wallace) is on a sting for serial killer Eddie. He leads her to a backroom peepshow in the red lights district. She's attacked but rescued by a couple of cops. She's haunted by the attack and goes to a retreat with her husband Bill (real life husband Christopher Stone). Meanwhile Karen's colleagues researching Eddie find disturbing things about the serial killer.I love the start. It's a powerful move to have the lead in danger right away. Dee Wallace is a strong actress and she's amazing in this. If anything, this movie needs more Dee. She's a simple victim here. It's a minor mistake to have the investigating separated from the main character. It would be more suspenseful to have Karen White do the investigating.The special effects are passable for the times. 'An American Werewolf in London(1981)' is far superior in the transformation. The ultimate final state looks good. The animatronics and the costumes look believable. The problem maybe that the Robert Picardo transformation was too extended. More isn't always better. They should pick the best parts and let the audience imagine the rest. "},{"Title":"Joe Dante's classic","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the best Werewolf movie I've ever seen, Joe Dante is a good director and directs this movie with skill. The Werewolves look great and Eddie's transformation is one if the best just like American Werewolf in London's transformation.The plot sees reporter Karen White and her Husband Roy going to a place called the Colony after she's attacked by murderer Eddie Quist. But once their Karen begins to hear howling noises, it also seems Eddie Quist is alive after being shot and escaped from the morgue.Meanwhile Marsha has the hots for Roy and one night bites him while returning to Karen. Soon Roy and Marsha have sex while changing into their Werewolf form which was something new.Soon Karen meets with Eddie and shows her his Werewolf before running into the locals who take her to the barn to kill with her friend Terri who killed by Eddie in Waggners Office.After escaping with her friend Chris, she is bitten by her husband Roy. So on TV she changes to show everyone but Chris must kill her in case she kills everyone at the news station. While at a bar Marsha is watching her on TV.The Howling is a classic horror film that shouldn't be missed. I also recommend An American Werewolf in London, Wolfen, Dog Soldiers and The Beast of Bray Road. "},{"Title":"One of the best early-day werewolf movies","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" From the same year as American Werewolf in London, I guess this movie caught the shadow of that blockbuster everyone knows, and is therefore not very well known. However, the special effects are great for this movie, and even though not as focused on the actual transformation, the werewolves in this movie are excellent. Even paying attention to making them digitigrade (toe-walking) and generic body shape that people never saw before (older werewolf movies always had the very human looking shape to them).The plot itself is quite rich for this type of movie, with some twists here and there. Unfortunately quite a few (too many) sequels of this movie were made that really aren't worth watching, but this (first) one is certainly one to watch. Even if very old by now, if you look past the aged movie-scares that are in there on a few occasions, if you like werewolf flics it still remains a good movie to date. "},{"Title":"Pulsepounding Fun At Its Very Best!","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For as long as I've watched movies, my own personal yearning has seen me lean more towards the horror genre.At least with a horror movie, more often than not, you will be guaranteed some form of entertainment.Such is a case in point with this superlative lycanthropic tale based upon the best seller by Gary Brandner and co written by the kings of low budget cinema, John Sayles and Terence Winkless.I say co-written, but as has become apparent, the script submitted by Winkless lack shall we say, that certain bite, and Sayles being the more literate of the two was drafted in to give the movie a complete transformation.Of course being in the hands of first time director at that time, Joe Dante, would become the beloved cult classic that we know and love today.However all things being equal, this movie's lack of success was more or less down to the much bigger hyped other lycanthrope movie being unleashed at the same time, and that movie being of course John Landis's 'An American Werewolf In London' Can we ever compare the two, perhaps not, perhaps maybe my personal choice of the two, would have me leaning towards Joe Dante's directorial debut.I've always held a deep affection for the low budget B movie, sure enough I watched quite a few in my time, and to be truthful I have been left jaded by many.However, the spirit that pervades this movie has carried it through the decades, and indeed this movie like so many that have since gone on to spawn a franchise has perhaps had it's reputation somewhat dragged through the mud, but this movie for me represents pure pulse pounding fun at its very best! When it comes to special effects, every artist has his or her own trademark, everyone knows that Rick Baker concocts a mean looking Gorilla, as that is his speciality, and he has carried that trend through many a movie.Likewise, the same can be said for the work of Rob Bottin, another genius in his chosen field. If you never saw his name attached to movies like 'Legend' but you witnessed the many wonderful creations on show within the movie, you identify instantly that work you see with that of the artist who placed it all together.This is a horror movie, that carries all before it. Great direction, groovy special effects, an eerie atmosphere that lingers throughout, a well written and literate script and best of all, a legendary list of character actors, who belong to that well cherished list of who's who in the horror world hall of fame.Without hesitation. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The best werewolf movie ever made","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Much better than American Werewolf in London in many ways. The transformation sequence here was far scarier and the werewolves here were the way werewolves are supposed to be- they walk on two legs not the big dogs in American Werewolf "},{"Title":"Kind of a disappointment","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie lacks good actors and a good story-line. The effects are interesting for being from the early 80s, but the trashy actors and the quite pathetic story itself, effectively damages this movie. Go see An American werewolf in London for better thrills. "},{"Title":"The Original 'Hip, Post-Modern Horror Movie'","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I first saw The Howling, it was via the film's original videotape incarnation (unfortunately I missed out on the theatrical run). At the time, I thought the film was bizarre and rather overrated. Of course, I was only seeing part of the film; the video was so dark and murky that I could not see what was going on most of the time. It was not until years later that I watched a  `cleaned up' cable presentation and realized what a good movie The Howling really is. Perhaps the better the image, the more enjoyable my experience, because seeing The Howling on DVD I was finally able to fully appreciate its greatness. Karen White (Dee Wallace) is a Los Angeles reporter suffering from nightmares, panic attacks, and frigidity as a result of a botched undercover mission to trap a serial killer called 'Eddie the Mangler'. Karen's psychologist, Dr. Waggner (Patrick MacNee), advises her to stay at `The Colony', a self-help village that he operates. She and her husband Bill (Christopher Stone) travel to this secluded sector in Northern California for a week long `therapeutic vacation'. Before long, though, Karen starts to sense something is very wrong in The Colony. Her nightmares are becoming more vivid, and are now incorporating images of her husband and of people staying in The Colony. She hears howling in the night, and finds a mutilated cow in the woods. Meanwhile, back in L.A., Terry (Belinda Balaski) and Chris (John Dugan), a young couple who work at Karen's TV station, investigate the death of Eddie the Mangler for a news special the station has planned. Eddie's body disappears from the morgue, and they investigate further, only to discover that he was obsessed with werewolf mythology. When a panicky Karen calls Terry to tell her that Bill was bitten by a wolf in the woods, she rushes to The Colony to offer comfort and further her investigation. At this point, I will say no more. Of course you can probably figure out where it is headed, and if not by this point in the film you will know exactly what is going on. But The Howling is a film full of twists and turns and to spoil even one of them would be an injustice to first-time viewers. I have not seen enough werewolf movies to recognize every homage paid by this film, but apparently most of the characters are named after werewolf movie directors. Additionally, an expository scene from The Wolf Man plays as Terry learns that Bill has been bitten by a wolf, and a cartoon adaptation of The Three Little Pigs is cut into a scene of a woman being cornered by a werewolf. And there are a course an endless roster of genre cameos; Kevin McCarthy (Invasion of the Body Snatchers), B-movie king Roger Corman, and Joe Dante regular Dick Miller, to name a few. Sound familiar? Sixteen years before Scream was even a reality, The Howling invented the `self-referential scary movie' sub-genre. In fact, the humor laced throughout the film is generally the most celebrated element of The Howling. It was certainly among the most influential; contemporary classics like Evil Dead, Fright Night, Return of the Living Dead, Re-Animator, and of course Scream owe a debt to the road paved by this film. The humor may be the most widely regarded facet of this film. However, in the end this is a horror movie, and a damn scary one. As much as I love the somewhat similar An American Werewolf in London, I give The Howling the edge largely because it never gets carried away with the comedic elements. Joe Dante, who at this point was best known for the cult classic Piranha, updated werewolf folklore by applying it to two of the more popular horror trends of the time female paranoia (Rosemary's Baby, The Stepford Wives, Suspiria) and fear of non-urban environments (The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Deliverance, The Hills Have Eyes). Dante makes the most of these two thematic elements, while also cultivating a classic, spooky atmosphere rarely seen in post-Psycho horror movies. Dante also manages to tap into primal childhood fears of the dark, the woods, the fog, and The Big Bad Wolf. In fact, some of the film's most terrifying scenes make their mark because they so aptly recreate images from Little Red Riding Hood and The Three Little Pigs. Looking back, it really is shocking how ahead-of-its-time this movie was. Not only did it turn the mirror on horror films of the past and present, but it also offered a shockingly accurate, post-Network glimpse into the media. From what I have read, the novel The Howling by Gary Brandner is vastly different, particularly in this regard. Instead of being an author (as she was in the book), Karen is a reporter, and this allows Dante to explore the notion that the American public was so desensitized by 1981 that television had to resort to extreme shock tactics to maintain viewership. Yet even more innovative is the similar viewpoint that people were also too sophisticated to believe anything even if it happened right in front of them. In a time of unprecedented cynicism and complacency (not to mention being the era of `reality shows'), Dante's message is more relevant than ever.When The Howling was released, it was extremely well received by critics and became a box office hit. Dee Wallace went on to play the mother in E.T. The Extra Terrestrial (prompting one of the funniest lines in Scream). Joe Dante went on to direct the blockbuster Gremlins. And special make-up effects man Rob Bottin went on to such films as The Thing, Total Recall, and Se7en. As the cast and crew were busy moving on with their own successes, The Howling did not get its inevitable sequel until 1985's loosely related (or so I have heard) The Howling II Your Sister Is a Werewolf. Over the next ten years The Howling would amass a total of six sequels, many of them barely released in theaters or sent straight to video. I have intentionally avoided these films, but from what I understand they give Amityville a run for its money as the worst horror franchise of them all. In fact, The Howling IV The Original Nightmare, is actually a remake of the first film! Normally a string of ill received follow-ups harms a film's reputation, but in this case, it may have actually strengthened it. More than two decades after its initial release, The Howling remains one of the most enduring horror films of the 80s. My Grade A+ "},{"Title":"You can't contain that inner beast.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Karen White is an investigative TV reporter who suffers a nervous breakdown after a horrific encounter with Eddie Quist; a serial killer who gets gun down in front of Karen. To recover from this incident; she and her husband head to a remote psychiatric retreat run by Dr. George Waggner. But while there she becomes even more on edge, as Karen suspects that there are weird things going on at this camp with the woods coming to life with constant howling and one of the women there is getting real close to her husband. Meanwhile, back in LA her work buddies Chris and Terry continue their investigation into Eddie and come up with some unusual revelations. When they go to check out his corpses, the body is gone.I don't know, but never really got the hype that surrounded this flick. The first time I watched it was somewhat unsatisfied. The next time it was slightly better, but I just couldn't put my finger on why its held up so high, as again I was still left a little unimpressed. So, third time around&#133; my thoughts are still the same, but I probably got a bit more from it now than from my previous two viewings. That's not to say I think now it's a grand piece of entertainment, more so a mildly riveting exercise that has it's pluses and minuses.The film paired up director Joe Dante and screen writer John Sayles again, after their collaboration in the incredibly witty, 'Jaws' knock-off Piranha (1978). The Howling goes for a sinister outlook in its contemporary take on the werewolf genre and Sayles' thoughtful script steers mostly away from the clichs associated with Hollywood werewolf films. Here it sticks with the true mythology (being able to shape shift whenever) of the lycanthropy. The one thing that sticks out like a sore thumb is the overabundance of in-jokes, satirical humour and references to old flicks. The sharply, sardonic humour seemed to hold a great rapport with the seriously morbid approach Dante went for here. What did get on my nerves though, was the plodding mid-section, which just didn't draw me in like I hoped. Well, I actually found the sub-plot with Chris and Terry investigating Eddie to be far more interesting with some unexpected developments than the main focus on the leadenly, dramatised interactions between Karen and her husband Bill with the strange occurrences at the medical retreat.After the relentlessly, seedy atmospheric build up within the first ten minutes, the story slowly dragged for quite a bit. That's until it makes way for an anxiety packed final half hour with one or two memorably, jarring scenes. Although, I found the climax somewhat anti-climatic. When it wants to be suspenseful, it is. I just wish there was more of it. Since the undeniably grimy atmosphere is perfectly, high on mood and when it shifts to its forebodingly, foggy woodlands its hard to escape the nightmarish feel, especially at night with eerie howling. The scenery is simply top-notch. Now I just wish the characters followed the same suit. Honestly they were mostly a unlikable lot that I didn't I care for one bit. Actually, I enjoyed the support roles more than I did of the leads. Belinda Belaski and Dennis Dugan as Terry and Chris were sturdy in their performances and gave their characters a little bit of solidarity. Robert Picardo nails it down as the slithering, monstrous Eddie Quist. There's a neat cameo from Dick Millar too. But the rest just didn't do anything for me. Dee Wallace was rather unconvincing and predictably uneven in her performance I thought. The same for Christopher Stone as her husband Bill Neill. Patrick Macnee seems lost at sea as Dr. George Waggner.What made the film has got to be the cracking special effects by Rob Bottin! I really liked the towering werewolf designs. But it was the transformations that caught the eye with the repulsively, petrifying body morphing. The convincing detail that went into it is exceptional, but I thought at times it did take away from the overall effect by going on for just too long. The light in those scenes and sometimes other sequences was extremely poor I thought. Even the editing is kind of choppy and there's a odd inventive camera shot amongst the orthodox frame shots. Sometimes I thought the zooms got to close to the action, where we don't always get a good look of what's happening. But the score just felt out-of-place and basically corny. The film does have a sleazy tone and there's a grisly werewolf attack here and there.Even though I found The Howling to be rather unsavoury as a whole, but there's a definite backbone that holds the film together with its wry humour and gruesome make-up effects. "}{"Title":"The Pulp Fiction/Kill Bill of Horror Movies","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling demonstrates Joe Dante's penchant for exploitation aesthetics, ironic revision and the subversive critique of genre staples, the combination of the sensibility of a cartoonist and a social satirist. It escapes me why this film is seen as no more than a werewolf slasher pic even by respected critics, because in a sense, it did what Scream did fifteen years later self-deconstructing. It is not about the plot. It is about itself. It comments on all the conventions it happily plays upon itself. The violence, gore and werewolf metamorphoses are disarmed by the ironic way Dante utilizes and annotates them. He inserts countless in-jokes and references, often veiled and subtle, not just to movies and TV like with The Big Bad Wolf in The Three Little Pigs but also concerning characters eating Wolf Brand Chili, the momentary glimpse of a copy of Howl by Ginsberg, mention of DJ Wolfman Jack, characters with names like Terri Fisher, which could be a reference to the British director Terence Fisher, who did direct a film called Curse of the Werewolf. The focus of this extremely hip post-modern wolf man movie is mostly on the humor, satirizing pop culture and the self-help craze, gaining comic effect even from some of the special effects.But it goes much much deeper than merely being reference-happy. What is really clever about The Howling is its pervasive visual references to a variety of media forms and aspects of popular culture themselves. We see cameramen, bystander-like TV sets and movie posters galore, we go behind the scenes of a network TV station. There is stop-motion animation and puppetry as well as special effects by Rick Baker and Rob Bottin that were state-of-the-art at the time. A silhouette of one of the monsters is obviously a cartoon animation (not unlike in Abbott & Costello Meet Frankenstein). John Sayles (who co-wrote the blatantly metatextual script) and Roger Corman have cameos. Dee Wallace-Stone plays a Hollywood TV news anchor who is being stalked by a serial killer. In cooperation with the police, she takes part in a sting to capture the killer by meeting him in a scuzzy porn theater, where he forces her to watch a film of a young woman being raped, before she sees him emerging from the shadows. The final scene is a brilliant diametric reversal of this scenario in terms of the role of what's really happening, what's happening on the screen, and in what way horrific reality is stopped by bullets.The brave anchor nonetheless submerges the memory of the tremendous sight which she cannot accept, so her therapist, Dr. George Waggner, named after the director of The Wolf Man with Lon Chaney and Claude Rains, sends her and her husband, Bill Neill, a thinly disguised reference to the director of Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man, to a secluded countryside resort for treatment. As expected, the colony is chock full of oddball characters, and eventually werewolf sex, frightening shapeshifting and silver bullets abound. But all this elemental and earthy stuff takes place outside of the reach of mass media, at least to some extent, so a TV news anchor returning from this experience is going to want the world to know! But how can she? In a society surrounded and inundated by all kinds of bright, flashing mass broadcasting all the time, how can she make them truly connect and believe her claims no matter what she shows them?As befits a real B-grade horror flick, the leads are all basically interchangeable. Most of the more solid moments are left to the character actors, played by B-movie vets like Slim Pickens, John Carradine, and Dick Miller, as well as Patrick Macnee, who plays Wallace-Stone's shrink. I tend to nix comparisons to Tarantino because his fans tend to write off a lot of interesting filmmakers as QT wannabes, but this movie was made long before Tarantino burst onto the scene The Howling is like the Pulp Fiction or Kill Bill of horror movies. It's a post-modern pastiche that arrives insisting it is the real thing to some degree, casting all the right people, playing its own creative variations on a classic old-hat plot device, engulfing us with reminiscences of other movies and media like it and at the same time giving it a real-world edge. The Howling so consciously plays upon fantasy and allusions to midnight movies of yesteryear and werewolf lore, and reintroduces common, prototypical features of style. And there is always something about that self-aware quality that frees us from taking it seriously and we have so much more fun with it. "},{"Title":"One of the Three Best Movies About Werewolves of the 80's","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In a red light district, the TV news reporter and anchor Karen White (Dee Wallace) is bugged by the police, investigating the serial killer called Eddie Quist (Robert Picardo), who is molesting her through phone calls. There are some troubles with the transmission and the police officers lose their track. She stays alone with Eddie for a while in a peep-show cabin, when two policemen find them and shoot Eddie. Karen becomes emotionally disturbed and loses her memory, and after a consultation with Dr. George Wagner (Patrick Macnee), she is advised to withdraw to a colony kept by Dr. Wagner in the countryside. Karen travels with her husband Bill (Christopher Stone), and she realizes the place is a nest of werewolves. 'The Howling' is one of the three best movies about werewolves, coincidently all of them made in the 80's John Landis's 'An American Werewolf in London' (1981) and Neil Jordan's 'The Company of Wolves' (1984). 'The Howling' is a classic in the genre, with magnificent special effects and make-up, and an excellent story. I bought the recently released Brazilian DVD, and unfortunately there are no extras. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) 'Grito de Horror' ('Scream of Horror')Note On 22 July 2013, I saw this movie again on an imported DVD full of extras. "},{"Title":"Good 80s Werewolf Flick","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of the better horror films out the 1980s - it's a popular werewolf film for a reason - it's good. Basically a colony of werewolves, a man that knows how to handle them (for awhile) and investigative reporters - makes for a very interesting werewolf flick.The only thing I did not like about this film was Eddie Quist's transformation - that bubbling head effect. It kept bubbling instead for far to long instead of simply transforming. I didn't like that in the 80s and after watching it again I still don't like it. Otherwise the transformations were good - the other werewolves.Eddie Quist was a very scary character - really the very beginning of the film made him extremely scary. His obsession with Karen White is sickening. This guy is one disgusting psycho.I can easily recommend this one to werewolf fans and horror fans in general. It's a classic in it's own right.9/10 "},{"Title":"The better of '81s werewolf movies","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Shaken up following a bizarre confrontation, a newswoman is taken to a colon of like-minded individuals out in the woods only to quickly get the feeling something strange is occurring in the area and tries to prevent herself from succumbing to the truth.This one is such a lot of fun that there's not a whole lot really wrong here. What really makes this one stand-out is the fact that there's a decided and enjoyable devotion to suspense along the way as it really settles into a pretty chilling tale along the way. The mis-direction at the beginning with the stalker angle and how it all confronts itself in the adult-theater gives this a great start, especially with the way it subtly hints at the change through the shrouded fog of the booth hiding it perfectly and requiring the need for the trip to the woods which is where the film really gets going here. From the constant otherworldly wolf-howls constantly echoing throughout the woods, the discovery of the slaughtered animals with inhuman wounds and the growing realization of the impending turn that it creates a rather frantic and chilling set-up here for the truth to come out really well. Even the other efforts here to bring the werewolf angle out, the investigation into the attacker and his connection with the colony out in the woods leads to some great fun here and leads into another really strong aspect here with that coming out in full-force on the great attack on the colleague out in the woods. With the pieces coming together nicely and the chasing throughout the area leading to a great scene that finally lets the truth be known, it sets up the film's utterly iconic and centerpiece sequence in the confrontation in the office here turns into the greatest transformation ever done. This shows the whole transformation in agonizing detail, starting with a close-up of the yellow eyes and the starting of the fangs to appear. From there, the face begins to get hairier and hairier, the eyes yellower, and the fangs more pronounced changing to get more dog-like and the snout begins to form, getting longer and longer with the face blackening. Finally, we get the body to change into a more wolf-ish form, and the best on-screen werewolf transformation is complete into a very fierce and evil-looking monster. This film's werewolf is the design that I hold closest to the official design of a werewolf ever. The design gives it a totally evil presence and it looks ready to rip the throat out of anyone who is unlucky enough to see it. That is a lot more threatening than a person who becomes a werewolf and is struggling with the curse of being one. With the action at the finale at the barn here they confront the creatures once and for all making this a wholly exciting old-school throwback finish where they're seemingly surrounded by creatures on all sides, it gives this a lot to really enjoy here over the lone flaw here. The only complaint here is that the werewolves are seen too close to the end to really make an impact. The threat is always there, but not once is a werewolf seen up until the end. They needed to appear more in the film. Beyond that, there's some debate to be had over the greatness of the effects, but no one will ever deny that this is one of the genre's landmark films.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Full Nudity, sex scenes included porno-movie footage, and scenes set in a porn shop. "},{"Title":"It tries.* * *","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If they never filmed that amazing transformation scene,this film probably wouldn't be as good as it is now.The Howling.A dark mysterious film .Dark,because of its atmosphere and it's ability not to frighten but to stir some interest.Special effects,along with An American Werewolf in London and John Carpenter's remake of The Thing were reaching a whole new era of special effects.Director,Joe Dante,created a classic film through the film's amazing transformation scenes.We don't don't get those kind of films these days,due to computers taking over the special effects industry.I liked the film.But I felt it should've been at least more.But I was pleased with what I got.The Howling.Although,it may not be much,It's enough for me and I liked it. "},{"Title":"Not Bad for It's Time","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first watched The Howling when I was a tot and, of course, remembered it being far scarier than when I watched it again the other day. In a film like this, produced in 1981, it is important to remember that this was when costumes were the norm in creating a horror film. There wasn't any or little C.G.I. (computer-generated images). I think because of this, directors and producers and the rest of the crew had to pour more labor into the film. It was something of an art to create gripping costume effects (like the severed arm in one scene of The Howling). Today, some of you would probably laugh, but please consider the times. Back then, some of the werewolf transformations shown in this film were considered top notch (albeit American Werewolf in London had the crown for best werewolf transformation). As to the plot, you can see old familiars like Patrick MacNee and Dee Wallace (probably best known as the mom in E.T.). Elizabeth Brooks caught my eye (for obvious reasons, especially her nude scene in the film) and I was surprised to find that her career ended prematurely due to cancer at the age of 47. There isn't much depth to this movie. It starts out bizarrely enough with a news anchor trying to get close to a suspected killer. She goes to a porn video store and witnesses something that gives her amnesia of the incident. MacNee suggests she go to a retreat he has in the mountains to unwind. She meets a bunch of strange characters there with her husband Bill. Soon after, howling sounds are heard and the attacks begin. Pay close attention to the 80's special effects of the werewolf transformations.I had a few flashbacks of the B-type movies back then with the intense fog they put into parts of the film and the scary organ background music. Even I laughed for a minute. But The Howling is a classic for its time, despite what may seem like cheesiness by today's standards. However...I have seen a few horror disasters today that even The Howling could beat nowadays (e.g. Midnight Mass and 28 Days Later). 6/10 "},{"Title":"This movie made me like scary movies","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I might be biased---I really like werewolf movies and this was one of the first scary movies I ever saw (I was seven and somehow saw this on HBO when I wasn't supposed to be watching rated R movies) I don't know if I still think it's scary because it scared me so much when I was little (for a seven year old it scared the CRAP out of me!!) but I really like this movie.MILD SPOILERThere are some really scary moments and I think these are the scariest looking werewolves in any movie I can think of (except when Karen turns into a werewolf at the end and looks more like a Yorkshire terrier/Ewok combination) If you like werewolf movies this (along with An American werewolf in London and Ginger Snaps) is a must see. "},{"Title":"The best werewolf movie ever","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Edges out The Wolfman (1941) (with Lon Chaney Jr. and that old Russian or Hungarian lady) as best werewolf film I've ever seen. Great scares, a good cast, a witty, often humorous script and superb makeup by Rob Bottin make this the best in a generally weak horror sub-genre.Also distinguished as having the absolute worst group of sequels ever made to a successful movie. Each one is uniformly worse than the next. In fact, as good as the original is, the Howling sequels are the polar opposite - each one is a bigger, steamier pile of doggie (or wolfie) poo than the previous. Everyone involved in those cinematic abortions should be forced to sit through them until their uncreative little heads explode. Almost as good in the werewolf genre is Jon Landis' An American Werewolf in London from the same year. Also check out Dog Soldiers (2002). They openly ripped off The Howling but at least did a fine job of it!! Well worth a rental! "},{"Title":"hot classic horror movie","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I cant remember very well the howling first part cause i remember part II and III but unfortunatelly i think these r the worst cause the part 1 was the real one and i have seen more times an american werewolf in london and i only like the part when the werewolf is walking but in the howling the werewolf is better and the transformation is the goodest point of the movie. "},{"Title":"Very good '80s chiller.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From director Joe Dante (SMALL SOLDIERS) comes one of the best werewolf movies ever filmed. Featuring a cast of all-star '80s horror movie stars, THE HOWLING used great special effects for it's time and stirred up some genuine scares with those who have seen it. While most of the sequels were probably not even worthy of being filmed, this original thriller spooked up some major thrills for me.The movie starts out slow, opening into the life of a news reporter and how she is being stalked by some serial killer that has been terrorizing her neighborhood. After that, the movie takes a little while to start going. Just when I was ready to say the hell with THE HOWLING, it started to get good. The werewolf attack sequences are amazing, especially the transformation scenes. They were all remarkably good considering it's time period. The make up is good and I was quite surprised to see Dennis Dugan starring in a horror movie. (He is the guy who directed the hilarious comedies BIG DADDY and SAVING SILVERMAN). The end of the film is probably the best part. It is not the best ending that could have been thought up, but it was still a very good one. The whole werewolf myths and legends told throughout the film were very effective in building up the mood. There is even a scene were parts of the 1941 chiller THE WOLF MAN are shown. This movie is a must-see for all fans of serious horror films and anyone who loves a good scare. Don't watch it on a full moon... THE HOWLING gets 4/5. "}{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. It has great special effects  by monster master Rob Bottin, plenty of gore, and some great acting. And I  never saw the ending coming !!!!!!!! worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Dante's best sincere horror movie","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Excellent horror film actually combines great suspense with a satire of yuppie self-awareness programs (which in the case of this movie provide a front for a werewolf cult).  The heroine's boyfriend, who starts off as a modern male (to the audience he seems like a sissified male) who doesn't eat meat and shaves his neat mustache becomes a bloodthirsty werewolf!  I love the scene where he hungrily chomps down on a rare hamburger, wonderfully anticipating the carnage to come.  Some really funny scenes, good gory effects, and a tone that is perfect for its mixed-up story.  One of the best of its breed. "},{"Title":"Praise","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This werewolf movie ties with American Werewolf in London and Ginger Snaps as being the best were-beast movie ever. There were some really scary parts in this movie. Joe Dante did justice to the story by directing this movie. This is a must see for Werewolf fans. "},{"Title":"Top of the line production","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In 1981, Joe Dante was about to come up with a twisted horror tale about people's spirits inhabiting wolves' bodies. But he made his mind up and on second thought he went for the werewolf thing thus getting quite an achievement in the sub-genre under a limited budget. Even if special-effects are slightly better in An American Werewolf in London, one cannot deny that the final product in The Howling is far better. An American Werewolf looks more like a big rabid dog, whereas the wolf-people from the Howling resemble the ancient characters from Middle Age depictions.The story is campy, yet the movie is amazing and innovative in many regards, like the F/X department with the inflatable masks to turn mouths into muzzles, before John Landis' film. Werewolves enjoy being mutants, unlike the typical tale of the man cursed to become a beast in full moon nights. It even went to the extent making these creatures transform at any time of day or night.Most of all, The Howling accomplishes its goal by creating a good suspense atmosphere in which a legend told so many times is given a surprisingly new treatment in Hollywood standards. The first movie to bring a twist to the old Lon Chaney's tale.Very worth watching, especially now that is has been released on DVD. "},{"Title":"Time has not been kind...","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I saw this 15 years ago I thought it was incrediblyfrightening, however, now it just seems silly.  It's still quite a goodfilm, and the make-up/special effects are excellent, but it seemsvery comedic now.   The acting is not great, and the 'colony' is notparticularly original, but it still has something.  One thing for certainis that is is far superior to it's numerous sequels.  It suffers greatlyfrom comparisons with AWIL, but on it's own it is still worthwatching again.   Probably only recommended to horror fans, ormore particularly those who like werewolf/vampire monstermovies.    "},{"Title":"Classic werewolf flick","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This low budget classic was made in 1980 and stars Dee Wallace Stone, who we all know and love from movies such as Critters and Stephen King's Cujo. I can't give plot details as it would probably spoil it. There's werewolves. And lots of em. This flick has an ending to remember, some talented acting, gore, full frontal nudity, and some black humour in there too. Some people think of The Howling as a comedy - I don't know why! I saw it as a horror with one or two jokes in there. I recommend this, but please stay away from its first of many sequels, Howling II. It's absolute rubbish, and I'll review it the next time I see it. Don't let the fact that it stars Christopher Lee make you want to see it. Anyway, I highly recommend The Howling for all horror fans, it's a legendary werewolf movie and is up there with An American Werewolf in London. 10/10Rated 18s for strong horror violence and gore, language, sex and nudity "},{"Title":"Ferocious","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As long as you stick with it to the end. The second half is a lot better than the first, which drags a bit. The ultimate transformation sequence is truly terrifying, although it goes on a bit long. The pre-CGI special effects, however, have not been topped to this day. A tossup as to which is the better werewolf flick, this or AWIL, which was released the same year. Probably AWIL, but not by much. Some bad acting hampers this one, as it did AWIL, but it was certainly original in its day. It has been imitated endlessly (SILVER BULLET among many others) plus it inspired six or seven sequels, although none of them were particularly good. "},{"Title":"One of the best werewolf movies!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it first came out in the 1980's, and just recently purchased the video. All I can say it still holds its own and is scary just like it was when it was released years back. The humor, the innuendoes, the special effects, the plot, the acting, all excellent. The idea of a colony of werewolves was made believable by the great script and of course excellent directing. What more can you say I loved it, and will continue to watch this horror movie over and over again.10 out of 10. HHHHOOOOWWWWLLLLL!!!! "},{"Title":"The Only Good Werewolf Movie","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Perhaps the Only Good Series of Werewolf Movies. Delivers High Quality Suspense and Superb Scares. Not Only Must we Consider This, The Acting and Musical Score is up there With Puppet Master and Halloween. The Ending is one of the Best endings in Cinematic History. I Give it 10 out of 10. Fans of This Movie should Enjoy Classics Such as Sometimes they Come Back and Friday the 13th "},{"Title":"An astute horror comedy that simply shouldn't be missed ****1/2 out of five","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Joe Dante later directed the excellent Gremlins and the enjoyable Gremlins lookalike Small Soldiers.But here is a darker, meaner-spirited horror but even at this its kinda light-hearted. But aswell as being full of clever humour it has it's tense moments and some very good performences. And the makeup is just WOW ,even though its twenty years ago since this was-made and sure we've seen better since but you gotta put things in perspective. Even though it will probably be after Halloween (I know I didn't put in the apostrephe) by time anyone might read this but I'm writing this the night before Halloween so I reccomend you watch this tommorow if you haven't seen it alredy and have seen the sixth sense(I know it isn't reall a horror but it is chilling) , scream, the shining, a nightmare on elm street and halloween(the movie) ****1/2 out of five- absoloutley brilliant. "}{"Title":"A decent beginning to a decent series of films(Minus New Moon Rising)","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While Howling V The Rebirth is my favorite of this series, Joe Dante's original is pretty decent if not somewhat overrated.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!A reporter and her husband go on a vacation in the country to join some kind of group therapy. Strange things begin to happen around them at night. Howling, shadows, and dead bodies. Soon the secret of the group is released, and Karen White must fight for her life. Will she succeed? Watch to find out.Good story, acting, and o.k. effects. *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Ironzide's thoughts on The Howling","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Beating John Landis' much famed American Werewolf In London to the cinemas, doesnt seem to have helped The Howling, or its status. Although, it is THE defining moment in its particular sub-genre.  More focused and extremely well written, it would be a sin for this film not to be in any Horror fans Top Ten movie list. Great acting, era-defining special effects and a superb ending make this a must see.  Think carefully the next time someone asks you your favourite Horror movie.... "},{"Title":"Special effects-slightly overrated, but good movie","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Howling works well as a gore/pure horror/comedy movie. The special affects, although riveting, aren't as amazing as some say. The areas this movie is strong in is atmosphere, character development, and some great shocks.The first half of the movie takes a long time to set up the characters and situations. Dee Wallace plays Karen White, who is traumatized by a rapist. Her psychiatrist advises her to go to a vacation area in the woods. She brings her husband and two friends. What they don't realize is that the area is a coven for werewolves, and the normal looking vacationers are actual werewolves. Wallace, her husband, and friends are all terrorized by the lycanthropes.(Spoilers)The second half of the movie picks up considerably. The best scenes in the movie is where one of the female werewolves lures Wallace's husband in the woods to have sex with him and makes him a werewolf in the process. The special affects start working well here, but get slightly overdone by the end of the sex scene. Another scene is where Terri(Wallace's friend) stumbles in a deserted creepy cabin where she finds pictures of the killer who terrorized Wallace. A werewolf spots her snooping around and chases her. The ending is pretty good, if not a bit hokey.The acting and gritty, tense atmosphere work very well, and the chase scenes are excellent. The special affects are sometimes excellent, but sometimes very fake looking. There are some slow parts, but the end result is very good. Recommended definitely for all horror fans. "},{"Title":"A flawed, but entertaining and sometimes scary werewolf film.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****The Howling is considered by many to be a horror classic.  I'm not sure I would quite call it that.  Masterful horror films are rare; among the best are Jaws, The Exorcist, and John Carpenter's The Thing.  The Howling doesn't rank that highly, but it is nonetheless a mostly well-made horror film that provides good late-night chills.  Werewolf movies are mostly bad (check out this one's sequels), and this could very well be the best of its kind, though I will admit it's been awhile since I've seen An American Werewolf in London.Karen White (Dee-Wallace Stone), a popular news anchor, has been arranged to meet a man who calls himself Eddie, a serial killer who has a special interest in Karen herself.  With the police following along, they follow her into a porno shop, where they proceed to kill Eddie.  Karen is haunted by the events that occur, and she can no longer remember what exactly happened in her short meeting with Eddie.  She is recommended by Dr. George Waggner (Patrick Mcknee) to take part and stay awhile in this experimental colony he has up north in the woods.  She gladly obliges, and is accompanied by her caring husband, Bill (Christopher Stone).The first few days at The Colony are relatively relaxing for Karen.  Even though she's startled a bit by Marsha (Elisabeth Brooks) and her feral brother, T.C.  But at night, she notices strange things, such as frightening and piercing howls that sound unlike anything she's ever heard.  She also finds dead cows in the forest.  Inviting her friends and co-workers, Chris (Dennis Dugan) and Terri (Belinda Balaski) over, they investigate the place and begin to uncover its sinister secrets.Director Joe Dante seemed to be making two movies.  The Howling's first half is slow-moving, plodding, and not nearly as interesting a set-up as it should have been.  The serial killer subplot is treated as a second tier, and isn't tied in to the main story particularly well.  A couple of scenes are also more cheesy than frightening, such as the first sight of a werewolf, which looks more like a giant puppet than any lycanthrope.But Dante improves the film significantly in the second half, creating a lot of suspenseful scenes, as well as one truly terrifying moment when a werewolf suddenly appears in a scene in the most unexpected fashion.  From around the 50-minute or so mark right up to the final scene, The Howling is absolutely riveting.  The famous werewolf transformations are also a sight to behold.Working to the movie's advantage is the setting, since it's always fun to watch a horror flick set in the woods.  Sometimes, when it's done well, a la The Evil Dead, you can have a lot of fun watching it.  The Howling falls into that category and the setting helps enforce the atmosphere and tone.  The constant amount of fog and mist is a bit annoying, but it's easy to get over that once the fun sets in. Watching this film (particularly the second half) gives me an added appreciation and sense of nostalgia for the way horror films were styled in the 80's.  The Howling relies quite a bit on its great sense of atmosphere, setting, and mood.  This isn't a teeny-bopper film with a serial killer running around, slashing people everywhere.  The situation presented is scary, and Dante plays many of these moments out the right way. There are some other flaws, however.  Character development is given a good attempt, and it does work somewhat, but I never quite got behind Karen White as much as I felt I should have.  Dee-Wallace Stone delivers a decent performance, but is hampered by a script that doesn't fully flesh out her character.  Of course, good attempts like this are still better than your average horror film.  Christopher Stone as her husband is fairly lifeless, not so much bad as he is given not a whole lot of material to work with.  Dennis Dugan and Brenda Balaski are both good as Karen's friends, with Dugan exuding what seems to be genuinely likable personality.  These days, he's mostly well-known for directing a few Adam Sandler films.Robert Picardo as Eddie has very little screen time, but is appropriately chilling in the scenes he's in.  Elisabeth Brooks is especially creepy as a (possibly) nymphomaniac werewolf with an attraction towards Bill.  She also bears a startling resemblance to Angelina Jolie.I've read from many reviewers and critics that this film is supposed to be a partial comedy.  While there are a few laughs, they seem more like the usual comic relief you'd see rather than all-out horrific humor Evil Dead 2 or The Return of the Living Dead style.  This is more suspense and horror than comedy, for sure.  The biggest laugh probably comes near the end, which also manages to be a fairly poignant scene, surprisingly enough.  Dante really balanced out that one scene almost perfectly.Of course, what review of The Howling could go by without mentioning the visual effects, which are part of this film's fame.  Some parts are definitely cheesy by today's standards, but the werewolf transformations are very well-done.  Makeup artist Rob Bottin showed true talent in creating a believable and formidable monster.  Credit must also be given for the lack of extreme gore effects.  There are some violent and bloody scenes, but compared to many other horror films, this one is relatively restraint and is all the better for it.  The emphasis on suspense over blood is always welcome.    So, The Howling comes as a recommendation from me.  I enjoyed much of it, found a lot to like and appreciate, though to get to the film's meaty parts (pun intended), you still have to bear through a relatively dull beginning.  It's still definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"What was sayles trying to tell us......?","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There is a scene in the porno movie house where karen white and her stalker are alone in a porno movie booth watching a bondage movie clearly XXX. The stalker is demonic possessed, was this a commentary on what that viewing ultimately leads to??? I suppose only he knows. Watch for a cameo of ROGER CORMAN at the scene where DEE WAllACE gets into and out of a phone booth. He's the guy next in line. This movie is a commentary on get goofy with your inner self hypnosis/inner peace cults lead in the film by PATRICK MACNEE and the traditional werewolf movie. Of note in this film is DENNIS DUGAN, a character actor in the 1970's and 80's who got alot of work in tv and movies. he is particularly good in this film as KAREN WHITES buddy at the TV station. This film uses werewolf lore with a sexual innuendo the way DRACULA by STOKER did. The film was tasteful yet, violent and shows yet another facet and the range of JOHN SAYLES as a writer...from BATTLE BEYOND THE STARS to MEN WITH GUNS and LONE STAR. (LONE STAR being four star A grade) I recommend this movie to fans of horror with a satire/semi social conscience feel. Of note are the scenes lampooning the news station crew.) "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Werewolfmovie","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The howling stands as a great movie thanks to the brilliant script, the magnificent effects and the acting. This alongside Gremlins is Joe Dante's finest hour at the movies. Pino Donaggio's great music also gives the film an ambience that few other horrorpics have achieved. Though many others hold John Landis wolfpic as favorite, I have to disagree. Sure, the first 15 min. of that movie was masterful in setting the mood, this one keeps it throughout the entire movie. Plus this one have (in my humble opinion) better transformation sequences.  "},{"Title":"In the last twenty years there has been only two good werewolf movies!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the two films. It's not as frightening as it is tense due to the backdrop, the location itself gets your imagination running overdrive. You could picture yourself in the woods thinking is someone or something out there watching me! The human body count is low, but, you probably won't notice because the story is so good. By the way, this movie has some great one liners, I think the best is See what your friend did to my hand! "},{"Title":"A scary treat.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After being attacked by a rapist, a television newscaster is sent to a small village by her doctor for therapy, but to her horror she discovers the place is crawling with werewolves. The special effects are simply amazing and this is a very scary werewolf movie. Plus there is plenty of in-jokes and features an amazing cast for a werewolf movie. Besides the original Wolfman, this is the best werewolf movie ever. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was a good movie. This and An American werewolf in London, is my favorite werewolf movies. The Howling had some good werewolf transformation. The plot was original and scary. This is one of the best werewolf ever made. The acting was superb. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes werewolf movies and a great horror flick. "},{"Title":".....the greatest werewolf movie ever made....","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  when i first viewed this movie in 1980(in the theatre),i was stunned....this is the greatest werewolf movie ever made.(better in my opinion than lon chaney's wolfman) the special effects eclipse anything i've ever seen done on the subject of werewolves(computer or otherwise)....even werewolf movies today.rob bottin,i believe did the effects, and the overall feel of the movie is horrifying.the story has an odd mixture of horror and some slight humor, with great cameos by john carradine, forrest ackerman, etc....the whole cast was great!i can only hope this comes out on dvd! be warned though, the sequels are beyond awful! "}{"Title":"Classic werewolf movie that deserves a re-release","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have raved about Dee Wallace before in my Hills Have Eyes review and I will here again. Dee Wallace is definitely one of the Top 10 actresses in horror/sci-fi/cult films EVER! Her girl-next-door looks, her signature voice, and her pert acting skills make her what could be the blueprint for THE horror film heroine!Anyway, The Howling is a film that any horror fan should see at least once. The movie is filled with quirky in-jokes for the serious horror movie buff, including appearances by legends such as John Carradine, Patrick Macnee, Dick Miller, Kevin McCarthy, and Forrest J. Ackerman. I have heard that Roger Corman makes an appearance, too, but I have yet to spot him. I just wish that Carradine and McCarthy had gotten more screen time!Scenes to watch for the stalking of Belinda Balaski by a werewolf intercut with similar scenes from a cartoon; a nude sex scene between Christopher Stone and Elisabeth Brooks; the transformation of the serial rapist/killer Eddie to his lycanthropic alter ego; and the right-out-of-left-field trick ending! Believe me, you will NOT expect it! While The Howling does not have tons of gory werewolf murders, the special effects are top-notch and stand up well today, the acting is all around fantastic, the scenes in the woods (both day and night) are wonderfully sinister, and the storyline (a TV report goes to a psychiatric retreat) is something unique and is carried off well given that this is a werewolf movie! The opening sequence set in sleazy downtown L.A. is unbearably tense and could fit into any psychopathic thriller!Worth a look if only once, some horror fans will be put off by the somewhat sluggish pace, but the majority of fans will be far from disappointed! "},{"Title":"Good but . . . .","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not AS good as the super-cool movie which is AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON.  Good effects and scary atmosphere but it doesn't hold up to LONDON.  I give this film a 7 out of 10 for it's energy and frights but it doesn't have the intelligence of LONDON . . . .   "},{"Title":"GREAT WEREWOLF MOVIE!!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the best werewolf movies out there. The story is a young TV reporter, is attacked while on an assignment. Her psychologist then sends her to a secluded California retreat for some rest and relaxation. Soon she starts hearing howling and we know what that mean. The transformation sequences are outstanding, unlike many other cheap werewolf movies. We got the sex scenes and violence like all horror movies. The Howling is one of the first picks when looking for a good werewolf movie. "},{"Title":"It's good? What a shock.","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I didn't expect to really be scared by a werewolf movie, but, nevertheless, this one got me.Why? I don't know. I'm so immune to horror movies these days, but when I went out and rented The Howling, I was delightfully surprised to actually be...afraid? Weird. I've seen it several times now, and it gets me every time I watch it. Dante and Sayles did something right, because this movie is one of the most frightening, well-honed werewolf movies out there. In fact, it's one of the only really scary werewolf movies.How'd they do that? How did they make me so afraid of eating hamburger? "},{"Title":"The first and best (repeat, best) in 'Howling' series","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In 1981, along with The Howling, two werewolf films (Wolfen and An American Werewolf in London) were released and I can't decide which is the best.  I'll say this it's better than the limp unrelated sequels and other sorry werewolf films (including 1996's Bad Moon) that followed.  Moving right along, The Howling is both scary and funny.  Some of the characters in this film are named after characters in old horror films.  Rob Bottin's transformation effects are scary.Dee Wallace-Stone (E.T.) plays a news reporter who is sent to a retreat by her doctor (Patrick MacNee) so she can get over a traumatic sexual attack, but discovers that everyone transforms into werewolves when sexually aroused.  John Sayles wrote the script and appears in an uncredited cameo. My evaluation  *** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"To the Point!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As far as a horror movie goes, this isn't very horrifying, although it has a few excellent scenes.  The movie starts out very promising, but loses steam quickly.  It picks up again about 3/4 of the way through, when it was discovered that Eddie Quist is not dead.  Good acting and a mediocre story makes this a decent movie but a very good werewolf movie (but loses when compared to AAWIL).  I gave it a rating of 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the best werewolf movies","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The howling 1981I liked how the first half of the movie, builds up tension Before the craziness startWhich I enjoyed.The second part of the movie was actions packed madness the werewolf effect was great and the make up effects were greatThe transformation scene was amazing done it was short and quick but it was just perfect.I really liked how the plot came to a end, new report turning into a werewolf on the news is one of my favourite movie scene.Acting was great from whole cast 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the All Time Werewolf Greats","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Anyone who's ever heard the howl of an animal in the dead of night has probably asked themselves, 'what was that?' and perhaps more importantly, is it outside my window! If this has indeed happened to you, then 1981's The Howling won't put you at ease! It all begins on the mean streets of Los Angles with local TV reporter Karen White on her way to meet a vicious serial killer named Eddie Quist (Robert Picardo) who's reached out to her. After a terrifying encounter with Eddie in a darkened room and a police shoot, you can probably see why Karen's a little strung out. So on the advice of renowned psychologist Dr. George Waggner (Patrick Macnee) she and her husband, Bill(Christopher Stone) head up to a secluded, counseling sanctuary known as the colony. All seems well at first; the people are friendly if not slightly odd to some degree but still friendly enough. But just when she's settling in for the night that's when the howling begins. Soon enough, we discover that the colony is actually a place for werewolves to get away from the civilized world and these aren't your Lon Chaney type wolves that have to wait for the moon to be full. They are the primal beasts within all of us, waiting to be unleashed onto the world. Will Karen and Bill make it out or are they destined to be victims of the howling?Directed by Joe Dante (Gremlins, Pirana) The Howling came out at a time when werewolf films were all but dead. There hadn't really been any real hits like 1941's The Wolf Man in decades and most studio heads considered the werewolf premise corny and outdated. Needless to say, The Howling forever destroyed that idea. Based off of the novel by Gary Brandner, the story strips away all talk of the full moon belief (Which was never part of the original werewolf lore to begin with. The whole notion of the full moon was created by Curt Siodmak when he wrote the screenplay to 1941's The Wolf Man) and instead presents the werewolves as simply shape shifters who have a craving for blood every now and then. This makes them more evil and powerful since there are no limitations to where and when they can transform. All of this is directed masterfully by Dante, who is able to create a spooky and foreboding atmosphere and for a second make you believe that all talk of beasts in the night may not sound so ridiculous after all. I would even go as far as to say this is his best work. The script is cleverly written to include not only horror but a few inside jokes for those who know a thing or two about werewolf flicks.And as for makeup, this isn't your grandfather's werewolf flick. For the longest time, Hollywood werewolves looked like a guy with a hairy football glued to his head (No offense to Lon Chaney and the guys at Universal). Here, the werewolves look exactly as they should; big, hairy, mean beasts from the pits of hell. Rob Bottin must be congratulated all the way for his work here, especially when it comes to Eddie's transformation sequence which has to rank as one of the best transformation sequences ever. All of the actors and actresses play their parts well, which goes a long way to making films of this type into something special. Dee Wallace proves she is by far one of the actresses when it comes to getting into character and being scared out of her mind when playing Karen. Christopher Stone should be congratulated for his role as Bill, who badly wants to help his wife but is unsure just how. Patrick Macnee of The Avengers fame is delightful to watch here as the good if not slightly unconventional doctor, as is Robert Picardo as the disturbing Eddie Quist. Rounding out the cast is the beautiful but sadly deceased Elizabeth Brooks as Marsha Quist, John Carradine, Slim Pickens, Dennis Dugan, Noble Willingham, James Murtaugh, and many more who I just don't have space for. In the end, The Howling is a everything a horror film should be Spooky, scary, unsettling, and able to stand the test of time. This film, along with An American Werewolf in London of the same year, probably saved the werewolf genre from extinction and still is one of the all time greats of its kind. There were a bunch of sequels after this one, but none of the ones I saw could hold a candle to this one. It's a real testament to the quality of work Dante and co. did on this. So without further adieu, lock all the doors, shutter all windows, and settle in to watch a modern horror classic. P.S. Might not be a bad idea to keep some sliver at hand in case you should hear the howling outside your bedroom window! "},{"Title":"The first out of 8 and this one is bad as well...","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A television presenter who has a close encounter with a serial killer, starts to have nightmares and is sent to a rehabilitation site to recover however the people who are at the site are real werewolves.This film starred Dee Wallace, Dennis Dugan & Patrick Macnee.The Howling is the first out of 8 films in the Howling series, it is one of the better ones however it is still a boring, dull and let's face it crap film, this is in my opinion so don't get annoyed by me saying this. But these films are absolute crap. Not recommended at all as they are a waste of time.**/***** Poor. "},{"Title":"Classic werewolf movie","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Intentionally over-the-top werewolf horror/ satire, about a TV news reporter in LA, who is sent to a wilderness retreat to recover from a traumatic event. Once she and boyfriend get settled in, she slowly realises that nearly everyone is a former werewolf movie director, who turns into a werewolf when the become, shall we say, excited, and they want her man to join them.The makeup effects during said transformations still look good after all these years, and the film has a lot of intentional humour, as well as transitioning well from the sleazier side of LA, in its opening stages, to the peaceful(?) and quite, foggy woods where the remainder of the action is set.The worst part about this film is that it was followed by some of the worst sequels ever produced part 2 (in then Czechoslovakia) might be good for a few unintentional laughs, but otherwise is terrible; part 3 (in Sydney) begins well, but quickly goes down the toilet after the first 20 minutes or so; part 4 (in South Africa) is coma inducing; part 5 (in Hungary) is the least awful of the lot; part 6 is heavy handed and depressing; part 7 is an unwatchable anti-movie. "}{"Title":"Not as good as people say...","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling a 1981 horror film tells the story of a news reporter who has a close encounter with a serial killer, is sent to the country-side type place to calm her down and get her back to normal. However the other people at this resort are werewolves.I am not a big fan of werewolves films and this was another I did not enjoy. It wasn't an absolute embarrassment to the horror genre as I have seen worse, but it is not one that I will jump at the chance to watch again. It didn't scare me. It barely even amused me. I don't recommend this film unless you are a big fan of werewolf films or if you want to watch all of the Howling movies. I do have all the Howling movies on DVD so I will be watching more but it is not something I can't wait for.**/***** Poor "},{"Title":"You Can't Tame What's Meant to Be Wild.  Just Ain't Natural.","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" TV news anchor Karen Stone (Dee Wallace) suffers memory loss after a close encounter with a werewolf serial killer (Robert Picardo). Her therapist Dr. George Waggner (an excellent Patrick Macnee) send her and her husband (Christopher Stone) to recuperate at a secluded California resort called The Colony. What Karen and her husband don't know is that The Colony is, in fact, a werewolf commune.Joe Dante's quirky direction is terrific. He fills the screen full of genre in-jokes and references, adding an extra layer for fans of werewolf movies to enjoy. The script comes from John Sayles and is witty and exciting with a little bit of everything thrown in. Humor, horror, mystery, sex, romance, action -- I'm not saying the film knocks it out of the park on every front, but at least it's in there swinging. Makeup effects artist Rob Bottin outdid himself on this one. The special effects are excellent. The transformation effects in movies like this and An American Werewolf in London have yet to be surpassed, despite all the CGI crap we get today.In addition to Wallace, Stone, Picardo, and Macnee, Joe Dante has assembled a fun cast of recognizable faces to movie fans. Dick Miller, John Carradine, Slim Pickens, Kenneth Tobey, and Kevin McCarthy all appear as well as several cameos from others. But a special mention should go to two actors who, in most reviews I've read, don't get enough praise. Dennis Dugan and Belinda Balaski as Karen's friends who try to help her get to the bottom of things. They both give enjoyable, likable performances. In many ways, they outshine the two leads.The Howling is one of the best werewolf movies of all time. It's a fresh, original film with magnificent effects, fun direction, great script, solid cast, and a nice score by Pino Donaggio. "},{"Title":"Scary But Fun.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Joe Dante pulled off an impressive feat directing this scary but humorous film about a traumatized newswoman (sweet & appealing Dee Wallace) who is persuaded to go to a mysterious retreat by a noted psychologist(Patrick Macnee, very suave but sympathetic) where her bad luck sadly continues when she is forced to confront some sinister werewolves...Very clever script incorporates real-life werewolf directors as character names, and has awe-inspiring make-up F/X, the first of their kind. Well-directed and suspenseful, though final sequence goes a little too far in self-aware humor. Otherwise, cant-miss film for genre fans. "},{"Title":"You can't tame what's meant to be wild, Doc. It ain't natural.","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The werewolf genre had laid dormant for a while, to be successfully and memorably revived by this film and An American Werewolf in London in 1981. Using the Gary Brandner novel as its basis, it goes off in interesting, unexpected, and intelligent directions, adding fascinating layers to the story. Screenplay credit is given to John Sayles and Terence H. Winkless, with Joe Dante, one of many graduates of the Roger Corman school of filmmaking, in the director's chair. The story has a prominent TV newscaster, Karen White (Dee Wallace, in her first top-billed feature film role) traumatized by the attack of a serial killer (in a porno movie booth, no less) and sent to the woodsy encounter group retreat run by eminent psychiatrist Dr. George Waggner (Patrick Macnee). What Karen doesn't know is that her attacker, Eddie Quist (Robert Picardo, in a hell of a film debut) and virtually everybody at the retreat is a werewolf. Of course, going by the first 40 minutes or so of this film, one may not know it's a werewolf film, which is one of its strengths, as it builds its mystery. Going against the grain of classic werewolf films, Sayles, Winkless, and Dante don't portray their werewolves as tragic victims but evil, primal beings that would rather be adhering to werewolf tradition and feasting on their human counterparts. In Sayles's own words, these are monsters that completely unleash their Id. In addition to its genuine scares and suspense, the film also has an incredible self aware humour about it - without resorting to cracking jokes - with many of the characters named after men who directed werewolf films. There are other wolf references as well - Wolf brand chili, a copy of Allen Ginsburg's Howl, etc. The film is much like American Werewolf in the way that it can have one laughing while functioning as a true horror film. The cast is just amazing; Wallace and Belinda Balaski are lovely and appealing as always (with Balaski figuring in what is one of the major set pieces of the film), and Dennis Dugan, Christopher Stone (Wallace's husband), Kevin McCarthy, John Carradine, Slim Pickens, Picardo, Noble Willingham, James Murtaugh, and Kenneth Tobey adding to the fun with their appearances. Co-star Elisabeth Brooks is extremely alluring as nasty temptress Marsha. Sayles himself and the legendary Dick Miller offer side splitting cameo performances, and Corman himself turns up as a man at a phone booth. The then very young Rob Bottin, recommended for this project by his mentor Rick Baker, supervises the stunning makeup and creature effects; both men can take credit for two very impressive man into werewolf transformations in their respective films. The werewolves here are bipedal, but more wolf than man and pretty terrifying. Wonderful music by Pino Donaggio, typically excellent prop work by art director Robert A. Burns, and ingenious closing credits (with a little bonus after said credits) all also combine to make this enjoyable and worth discovering or revisiting. Followed by seven (to date) inferior sequels. In conclusion, it's hard not to be amused by any film that includes the hilarious quip, Screw this 'channel your energies' crap! Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Werewolf Flick","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a great Werewolf movie. The plot is basically about a news reporter chick who gets assaulted in a porno shop which causes her to black out and have weird visions. She's so tripped out by the incident that her psychiatrist sends her to a loony camp out in the boonies. Shortly after going to the camp a bunch of cool werewolf sh*t happens. That's all i'm gonna say about the plot. What i will say is that this movie has some killer special effects and gore. It's also got some really nice nudity! Major bonus! Sure it takes a long time to build up but once it does its well worth it. It also has a great atmosphere. I haven't seen the sequels yet but the first HOWLING is a great movie. The director went on to make TWILIGHT ZONE THE MOVIE and GREMLINS (two other great movies). Anyway if you dig werewolves this is a must see as well as American Werewolf In London. "},{"Title":"A Howling Success","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So it would seem that Wolfen wasn't the only quality film dealing with werewolves that came out in 1981. That same year, Joe Dante, with The Howling, delivered what is in essence a gift to all horror fans. His werewolf picture features some truly frightening monsters, several of the most impressive transformation sequences anyone could desire, and a cast that is itself a tribute to the classic horror pictures of the past. In the film, we meet TV news anchor Karen White, appealingly played by Dee Wallace a year before E.T. would make her a household name. After a traumatizing run-in with a serial killer, Karen and her husband (played by Dee's then real-life husband Christopher Stone) go up the California coast to rest and recuperate at The Colony, an alternative-lifestyle, group-therapy retreat of sorts run by a pop psychiatrist (the ever suave Patrick Macnee). At this late date, I don't think I'm spoiling the party too much by stating that The Colony's residents are a pretty, uh, hairy bunch of folk! Dante directs his film skillfully, and although he reserves most of Rob Bottin and Rick Baker's remarkable FX for the final third, the viewer is constantly afflicted with a feeling of unease, leavened by much insider humor. That great cast of horror vets--including John Carradine, Kevin McCarthy, Kenneth Tobey and Dick Miller (hilarious as antique bookseller Walter Paisley...the same name he sported in Roger Corman's 1959 quickie A Bucket of Blood!), plus cult fave Slim Pickens and appearances by Corman himself and horror editor Forrest J. Ackerman--is truly a godsend, and some likable newcomers, such as the late Elisabeth Brooks, with her Angelina Jolie-like good looks, and Robert Picardo, who few will recognize as the holographic Doctor from Star Trek Voyager, make significant contributions. When I saw this film in the mid-'80s, I remember thinking how strange it was that Dennis Dugan, who I knew only as a weasly putz from an old M*A*S*H episode, should wind up being the hero here, but such indeed is the case. Watching the film recently, for the first time in well over 20 years, I was struck by how much I remembered of it, and indeed, some of the picture's set pieces are truly made to stick in the memory. Though followed by five in-name-only sequels at this point, all of which are supposedly pretty lame, the original Howling is surely the one to go for. A class act, plain and simple, and a howling success. "},{"Title":"Nicely done","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Horror is one of my favorite genres due to the fact that many of it's stories have interesting subtexts. A sort of story just beneath the story that you are watching. A good and well developed subtext makes the film deeper, and prevents it from being pretentious since if you just want to have fun and watch a monster movie, you can go right ahead. The Howling is that type of monster movie - one that can be watched for pure fun and tension, but there are a few interesting subtle things that might strike you and cause you to re-watch the film... and notice more of them! Naturally, giving them away would be spoiling your fun, so I'll leave that to you.On the surface this is also a pretty good movie. Featuring some great creature effects that still look better than most CGI. There is key scene of human-to-werewolf transformation that lasts around 2 minutes, maybe more, that is the pinnacle of the film's special effects. Slowly but surely we see muscles expanding, teeth growing, and of course, lots of hair! It is a great moment and a great example classic special effects. Though I am not so sure I'd just stand and watch for 2 minutes as some guy turned into a werewolf right in front of me! But that's not important, what is that the film entertains and even provides a few twists and spares the excess see all too often today. --- 7/10BsCDb classification Ages 13+ -- violence, sexual content "},{"Title":"Way better than expected; one of the better werewolf films","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have never been a fan of the werewolf sub-genre, in fact, there are only three other werewolf films I would rate highly. 'The Wolf Man,' 'An American Werewolf in London' and 'Dog Soldiers.' After ages of putting this one off I finally bit the bullet and put it in. I am glad I did. Joe Dante's 'The Howling' is not only a great werewolf movie, it is a really good movie. Featuring a great performance by Dee Wallace, some excellent transformation scenes and gore and some genuinely weird settings this is a a genre-defining movie. My attention was immediately drawn from the start and not once was I looking at my watch or waiting for the end. The story is interesting and is very evenly paced and the creepy woods setting (with some atmospheric fog to boot) kept me tense throughout. Moreover, when the first transformation scene occurred (during sex by a campfire!) I was even more engaged.Joe Dante's direction and sly sense of humour probably helped this movie quite a bit, though. Especially with the ending, which was tragic and although out of place (for me, anyway) did suit the movie. Overall, 'The Howling' was surprisingly good and features one of the coolest transformation scenes I have ever seen! 3/5 "},{"Title":"We should never deny the beast in all of us...","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" On the other hand, that's exactly what we ought to do as ever-developing human beings. Every one of us yearns for peace, unity, friends, love... And look how far we've got, nothing has changed except at some point we did lost our fur and fangs. Werewolves are in fact gotten ahead they don't kill their own kind. (Well, at least it's not suggested in the movies of the genre.) Someone might think I give this sort of film too much credit and meanings, but it's affected me so much over the years that I must have at least some werewolf-blood in me...This is so much better film in every possible category than An American Werewolf In London, that it's absolutely beyond me how any horror-fan could think otherwise; while in the latter the dream sequences are also very good and the moments of carnage in the end memorable, even those pale in comparison. And what comes to humor, the acting, photography, mood, and ESPECIALLY the horror scenes... it's a clean sweep. AAWIL's worst problem still is the mishandling of werewolf-legends full-moon is needed but silver-bullets are not. So it's like shooting a rabid dog in the end...Howling has it's tongue-in-cheek-approach in many ways of course too, but comedy never gets in the way of real horror. The jokes are directed mainly for film-buffs as inside-ones, many of them requiring several viewings to get. And those werewolves there are hordes of them and they are COOL. Once again, compared to AAWIL the key transformation scene (the wolf virtually bursts out of this roaring mad-killer-Eddie) truly rocks while in the other it's a joke. Nicely done but still.So how come this classic rates only 6.4 in IMDb? Well, first of all one needs brains, sense of humor and maturity to fully enjoy it, unlike the garbage in the style of The Hills Have Eyes etc. (6.8!!!!). Then I've always thought that, although this was in my knowledge kind of phenomenon in its release year, people have forgotten the movie. AAWIL has a cooler title and always had more recognizable covers, posters and so on... therefore while everyone even today seems to have at least heard about AAWIL, no-one has seen The Howling. What an unfair world. But, now, I started this commentary by mocking the less than perfect mankind, didn't I...? "},{"Title":"Smart, slight, and charming","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You know, I'd never seen this the whole way through. And it's great! Oh, there are some cheesy track-through-the-cocktail-party setups, and the movie really should have given us a few minutes to get to know Dee Wallace BEFORE she became a nervous wreck. But I like how the husband is this mustachioed vegetarian lunkhead, basically useless, and I like how good old John Sayles' script combines werewolves and encounter groups without making it into a Metaphor for Society or anything. It's just a smart jape - evidently Dante's specialty - as evidenced by the preponderance of movie insider gags, including characters named David Hewitt and Sam Newfield and a cameo where Roger Corman checks the pay phone for change. The effects are great. And it's lovely to see Carradine in a quality production, the old coot looks like he's having a really good time. "}{"Title":"Brilliant werewolf film!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Shapeshifters, the mythical creatures able to transform their bodies from human to the one of an animal, have been an important part of the world's folklore since the origin of mankind. Among those legendary creatures, werewolves have always been very popular, evolving to the point of being nowadays an icon of horror fiction thanks to the movies made about them. George Waggner's The Wolf Man, starring Lon Chaney was probably the most influential of all, as almost single-handedly it created the basis for the modern werewolf's myths; however, in 1981 three movies appeared that revolutionized the werewolf in film, giving the creature a brand new set of fangs Michael Wadleigh's Wolfen, John Landis' An American Werewolf in London, and this movie Joe Dante's The Howling. The fresh and original spin that these three movies gave to the werewolf's myths has proved to be enormously influential, and it's safe to say that 1981 was the year of the wolf.Dee Wallace plays Karen White, a journalist who has become the new target of infamous serial killer named Eddie (Robert Picardo). Working with the police in the case, she gets traumatized after a near fatal encounter with the killer (which ends with the police killing Eddie), so she is ordered to take a vacation in order to recover from the shock. In Dr. Waggner's (Patrick Macnee) colony, she finds some tranquility and relaxation, however, she also finds that something is wrong with the other inhabitants of the resort. Unfortunately, she can't count with her husband Bill (Christopher Stone), as he as been seduced by one of them (Elisabeth Brooks), breaking their marriage; however, this will be the lesser of her problems as she unveils the secret behind the Colony's existence and the true nature of its inhabitants.While the movie is based on Gary Brandner's novel of the same name, it has to be said that most of the film's charm comes actually from writer John Sayles (Dante's regular collaborator), who took on Terence H. Winkless's early screenplay and gave it his very own touch, adding a subtle spice of black comedy and nice tributes to the history of werewolves in film. However, not everything was changed from the novel, as Brandner's erotic and brutal re-imagining of the werewolf is still overtly present in the story, giving the film its characteristic sleaze. The plot is very well developed, playing with the natural mystery and suspense of Bradner's story, although it's safe to say that it lacks good development of several supporting characters. Still, it can be said that while different, John Sayles's version of The Howling is a nice adaptation of the now classic horror novel.Right after directing three of Roger Corman's better known cult classics from the 70s, director Joe Dante arrived to the project with his very own idea of what he wanted for the movie. Dante shows in The Howling a big talent for creating haunting atmospheres, as well as a complete understanding of the satirical tone of Sayles' (another of Corman's former protegs) script. Cleverly using a wide variety of special effects (from Rob Bottin's awesome make-up to different kinds of animation), Dante makes a wonderfully film that certainly looks better than movies with bigger budgets. However, in a film not everything is about good special effects, and Dante knows it, so he keeps his monsters hidden during most of the film's runtime, in order to effectively showing them up in a couple of remarkable climatic scenes.While nothing surprising, the cast as a whole is very effective and truly better than the average for horror movies. As Karen White, Dee Wallace delivers a very good performance and carries the film with dignity. Christopher Stone is one of the bad seeds in the cast, as his performance is probably the weakest of the movie, and actually hurts the film. Dennis Dugan and Belinda Balaski play Karen's friends, and both are excellent in their roles, specially Balaski. Among the supporting cast we find excellent performances by Patrick Macnee, Elisabeth Brooks and Don McLeod. Legendary actors John Carradine and Slim Pickens appear in small but memorable roles that like most characters are named after horror legends. Overall, one could say that despite some exceptions, the cast is quite good and manage to shine despite some poor development of minor characters.Like the ones used in Landis' film, the special effects of The Howling are without a doubt some of the most celebrated works in this filed, and certainly one of the highlights of the movie. While a bit too dark (and oddly with that glossy, shiny look so typical of the 80s films), cinematography by John Hora is appropriate, as it gives the story a nightmarish surreal look, similar to the one given to 1941's classic The Wolf Man. Pino Donaggio's original score for the movie is good, although sometimes too eclectic, with some parts working perfectly while others feeling definitely out of place in the story. Sadly, even when The Howling is definitely an almost flawless film, it has earned a terrible reputation due to the awful quality of its sequels, which have gone downhill ever since The Howling II was released. Among horror fans there is always the question about which of the three werewolf movies of 1981 is the truly best, and while personally I feel inclined to say that An American Werewolf in London is the one, Joe Dante's The Howling is, in my opinion, a very underrated classic that despite the constant release of bad sequels, has kept its magic intact all those years. This film is really top-notch horror, and a movie worth to check out, not only for horror fans. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Incredibly overrated, mediocre horror movie.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I haven't seen many werewolf movies. Maybe this one is considered the best by many people, because the rest is total crap. I really don't understand those 8+ ratings. The only reason a gave it 4 stars instead of 2 is because of the special effects which are quite well done for their time. I totally agree with people who say the storyline is very slow. You won't be missing anything at all if you'd skip the first hour. This may seem a useless comment, but I really don't have very much to say about this movie, since it's neither awful nor something special. It's just mediocre and boring. You might wonder why I almost gave 2 stars, while saying it's mediocre. Well total crap is sometimes more entertaining than a mediocre movie, so this one shouldn't easily get 5 stars in my opinion. "},{"Title":"My Favourite Werewolf Movie","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Karen White is a TV newslady who witnesses the killing of ritualistic serial killer Eddie Quist. Suffering from nightmares and shock, her psychiatrist recommends she stay at a quiet country retreat called The Colony. Once there however, Karen is unsettled by the neurotic community, the creepy woods, and the possibility that Eddie may still be alive ...I love werewolf movies, and I think my favourite is The Howling, because every element of it is so enjoyable. John Sayles' script is both witty and scary, the special effects are sensational, the big ensemble cast are a terrific bunch of weirdos, and the photography and direction are both top-notch. For me, the acid test of this kind of movie is the monster, and make-up effects genius Rob Bottin creates fabulous, cartoon-inspired, hairy, snarling, bipedal, fanged horrors straight out of Little Red Riding Hood. They are terrifying, absurd and visually stunning; there is a moment where Balaski pulls a paper file from a drawer and a werewolf hand enters screen right and delicately plucks it from her which is one the most deliciously scary horror movie moments ever done. I also love the way this film is all over the place thematically; the first fifteen minutes come on like a sleazy urban nightmare, then it turns into an adult fairy-tale. It plays as a straight horror flick but it's also an absurd satire of TV news, self-help therapy and communal living. Wallace's intense, straight-as-an-arrow performance should be at odds with the sly jokes and outrageous situations, but it's not - it just all gels seamlessly. She's backed up by an amazing support cast - Balaski is just sensational as the intrepid Terry, Brooks is every teenage boy's fantasy come true and her last line is a corker. Macnee, McCarthy, Miller and Pickens are lovable old pros, Picardo is unforgettable as the depraved killer and the iconic Carradine is terrific in one of his last great roles (the first shot of him is fabulous). And don't miss Sayles' cameo as a dogmatic morgue attendant. Dante directs with an assured combination of technical prowess, classic horror suspense and shocking imagery, pulling the very best movie possible from all the tools at his disposal. The showpiece werewolf transformation scene is truly stunning, but the movie is full of action, suspense, evocative shots, amusing observations and hair-raising moments. John Hora's camera-work is dynamic and dreamlike, exactly the right mix of light and shade to squeeze the emotion out of each scene. I adore monster movies, and this is one of the best; though some have come close (David Thewlis in Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban), nobody for me has yet bettered the lovely lycanthropes in this picture. See it with the lights out. "},{"Title":"The underdog v.s. An American Werewolf In London","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" To be honest I enjoyed this rivalry werewolf flick that went against the release of An American Werewolf in London. The more horror movies the better it keeps competition fierce which both heightens the level of fear soaked horror films and causes greater effort and creativity to outlast each other. Although I believe An American Werewolf in London (AWL) tops this film with better effects such as the dead haunting ghost victims of the American werewolf, this film utilizes a different and also scary plot line. The werewolf effects in this film all but equal those of AWL> The Howling introduces the idea of werewolves having bases in nature and wondering into cities during its cycle, a scary thought for anyone from the city or from the city and visiting the woods, as if they weren't already petrified of Jason voorhees now they got howling werewolves too. The one differing werewolf feature in The Howling compared to AWL is the apparent timing in which the werewolves change over, i wont ruin any secrets. If you enjoy werewolves and/or have seen An American Werewolf in London i recommend this film as a alternative and supplimental hit, after all this film spawned 5 sequels compared to only one sequel for AWL. Also the director of this film brought you both Gremlins and Pirhana, both semi-serious horror flicks that gathered underground praise, The Howling follows suite and does not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one fun werewolf movie! Dee Wallace stars as Karen, a brave TV reporter who goes undercover to catch a serial killer. Traumatized by almost becoming a victim to that hairy sicko in a peep show booth, and suffering a bout of pseudo-amnesia, Karen and her husband (Christopher Stone) go to a backwoods communal living retreat run by pop psychologist George Waggner (Patrick Macnee). The patients there act even stranger than Karen had anticipated, but little does she know that the place is actually a haven for werewolves! Starting with character names (a trend that would soon wear out its welcome in the genre), this film is bursting at the seams with inside jokes horror fans will appreciate. The cast is also a horror fan's dream come true, with great contributions from Kevin McCarthy, Dick Miller, John Carradine and many more. And then there are the awesome werewolf transformation scenes designed by Rob Bottin that have brilliantly withstood the test of time. The tone here is much different than John Landis' classic An American Werewolf in London (released the same year), but both films are funny and scary in equal measure and stand individually on their own merits.On the pedestal of werewolf films, The Howling falls somewhere right below Universal Studios' outstanding 1941 chiller The Wolf Man as the best of all time. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Werewolves Films Ever Made.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" T.V. Newscaster Karen White (Dee Wallace Stone) is nearly murder by a Serial Killer (Robert Picardo) and she becomes traumatized by her near-fatal encounter. When a Psychiatrist (Patrick Macnee) advised to be one of his patients at a secluded retreat called The Colony. Karen goes to The Colony with her husband (Christopher Stone) but they arrived at the place, things doesn't go as plan for the couple and Karen makes a terrifying discovery. The people that Karen meets at The Colony are not as they seem to be.Directed by Joe Dante (Gremlins 1 & 2, Piranha, Small Soldiers) made a genuine scary horror film with a sense of humor. This low budget film was shot in 28 days with a budget of 1.1 Million! This was one of the critically successful horror films of 1981. Although The Howling is one of the three werewolves movies of 1981. The other two areOscar-Winning An American Werewolf in London and Underrated Wolfen. The Howling has amazing transformation Make-Up effects by Oscar-WinnerRob Bottin (Fight Club, Legend, Total Recall). Six Time Oscar-WinnerRick Baker (Men in Black 1 & 2, The Nutty Professor 1 & 2, Harry and the Hendersons) was the Make-Up effects consultant for the film.DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an strong digitally remasteredDolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in the original mono sound). DVD has an ingraining commentary track by the director and actorsWallace Stone, Stone & Picardo. Which the Commentary was recorded for the 1996 Laserdisc. DVD Features are goodA five part documentary, original featurette, deleted scenes, outtakes and more. Actor turned FilmmakerDennis Dugan (Big Daddy, Happy Gilmore, Saving Silverman) has a supporting role here. Now with the new DVD transfer, we could enjoy amazing special effects for the Werewolves transformation scenes. Which previous video transfer were always dark. Dante's RegularsBelinda Balaski, Kevin Mc Carthy, Kenneth Tobey and Dick Miller are also in this film. Watch for the uncredited cameo B-Movie King Producer/DirectorRoger Carman, screenwriterJohn Sayles and Publisher of Monsters MagazinesForrest J.Ackerman. A cult favorite for years to come. Good Music Score by Pino Donaggio (Seed of Chucky, Carrie, Two Evil Eyes). Based on a Novel by Gary Brandner. Screenplay by John Sayles (Alligator, Lone Star, Limbo) and Terence H. Winkless (The Nest). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"A werewolf classic.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director Joe Dante's infamous cult horror movie was released just a matter of months before An American Werewolf in London, and both are generally regarded as being the most memorable werewolf movies ever made. But has this one aged as well as it's more well-known cousin? Well, it's certainly still original. Karen White, a news lady, is lured into a trap by a psychopath which involves her going into a sex shop, being made to watch a violent porno and then witnessing the man changing into some kind of monster. She is left emotionally-scarred by all this, in a very Hitchcock-ian way, and so a respected psychologist suggests she spend some time as his secluded retreat called The Colony. As it turns out, the colony is the last place on Earth she wants to be, and both Karen and her husband becoming increasingly unnerved by it's occupants and the strange creatures that seem to stalk through the woods at night.Some have said that they actually prefer this film to An American Werewolf, because it's a pure horror film as opposed to a horror-comedy, and thus they rank it as the greatest werewolf movie of all time. There are a few moments of subtle comedy here, but not as obvious as those in John Landis' own film. Also, you could argue that in some ways this is a more intelligent movie, which is really about the beast in all of us, as Dr. George Waggner states at the beginning. It's a psychological thriller, and a well-structured one at that.The Howling is one of Dante's best movies. It's certainly the one that got him noticed as a director, and just a few years after this he made Gremlins and became an even bigger cult horror icon. This is actually an early movie for him, which is impressive as it shows many signs of an experience and confident film-maker at the helm. The sets are fantastic, as is the lighting and the general atmosphere and pacing of the movie. The script is fairly tight and no longer than it needs to be, and the many references to werewolf movie history are subtly slided in to satisfy the film buffs. For example, there's a character named 'Jack Molina' -- a reference the average movie-goer won't get, but any werewolf movie fan is likely to. Various other characters are named similarly, but I'll let you get those yourself.The acting is for the most part pretty decent. All of the leads handle their roles well, and watch out for John Carradine in a small but memorable performance. I was especially impressed with some of the special effects on show here. The transformation sequence is at least in some ways on the same level as American Werewolf, and this was released several months earlier. It may have something to do with the fact that Rick Baker briefly worked on this project before moving over to the other, and so some of the same ideas may have been used.For genre fans, this movie is pure gold. Others may find it a little cheesy or a little dull in places, but what the hell do they know? P "},{"Title":"One of the best Werewolf movies I've ever seen in my life","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well the movie beats all werewolf movies made in the -90's or in the -80's I'm am not going to write anything about the plot cause the commenter before me wrote it already, special effects are stunning for a film that has been made in the beginning of the -80's. Acting is great. And the plot is very very good. I watched this film about 6 years ago and i loved it (i was scared too). I watched now, and i was still excited and i loved the movie. When i saw people morphing from human to wolf and the same backwards i almost vomited because it was so realistic looking. This movie is a lot better then Dog Soldiers well the movies have lots of differences but still the wolfs are more realistic looking.. Somehow puppets make them look more realistic then computer effects (i wonder why P). Thats about it, and if someone has problems reading this. Its because my native language isn't English ) "},{"Title":"A Very good werewolf film","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling was a monster movie that was a pleasant surprise for me in particular. I loved the story and the setting which works perfectly for the werewolf myth. The special effects were astounding for their time, and most people who love horror movies still remember those effects 24 years later. Joe Dante's directing of the movie is slow at first but quickly picks up pace during the last half, starting with an incredible scene around a campfire. For those who saw the movie, you will know what scene I'm talking about. The acting could've been better, but I guess it's adequate for a movie like this. It's better than the acting in all of the Friday the 13th films put together, and I'm sure most will agree with me on that point. Along with An American Werewolf In London, The Howling is one of my all time favorite werewolf films so far. Neither one is great, but both are enjoyable nonetheless, with The Howling edging out American Werewolf In London in my opinion. "},{"Title":"One of the best werewolf films ever made!","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A young reporter whom was the victim of a violent attack & who witnessed her attacker's assassination, is sent to a retreat to unwind after she is unable to get on with her life in the big city, after the incident, however it turns out that her nightmare is just beginning, for starters the all too friendly people in the town called the Colony were she is staying, are all werewolves! Her husband has fallen in love with a woman whom soon puts the bite on him & transforms him into a werewolf, & her attacker back home ain't quiet dead either! Awesome werewolf film packs excellent special effects like human to werewolf transformations & just enough humour to keep it from sinking in some area's. The werewolf costumes really are terrifying, realistic looking & very well done. What makes THE HOWLING really enjoyable is the films humour (a lot of the characters are named after werewolf film directors of the past) the suspense is really tight here, with several of the scenes being very terrifying, with enough suspense to give even the strongest of horror fans, many who have seen lots of horror films prior to this one, on the edge of their seat & shredding their nails. The humour is also well handled, in fact this film would be great on a triple bill with another fantastic werewolf film An American Werewolf In London & Dante's original PIRANHA, which has the same amount of scaes, humor, tension & great special effects this film has. Unfortunately, like always, the producers of this film, STEVEN LANE & ROBERT PRINGLE got greedy & couldn't leave well enough alone, several sequels followed this & all of them were terrible! not terrible in the, they were so bad, they were good territory, I mean just plain, flat out bad! (WARNING Avoid HOWLING NEW MOON RISING! altogether!) Horror fans should definitely check this out, but please, do yourself a favor & avoid the sequels, which began with HOWLING 2 YOU'RE SISTER IS A WEREWOLF **** stars "}{"Title":"A cool werewolf movie","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This isn't as scary as I thought it was going to be, but it was really cool. It had excellent transformation scenes, good acting and quite a bit of gore. If you love werewolf movies, you'll love the Howling! Has a pretty good nude scene courtesy of Elisabeth Brooks. 7/10. "},{"Title":"only good the first time","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is only interesting the first time you see it, but after that, it's incredibly boring with few good parts. It has some good special effects for that time period, but not a good deal of suspense. However, even though the film is pretty damn stupid, it's better than any of the other films in the series, especially The Howling New Moon Rising.I would only recommend this film if you want to see cool special effects and some cheesy stuff.Rating 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A bit slow at first but it picks up","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found the first twenty minutes slow and confusing, and, truthfully a little bit boring. It picks up after though, and becomes relatively scary. The special effects are surprisingly good for the year it was made and the acting is believable. I would consider The Howling one of the better werewolf movies around. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I realize this movie was made over thirty years ago and it is not a blood and guts for shock value type movie (which I like) buuuuuttt!!! This is one very slow developing story. First if you can become a werewolf by bite or scratch the world would be overrun with them. This one does have them as shape shifters and therefore not tied to the Hollywood stereotypical full moon only ability to change. I will admit that when they started the transformations it was done very well for the time period, no CGI there. Then you have reporter who shows up with (gasp) the magic silver bullets! There is goof here as he first jacks a bullet in to the chamber when he gets out of his car and then again when he is in the office. I do like when he shoots one of the werewolves that has the girl, they rest just stop and stare for a second. See what happens when you are supremely overconfident in your ability to be harmed? I do like the end where she changes on TV and then is shot and killed in full view of the audience. Of course few will believe!!!! "},{"Title":"* * * * out of 4","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" News journalist Karen White (Dee Wallace-Stone) is hot on the trail of serial killer Eddie Quist, (Robert Picardo) who has a fascination with her. When she finally tacks him to a porno theater in New York, the police interrupt the meeting and kill Eddie. Before he was killed, he was about to show Karen a terrible secret, which is all that she can remember about him. Her husband Bill (Christopher Stone) suggests she visit Dr. George Waggner, (Patrick Macnee) and he prescribes a relaxation stay at his special retreat called The Colony. Once there, she meets with the other people who are there for a seminar Dr. Waggner is conducted. At night, she begins hearing wild howling coming from the edges of the camp. During the day, she can never find where the strange noises come from. She begins to suspect that Marsha (Elizabeth Brooks) is trying to steal her husband. As she becomes more and more concerned that something is killing off the disappearing guests, she makes a call to her friend Terry Fischer, (Belinda Balaski) and she rushes out to help her. Eddie, back from the dead as a werewolf, kills Terry. When she disappears, her friend Chris (Dennis Dugan) begins racing up to the Colony to find what is going on, and he and Karen discover that the Colony is actually a place where he can use his patients to use them as werewolves, like himself.Ambitious, intelligently and expertly crafted horror film with a good cast and a stand out performance by perfectly casted Dee Wallace who is the heart of this film. Amazing special effects that haven't been topped to this day (not counting CGI), a fantastic & somewhat haunting score, lots of style, plenty of in-jokes, snappy editing, original & creative direction, a brilliant script, a fast pace, and one of the best finales in cinema history are just a few of the ingredients that make this tense & frightening horror film so successful.Rated R for Extreme Graphic Violence, Profanity, Sexual Situations and Nudity. "},{"Title":"Fun 80's scare film","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Karen White,a reporter for a local news station,has been receiving calls from an odd serial killer named Eddie.She goes to find him on an eye witness report for her station,Eddie attacks her,and is shot by the cops.She is very scared,her friend Dr.Geogre Waggner(An Obivious reference to The Wolf Man) tells her to visit his colony.The colony is a town for people he helps.She brings her husband(William Neil,but it is credited as R.William Neil,A Frankenstein meets the Wolf Man reference) with,they begin to know something odd is going on,when Karen hears Wolf howls every night,and slaughtered cows begin appearing.Bill faces a problem when a female colony member named Marsha Quist who tries to seduce him.The male colony members go on a Wolf hunt,Bill is bitten by a wolf.We all pretty much know what is going to happen.Bill morphs into a werewolf,and makes love to Marsha.Werewolves terrorize Karen,and we find out that Dr.Geogre Waggner,and his colony are not what they appear to be.The Howling is a fun movie,not as good as An American Werewolf in London,which was released shortly after The Howling,but it is also a good scare movie.Joe Dante known for his creature features,references previous werewolf films,a character is named after all most every previous werewolf director.One would wonder why he wouldn't name a character after Lon Chaney Jr,the most popular screen werewolf,but it is okay,because we are shown little pieces of The Wolf Man,and a picture of a young Lon is in a cabin.The make-up effects were pretty extreme for the 80's,a new viewer will probably laugh at them now,the film does show its age to today's audience,but it is great nostalgia.But I enjoy them more than any CGI werewolf,One of the high points of werewolf movies is the make-up effects.The Howling does play around with the Werewolf legend a little bit,but the basics are still there(Silver bullets) "},{"Title":"not even worth a rental","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't believe that people actually refer to this movie as classic horror.  The first half is completely boring and full of characters you hope will be torn to shreds by werewolves.  The second half is where the film somewhat redeems itself but doesn't do a very good job at it.  The werewolves were very awkward-looking.  Special effects were decent.  The ending is cliched, even for 1981.  Avoid. "},{"Title":"Good Werewolf flick","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Somehow the werewolf mythos has only been sporadically successful in the horror genre. Of the old horror films; Dracula and Frankenstein have somehow come off better then The Wolf Man franchise and the concept of werewolfs didn't surface again until 1981. The old Hammer films successfully revived both Dracula and Frankenstein and a lot of horror films have dealt with vampirism and badly conceived monsters in the sixties and seventies.However, 1981 was a good year for werewolfs. An American Werewolf in London probably has more following than The Howling, but I've always preferred this fright fest to the John Landis classic. One thing, though, that Joe Dante and John Landis have in common here; the both infuse their horror tales with big doses of humor. Here, Dante cleverly mixes old footage of Lon Chaney's Wolf Man and old cartoons (a frequent Dante thing) as a bleak forecast for what's about to happen.Another thing he does well here is mixing in a bit of social satire spoof (maybe he watched George Romero's Dead films) when he created a self help group in a recluse colony (which of course is where the werewolfs can enjoy their nature freely).But overall, The Howling is a pretty effective horror film. The werewolf transformations still look impressive and the final look of the creatures is still wonderfully creepy. The humor works well here and this is overall a fairly well written movie. It's got a knockout opening act and it maintains it's atmosphere fairly well throughout. The Colony is a beautiful setting for werewolf mayhem and some set pieces are terrific.Dante's direction is first rate and it's a shame he veered more into comical horrors (but I still love his Gremlins films). Performances are fine; Stone is always the same but Robert Picardo, Dick Miller and Kevin McCarthy are entertaining in their small roles.Good werewolf films are few and far between; but The Howling is a keeper and comes highly recommended for horror buffs. "},{"Title":"You won't be howling with laughter.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Watchable, but disappointing. I expected the film to be more tongue in cheek. The Howling is short of wit,invention, scares,suspense or compelling characterizations. Except for the special effects, gore, and nudity;this feels like a made-for-TV movie. Yes, it is a B movie, but that doesn't excuse the unimaginative direction and the generally uninspired acting. You don't really care about the characters and they are often frustratingly and unbelievably clueless. I'm not a fan of An American Werewolf in London, but it was more sophisticated, had better FXs, and appeared to be professionally made. In comparison, The Howling seems amateurish. Unfortunately, little about The Howling is really memorable; it pretty much evaporates like the phony mist featured in the film. The film may have been inspired by Messiah of Evil(73) aka Dead People. "},{"Title":"The Opposite of Good *spoilers*","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I am a fan of werewolves though I really don't know why anymore. The majority of werewolf movies are really not very good. While perusing the horror aisle at my local chain rental place, I saw a copy of Joe Dante's The Howling which I had heard was pretty decent. I heard wrong. The acting is awful, especially by our heroine Dee Wallace who has probably been in more horror films than anyone else from 1972-1990. There's not even a real werewolf until more than halfway through the flick. This movie was really just an excuse to showcase makeup effects. Apparently when fighting a werewolf it is impossible to fight them while they are metamorphosing. I laughed out loud when it takes Eddie, the rapist/murderer werewolf with horrible hair, 15 minutes to become a werewolf and as soon as he's done, Dee Wallace immediately throws acid on him. Was there no opportunity to throw it before or during the change? I also wish to thank the filmmakers for subjecting us to werewolf sex in the woods. That was just peachy. It was neat to have John Carradine and Kevin McCarthy in the same movie but did it have to be this one? At the end when Patrick Mcnee gets shot and says Thank God I nearly applauded because he now was free of this waste of time. Good job John Steed. Avoid this movie unless you want a good laugh. "}{"Title":"Over-rated werewolf film, with some good features but a significant lack of real terror.","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I expected The Howling to be one of the greatest horror films of all-time, owing to the fact that horror movie buffs are always raving about it and even the critics seemed to have good comments for it. However, I found it rather disappointing. Not a poor film - no, not at all - but certainly not a fabulous one as so many viewers seem to suggest. Perhaps you have to be hooked on the whole werewolf sub-genre in order to get a blast out of a film like this? There are certainly some compensations to be found, including enjoyable performances, clever in-jokes and spectacular werewolf transformation sequences, but The Howling just doesn't deliver the requisite scares and is too clich-ridden for my liking.TV newscaster Karen White (Dee Wallace) helps the police to lure in a serial killer, Eddie Quist (Robert Picardo). However, the scheme goes awry and Karen escapes a nasty demise by the skin of her teeth. Plagued by nightmares of her recent ordeal, she is advised by her psychiatrist Dr Waggner (Patrick Macnee) to go with her husband to a quiet retreat called The Colony for recuperation. The retreat seems quiet and relaxing enough, and is certainly a long way from the hustle and bustle of regular day-to-day life, but Karen still feels uneasy. Karen's husband tries to convince her that it's just a result of her fragile mental state, but gradually she begins to fit together the truth behind the retreat. It seems that all the residents are werewolves - among them the terrifying Eddie Quist himself - and Karen's only choice is to join them or be devoured!Director Joe Dante had already earned a small cult following after his comedy-horror Piranha a couple of years before, and with The Howling he gained more fans for his semi-camp take on the werewolf genre. However, for me it simply isn't in the same league as some of the other legendary horror films (The Exorcist, Don't Look Now and The Omen, for instance, are all a huge deal better) - heck, The Howling isn't EVEN among the best werewolf films ever made (The Wolf Man and An American Werewolf In London are two for starters that are far superior). In The Howling, the plot seems too predictable and Dee Wallace, in the key role, is inadequate. Real scares are missing - replaced by an unhealthy reliance on special effects. Admittedly I thought the special effects were good, especially for the era, but they alone can't make up for the telegraphed plot developments and the lack of a genuinely tense and unsettling atmosphere. The humorous use of character names that sound like old horror actors and directors (e.g Fred Francis, Jack Molina, Terry Fisher, etc.) is a nice touch, and Pino Donaggio provides an effective score, but on the whole The Howling only rates as an average entry. It has its army of fans but for the life of me I can't figure out why. "},{"Title":"An American Werewolf in a Crappy Movie","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This tedious and dull movie from the director of Small Soldiers stars the perpetually-depressed-looking Dee Wallace-Stone as a TV news anchor who is attacked by werewolf in a porno theater (not to be confused by the superior werewolf in a porno theater scene in An American Werewolf in London). Professor John Steed recommends she go up to his groovy commune for character actors to recover from her trauma, despite the fact that it means spending time with John Carradine. Nothing of any interest happened for most of the film's running time until a lengthy werewolf-transformation scene full of masturbatorial shots of sub-par make-up effects and an over-abundance of air-bladders (An American Werewolf in London features a much better transformation scene). Once the wererabbits show up things get a little better and the final scene is really good, but not so good as to excuse the lethargic and pointless first hour and twenty minutes of this stinkburger. It does have a lot of fun actors, most reduced to cameos, including Patrick Mcnee, Kevin McCarthy, Roger Corman, Forrest Ackerman, Dick Miller, Slim Pickens, Robert Picardo, and director Joe Dante himself. Also includes a scene where people's knowledge of werewolves is taken from Lon Chaney, jr's The Wolf Man (you know, like in An American Werewolf in London). "},{"Title":"unbelievably overrated","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" To avoid being pelted with a bushel of tomatoes, perhaps I should say right off the bat that I have never been a fan of werewolf movies, and therefore have always had a reflexive passivity towards them. The Howling piqued my interest mainly because of a glut of laudatory reviews from horror fans (and while I certainly fancy myself one, I will also say that the opinions of the masses often contradict my own), the direction of Joe Dante (who would fare much better with the Gremlins films, plus a segment of The Twilight Zone Movie), and its position on Bravo's 100 Scariest Movie Moments. And while I tried not to let these factors build up my hope beforehand, I couldn't help but be let down by The Howling--here's a movie without a single memorable character, a plodding storyline whose twists can be seen a mile away, and a tongue-in-cheek attitude that seldom yields laughs. Bland blonde Dee Wallace (Cujo; The Frighteners) plays a reporter menaced by a stalker; after two cops shoot the stalker down in a porno booth, Wallace is menaced by memories of the incident and sent to an isolated seaside rehab clinic where--you guessed it--the stalker is the head of a colony of lycanthropes. While the concept bubbles over with possibilities, The Howling feels lazy and indifferent, only coming to life during the drawn-out transformation scenes (excellent FX work by Rob Bottin). Veteran B-listers Dick Miller, John Carradine, and Slim Pickens fare well in small roles, and careful viewers will catch cameos by director Roger Corman and Mick Garris. Unfortunately, these tiny details are just that--tiny details. And they certainly don't obscure the fact that The Howling is one of the most overrated films in the annals of horror. "},{"Title":"Oh so inept...","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I know there must be some perfectly acceptable reasons why a film like `The Howling' was financed and produced and was considered at the time it came out a good film by at least some people. But these reasons hardly seem believable in retrospect. What I saw on the DVD edition that came out this week is a third-rate, somewhat pretentious (despite its low budget) student film, very mediocre acting, photography reminiscent of a never-ending soft-focus Miss Clairol hair conditioner commercial, an absence of spectator involvement, pace, story arc and character development (nothing happens until minute 42 of the 91 minutes), so-so special effects and irritatingly inept attempts to quote Hitchcock's editing and Bernard Herrmann's music. I could go on but the gist of the thing is these were the longest 91 minutes I have ever cringed through in front of my television, mostly because of the incredibly shallow characters and their lack of motivation and despite a timid attempt at soft porn, half way through the picture, which does not even succeed in sustaining interest for more than a minute. In other words, a film very much of its time, that doesn't age well, and a harbinger of many, many even worse gore for gore's sake pictures to come. Besides which, 1980 must have been the very worst year in a long time for ugly hairdos, unflattering clothes in dismal pastel shades, ugly interior decorating, ugly graphics, ugly design, ugly cars, slack-jawed acting and ugly, meaningless, inarticulate dialogue. The real question one must ask oneself is how could such an inept film have been made in the very same year and on the same subject as `An American Werewolf in London' which has everything that is lacking from `The Howling' &#150; mostly class, believability, suspense and atmosphere - and looks positively timeless by comparison. "},{"Title":"Will Probably Appeal To Werewolf Fans MoreThan Casual Viewers","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a highly regarded movie amongst werewolf fans but I've never been overly impressed by it . I was disappointed by THE HOWLING after seeing it on video in the early 1980s and the fact that I saw AN American WEREWOLF IN London shortly before seeing this does the movie little favour either I think the problem lies in John Sayles screenplay . Go getting journalist ( strange how all journalists in movies are noble crusaders . Real life is entirely different ) Karen White is attacked by a serial killer narrowly surviving and goes off to a rural commune to recuperate . The audience instantly know who these people really are and whats going to happen next . It's not so much telegraphing a screenplay , it's more like making a terribly predictable one . The only reason I wrote a spoiler warning to this review was to guard my back but this is probably unnecessary since it's revealed fairly early on that the people living there are indeed werewolves so there's little in the way of surprises THE HOWLING isn't a total loss because the make up and transformation effects are well done and Patrick Macnee gives a touching performance as Dr George Waggner and there's a really scary moment featuring Eddie the serial killer when he reveals himself to the hero . But despite all this the movie is doubly disappointing when you realise director Joe Dante and screenwriter John Sayles were responsible for PIRANAHA a couple of years before , one of the most entertaining tongue in cheek horror movies ever made . With THE HOWLING they fall back on naming characters after directors who have made werewolf movies and use post modernist dialogue pointing out that a corpse doesn't get up and walk out of a morgue which isn't all that clever or witty "},{"Title":"Intense & cheeky lycanthropy","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  THE HOWLING (1981) *** Dee Wallace, Christopher Stone, Patric Macnee, Dennis Dugan, Belinda Balaski, Kevin McCarthy, Slim Pickens, John Carradine, Dick Miller.  Tongue-in-cheek  humor (thanks to John Sayles' shrewd script) and state-of-the-art make-up effects, by wizard Rob Bottin (incidentally, prodigy of make-up wiz Rick Baker, whose stellar work was the first recipient of an Academy Award for Best Make-Up for `An American Werewolf in London', which was released the same year and tended to overshadow this film's appeal) blend perfectly in director Joe Dante's valentine to B-horror films with some B-horror vets (Carradine & Miller) set in a cult-like spa where recovering from a breakdown, newscaster Wallace, finds herself hip-deep in werewolves(!)  The aforementioned make-up is the real star here with some truly nasty `changing' sequences, that are still unsettling to watch.  Atmospherically perfect for a full moon viewing! "},{"Title":"A secret society exists, and is living among all of us. They are neither people nor animals, but something in-between.","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In the name of good television, newswoman Karen White (Dee Wallace) forms a bond with serial killer Eddie Quist (Robert Picardo). But when the meeting of the two arrives, it nearly proves fatal and damages Karen psychologically. Her psychologist recommends that she spend some time with her husband out at a remote convalescence resort, but once there it appears all is not as it seems.A truly great Werewolf movie, one of the best in fact, The Howling - in some eyes - has lost some of its bite over the years due to countless sequels and imitators, but its importance never dims. It often gets forgotten that The Howling changed the werewolf DNA for the better, it invented its own hairy beast as it were, refusing to copy past treasures from the olde classic era. But director Joe Dante shows the utmost respect to those who had previously eaten at the Lycan table, naming many of the characters in his film after directors of Werewolf movies. Nice.Another thing forgotten, due in no part to the release of An American Werewolf in London later in the year, is that Dante's movie often has tongue in bloody cheek. It is happy to be a parody of the sub-genre of horror it loves, while some of the comedy visuals are deliciously and knowingly dry. But this is a horror film after all, and it so delivers in spades the frights and nervous tremors, even sexing things up as well. These Werewolves are completely bestial, and in human form enjoy having their secret other halves. This is just a colony at the moment but domination of all humans is most definitely appealing and on the agenda.Horror fans will sometimes stumble across a debate about effects wizards Rob Bottin and Rick Baker, who is best? It really doesn't matter, both are geniuses of their craft. Bottin is in the chair here, while Baker served as a consultant before doing his thing on An American Werewolf in London. The transformation sequences are superb and still hold up today as brilliant craft work, no CGI cheap tactics here. No sir. The Howling is scary, sexy and funny, and knowing Dante - maybe even political. A joyous Werewolf film whose impact on horror should always be respected. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Howlingly Creepy.","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling (1981) Dir Joe Dante / Cast Dee Wallace, Christopher Stone, Patrick Macnee, Dennis Dugan, Belinda Balaski Intriguing werewolf thriller that echos the reality of nightmares that cannot pass. Dee Wallace plays TV news anchor Karen White who is used as a decoy to catch her own stalker. She cannot erase the memory of the ominous large character that cornered her in a porno booth before police gunned him down. To recover, she and her husband, played by Christopher Stone are ushered off to a retreat called the Colony. These people are a bit off, and it doesn't help that the howls of wolves carry through the night. After directing Piranha, Joe Dante throws in his custom sense of humour to the werewolf theme. Special effects are exquisite with menacing werewolves looming. Wallace is a vulnerable lead who senses that something is wrong and reveals it in a rousing climax where terror is met with disbelief. Stone tags along until a hunting trip leads to him getting attacked and eventually a werewolf transformation that is starts out with rough sex in the woods. Patrick Macnee plays the seemingly trusting doctor who sends them to this colony where he often works. Dennis Dugan and Belinda Balaski play co-workers to Stone who search for answers. This leads to a tense werewolf conclusion where these creatures hover around your car leaving the only solution in the hands of the camera. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"The Howling SeriesPart 1.","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Talking to a fellow IMDber during the IMDb Horror board 2014 Horror Challenge,I found out that he had not seen any of the films in The Howling series.With having found Howling VI The Freaks to be surprisingly good,I decided that it was time to witness the very first howl.The plotStalked by serial killer Eddie Quist,TV reporter Karen White sets up a trap with the police so that Quist will finally be caught. Arriving at the secret location,White is horrified to discover that Quist appears to have the face of a wolf.Hearing White's screams,the police rush in,and kill Quist.Traumatized by the strange sight of Quist,White starts to suffer from amnesia.Talking to her therapist Dr. George Waggner,White and her husband Bill Neill decide to spend 2 weeks in a countryside Colony,where Waggner sends his patients to get away from the hectic nature of their lives.Shortly after arriving at the Colony,White begins to hear strange barks at the moon.View on the filmClawing through their adaptation of Gary Brandner's novel,the screenplay by John Sayles & Terence H. Winkless (who would later direct eps of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers) takes its time in showing its full set of werewolf teeth,with the writers clearly using White's amnesia to give brief glimpses to the main event.Opening with a rather chilling serial killer sequence,the writers drift the movie from tense supernatural horror to eerie comedy,as White finds the residences of the Colony to have sharper teeth than the wolves at the door.Taking on the project after original choice Jack Conrad left over studio issues co-editor/(along with the future The Punisher director Mark Goldblatt) director Joe Dante and cinematographer John Hora give the movie a stylish cartoon appearance,as Rob Bottin's (who took over when Rick Baker decided to leave to do An American Werewolf in London instead) impressively snarling special effects go up against sly nods to past werewolf movies and a raging occult. Emphasised by a quirky score from Pino Donaggio,Dante attempt to mix horror chills with off-beat laughs leads to the film struggling to gain traction, thanks to every snap of teeth being blunted by a far too self-aware comedic turn,which leads to the title not howling at the moon as loud as it should. "},{"Title":"This movie isn't the most terrible film but it's not faithful to the book.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I admit I never saw this movie as a kid. I did see an American werewolf in London though. The special effects/werewolves in this are amazing. But the characters are too far away from what they were in the novel. In the book, everyone in Drago pretty well keep to themselves. In this they're all patients of Karen's psychiatrist. It isn't like that in the book. Also in the book the rapist of Karen isn't a werewolf and is arrested at the beginning. In this he is and worse yet they took the character Marsha from the book who seemed like she was related to gypsies/magic users and made her the rapist's brother. I hate that. They also changed Karen from a regular woman working in a hotel to her being a news reporter. The worse offense is getting rid of the character Inez Polk who Karen meets after she arrives in Drago that lives in the next town over. Instead she's replaced by 2 different characters who in the film Karen has known Karen for years. I will say Marsha was played by an unbelievably attractive actress but she pales in comparison to book Marsha who seemed a bit more intimidating. The thing that brings the rating down is Karen becoming a werewolf at the end. I will say this movie is entertaining but to me it pails in comparison to the book's character development and plot. "}{"Title":"Boring film...","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A news reporter who has a near escape from a serial killer's grasp is sent out to a rehabilitation camp to get herself back on her feet and stable after her traumatic encounter, however the other people at the camp are actually werewolves.This film starred Dee Wallace, Dennis Dugan & Patrick Macnee .The Howling is overrated, I was looking forward to watching this film and my wait and anticipation did not pay off. It's incredibly cheesy and not even cheesy in a funny way it's just awful, I don't recommend this film one bit it's so disappointing but if you are going to watch this film don't get your hopes up for it being good because it really isn't.**/***** Poor. "},{"Title":"The Howling is a 1980s slow-burning horror classic","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After news anchor Karen White (Dee Wallace) is attacked by a mysterious stranger (Robert Picardo), she starts having bizarre dreams and night terrors about the incident. Karen's doctor (Patrick Macnee) convinces her that she and husband Bill (Christopher Stone) should go through his treatment at The Colony. Strange things start to happen as soon as they arrive. Could Karen be cracking up or is there something sinister going on in the secluded resort?Like most movies from the 1970s and the 1980s, The Howling is a slow- burner. This isn't one of those horror films that starts with a bang, keeps a frantic pace, and goes out with a bang. It slowly establishes its plot and characters and gives the audience a little at a time until the climactic and shocking end. Things might move too slowly for today's impatient audience. I even found it tedious at times. The scenes get choppy throughout and it seems like director Joe Dante was rushing things at some points.Rob Bottin's special effects for The Howling are still just as effective today as they were in 1981. The werewolf transformation scenes are unnerving and quite detailed. One transformation takes what seems like three to four minutes. It's all about attention to detail when it comes to Bottin's practical effects and animatronics versus today's obsession with rapid fire CGI scenes of metamorphosis.The Howling does feature quite a bit of the usual unnecessary nudity found in 1980's horror films. However, this time around director Dante attempts to justify it by analyzing our need to let the beast within out, mostly through sexual and physical acts of violence. The doctor, played by the late Patrick Macnee, convincingly regurgitates a lot of primal scream mumbo jumbo throughout the movie.Although it's a bit slow and takes some time getting started, great special effects and interesting, albeit hokey, social commentary set The Howling apart from the normal monster movie fare. "},{"Title":"Joe Dante and Wolves...","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling is one of the best werewolf movies up their with American Werewolf in London. It has everything you would want from a good monster movie good scares, good laughs and some great effects.Dee Wallace stars in this werewolf film as a reporter who goes to a strange commune after experiencing a bizarre accident with a serial killer. And from that point it's a roller coaster ride of silly characters, wonderful practical effects and awkward werewolf sex. The Howling is a low budget film made for just one million dollars and looks stunning. The cinematography is absolutely gorgeous and makes a great use of both colour and shadows. Joe Dante's direction lends well to the material and shows what he can do with a simple monster movie premise and turns it into something memorable, funny and even heartbreaking.The performances are pretty good. Dee Wallace is great as the tragic heroine and the supporting cast include such goof ball character actors like John Carradine, Slim Pickens and Robert Pickardo. Not to mention the crazy sexy Elisabeth Brooks who does some kinky werewolf sex and so on. The Howling unlike the modern horror movies that feature werewolves and other supernatural creatures, feature great practical effects that are only rivaled by American Werewolf. However, I wouldn't call this film scary. It's hard to scare me or creep me out with something supernatural and especially if you have Slim Pickens in your movie. But horror movie doesn't need to be that scary to be good unlike comedies that need to be funny to any good.Werewolf movies doesn't get much better than Howling and American Werewolf in London. If you enjoy good monster movies that are made with love and care, you owe it to yourself to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Werewolf/Horror Flick!","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Dee Wallace, Patrick Macnee, Christopher Stone, Robert Picardo, Dennis Dugan, Belinda Balaski and Elizabeth Brooks star in Joe Dante's 1981 horror film based on the book. Wallace (E.T.) plays newswoman, Karen White who meets mysterious killer, Eddie Quist (Picardo) and is attacked by him. After Eddie is shot by police, Karen starts to feel different and tries to remember the events. Macnee (The Avengers) plays doctor, George Waggner who helps her and invites her to his country spa, the colony. She goes with her husband, Bill Neil (Stone) where they meet an odd group of people and discover werewolves are roaming about. Dugan (Happy Gilmore) plays Karen's reporter friend, Chris, Balaski (Gremlins) plays his girlfriend, Teri, the late, Brooks plays Marsha, a woman who seduces Bill plus the late, Stone was also Wallace's real-life husband. Dick Miller, Roger Corman, John Carradine, Noble Willingham, Slim Pickens and Kevin McCarthy also appear. This is a good 80's werewolf/horror flick that gives nods to recent films of the genre. The cast is good, Rob Bottin's make-up effects are terrific as usual and Pino Donaggio's score is creepy. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"A combination of great writing, incredible special effects, and a director with gleeful affection for the genre","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling was the first of a cycle of werewolf themed horror films in the early 1980's (The Beast Within (1982), The Company of Wolves (1984, and Silver Bullet (1985)). Two other specific sub-genre pieces were released in 1981 (An American Werewolf in London and Wolfen), and could be seen as simply a product of film economics and bankable trends. Whilst financial reasons are fundamental to film production, innovations in other fields also contribute to this sudden vogue for lycanthropic themes. Prosthetic special effects had been transformed, particularly in horror cinema, by such films as Jaws (1975) and Alien (1979) (or even the inventive puppetry work of Jim Henson's creature workshop), which opened the door for a new generation who would elevate the craft of monster effects, bringing a more realistic, and fantastical vision to the screen. Even into the 1970's, the werewolf transformation was still created in the same way than 1941's iconic The Wolf Man, with a series of dissolves, adding fur and fangs progressively through the shots. The modern werewolf movie was to begin that horror trend to show everything. Filmmakers now had the ability (with the incredible skills of the likes of Rick Baker, Rob Bottin and Stan Winston) to show the transformation from man to monster, in visceral detail.Rick Baker was originally drafted to provide the special effects for The Howling, (he had to leave due to a commitment he made with John Landis for An American Werewolf in London), and was replaced with Rob Bottin, who did an incredible job. Aside from the effective transformations in the film, director Joe Dante's and screenwriter John Sayles (who previously collaborated on Piranha (1978), infuse the story with their combined knowledge of horror cinema, along with some humour. Dante represents that first generation of film geeks. His knowledge of cinema is encyclopaedic and his knowledge through referencing is displayed explicitly on the screen. Many of the characters are named after directors who had historically filmed werewolf movies (Freddie Francis, George Wagner, Terrance Fisher). The characters are also aware - within the film - of the conventions of werewolf mythology, which has been learnt from being within an increasingly film literate culture, perhaps an early use of post-modernist pop-cultural reflexivity. Coming out of a trend for more gritty, realistic horror (a cycle begun with Hitchcock's Psycho (1960)), and during the horror saturation of the slasher sub-genre, The Howling begins in the underbelly of society, Dee Wallace plays a television news reporter (Karen White) who has been conversing with a serial killer. She meets with him in the seedy back room of a porn shop. The opening feels more like a dirty slasher like Maniac (1980), with it's pseudo-Scorsese mean streets, that a monster movie, an opening that was utilised when advertised - the posters and trailers rarely alluded to the beastly aspect of the story. After the trauma Wallace endures from her meeting with Eddie (Robert Picardo - the serial killer), she is advised by her doctor Wagner (Patrick Macnee), to spend some time at a rehabilitation resort that he runs. Writer Sayles re-wrote the original script that had been adapted from a novel by Gary Brandner, and change it significantly, and brought in the same satirical charm that was in the Piranha (1978) script. Sayles came up with the idea of the resort, the kind of self help group that was prevalent in the 1970's.After the failure of the hippie revolution at the end of the 1960's, and the people's disillusionment of our institutions and governments resulting from incidents such as the Kennedy assassinations and Watergate, many of the lost generation (generation x) were looking for something spiritual, something other than reality. Many groups of New Age spiritualist and pop-psychologists were formed, in sometimes sinister forms. This kind of congregation would quite often be corrupt, and fuelled with sexual oppression. And what the victimised Karen finds at the spiritually enhancing resort is an archaic hive for the neurotic species of wolf. In this coven, the wolves are outsiders, on the fringes of society, and is a diminishing group who's relevance in the modern world is narrowing - they are struggling to function in this age. No doubt a comment also on the relevance of this Universal Monsters icon, having lost its ability to scare some time in the 1940's.A combination for great writing, incredibly effective special effects, and a director with gleeful affection for the genre, The Howling is a very well constructed horror film. It moves from the grindhouse realism of it's opening to the revelations of the creatures with consideration, creating a natural narrative structure. It is the equivalent of Robert Rodriguez' From Dusk Till Dawn (1996), which suddenly changed the genre from crime to vampiric horror. Despite the incredibly low budget, produced and distributed by AIP (America International Pictures), the stylish cinematography and editing, the film still holds up today, and is far superior than many of the werewolf films being made today (The Wolfman (2010) or Red Riding Hood (2011) for example). It's just a shame about all the sequels - six in total, which inevitably lose much of the sharp, satirical script and a collection of great character actors (including Kevin McCarthy, Slim Pickens, John Carradine). And what the hell; it's a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly effective low-rent lycanthropy....","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...and despite its failings, still one of my all-time favorite werewolf movies, Joe Piranha Dante's direction and John ditto Sayles' script are a hairy blend of E.C. Comics and a certain post-modern sensibility; this time the wily shape-shifters congregate at a rustic seaside retreat run by a new-agey shrink (Patrick The Avengers Macnee) who brings our heroine (Dee The Hills Have Eyes Wallace) there to ostensibly deal with the PTSD (as we millennials now call it) she's been suffering after an attack by one of the colony's more recalcitrant members (Robert This was my foot in the door! Picardo). Naturally the good doctor has an unorthodox sort of therapy in mind, and ultimately things don't quite work out for our lead, or her hubby (Christopher in real life, too! Stone), or a co-worker (Belinda I'm yet another Dante regular! Balaski), and ultimately the not-so-good doctor and most of his lupine cohort. The film is chock full of in-jokes & genre character actors, seasoned nicely with magnificent fx work from Rob where am I now? Bottin, and topped off with a requisite nubile femme fatale. It was a complete breath of fresh blood for a cinematic monster staple, paving the way another genre favorite, John Landis' An American Werewolf in London. Both films have ardent fans to this day, and truly one is hard-pressed to say which is the more successful in accomplishing what it sets out to do. I tend to favor the more polished Landis film, but The Howling remains a quirky pleasure. It's hard to argue with a genre classic that includes the likes of Dick Bucket of Blood Miller, Slim Dr. Strangelove Pickens, Kevin Invasion of the Body Snatchers McCarthy, Kenneth The Thing From Another World Tobey, and John count 'em! Carradine. Highly recommended.Addendum and where, oh, where *is* Rob Bottin now that we really need him? "},{"Title":"... of plain or of pleasure? (dvd)","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As my 400th review, this movie belongs to the closet of my childhood fears. I first watched it at 13 years old and as today, I was as attracted as repulsed. The Vampirella bimbo has a really dark magnetism and the transformation was so realistic that as a child, I put my hands over my eyes and followed the scene with my ears! In other words, I think that no other horror movie has mixed so much this genre with erotica.But the movie isn't only that and it's evident that there is a book behind because there are a lot of innovative ideas (as werewolves trying to adapt to modern life, leaving hunting to turn into almost farmers). Another theme is the power of television as it's the feeling of all filmmakers of Spielberg generation.The cast made of familiar faces with unknown names is good and Dante is truly a great visual storyteller he has a dynamic style while pacing slowly his story (as with his Gremlins).Finally, as the production finds great outdoors location as well, this cheap movie is truly a good one and gives a new vision to an old myth. "},{"Title":"You will howl with laughter","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" laugh out loud bad... i was howling all the way through this with laughter. After rewatching American werewolf in London recently, i was spurned on to try and find other monster horror classics from around the same period.. but i guess the bad movie business was thriving then as it is now..A simple exampleWhen a werebunny traps a woman in the office.. you don't know if he's whispering something in her ear or even biting her! The scene lasts an excruciating couple of minutes when it should have lasted 20 seconds.. its like the script writer didn't know what to do so there's just a lot of improv screaming, throwing objects around the room and generally them staring at each other.. There will be a lot of times when your screaming at the TV, going omfg, whats it doing?, get out of there!, wtf? and so on.. mostly mixed between bouts of spontanious laughter.terrible acting, terrible effects, terrible plot... maybe they could have called it The Terrible.I would liken this movie to the American Werewolf in Londons stool sample. "},{"Title":"Both a great tribute to werewolf films and a great one itself","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Apart from the Universal werewolf films, the hairy monsters didn't make many appearances in mainstream American films for quite sometime. They would occasionally appear in films and TV, but were often being played for laughs such as in 'The Munsters.' It was time for them to make a big comeback and terrify is again. With the Horror boom of the 1980s it was just a matter of time before someone took a shot at it. By then audiences were more sophisticated and so filmmakers really had a great challenge on their hands. 'The Howling' not only pays tribute to classic werewolf lore, but successfully updates and pokes fun at it as well.Pros Excellent work by the ensemble cast. Suspenseful story. Strong directing job by Dante, who shows he had grown as a filmmaker here. Beautiful, at times eerie score. Mind blowing make-up and special effects that have held up. Nice cinematography. Slow, but steady pace. Frightening attack scenes. Good sense of humor.Cons Takes quite a while to get to the point. Some ideas and characters could have used more fleshing out. Couple of effects that haven't aged well at all.Final thoughts Time has been really kind to this classic. It was one of three werewolf films released in 1981, but even if you like one of the other two better you have to admit this is still good stuff. Not even the many sequels have tarnished it. Dracula and Frankenstein had gotten enough of the spotlight, so it was time for a werewolf comeback and I don't think we could have asked for better.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Howl Some More","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I actually had two new surprises, from a 1981 film, as I revisited what I always labeled as my Favorite Werewolf Movie of All Time, The Howling it's not, in fact, my favorite, and (ARE YOU KIDDING ME?) The Doctor (Robert The Doctor Picardo on Star Trek Voyager) is the sex-crazed werewolf, Eddie, that sets the whole movie into motion?OK, that reveals that I am a die-hard Voyager fan, but it also states how this movie keeps impressing me after all these years.A lot of avid werewolf fans love An American Werewolf in London when I barely liked that feature. Picture it I was a kid, I had little patience. Okay, I still have very little of that quality but I needed to see the werewolf and soon or I would be busting at the seams. And American simply takes too long &#x96; especially when the man becomes a&#x85;DOG.So, I always loved and was always faithful to (the original and you better stay, STAY far away from the sequels) The Howling because it gets me what I wanted the most the anti-dog (stand-up) werewolf and quicker.Unfortunately, I realized something with this viewing This movie ALSO takes a bit to get to the goods. There's an enormous set up that I had (as an adult now) little patience for, as well. The problem is the version I watched over&#x85;and over&#x85;as a kid, was the edited TV version.When I watched this now, it was the DVD, with nothing edited out and it took more than half the relatively short horror flick to produce the werewolf. Now, that said, when it did appear, it was Fantastic. So much for the CGI of today that literally mocks what a real (meaning, what I consider to be a MAN-WOLF, a standing man who turned into a wolf) werewolf looks like.What we have here is News Anchor, Karen (Wallace &#x96; later known as Wallace-Stone) is investigating brutal attacks and agrees to meet Eddie who readily attacks her while changing into a werewolf. She doesn't fully realize this as a rookie cop shoots and supposedly kills him.Shaken and stirred Karen agrees to a mountainside retreat under the guidance of Dr. George Waggner (Macnee) with her husband. Unfortunately, she's unwilling to partake in sex, and Marsha (Brooks) is. And unfortunately for Karen, her husband is willing to partake in sex&#x85;with Marsha&#x85;and a quick bite, transforming him into a werewolf.Scared, Karen calls her news station friend, Terry (Balaski) up who, along with her own husband, has been researching the beast within. Once it's realized this group of spiritual healers at the retreat aren't up to actual healing, it's time for heroism, escape and the story of the century.The reason I realized this is not my favorite werewolf movie is because, frankly, Jack Nicholson's Wolf, is actually an overall better made film. While The Howling gave me everything I absolutely love about the myth of the wolf-man, i.e. a man that resembles a wolf, albeit a 6-foot-tall one, Wolf had better acting, story, dialogue, etc.That said, I will always cherish this film. It had comedy and a lot of tongue-in-cheek references (please tell me you noticed the dozens to other films.) And when the movie finally got going, half-way through, it was fierce. In fact, the mid-section of horror/attacks is some of my favorite werewolf attack-scenes in any movie to date, let alone any When Animal Attacks film. "}{"Title":"One of the best werewolf movies of the decade","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Some of the best effects to date of werewolf movies, AN American WEREWOLF IN London was first, but THE HOWLING got it totally right, not running around on all fours, but standing straight like a monster man should walk. Poor John Carradine, his arthritis is really bad in this one. There are some minor character issues and without giving it away the ending was less then perfect. But I did enjoy the dialog and the amazing creature and effects. Now wonder it spawned six sequels, some great and some just so-so. But this is the mack daddy, the one that started it all. The first movie to say HEY! Werewolves are just guys who needs a shave. So to you HOWLING, I give an impressive 8 STARS. "},{"Title":"A howlin' good time","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I was in second and third grade, I was OBSESSED with werewolves. I loved The Wolf Man when I watched it, and when I finally saw An American Werewolf in London in fourth grade, it became one of my favorite films. There was only one werewolf movie I'd never seen The Howling.I could have watched it, mind you. But I put it off. Because although I am fascinated with the werewolf legend, it just so happens that the animal I fear the most ... is wolves. I thought The Howling looked extremely scary, so I put off watching - until this Halloween, when I received it for a gift. So, at last, I sat down and watched the last major werewolf film I needed to see.The film stars Dee Wallace as a popular Los Angeles newswoman who is involved in a near-fatal incident with a serial killer (Robert Picardo). A respected psychiatrist (Robert Macnee) sends her to a rehabilitation center called The Colony, located in the Californian forest. Wallace believes there's something weird about the place as soon as she arrives - but once she begins to hear the howling, she believes there may be something deadly lurking in the forest ...The only Joe Dante films I'd seen before watching this were Gremlins and Gremlins 2 The New Batch, both of which I enjoyed very much. Dante directs this film with an obvious love of the genre and of the classic horror films. It really enhances the movie. The cast is good, but the only two performances which really stuck out to me were that of Patrick Macnee and particularly John Carradine. I thought it would've been nice to see Carradine's part expanded. I also thought it was good to see Dick Miller, though I couldn't place what else I'd seen him in at first.I thought that half of the time, Pino Donaggio's soundtrack was good, and the other half of the time I thought they made the film seem hokey. I loved the film's ending tune, though.The highlight of the film is indisputably the spectacular special effects by Rob Bottin. The scene where Robert Picardo transforms into a werewolf has been rivaled only by the transformation in An American Werewolf in London, and The Howling's transformation may be even better. The effects really made the film for me.The film's script was nothing really original, and the movie was at times quite clichd. But that's part of the fun of it. All in all, The Howling was not as scary as I expected it to be, but I enjoyed it very much and would gladly watch it again, if only for the special effects. Werewolf aficionados and horror movie lovers will have a howlin' good time. "},{"Title":"One of the two-best","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" undoubtedly there's been two greatest werewolf movies of motion picture history AAWIL and TH.It's as pointless to argue which one is best as to argue manual or automatic transmission is best in cars.Both have great SFX taking into consideration they were made in early 80s which latest werewolf movies like An American werewolf in Paris or Underworld didn't have and remained as bad ones(bad actually does not describe the real nature of films. maybe I should use dreadful).They're both scary as well as funny. Howling is as funny as AAWIL but latter has a reputation of being a comedy-horror.One funny trivia TH specifically emphasize that shapeshifting occurs deliberately anytime, day or night regardless of the moon and silver bullets are a must(which is indeed a Hollywood bolony) to kill the beast whereas AAWIL focus on moon's effect and cycle to turn a man into a howling killing-machine and using silver bullets is nothing but a joke. "},{"Title":"Silver Bullets My Ass! (spoilers)","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'The Howling' is one of my favorite werewolf movies (ranking somewhere just under 'Brotherhood of the Wolf' which lends to both a great story more than special effects--most were painfully noticeable CGI). Travel back to the days of scream queens and animatronics and you have what I believe to be one of the best werewolf movies ever (or at least of the 1980s titles).Dee Wallace plays Karen Stone, a TV news anchor who was reporting on a mysterious serial killer named Eddie Quist (played by Dante film regular, Robert Picardo). She becomes traumatized by something she witnesses during a freaky visit with the elusive Quist. Unable to shake the nightmares, she takes a break from work and heads upstate to a retreat in the mountains with her husband Bill (played by Dee Wallace's then husband, the late Christopher Stone). But, the retreat is no peaceful setting and most of the residents are quite eerie. Especially cabin neighbor Marsha (Elizabeth Brooks) and her creepy cannibal brother, T.C. (Don McLeod). Meanwhile, back at the ranch, Karen's coworkers, Chris (Dennis Dugan) and Terry (Belinda Balaski) are on their own scavenger hunt, investigating deeper into the bizarre and creepy persona of Eddie Quist, leading to a discovery of why The Colony residents are so suspicious. In the age of animatronics and latex handywork, Rick Baker and his special effects team (yes, other people can do movie magic besides the famous Stan Winston studio) provide the awesome visual wizardry that make this (and many horror movies of the 1980s) so fantastic. We see a lot of human-to-werewolf transformations (and some obviously animated human-to-werewolf transformation sequences), which is always a good quality for modern horror movies. With Joe Dante directing, expect to see a lot of Dante cast regulars, including Robert Picardo as Eddie Quist and big screen horror favorite, Dick Miller (who is nearly always cast by Dante and is paired up with Picardo again in the Dante horror comedy, The 'burbs, as the garbagemen). The cast has some pretty notable people for it's day (besides Dee Wallace who is well known in the genre). While American Werewolf in London, released the same year, is most known for it's terrific special effects sequences, it is not the best werewolf movie of the 80s simply because the story isn't all that entertaining (and often becomes too long) because it's too simple (two hikers get lost in England, one killed by a werewolf, and the dead friend floats around in purgatory trying to warn his friend that he, too, is now a werewolf since he was bitten by the same creature). That's what distinguishes the Howling, one of the major werewolf productions of the 80s, from American Werewolf in London. The fact that The Howling offers a more entertaining story and characters (and the wacky soundtrack) that will really leave you with a disturbing feeling (what is it about these weirdos at The Colony and what does it all have to do with Eddie Quist). This is quite a different werewolf tale as well, though it has elements of the old 50s horror movies (like old, wise locals warning people newcomers to beware of something evil about the town). But, for the most part, it is an original, entertaining story, with super special effects.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Werewolf films of all time","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What can be said about Dante's masterpiece of horror how about... It kicks A$$ The FX rival AWILS the suspense and atmosphere of terror rivals Halloween. The performances are nothing special but they suit the movie well and Dee Wallace does a fine job with the posttraumatic stress thing. An FX highlight is when Quist transforms this transformation Rivals the one featured in AWIL even though I like the AWIL one better. The atmosphere is built with creepy woods eerie fog strange behavior from the neighbors and of course THE HOWLING. Howling is always scary imagine being in a small isolated flimsy cabin with no means of defending your self and then you hear that its perfect for a horror movie. The scene where the girl is in the cabin and the unseen monster chases her and she cut its hand off was geniuses.So in conclusion watch this movie if you want to watch a really, really scary movie because that's what it is "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is more a clever black comedy than an outright horror film as every conceivable werewolf gimmick is presented and many familiar faces from the horror world appear in cameos, some small, some not so small.  Dee Wallace plays a newscaster who is attacked by a perverted serial killer in a porno parlor one night.  However, she can't remember everything that happened; only frightening fragments of memory remain, popping up at inopportune moments and interfering with her life.  A kindly doctor recommends a retreat, and sends her to a peaceful colony in the country where she can relax and get her life back together.  Too bad the colony is filled with werewolves.The special effects look a little dated now, but they're still impressive, and icky. Elisabeth Brooks is great in her role as a nymphomaniac werewolf who seduces Wallace's total jerk of a husband and bringing us one of the first transformation-during-sex scenes.  It's an interesting film about conformity and rebellion and our violent culture which could reasonably produce (and just as easily conceal) a predator.  But it's also a pretty good werewolf movie, plain and simple.  There's mysterious howling sounds deep in the misty woods under a full moon, there's scary chases and big, ugly monsters terrorizing girls.  In short, it has everything a werewolf movie requires.  Fans of the genre should catch it at least once.   "},{"Title":"Dante's tribute to the werewolf movie - A worthy companion to American Werewolf in London (spoilers)","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Joe Dante, most famous for the creature feature Gremlins, is obviously a big-time werewolf fan. The Howling is littered with references to werewolf movies and werewolf movie actors (Lon Chaney Jr., anyone?), in addition to being a good werewolf movie in its own right.The makeup effects displayed here are roughly equal to Rick Baker's famous work on American Werewolf in London (Baker was a special effects makeup consultant on The Howling). We get another real-time transformation from man to beast, and it looks pretty good, even by today's standards.The story is a bit dodgy, and slightly off-pace with too many lingering shots of the woods outside the Colony. The acting is mostly crisp, with standout performances by Karen White and a young Robert Picardo (yes, THAT Robert Picardo of Star Trek Voyager fame). Bright Boy himself, Dennis Dugan, isn't bad either.When put to a direct comparison, I'd say American Werewolf edges out The Howling by a tad. But it's comparing apples to oranges, of course.7/10 "},{"Title":"One Howl of an Ending!!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A great cast that includes Dee Wallace Stone, John Carridine, Patrick Macnee, Star Trek Voyager's Robert Picardo and yess Noble Willingham from Walker Texas Ranger.  Now if that cast doesn't wet your appetite, nothing will.In the beginning The Howling is rather slow moving.  It's the last thirty minutes that you want to see (including a great ending).Not a perfect movie by any means, but a good way to blow 90 minutes.Bottom Line  6/10! "},{"Title":"A Howling Of A Movie","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A werewolf film that has special effects, action, suspense, good acting and comedy. Patrick Macnee is a doctor that has a retreat unbeknown to anyone is that it is for werewolves. Dr Waggner suggests that reporter Karen White Dee Wallace and her husband Bill need a time-out in the retreat. It seems that a killer is obsessed with her. This killer is shot and killed apparently but his body disappears. Denis Dugan is Karen's friend Chris and fellow worker at the studio and plays detective into the mystery of the killer and Karen. One very clever moment happens as Chris is watching an old movie and on the phone he is told that Karen's husband has been bitten by a wolf, Chris turns his head to the words of an old gypsy telling Lon Chaney Jr alias Larry Talbot that any man bitten by a werewolf will become a werewolf. The howling scenes of the killer changing into a werewolf is truly an eye-catcher. Chris didn't tell the killer that his gun is loaded with silver bullets provided by Dick Miller, much to the displeasure of the werewolf. Supporting actors are wonderful also Slim Pickens and John Carradine as werewolves and Kevin McCarthy as TV director. If you like the werewolf then you will howl with joy with this one, watch it! "},{"Title":"This is the most awesome werewolf movie ever made!!!!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Thank you Joe Dante for scaring the s@#%! out of me as a kid and watching this film for the umpteenth time 20 years later, I have to say it still gives me the willies as the scenes where the people are transforming into werewolves has to be the best make-up and special effects work the horror genre has ever seen,as this film equals even An American Werewolf In London in its make-up and special effects and that movie won an Academy Award. Too me this one is better as it's more intense and much much scarier! Dee Wallace  is a classic horror scream queen as she's good in other types of movies but excels when she does horror films. Robert Picardo as the most evil werewolf character of all time Eddie Quist. Veteran horror film actor John Carradine makes one of his final film apperances as an aging old-timer who wants to go back to the days of eating humans rather than cattle. And for anyone who gives this film a bad reveiw on this IMDB reveiwboard should be ashamed to call themselves true horror fans as this is the Grandaddy of all Werewolf movies as even the old time black-n-white films don't acheive the scare factor this one will provide. If you looking for more modern werewolf films that aren't as good but are still not bad watch Dog Soldiers and Brotherhood of the Wolf. Forget duds like Wolf. And never ever watch any of the sequels in the Howling franchise as you'll find yourself trying to gnaw off your own arm to turn off your VCR or remote control on your TV fast enough. ***** out of *****   "}{"Title":"Im glad I took a chance on this one","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have been kind of leary of this movie, because most of the older horror flicks that were supposed to be good(Halloween), were not entertaining nor scary, but this one is a rare gem, it manages to be intellegent, entertaining and scary.  This was Joe Dante's first good movie, he later went on to do Gremlins and Innerspace.  Dee Wallace gives a decent performance, shes very cute with longer hair. Director Dennis Dugan had a supporting role as Christopher.  This is definately one of the better werewolf movies, right up there with Wolf, maybe even a little better. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Three stars out of four.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Reporter that was attacked by a crazed fan is sent off to a small village to get away from it all by her psychologist, but the place also happens to be populated with a hungry pack of werewolves. Especially memorable for it's state of the art effects, this colorfully directed chiller has some in joke humor thrown in for horror buffs and features an above average cast. As good as films of it's kind get. "},{"Title":"The best Werewolf movie ever","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The werewolves in The Howling are not like those in other werewolf films. Instead of being like giant real wolves, they are like the wolf from Little Red Riding Hood and the one in The Three Little Pigs. And who wasn't scared of them as a kid? Basically this is a great film, a monster movie with genuinely scary monsters, and a fairy tale atmosphere (people being chased through the woods by wolves). Very unique in a genre full of repitition. It's obviously not as good as The Silence Of The Lambs, but it's certainly up there with horror classics like Jaws, Scream and Predator.  "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the best werewolf movies ever. Excellent startling transformation scenes, and the actors act like it REALLY hurts. Very fine acting all around. Dee Wallace is a bit shrill at times, but then, she's not having the best of weekends. All the characters are named after great horror movie makers; see if you can pick them all out!  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a masterpiece! Joe Dante has succeeded in creating an unforgettable werewolf movie. Although this movie is old, it hasn't lost its freshness. If you've seen The Howling and want to see other similar movies, try watching An American Werewolf in London. It's another great werewolf movie. "},{"Title":"A great werewolf film.","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Howling is a great werewolf film. Joe Dante has directed the one of the best modern werewolf films. The screenplay is pretty strong, but I think you just have to tell Joe Dante what kind of picture you want and he'll make it. Great score by Pino Donggio and solid cinematography from John Hora. Rob Bottin's special effects and werewolf make-up's are outstanding. They hold up well today and the transformation scene, in my opinion, is better than the American Werewolf In London transformation scene. Great movie, a horror classic. "},{"Title":"Colorful, inventive horror gem","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This terrific horror-comedy holds up extremely well today, far better than almost every other genre attempt of the 1980s.  Possibly Joe Dante's most entertaining film (although many would probably argue that Matinee is the superior achievement), The Howling plays fair to both film lovers (who will appreciate John Sayles' movie reference laden screenplay,  Dante's stylish direction and John Hora's colorful, Bava-esque cinematography) and horror fans (who, while ignoring the film's overall quality and parodistic elements, will get off on the still excellent make-up effects and gore scenes).  A great cast humanizes Sayle's jokey script, with Dee Wallace and Dennis Dugan actually managing to add some emotional power to what should have been an utterly tasteless finale.  And its amazing what technical wonders Dante and his talented crew were able to accomplish on such limited resources (the film was made for well under $2 million, approximately 1/5 of the budget for John Landis' inferior, disappointingly conventional An American Werewolf in London, released at approximately the same time). The Howling is so much more than merely the best werewolf movie since the 1940s; it's a witty, inventive, deeply satisfying entertainment, The Bride of Frankenstein of the 1980s.  (NOTE  The poorly made, in name only sequels to The Howling are aimed squarely at pure gore/horror fans, who have always loudly professed confusion regarding the satire and humor of Dante's original; for them, Howlings 2 - 7 are clearly better than the first installment of the series.) "},{"Title":"Werewolf Terror","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling was a surprisingly good horror film which combined humor with some decidedly gruesome violence. Rob Bottins transformation make up was pretty outstanding, not to mention downright scary. A lot of people argue about which werewolf film was better; either The Howling or An American Werewolf in London, both of which were released in 1981, about 5 months apart from each other. Although American Werewolf was a landmark (receiving the award for best make up, the academys newest category), the impact of being first cannot be denied. This was indeed, despite the humor elements, a very scary movie that still holds up quite well even today. Pino Donaggios music score is richly symphonic and terrifying. Its a real shame it is not available on CD. Unfortunately, after Howling and Werewolf there havent been anymore decent werewolf movies, but if you want to check out a memorable horror movie, go out and rent The Howling. "},{"Title":"Joe Dante got it right with Gremlins. This one? Not so much.","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Big fan of Gremlins, and always heard tell of how good The Howling was. Problem was I'd never been able to get more than 30 mins into it without something annoying me so badly I had to rage quit. Well, I finally got through it. Right to the end and yeah, it isn't for me. Not sure what the budget was on this thing, but man oh man does it look bad. Its shot with soft lighting, and not enough lighting, and most of the time looks like Vaseline was on the lens. I think its a technique to mask the low budget special effects. Also, the famous transformation scene which I finally got to goes on for like two minutes too long and isn't that interesting. I prefer the Rat in From Dusk Till Dawn, at least he doesn't mess around. Having recently watched E.T. again I think I've identified my major problem with The Howling. Poor Dee Wallace, who also plays E.T.'s mother, is on screen most of the time, and she's just not a good actress. She's more convincing here than in E.T. but really she just doesn't sell any of it. And that really pulls a picture down when your protagonist, your anchor, just doesn't convince or draw you in. So, yeah. While probably landmark in 1983, The Howling is one I've always struggled to get through, tried to force myself to like, but at the end of the day its a movie its not homework, you don't have to like it. If I had to pinpoint the other main thing that frustrated me about The Howling it would be that the actual werewolves don't do get to do much. They spend so long transforming its like that's all they're good for. Its pretty funny when you think about it. Again, a question of what was possible with the special effects, but earlier films did more. Nosferatu (1922) and Dracula (1931) are incredible to this day. The Howling (1983) is not. Its funny, maybe the genre just isn't for me. I can't think of a single werewolf movie I've liked except the remake to American Werewolf, and that one probably just hit me because I saw it at the right age, in the cinema. Maybe there's a time for werewolves, and you only get one chance. Its like falling in love. "},{"Title":"Hairy scare 'em...","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was convinced upon seeing this one that Joe Dante was one of the New Wave of Horrormeisters; it had just about everything one could ask for from a fright film a decent storyline, credible performances all around, solid direction- and what was then the single greatest transformation scene I'd ever seen. Sure, some of the humor and in-jokes were a little off-putting, but the Drama more than made up for it. And that transformation... It actually looked- and FELT!- like bones and tendons were rearranging themselves, that skin was being stretched to its limit(s). Proof enough Eddie Quist was screaming his a-- off... And bodily fluids were dripping from every orifice. It was such a shocking and spectacular scene that I returned to that selfsame theater a week later to see it again, timing my arrival to coincide with the transformation scene so that I could see it again before watching the movie in its entirety one more time. It was a great time to be a Horror Movie fan. "}{"Title":"the colony of werewolves","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Interesting movie horror film , made by talented Joe Dante , the plot explores the wild wit of man , establishing logical that you can not tame the wild nature of man in this film is the characters with intelligence and maturity, there are no contradictions in the development of the plot , we can know some predators characters unfold in a false colony, whose purpose is to hide the werewolves .Eddie Quist is a murderer of women, this is the most cruel wretch werewolf, this sexual criminal attempt rape journalist Karen White, one of the scariest moments is when two people agree on the colony, Karen 's husband feels frustrated by not having sex with her husband is easily seduced by Marsha, where man awakens their lower sexual instincts ; theme werewolves functions as a metaphor for the struggle against sexual repression, and reveals itself as a weapon to confront a hypocritical and deceitful society.The colony would represent a lie , self-help centers is shown as a useless place for people traumatized ; Werewolves are needed each other to survive and remain predators, only silver bullets can eliminate the threat , the atmosphere in this film is impeccable , Dee Wallace gives us a very good performance, the special effects are perfect, the cinematography of John Hora is excellent; makeup effects are memorable, this horror film is great. "},{"Title":"It goes on a bit","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Despite numerous in-jokes, characters named after horror directors, a cameo by Roger Corman and appearances from Joe Dante favourites Kevin McCarthy, Dick Miller and Robert Picardo, this werewolf movie is almost entirely lacking in enjoyment. It's a dreary and boring movie composed of leaden silences punctuated by droning dialogue recited by flat characters at a droning pace.Dee Wallace is a TV newswoman who heads to a retreat run by doctor Patrick Macnee but finds that her holiday isn't as peaceful as she expected when the place is overrun by werewolves. Although Dante has some fun contrasting what the characters are watching on TV with the events of the movie, the disappointingly droopy plot gets less interesting the more it goes on and by the end, when everyone's bearing their fangs and sprouting rubbery wolf faces, it all looks pretty stupid. "},{"Title":"I do hope the book is better","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've begun watching The Howling with high expectations, as someone described it as one of the 2 best Werewolf movies ever made. Unfortunately, he just might be right, but that is not saying much. Probably the spike in quality is caused by the movie being a book adaptation and I do hope the book was a lot better.Now, don't imagine the movie is very bad. For an 1981 movie with werewolves, indeed it is good, but it has that feel of a money grabbing movie studio doing an adaptation after a money grabbing publisher selling books of a certain type. You've all read those books somewhere in a small American town, where everybody knows each other and there is dark secret, a city dweller comes to shake up the status quo. Probably Americans read a lot of these books, but I've had it up to my furry neck and my pointy teeth with this kind of bull. It is boring, pretentious and most of the time rehashing similar stories that were probably good when they were written but have now dissolved into lameness.Bottom line I am sure I have seen this movie before, when I was young, but except the scene at the end, which had its share of drama and societal satire, I did not remember one thing while watching it again now. It is a mostly forgettable movie, with unsympathetic characters and a rushed story so that it can cover the entire book. Yes, indeed, take the story, make it a miniseries in the style of Stephen King adaptations and add some decent acting and special effects, and it would do great today, but this film just feels... wrong. "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly the inspiration for Michael Jackson's 'Thriller'","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The special effects were as good as can be expected of a movie made in 1980/81 but other than that is was poorly written, poorly directed, poorly acted (especially by the female actors/characters), poorly edited and there were way too many inconsistencies and plot holes. Werewolves movies were to the 80s what Vampire movies are to us now, some were good and most were bad. I would recommend this movie only to people who are fans of some actor in the film and want to see every film they've ever acted in or for those who want to view it for nostalgic reasons or if you're like me and the movie was before your time and you just want to see what films of this genre looked like that back then. "},{"Title":"One of the last great werewolf films","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After a drought of werewolf films, 1981 saw the arrival of two very successful werewolf films with The Howling and An American Werewolf in London. For my money, I have always found The Howling to be the more inventive, ambitious and satisfying of the two films.As the film opens, L.A. has been victimized by a series of brutal murders and the perpetrator has offered to meet with frightened TV news reporter Dee Wallace. The police sting goes slightly awry with the killer ostensibly dead and Wallace shell-shocked from the ordeal. TV psychologist Patrick Macnee recommends that she recharge her batteries at his quaint woodsy retreat dubbed The Colony. While Wallace and husband Christopher Stone deal with their new surroundings and the eccentric personalities at The Colony, friends/work colleagues Dennis Dugan and Belinda Balaski continue the investigation into the killer and find it suspiciously leading straight to The Colony.The Howling seems forever doomed to be unappreciated when compared to the later An American Werewolf in London. Although it opened first and broke ground with its werewolf transformation sequences, AWIL came later and got all of the glory and Oscar love. The effects here are nothing short of amazing and the fact that decades later they seem infinitely more impressive than the crummy CGI transformation effects propagating wildly is even more of a tribute to them.The film boasts a solid, literate screenplay filled with quirky humor by the wonderful John Sayles. The humor is such that it never slows the film down and does not necessarily need to be commented on, but sharp-eyed viewers and film aficionados will have much to chuckle over without the chills being compromised. Joe Dante's first-rate direction is also a plus. He provides some great atmosphere - whether it be the seedy porn shop where Wallace and the killer first meet or the mist-shrouded lonely woods filled with who-knows-what creeping terror. There are a number of good jolts and suspenseful sequences. The film also crafts some incredibly appealing characters - with the downside being that something dreadful seems to happen to far too many of them.The cast is great. Old pros like John Carradine, Kevin McCarthy and Slim Pickens are on hand, usually playing characters named after directors of past werewolf films. The normally humorous Robert Picardo is terrifying as the demented killer, Eddie. Elisabeth Brooks is both sultry and menacing as the literal man-eater Marsha. Macnee is truly inspirational casting as the pop psychologist who knows more than he lets on. As the central characters, Wallace, Stone, Dugan and Balaski are all sympathetic and appealing. Balaski's mid-film duel with a nasty werewolf is especially adrenaline pumping and it is a shame that the actress has rarely been given a chance to shine in other roles.Watching the film more than three decades after its premiere, it is amazing how well it holds up - both visually and narratively. For my money, this was the last great werewolf film and the subsequent imitators (not to mention an army of increasingly laughable sequels) come off as so much detritus. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Modern Werewolf Movies","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I suppose that you could call The Howling campy fun, but it's really much too good to be called campy. This is actually a really good werewolf movie, filled with a lot of chills that does make you jump on a regular basis and is full of for the most part very well done transformation scenes. It's marred just a little bit by a plot that struck me as strange (yeah, I know, it's a werewolf movie so what would I expect) but overall there isn't very much to complain about.Dee Wallace (who may not be a big name but has remained amazingly busy in Hollywood over the years) was pretty good as TV news anchor Karen White, who is sought out and attacked by a serial killer. Traumatized by the event, she and her husband Bill (Christopher Stone) head off to The Colony - apparently some sort of rehabilitative community hoping to help her recover from her experience. Unfortunately, her horror has only just begun, as she soon discovers that the whole place is populated by - wait for it - werewolves, who the doctor in charge (Patrick Macnee) has apparently been trying (and apparently without much luck!) to civilize so that they can fit in. So not only do we have werewolves, they're werewolves who are sort of undergoing therapy for rejection issues! (You have to love a movie that kind be really, truly scary a lot of the time but can still give you a chuckle when you think about it!)Now, this is rather bizarre. Since Doc knows what's going on, why does he send Karen up there? And, if he had a reason for sending her up there, why not tell us what the reason was? It's a bit strange - but, again, it's a werewolf movie! One also has to mention the extremely beautiful Elisabeth Brooks as one of the most alluring - shall we say - werewolves that you're going to come across in any movie anywhere. Brooks doesn't seem to have done a whole lot else of note, and she died tragically young, but if you see her as Marsha in The Howling you'll definitely remember her!Fans of the werewolf genre will love this. Of that I have no doubt. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Not bad, and the effects are great!","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I heard a lot about this movie before I watched it. And most of what I heard was correct.It's a movie about a woman working at a news channel. She's bothered by a stalker and at the start of the movie, she's trying to get rid of him with the help of the police. However, the signal is lost and Karen walks into the stalkers trap without protection. The events that occur there traumatize her so bad that her doctor advises her to travel to a place called the Colony. An isolated society in which Karen hopes to recover her sanity. Her husband travels with her for support. Slowly it becomes clear that what goes on at the Colony is not what it seems at first glance...The movie really doesn't start as a werewolf film. Like a real werewolf, the film starts human but ends as a beast. I think it's a nice, little touch. The change of story is one of the good aspects of this movie.I also enjoyed the effects. They are very good for it's time. They might look a bit cheesy or fake now, but don't take it too seriously. The end results look fine enough. I've seen far worse werewolves in recent pictures.The acting is okay; it's nothing amazing, but also not horrible.Very nice scenery too! In overall, I can recommend this movie to any werewolf fans. Truly a classic.8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A horror classic. That's creative, spooky, and just a feel good howling of a time!","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Finally after many years I decided to watch this early 80's horror film classic. I must say overall I was well pleased the film is spooky and the special effects with the werewolves is very creative as the makeup is certainly a thumbs up from Rick Baker. And director Joe Dante did fine as he kept this film on a good path with the story and setting both being interesting choices. Dee Wallace stars as Karen White a sexy Los Angeles TV station reporter who's assigned to follow the story of a local serial killer who's been terrorizing the streets especially the L.A. red light districts. So upon her investigating one night she goes out on the streets and she goes into a world of adult book stores, massage parlors, strip clubs, and novel shops. Only finally Karen goes into a booth of nude peep shows that also shows snuff and sex torture films. As tips she's received from a strange voice has lead her here. After this encounter in the booth she becomes traumatized as it was near fatal with the apparent serial killer being in the booth. It's then upon advice from Karen's doctor she takes time off to a northern California mountain retreat called The Colony. Only the people here seem very strange and different as these woods and wilderness have howling cries this bloody nightmare turns into a howling gore feast! Overall great horror film of the early 80's the chills and wolf makeup was grade A it really looked scary and spooky and the story is well done for a horror film it all makes for a howling good time! "},{"Title":"Will Do as the Werewolf Movie Against Which to Judge Other Werewolf Movies","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Probably the definitive werewolf movie.When looked at as a whole, The Howling isn't one of the scariest films ever made, but there are individual moments in the film that certainly rank among some of the scariest from other films. Most notably is a scene in which a reporter is just on the verge of uncovering the mystery surrounding a werewolf colony and is attacked by one of the wolves in a deserted office. The creature design is spooky, even if many of the makeup effects owe their look to An American Werewolf in London, released the same year (big year for werewolves, apparently).Dee Wallace, who was the go-to actress for playing ordinary heroines in 1980s horror and fantasy films, makes an especially cute werewolf. She looks more like an Ewok.Grade B "},{"Title":"A popular film for werewolf lovers","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A film already well on its way to achieving legendary status for a classic horror movie. A young and attractive female reporter receives a phone call that a person has information about an ongoing criminal investigation in San Francisco so she decides to meet this informant and get the big story. She goes into a pornography shop and is attacked by an unknown assailant who is then killed by police officers. After this traumatic experience her and her husband on advice from a counselor go to a therapy camp for couples. Soon they discover this isn't any weekend retreat but a coven of evil from which they are unlikely to escape. I have to say that Dee Wallace's acting isn't that great but the supporting cast is fairly good and they make up for it at least a little. The best part of this show is watching the transformations and special effects and of course the ending is wild and awesome one of the few horror endings that will actually surprise its viewers. It makes you glad you sat through the whole thing and didn't turn it off 3/4 of the way thru. Not what I would call truly scary but it does have some tense moments here and there. A enjoyable way to kill an boring afternoon at home. "}{"Title":"I don't know what to say","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm a big fan of werewolves. I think they are cool, scary and make for awesome movie monsters. I own An American Werewolf in London and it's one of the best werewolf movies ever. I had heard of the Howling (and fact is, I had seen Part 5 and 6 on a Howling marathon on SciFi channel a couple of years ago). I had heard that many people considered The Howling to be superior to AWiL, so of course I wanted to see it. I ordered it and cheerfully popped it into my DVD the other night. Boy, was I surprised!The movie was awful! The acting, the story, the pace, the lightning, the cast, the soundtrack... everything! Everything was wrong! It wasn't horrible, but it was bad. The whole feel of the film was that of a really, really cheesy, old horror movie which was just made to cash in some bucks (I'm not saying the movie wasn't made with love, but the it felt that way!).The werewolf transformation scene was awful. Horrible. It didn't look like the guy was going to transform into a werewolf, it looked like he was going to turn into the Marshmellow Man from Ghostbusters. Someone said that they liked the Howling transformation scene better because it looked more painful. I disagree. It didn't look the least painful. It kinda looked like the character didn't mind at all. Whereas in AWiL, the character was screaming in agony and you see how painful of a process it was.The ending was also horrible. First of all, the part where they revealed that the whole colony were werewolves. Wow. Original. And the way it was portrayed made it seem like a cheesy Twilight Zone episode. This feeling was kept until the REAL ending (I won't spoil it, but you who have seen the film know what I'm talking about). It was so horrible. So bad. Oh hell...There was ONE redeeming factor. And that was that the werewolves themselves (who didn't appear until an hour into this 89 minute long movie) were really well done. They could move their face really well, and looked like real werewolves (but they didn't look anything like what we were lead to believe by the transformation process). But while watching the movie, I didn't compare it to AWiL, keep that in mind. I just watched it and thought I was in for good werewolf flick. But this wasn't that much of a werewolf flick. I mean, we didn't really see that many werewolves. Maybe four or so. That was about it.I give it a 3 out 10. 2 for the werewolves and 1 for the rest. "},{"Title":"Time has not been kind...","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I saw this 15 years ago I thought it was incrediblyfrightening, however, now it just seems silly.  It's still quite a goodfilm, and the make-up/special effects are excellent, but it seemsvery comedic now.   The acting is not great, and the 'colony' is notparticularly original, but it still has something.  One thing for certainis that is is far superior to it's numerous sequels.  It suffers greatlyfrom comparisons with AWIL, but on it's own it is still worthwatching again.   Probably only recommended to horror fans, ormore particularly those who like werewolf/vampire monstermovies.    "},{"Title":"Like an episode of McCloud, with werewolves.","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The werewolf is my favorite traditional monster, much more so than the vampire. So, it was with great anticipation that I met this movie, hailed as one of the best of the genre. I was prepared to be disappointed, because Hollywood doesn't usually do werewolf movies very well, when it does them at all.But this was just terrible. Horrible, horrible pacing, stilted acting, and special effects that I suppose for the time were good, but now are absolutely laughable. Not to mention the weird attempts at humour that destroy any mood at all. Is it campy, or earnest? Everything just seemed very superficial. It was like a badly written episode of the TV show McCloud, 'McCloud Meets the Wolfman' or something.Now, it didn't have to be this way. The film that really started it all, The Wolfman, STILL holds up. And the special effects are worse, but it doesn't matter, because it creates a great atmosphere, tells a great story, and never lets up. The best take on the genre in recent years is the Ginger Snaps series, from the Canadians. The writers actually seemed to take werewolves seriously, and produced some really original works. "},{"Title":"My least favourite of the werewolf films.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Right, well I am not the biggest werewolf lover, so it really is of no surprise when I found myself not caring much for this film after I viewed it. I had thought the effects were a bit funny at times and the pacing of the film was too slow for me. I found myself losing interest fast and was surprised I really made it to the end. However, after having a chat with a friend of mine, he had informed me that the effects were done by an understudy because Rick Baker had gone off to do An American Werewolf in London (now THAT is a good film). So upon learning this I have a little more appreciation for them...but I still find them to have been funny at times. If you love werewolves then most likely you will like this film because it offers an interesting take on the monster, but if you are like me and don't really care much, then I wouldn't rush myself into seeing it. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow, how this movie has gained the following and support as a great modern werewolf tale, I will never know. The Howling might be somewhat entertaining if I was renting a b-movie because I wanted a b-movie. Instead I was renting what I thought was a good horror movie.The acting, outside of Dee Wallace, well they should all be shot and kept from ever attacking us with their so called acting talents ever again. I mean, I was actually in pain from watching it.The plot is about Karen White (Dee Wallace) a TV journalist who has a bad encounter with a serial killer. So, she goes on a retreat with her dude. Well, it turns out her fun is ended when she encounters she is with a colony of werewolves.Now, the only good things about The Howling is the production value and the special effects (the human to werewolf transformation scenes are very well done). There is also a hint of truly adding a modern flare to the movie but it is never really looked into.There is a scene of werewolf love and although that lady can't act, I can say plastic surgery can do wonders for landing you acting jobs. Although her chest is quickly covered as she grows chest hair.The Howling has a good title, cool DVD/VHS jacket cover, nice special effects, but everything else about this movie is worthless (although the ending is pretty good). 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Over-rated and Too Silly","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For some reason, this flick seems to have a lot of devotees - and that's perfectly fine. If you love horror and werewolves, definitely check it out. Unfortunately, there was far too much tongue-in-cheekiness for me - and absolutely no scares. More importantly, I was disappointed that Sayles' story wasn't executed better on- screen. The concept was wonderful, but it fell flat with overly long scenes in some cases and outrageously short ones in record time. Worst still, I hate lengthy werewolf transformations that has a frightened character just standing by to watch the entire (ho-hum) process before they become dinner. Silly.Rob Bottin's special effects were fantastic, though some of the bubbling was over-the-top. Luckily, he completely nailed all that down when he helped deliver the far more darker - and utterly brilliant - John Carpenter's The Thing a year later. "},{"Title":"I should have watched this sooner","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This may be an odd comparison, but I couldn't help think about The Godfather when I was watching The Howling. After over thirty years I have only just got round to watching this horror 'classic' - just like I only watched the Godfather the other year. I'm afraid I disliked them both.I didn't hate them, I just didn't view them as the 'classics' they were both hyped to be. I can see why they have that status though. They are both very good, however, after over thirty years, other films in both their respective genres have copied them to such an extent that I felt like I'd seen both films already (and done better/more modern).I'll bet if I watched the Howling (and the Godfather) twenty or thirty years ago, I would have been as awestruck as everyone else. However, I found The Howling a little boring. Not much happens in the first half an hour. Then, when the werewolves do come into it, you can already tell who's who and any 'plot twists' that are going to come. The effects are good - for their time. Granted you can see they're anamatronics when compared to today's slick computer-generated effects, but they're still good.The Howling was obviously a great horror of its day, but, after watching nearly thirty years of other werewolf movies, I'm afraid I'll stick with Dog Soldiers (although I'd probably take The Howling over a topless Taylor Lautner). "},{"Title":"a werewolf classic","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling has become the father of the new werewolf flicks in the heydays of the eighties. But there was another masterpiece that sadly came out just after The Howling was released, An American Werewolf In London (1982). Why I'm saying this, because Rick Baker, make-up and special effects was involved in both of them. American Werewolf started earlier then The Howling but had financial problems so Rick started with The Howling but when the director of American Werewolf(John Landis) heard that news money was raised and Barker left The Howling to give it towards Rick Bottin. Rick made it a movie with excellent effects and became notorious surely after The Thing (1982).The Howling wanted to do the werewolf transformation in one shot but money prevented it to become that way. American Werewolf did it. But The Howling was the best known werewolf flick.Although being a classic I prefer American because things starts of immediately. The Howling takes almost 50 minutes before a werewolf comes in and the effects become clear. But I must say that the last 40 minutes are worth watching. What a delight to see.The acting was rather good and the way it was filmed (advised by Bottin to use shadow and not that much of lighting) gave it a creepy feeling. A lot of memorable names are here to see but one that was becoming the next big thing was the werewolf Marsha (Elisabeth Brooks). She was noticed because she went full frontal here but her career was suddenly stopped by cancer, she died age 46.Mixed feelings because it isn't a good movie the first 50 minutes but it's a classic for so many reasons. Still, I gave it an 8 for the effects alone. Still, not that gory for a werewolf flick made in the heydays of slashers.Gore 1,5/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 5/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"A smart, sexy, and genuinely scary horror classic that still has plenty of bite","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The werewolf is sort of the neglected middle child of the horror monster hierarchy gifted, unique, and brilliant, but eternally overshadowed by its dad the Devil, older vampiric siblings, mummified Egyptian stepsons from a previous marriage, and kid brother zombies who are always getting into trouble and keeping the family distracted. Of course there have been great, even legendary, films with lycanthrope antagonists, but that particular sub-genre is rather limited in scope. However, despite the admitted paucity of competition, I can still say with absolute certainty that The Howling is the best movie about werewolves ever made.It makes sense that the film heavily references The Wolf Man, the eternal Lon Chaney Jr./Universal Monsters staple, because The Howling is executed in a way that clearly reveals its acknowledgment of its roots in the traditions of classic horror. The pace is restrained and meticulous, the atmosphere is a character in itself, and despite the film's utilization of creature effects that weren't even dreamed of in Universal's genre heyday, good old-fashioned ensemble acting is what truly drives the action in the piece. If this description makes The Howling sound like a dry production more suited for the theater stage, don't misunderstand me; this is bloody and ferocious fare that will greatly please fans of visceral horror. But it is the taut and well-crafted story, not merely the FX, that make this such a gem, and director Joe Dante is seasoned enough here to allow a gradual and steady immersion into the film's world before bowling us over with Rob Bottin's peerless set-pieces, which have all the more impact when they take command because of how effectively the movie has teased us with tantalizing glimpses throughout.Though the creatures are understandably a feature attraction here, the main focus of the plot is on news anchor Karen White, who has become the fixation of deranged serial killer Eddie Quist and agrees to be used as bait as part of a police operation to capture him. Quist is seemingly killed during her harrowing and macabre encounter, and Karen is subsequently haunted by bizarre dreams and fuzzy, repressed recollections of what actually occurred that night. When she heeds a pop psychologist's suggestion that she and her husband should attend a therapy retreat he oversees at a secluded commune, the getaway does anything but assuage her trauma. Instead, Karen encounters odd and subtly menacing locals and the titular unholy moans emanating from the fog-shrouded forests. It doesn't take long for us to learn that the commune is located at the nucleus of the hunting grounds prowled by a pack of malevolent predatory beasts, and after Karen's husband is seduced and transformed by a sultry lady wolf, her and her visiting reporter friend begin to uncover the sinister secret of the commune.I'll refrain from stepping up on my soapbox to deliver an impassioned soliloquy about how CGI has ruined the art of special make-up FX, but those who appreciate the magic of the wizards who revolutionized the art-form in the late '70s and early '80s will find the work of Rob Bottin here absolutely awe-inspiring. The climactic transformation scene is delivered unflinchingly and in real time, step by grotesque step, and the result is an indelible sequence that remains far more impressive and enthralling than anything modern film-makers handling the same material could ever cook up on a computer. The gore is used sparingly for maximum impact, but whenever it arrives, the results are stunning and gruesome. Perhaps most importantly, the werewolves themselves are a thing of fearsome beauty to behold, monsters that resonate as wholly believable extensions of the established mythology while still maintaining an innovative stroke of originality that makes them belong to this film alone. These creatures aren't merely big wolves, they are eight-foot tall bipedal killing machines with fangs and claws capable of tearing people to shreds, a skill that they demonstrate with acute proficiency during the course of the movie.The performances are all excellent even when the roles veer into the melodramatic, and the presence of one of the power couples of '80s horror, Christopher Stone and Dee Wallace (later Dee Wallace Stone), as well as a marvelous extended cameo from beloved genre vet Dick Miller, will delight fans of the era. Both the gritty, sleazy streets that open the movie and the isolated location housing the commune complex are perfectly presented and utilized, the clues to the greater mystery are unfolded with the taut grace of a top-notch thriller, and the film as a whole feels like an entirely plausible representation of ancient folk lore-based creatures existing in a modern world.The denouement falters slightly since Bottin's best tricks have already been displayed, but the sentiment of the finale is striking enough to end the saga on a dark and tragic note. If your love of the genre goes back to its natal days, be sure to stick around after the credits too, where you'll find a nice coda that bookends the homage to The Wolf Man present throughout these reels.The Howling is, in my estimation, not only the finest and most enduring lycanthropy fable in the canon, it's also quite simply one of the best horror films of all time. Don't skip this one. "},{"Title":"The perfect werewolf movie.","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are a million things I could write telling you how great this movie is...especially if you like monster movies or are a werewolf fan. Chances are, if you are either one of those...you have already seen it 2 dozen times. But if you have not, for whatever reason, yet seen this pinnacle of werewolf films...then you need to go and rent it or even just buy it someplace. It came out around the same time another perfect werewolf movie hit the big screen. An American Werewolf in London. Perfect for different reasons, and laden with dark humor, it is an absolute staple to anyone's media diet. As is The Howling. Nothing negative can be said about either of these films. "}{"Title":"Super tight little horror with just enough humour......","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Watching this again after a gap of many years I remain impressed. It veers from excellent to very average, from pure poetry to mundane TV quality but the fact that there is the TV backdrop lets this low budget movie off the hook in my opinion. I love the humour and whilst I wouldn't want to suggest the humour is overdone in American Werewolf in London, I certainly feel it is more focused in this film. The cinematic references are sweet and one thing I noticed this time was a copy of Ginsberg's Howl laying by a telephone - made me smile anyway. The transformations are excellent, for me they go on a little too long but then I guess they are the money shots. Talking of which the early porno shots are more extreme than I remember, maybe the UK release was once censored a little. Although the bleak horror of these early rapid shots of a girl tied to a bed are not quite matched by the later horrors the potent images remain throughout the film's duration ensuring a slight edginess even when the humour might be inclined to soften the terror effects. Super tight little horror with just enough humour and I must not forget just enough seriousness too, thanks to Patrick Macnee's occasional reminders of the 'beast of man'. Splendid. "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but not bad","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I finally rented this film 2 days ago after having it recommended to me so many times. And I have to say, I was somewhat disappointed. The first half of the movie was extremely boring and seemed to go on forever, until the movie finally picked up at the last half hour. Dee Wallace is looking more depressed than ever, but then again I've never seen her in a film where she didn't. Christopher Stone is definitely not one of the better actors out there. And what was the purpose of the 2 warewolf hunters? ( At least I think thats what they were. ) But the performances are descent all in all. The warewolves are nothing special either, they somewhat resembled the ones in  An American Warewolf in Paris  but were not as big. The direction and script is what saves this film, without a doubt. But I do strongly recommend it if you enjoy Warewolf films. 6/10  "},{"Title":"I cried the whole way through!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And not because the movie was a tear-jerker. This had to be one of the corniest, and worst, movies I've ever seen. I'm not completely sure what happened, and I watched it twice trying to figure it out.Unless you have a lot of time and a lot of reference books on hand, it's not even worth the effort trying to figure out what's going on in this movie, which is yet another cheesy werewolf flick. The acting isn't bad, but even the unquestionable queen of the cheesy horror films, Dee Wallace (Stone), isn't enough talent to save this movie from the slaughter house. And they made sequels of this? If you want a werewolf flick, Teen Wolf is far more interesting than this one. Between the gratuitous sex and the satanic allusions, you get lost in the inconsistencies of this film.On a scale of one to ten, this movie gets a two only because of Dee and some other excellent cast members. "},{"Title":"Trust me, there are better things to do rather than waste time watching this movie...","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" *SPOILERS!* I came here to read the reviews for The Howling before I decided to record it on AMC (to watch later, since it was on rather early). Let me tell you, this movie was DREADFUL. For starters, I'd heard great things about the story, plot, and special effects. Not so! I watched it with my Dad, and one of the first things he said was What, was this movie from the 70's?. It only went downhill from there. There was a scene where the edges and wrinkles of the rubber glove was clearly visible when one of the werewolves reached through a broken wooded panel to reach the woman. There was a campfire sex scene - the initial transformations were all right, but then the camera moves back to about 20 feet away, and it is the fakest, WORST computer effects I've EVER seen! The f/x are all right by the time the woman and the remaining officer are in the jeep, trying to escape (the jeep won't start, of course), but still really nothing to write home about.On to the plot and the actual story. I'd read all about how it was so 'original' - wrong again! It begins with a blonde reporter who gets attacked by a psycho while covering a story. She talks to the police, then goes out for a rest at a getaway set up by a reasonably charming psychiatrist - needless to say, pretty much the whole town there is inhabited by werewolves. Now, let me tell you - the movie ran for two hours, but I wish I'd just started watching about 45 minutes in, because everything before that is stupefyingly boring. It can be summed up by Wah, wah, bimbo's scared, gets comforted by boyfriend, lets go for a vacation. They wander around once they get there, and if you're looking for an even remotely spooky set in the wilderness, think again.The action starts pretty much when the boyfriend gets bitten (while he's wandering around in the woods at night by himself, unarmed *eyeroll*). It lasts for all of 20 seconds, and he then stumbles back to their cabin. It's now too painful to recall this horribly boring movie, but let me tell you this there's a cabin that's supposed to be scary, but the hides hanging on the wall just makes it look like a hunter lives there, though the wind chimes made of bones were a little unsettling. Also, even though they're bone, they still jingle as though they were metal chimes. Yea. Oh, while we're on the subject of out-of-place noises, when the werewolves howl, there's also a yowling cat howl in there too. Who knows.Seriously, this movie is not even remotely scary, nor gory, if that's what you're looking for. The goriest thing I recall is when one of the women cuts off the arm of one of the werewolves with an axe, and that *may* inspire a nose-wrinkle of distaste, at best. (And no, I've never seen Saw or Hostel or any of those strictly gore/torture movies, so I'm not speaking from a severely desensitized POV). We gave up on trying to take this movie seriously about a half-hour in, and did what we do best when confronted by a movie this bad - we have our own little Mystery Science Theatre 3000 with it.Anyhow, let me just warn you once more - this movie is REALLY bad! Honestly, I gave it three stars because I enjoyed immensely the scene, props, and acting in the bookstore scene, and for the abrupt improvement of the f/x in the 'trapped in the jeep scene'. I don't know why there's such a lack of werewolf movies, but if you need a fix, let me recommend American Werewolf in Paris (or London), or Underworld. "},{"Title":"Grade A cheese","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Cheesy werewolf special effects, bad hair, perky, nude, nineteen-eighties breasts...The Howling is a pretty dreadful movie to watch twenty-four years after it was first released. What makes it worse, I feel guilty saying that because I liked it so much as a kid. About the only good thing about this movie is that it has perhaps the most unintentionally funny line in the history of cinema.Chris is racing in his car to rescue Karen from the werewolves at the colony. He pulls into a gas station for gas (always a bummer to run out of gas when your girl is about to be eaten by werewolves) and honks his horn at a young guy filling up his tank at the only pump.The guy turns to him and says, Take it easy buddy, not all of us got enough money for a Mazda. I don't know who that actor was--he is uncredited--but he gave me the best laugh I've had in a long time. "},{"Title":"Rent a different Werewolf movie","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie with high expectations.  I came out very regretful for the wasted 90 minutes of my life.  The special effects are decent, and the pace is fine, and there are some nice surprises and jokes at the end.  The characters were so uninteresting, though!  Dee Wallace is absolutely horrid as the female lead, and isn't given much help from the stereotypical characters that surround her.  I never felt that Wallace's character and her husband (played by Christopher Stone, her soon-to-be husband in real life if I'm not mistaken) actually cared about one another.  They simply seemed like pawns being pushed along by the simplistic script.Cliches abound in the movie as well.  Believe me, you WILL get sick of fog by the time the film has run its course- there is enough of it to fill 3 normal horror movies!  Also, the werewolves, when they finally appeared looked comical.  Like a cross between a wolf, a rabbit, and a velociraptor from Jurrassic Park (they have long ears and equally long and then legs that were not present on any wolf I have ever seen).  There is some good suspense involving the newswoman and a pursuing werewolf, but when the filmmakers have the chance to really knock your socks off with a good jolt of surprise, they chicken out.  There are several key moments that could have been scary, but were misused.All in all, American Werewolf in London, and it's sequel/remake American Werewolf in Paris are much better movies.  Rent them first, or even The Wolf Man (w/ Lon Chaney), but don't say I didn't warn you... 3/10 "},{"Title":"sometimes funny, often scary wolf movie with amazing make-up fx","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling and An American Werewolf in London were both released in 1981, and both include some of the finest werewolf make-up and special effects one will see in any horror movie. This today still I note this, that's how impressive both films are at it (and indeed Rick Baker worked on this one for a short while before transitioning over to 'London'). Fans and admirers can argue about the merits or flaws in each film - neither one is entirely perfect - but they are both solid films. In the case of Joe Dante's effort, with the help of co-screenwriter John Sayles, his film mostly trumps comedy for horror. This isn't to say that little moments of hilarity or just random absurdity sprout up from time to time. He creates with his crew such an immediate effect of atmosphere that everything else that comes with it works that much better. It's a creepy little movie.It's about a newscaster (Dee Wallace) who got a kind of close encounter with a serial killer, whom she tracked down for a story to a porno shop and who nearly killed her until the cops come and shoot the man/thing. But then she keeps getting visions of what she saw- or didn't see- and is told by her doctor to go up to The Colony, to relax for a couple of weeks and sit in on some therapy sessions with other people who experienced a similar occurrence. She also goes with her husband, which for him turns out not so well as he's attacked at night by a wolf... which, in turn, makes him one. What we see, and what makes for a nice twist on the conventions of werewolf movies, is that the people don't need to wait for dark or even a full moon to transform, and it's pretty hard to kill it without silver (that last convention still sticks, though to a great result late in the film).What unfolds at this Colony, and in the newscaster's friends' search to find out more about these werewolves and how to kill them, is intriguing stuff, and it's filmed by Dante often with a clever knack for shifting between satire and serious horror. There's a scene at a bonfire on a beach when Karen first comes to the Colony, and we see an old man muttering to himself that he can't go on and threatens to do himself in. This scene is almost funny just by how the guy playing the old man acts and speaks, but it's not a funny scene in the slightest. And when it comes time for Dante and his main make-up guy Rob Bottin (one year before working on The Thing) get to showing what these creatures look like, it's spine-tingling and sometimes bizarre (i.e. werewolf sex scene).If it suffers from anything it's sometimes an almost too-much reliance on in-jokes (sometimes it works like with the Big Bad Wolf cartoon on TV, but a copy of Howl on a desk is a little much), and not the firmest control of the narrative early on in the film (the first ten minutes seem sort of shaky until Karen gets into the porno store). When it gets to the Colony it sticks to being weird and terrifying, and for all of its acting being over the top (Slim Pickens) or flat (Dee Wallace) what counts is its tone and mood. It's more self-conscious about its genre than parody, and it displays how wonderful a filmmaker Joe Dante was right before his big hit with Gremlins. "},{"Title":"No Contest","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, I rented both The Howling and An American Werewolf in London, and was all set to judge for myself which is the better werewolf film of 1981.  I watched The Howling first followed by An American Werewolf in London.  I was shocked at what I found.  First of all there is absolutely so contest, An American Werewolf in London is by far the better of the two.  I could not believe how horrible The Howling was.  Frankly, I think the weakness in The Howling was first and foremost the story itself, but I also believe the direction was pretty weak as well.  It's as if they discovered a cool new way to show a werewolf transformation and then show it over and over again to the audience in a strange case of overkill.  This reminds me of the low budget horror film of 1975 called The Devil's Rain, in which they had a technique where characters actually appeared to dissolve, and showed it and re-showed it again and again, tiring the audience.  The Howling does this as well.  However, I must say that the movie is actually not bad, right up until the story shifts to The Colony.  This shift for some reason created disinterest, probably because it seemed too Friday the 13th-ish in this woodsy setting, but also because there is nothing that makes the viewer give a damn about any of these characters.  An American Werewolf on the other hand is by far better.  The humor injected into that film makes it even more horrific.  The one transformation scene was sufficient, and overall, this movie scared me, The Howling bored me.  The viewer become attached to the main character in London and thus producing an even greater sense of horror in that you didn't want this to happen to him.  Also, each of the dream sequences were brilliant that led the viewer to unwilling come to the conclusion that fate was inevitable.  Bottom line  Skip The Howling and see An American Werewolf in London. "},{"Title":"Just read the book","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling was originally a fairly suspenseful horror novel by underrated author Gary Brandner. Only the title and a few character names seem to have survived into its film incarnation. While the special effects and acting are above par for an early-80s horror movie, all of the novel's elements of mystery and suspense were foregone in the interest of gratuitous gore.As a fan of the era and the genre (I snuck into MANY slasher flicks in my flaming youth), I found this film about as forgettable as the equally abominable Mortuary.Do yourself a favor - go to your local used book emporium and treat yourself to Gary Brandner's paperbacks instead. "},{"Title":"Not scary, not fun and just very campy and dated","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a fan of Joe Dante's work. Gremlins is a brilliant film and one of my favorites; its campy humor worked to great effect, it was pretty scary in its own silly little way and all in all it just worked perfectly. The Second Civil War is a great underrated satire of politics and war and Toy Soldiers isn't given much credit, but I liked it for what it was.But sometimes Dante stumbles. The Howling, in 1981, was a cash-in on the success of John Landis' An American Werewolf in London -- and it's distinctly familiar in its camp humor, human transformations, and even directorial style. This was before Dante had carved a name for himself and it really does just seem like he's copying Landis.... Werewolf in London isn't a great movie but compared to this it does look a great deal better. The Howling involves bestiality, incest, and other uncomfortable subjects and its special effects -- which, at the time, were considered impressive -- are really poor. About three minutes is spent on one transformation, and nowadays it's just really boring. (Although I must say I prefer this stuff to CGI, it's still used too prominently and just isn't as cool as it thinks it is.) The humor is nonexistent. It's just a really cheesy movie with bad acting and Joe Dante has made far better films since. The Howling is generally considered to be some kind of classic of the werewolf genre (there's a werewolf genre??) but I can't classify it as such -- I was hugely disappointed. "}{"Title":"A Gem Of Werewolf Movies","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A Few Years Ago I Got Into Vampire Movies, Recently I Decided That Although I Had Seen Some Gems Of Vampire Filmmaking (eg Let The Right One In, Blade, Underworld etc) I Wanted To Try Something A Little New, Werewolves.To Be Honest I Liked This, I Thought For A Werewolf Movie This Was Pretty Good, The Wolves Looked Like They Were Actually Wolves Not Just Big Dogs Which Most People Seem To Think Werewolves Are; People Who Transform Into Huge Dogs. The Atmosphere In This Movie Is Also Well Done, I Also Like How The Heroine Was A Troubled Person(With The Stalker Targeting Her).This Film Also Plays On The Animal Part Of The Werewolf, This Is Also Something That Needs To Happen Otherwise It May As Well Be A Comedy Film About A Group Of People That Turn Into Dogs.In My Opinion The Best Performance Is From Robert Picardo; His Performance As An Insane Stalker Werewolf. Dee Wallace Also Does A Very Good Performance As Well As Christopher Stone, Both People Pulled Off Their Roles Very Well.For A Smart Move I Won't Watch The Sequels Because From Popular Belief They're Crap, The Only Way I Might Get Involved With This Is If I Read The Novel.Overall I Recommend This To Any Fan Of Horror Movies. "},{"Title":"All the better to eat you with","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm running out of things to say about movies like The Howling. Once again, I am relatively impressed with filmmakers like Joe Dante who can make do with very little money, yet The Howling shares the same weakness as many of its predecessors and followers, lack of story, acting and characterization. Maybe I'm being a bit too demanding, I am indeed aware that The Howling is meant simply to entertain in a creepy horror tradition, and at this it does a fairly good job.After a traumatizing encounter with a serial killer, a young newswoman and her husband take a road trip to a rehabilitation center in the coastal wilderness run by the famed Dr. Wagger. It soon becomes apparent that something creepy is lurks within the area, something that howls and eats human flesh, is it human or animal, or both?There are two problems I have with The Howling. Firstly, there are more supporting characters than the story can deal with. Much of the cast does virtually nothing until the last twenty minutes. Secondly, the story runs by a little too quickly. The film needs a couple more scenes in which to flesh out the characters or build up conflict. Overall the movie is relatively suspenseful, though not as much as I think it could have been, and the creature effects are competent for a low budget. Therefore, The Howling is an acceptable little horror flick, offering decent b-movie monster fun, no more no less. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately I was disappointed beyond belief","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love the horror genre, and I have always been a particular fan of the werewolf movie, rating most highly such classics as An American Werewolf in London, and the more recent Dog Soildiers. I had never seen The Howling, but had read so much about it, so I was excited following its DVD release and watched with fervour.How upset I was, by the poor writing, the awful acting, the careless direction, the shoddy story line, and the dramatically stayed special effects. It had so much to offer, but delivered so little. Its only saving grace is that it clearly influenced the more able film makers of the superior genre pieces mentioned above. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The franchise film.","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Howling (1981) is the overrated horror classic that is responsible for burying the werewolf genre. Oh yes, during the early 80's the werewolf was nearing the end of being a staple in horror films. The films of Jacinto Molina (Paul Naschy) marked a long run and a renaissance of werewolf films from the late 60's until it's demise during the early 80's. When Senor Molina had a hard time getting a werewolf film off the ground, the writing was on the wall. But in Hollywood, the love fest with werewolf movies hadn't run it's course. Films like this one and American Werewolf in London redefined this dying genre incorporating state of the art f/x's (courtesy of Rob Bottin and Rick Baker). Instead of a rebirth, the genre died a slow death thanks to the many cheaply made and badly executed films that came out after this one (dare not speak of the horrible films that followed this one bearing the name Howling).The Howling tried something different but the results are a mixed bag. I would rate this movie highly except it's responsible for making a half dozen sequels which range from mediocre to down right unwatchable. The effects are remarkable and the film is full of familiar faces and cameos from people in the biz. It's perfect as a stand alone film. If you love this movie please stay away from the sequels. You'll never forgive yourself if you watched them. Trust me, I wished I never did. I fell on the sword so none of you have to witness the horror. I have seen them all and I wouldn't wish that upon my biggest and nastiest foe.Recommended for horror fans.I repeat, stay away from the sequels!! "},{"Title":"A rare * * * * out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The best werewolf movie ever period. The best horror film of the 1980's (This is the only horror film of the 80's I gave 4 stars to, and I only gave one horror film 3.5 stars.)Ambitious, intelligently and expertly crafted horror film with a good cast and a stand out performance by perfectly casted Dee Wallace who is the heart of this film. Amazing special effects that haven't been topped to this day (not counting CGI), a fantastic & somewhat haunting score, lots of style, plenty of in-jokes, snappy editing, original & creative direction, a brilliant script, a fast pace, and one of the best finales in cinema history are just a few of the ingredients that make this tense & frightening horror film so successful. Loosely based on the book of the same name, this film is about TV reporter Karen White (Wallace) who is being stalked by a maniac named Eddie who fatally bites his victims like a wild animal. The police put a tracer on Karen one night when Eddie forces Karen to meet him. After Karen arrives at their meeting place, Eddie starts to transform into some type of creature, but before he can do any harm to Karen the police come breaking in and shoot Eddie to death. Suffering from shock and memory loss, Karen's doctor (Patrick Macnee) sends her to his small, bizarre village. The residents are a weird bunch, but even weirder is the wolf noises Karen hears late at night and the dead, half ate cattle she keeps finding all over the place. After her husband is attacked by an overgrown wolf Karen comes to slowly realize that just about all the residents are werewolves. To make things worse, Eddie has disappeared from the morgue and appears to be very much alive.Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence, Nudity, Profanity, Rape, Torture, and Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"An almost classic","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" TV newswoman Karen White (Dee Wallace) is traumatized by a meeting with a psycho killer in a porno shop. A pompous doctor, George Waggner (Patrick Macnee!), invites her to The Colony--a woodland clinic of his to help her get over the shock. Karen and her husband Bill (Christopher Stone) go...unaware that there are wolves roaming around...This is a full throttle horror-comedy with an emphasis on the comedy. It's almost as good as American Werewolf in London. It's fun, has sharp dialogue and constant wolf references (a copy of the book Howl is seen on a desk; people watch The Big Bad Wolf and The Wolf Man on TV). Also The Colony itself is just gorgeous and beautifully atmospheric. In the day it's clear and bright--at night the fog rolls in and it becomes really creepy. Also it playfully injects horror clichs in the movie (I got a big kick out of the sequence in which Karen and a friend get lost in the woods, their flashlight goes out and there's howling in the distance...). It's ALMOST a classic.The problems are many, but the main one is that the film isn't scary--when you see the werewolves they look pretty pathetic. This is supposed to be (partially) a HORROR film--it doesn't help when the main monsters look silly. The transformation scenes look lousy too--but this was over 20 years ago. The story is sort of vague (why does Dr. Waggner invite her to the colony in the first place? It puts her in danger!) and there are plenty of dead spots. It seems too long and it's only 90 minutes! Also Wallace and Stone are not good actors--Wallace's reaction to finding a dead, bloody body is very poor and Stone sleepwalks through his role (although he does very well at a campfire sequence--you'll know it when you see it).So, it has great atmosphere, some very good laughs, John Carradine and some very good cameos (Dick Miller, Roger Corman and Forrest J. Ackerman holding a copy of his magazine Famous Monsters of Filmland) but it's VERY light and insubstantial--you want to see a real movie after this. Nevertheless, it's worth seeing but not the classic it could have been. "},{"Title":"One great scene does not a good movie make","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really didn't like it. Werewolf flicks are usually my thing, but I found this one rather silly and oddly paced. I also didn't catch the supposed tongue-in-cheek humour at all. The story is rather weird, and really doesn't fit the film at all, and the acting is uniformly terrible. There's no hint of character development or even shades of anything more than slight stereotypes, and thus it becomes just another slasher flick. Also, by the time this film starts going, it's nearly over, as there's too much build-up and not enough payoff. The makeup effects are admittedly impressive, and the much-ballyhooed transformation scene is quite a treat to watch, but one great scene does not a good movie make. The end is kinda cool, I guess, but, again, doesn't fit the film. It's not terrible, but it's not that good either. Quite a disappointment for me. "},{"Title":"Make-up 10--Script 3--Acting 3...","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Only until midway through THE HOWLING is there any real hint of danger or excitement in the werewolf scheme of things. Up until then, we have pretty blonde DEE WALLACE advised to seek rest and relaxation by a doctor (PATRICK MACNEE) who thinks a trip to a country retreat will soothe her nerves.Of course, what he neglects to tell her is that the resort is creeping with werewolves and she's a newspaper woman who will soon have quite a scoop for her target audience of TV viewers. We know that she'll have a scoop because at the end of this messy horror film, the final horror twist is the one we suspected would be pulled at the last minute.DEE WALLACE tries to look alarmed in her big close-up reaction shots but looks as though she's just having a bad day away from the office even when a werewolf is breathing down her neck. PATRICK MACNEE does nothing to make us think he's doing anything more than wasting his time in this poorly constructed exploitation film for horror fans, and JOHN CARRADINE is almost unrecognizable as one of the foremost character actors of movies during the '30s, '40s and '50s.Believe me, you have better things to do with your time than expect anything more than some good glimpses of Rick Baker's expertise with make-up for the transformation scenes. This is one poor excuse for a horror film and doesn't set any standards for things to come in this genre. "},{"Title":"Way overrated. Nothing special.","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Howling is a highly overrated horror movie. Apart from its great special effects, it really has little to recommend it. It isn't particularly scary, or clever, or original, and it's totally forgettable. Even its spectacular effects are often awkwardly presented, in various set-pieces that run on too long, because they are clearly designed just to showcase those effects, not to further the story. The direction is often awkward, too; in the first 20 minutes, it's hard to know what's going on, and the fast cuts in the editing are TOO fast to have any impact. As for the cameos and the movie references, they can't save the film. Are we supposed to know what John Sayles looks like or which are the names of 1950's werewolf b-movies?  "},{"Title":"A werewolf, she says.","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Highly regarded cult classic that doesn't really stand up to scrutiny. Joe 'Gremlins' Dante's stab at a werewolf movie is a confusing affair. In every regard, this should work. It's smart smarter than your average horror movie, and that's a fact. 12 out of every 9 psychologists confirm it. The effects are great. Dated? Yes but, unless you are the kind of slack-jawed dimwit who believes that 'there wor any gud filums mayd befour ninekeen nineky free' that shouldn't be an issue as, you know, special effects were possible before the advent of CG freakin' I.There's a decent line-up of cult luminaries, including Dee 'Critters' Wallace, Patrick 'Avengers' Macnee and Robert 'Voyager' Picardo. The story is above par, too. Yet, somehow.....some....how, it doesn't hang together particularly well, and you find your mind wandering off, thinking about other things. How many olives can you fit into your mouth in one go? If Macnee were wheelchair bound, would he have still worn a bowler hat in The Avengers? All sorts of things that are nothing to do with the movie. I've already touched on them, but another mention must go to the special effects, which are truly outstanding, and acted as precursor to the Oscar winning effects from An American Werewolf in London later that same year. The effects alone elevated this by one skull rating, else this would have hit a 4 for me. I know, I know, fellow cultists, I am an unmentionable arse-sheriff, but there it is. Disappointingly average horror fodder, then, despite the promise of its component parts. "}{"Title":"an '80's werewolf classic","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After a heavily traumatic incident with a serial killer, and a subsequent breakdown on national television, it's suggested that newswoman, Karen White, go on a retreat known simply as the Colony, in this classic werewolf film from the '80's. Great (for their time) special effects, and an amazing sense of tension and thrills, make this one any self respecting horror fan has to own in his or her collection. Fans can further be delighted by genre mainstay Dick Miller, in a cameo as a rare occult bookseller. the only way this film could have been better was some nudity by Dee Wallace, well and with that hokey last shot of the werewolf sex scene.My Grade BEye Candy Beverly Warren and Elisabeth Brooks have full frontal DVD Extras Both Widescreen and Fullscreen versions; Commentary (taken from the old laser disc) by Director/Co-Editor Joe Dante, Actress Dee Wallace-Stone, Actors Christopher Stone and Robert Picardo; Unleashing The Beast documentary (45mins); 1981 Promo Making-Of; Deleted Scenes (10mins); Outtakes (5mins); 2 Photo Galleries; 2 Theatrical TrailersEaster Egg In the Extra features section of side A, click on the smiley face for a short interview with Dick Miller "},{"Title":"Not bad not good just dated","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film was cutting edge special effects; it scared me then, but now the effects have become the standard for Buffy the Vampire Killer.  Why do early 80's films have such grainy picture quality?  It appeared 100 times to dark for my TV.  They have the guy from the old A-1 steak sauce commercials, I keep waiting for a commercial plug about the sauce, before he ate one of his victims.  The story is scary in spots, but copied to the point where this film is a seen this done this before film.  I still like the wolf's howling in the woods.  5 or 6 out of 10 depending what mood I am in. "},{"Title":"pretty decent for its time","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" just watched the howling a couple of night ago, and thought i would add my two cents.the howling starts off as a movie about a serial killer named eddie(played by robert ricardo, who would later play the holographic doctor on star trek voyager)who wants to meet with newswoman karen white, played by dee wallace.karen meets with eddie and escapes being seriously injured or killed as the police arrive and eddie is shot and supposedly killed.karen is so traumatized by this event, that she is persuaded by a psychiatrist to take some time off and go to the colonyto come to terms with the trauma.this is where the movie changes gears, as karen begins to hear strange howling sounds at the colony during the night.i won't reveal too much more except to say that the colony is not what it seems and its members hide a dark secret.as for the werewolves, they looked prety realistic but we hardly ever see them.there are a few scenes which are funny rather than scary and i'm not sure if they are intentional or not.there is one transformation scene which is pretty good.i didn't find the howlingscary but it was a fun movie to watch. not quite as good as american werewolf in London which was made that same year and certainly nowhere near as good as dog soldiersbut all in all a fun diversion with a bit of suspense thrown in for good measure.if you have nothing better to do, watch the howling.you will probably enjoy it. . "},{"Title":"E.T. phone wolves...","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Right before she played the mother of a boy who befriends a certain alien, Dee Wallace played reporter Karen White, who after an accident gets sent to a rehabilitation center inhabited by werewolves. It sounds like a simple plot, but The Howling is a Joe Dante movie, and Dante always knows how to make these things really neat. Since this is a Joe Dante movie, Dick Miller, Kevin McCarthy, and Robert Picardo all make appearances. Also making a brief appearance is John Sayles, as the morgue director. I guess that as long as there are stories of werewolves, there'll be plenty of movies to make about them.So order it rare... "},{"Title":"A very overrated horror movie","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Howling is not nearly as good as a lot  of people say. In my opinion it's just a  brainless werewolf movie, but a few, and I do  mean few, things are interesting in this  movie. I give this movie ** out of **** "},{"Title":"The Howling","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I must admit firstly that I didn't pay the fullest attention for the first twenty to thirty minutes, until it really got thrilling and gruesome, that is when it got good, from director Joe Dante. Basically serial killer Eddie Quist (Star Trek Voyager's Robert Picardo) is on the loose, and after nearly being killed by him in an adult video store, news reporter Karen White (E.T.'s Dee Wallace) is told to take a vacation. She discovers Eddie was killed in the forest by the cops, and that he was part of a small community, so she hangs around there with husband R. William 'Bill' Neill (Christopher Stone). This of course if the big mistake, and all events that have happened previously make sense, because Eddie was part of a pack of werewolves, and obviously anyone who goes near them will be either torn to shreds or become one of them. Also starring Patrick Macnee as Dr. George Waggner, Dennis Dugan as Chris, John Carradine as Erle Kenton, Slim Pickens as Sam Newfield, Elisabeth Brooks as Marsha Quist and Gremlins' Dick Miller as Walter Paisley. I think it was as soon as I saw the transformation scene that I was fixed, and as more and more werewolves the horror really picks up. I have to say though it is meant to be a comedy horror, I only giggled at one moment, and it was near the end, but never mind, it's still worth a go. Very good! "},{"Title":"No.","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Horrid acting, terrible scripting, embarrassing effects and an awful score round out this turkey of a film. I find it amazing that so many people enjoy this movie. I can't for the life of me see what the appeal is.People seem to rate the sex scene as one of the most awesome werewolf transformations ever... come on! First off, their hips weren't moving during the actual sex, at all. Second, the transformation itself was done with cheap cutaways and silly grins to show off terrible faux fangs.Third, isn't transformation supposed to be PAINFUL? This movie takes quite a few liberties with traditional werewolf lore, and this does not work out well for the film. FInally, the shot showing the finished transformation is so laughable, I spat soda through my nose when I saw it- that effect looked horrid in the 1940's, when it was done on Black and White monster movies! They couldn't just have the actors wear wolf suits? That's just one little scene in this entire, ninety minute waste of time. DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE. IT IS AWFUL. There are many, many better werewolf flicks out there. "},{"Title":"Original and scary... for it's time","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Man, what haven't I heard about The Howling? How it scared my parents and their friends. How amazing the effects were. So, I went out and rented before I bought. May I say that I was happy I rented. I wasn't really too impressed. I know, I know. You don't appreciate the classics. All those computer effects today got to you!. Believe me, I've heard it. I don't even think that computer effects are that impressive. I'd rather watch this than the Hulk. I just would rather stick to American Werewolf in London than this. The Howling is an OK film. For horror fans, I would suggest giving it a shot. And the effects were great for the time. So,6/10  "},{"Title":"Shapeshifting fun.","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After a near fatal encounter with a serial killer, intrepid TV reporter Karen White (Dee Wallace) travels to a remote coastal colony in order to recuperate, but is horrified to discover that the other residents are werewolves.Almost three decades after they first hit the silver screen, An American Werewolf in London and The Howling still have horror fans debating over which is the better werewolf film. Permit me, if you will, to put an end to all of the petty squabbling American Werewolf kicks The Howling's hairy butt and anyone who disagrees doesn't know jack about horror! Not that I don't like The Howling&#x97;au contraire, I'm a big fan of Joe Dante's tongue-in-cheek lycanthrope flick&#x97;but to compare the two is ludicrous Landis' movie has the better script, more likable characters, Nazi monsters, unparallelled transformation effects (that aren't sneakily hidden by shadows), and best of all, it has Jenny Agutter getting fruity in a shower! The Howling is totally devoid of naked Agutter. Case closed.Of course, even though Dante's film cannot hold a candle to Landis' superior classic, it's still well worth checking out an excellent cast (including John Carradine, Dante regular Dick Miller, Patrick Macnee, Robert Picardo, and Kevin McCarthy) give decent performances (although Dee Wallace should've taken a leaf out of Jenny's book and stripped off!); there's plenty of creepy goings-on in a fog shrouded forest; the make-up effects, by Rob Bottin, are mostly impressive (just a couple of weak models and a few too many bladder effects let things down a tad); and the whole shebang has a wonderful, twisted fairytale atmosphere that really helps to deliver the chills.A rather silly ending, in which Wallace turns into the Shaggy DA in front of her disbelieving TV audience, sadly ends proceedings on a weak note, but if you've already seen American Werewolf a million times, and really cannot face watching Jenny Agutter getting all wet and steamy again (extremely unlikely, I know), then The Howling should make a reasonable alternative. "},{"Title":"A Very Subtle Film Whose Subtlety Was Lost On Me","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" During a werewolf feature night, I rented The Howling hoping to be exposed to one of the horror classics in a very positive way. Since I enjoyed Joe Dante's Gremlins, Innerspace and Homecoming, I figured this would be an easy task. But I was more bored than anything.The story begins with a woman working undercover who is attacked in a booth at an adult store. She and her husband leave the area, only to enter into a den of werewolves.The film had some big problems for me. The biggest being that as far as horror films go, this one lacked a lot of things one expects from horror. The werewolves do not appear until much later in the film, leaving more than the first half for some other story that seemed to me to have very little connection to the horror theme (though I admit I did not pay as close attention as I probably should have).The other big problem is that I did not know the film would be laced with subtle horror homages. The film Slither had many horror homages, but was very enjoyable even without them. This film seems to rely heavily on the audience getting the in-jokes I missed. I didn't notice the characters were named for actors who were in werewolf movies. I didn't see the photo of Lon Chaney. I didn't notice the copy of the book Howl. And the man who digs for change (Roger Corman), was unrecognizable to me (unfortunately and rather ironically, as I consider Corman the greatest horror director of all time). Catching these things would have made me squeal in delight.The film had good moments. A passionately love scene was well-done. Early on we also see a violent porn film, which I think made the film more gritty and disturbing than many horror films of its time. And there is a werewolf transformation sequence that is very long and very heavy on the special effects (before the days of CGI). The werewolves in general looked great, not unlike the ones in Dog Soldiers but without the stilts.I guess I expected more humor from Joe Dante, but this film definitely deserves a second chance from me. Until that time, I give the film a middle of the road rating neither good or bad. "}{"Title":"Overrated Werewolf film, average at best as far as I'm concerned.","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" T.V. newswoman Karen Stone (Dee Wallace-Stone as Dee Wallace) has been contacted by and agreed to have a private meeting with a wanted L.A. serial killer Eddie Quist (Robert Picardo), she decides to use herself as bait to trap him with the police's help. Things don't go according to plan however. Before receiving a phone call from Quist in a public call box to let her know where to go and meet him her electronic equipment fails and the monitoring police lose track of her. Quist tells Karen to go to a porno shop and wait in a booth in the back. Violent pornography plays on a screen as Karen is attacked from behind. Two policemen (Kenneth Toby and Steve Nevil), having managed to re-locate Karen, burst in and shoot Eddie dead. Karen is traumatised by the event and cannot remember parts of it and decides to visit Dr. George Waggner (Patrick Macnee) who did a profile on Quist and was recently a guest on her T.V. programme. He suggests that she and her husband William 'Bill' Neil (Dee Wallace-Stones real life husband Christopher Stone) take a break from their careers and visit the secluded retreat he has set-up that is known as the 'Colony'. They agree and head off to the Colony which is situated on the California coast. At night Karen begins to hear an eerie howling noise. Meanwhile two of Karen's journalist friends and colleagues, Terry (Belinda Balaski) and Chris (Dennis Dugan) locate Quist's apartment and find some very strange drawings of half men half wolf creatures. They investigate further and discover that Quist's body has disappeared from the morgue, eventually the trail leads them to the Colony. After Bill has just rejected the advances of Marsha (Elizabeth Brooks) he is attacked by a large unknown and extremely aggressive animal. Soon everything is revealed and Karen finds out the sinister truth behind the howling noises, who Eddie Quist really is and the real purpose of why the 'Colony' was created. Directed by Joe Dante I was very disappointed by this highly thought of film, I just can't get that excited about it. The script by John Sayles and Terence H. Winkless based on the Novel by Gary Brandner is very slow to start and is full of in-jokes and references. It picks up a little for the last half an hour or so but overall I just wasn't particularly interested in anyone or anything by this point. Why is it that a werewolf can punch through a car roof but can't escape from an old wooden barn while it's burning down? The one thing this film does have going for it is some excellent special make-up effects from Rob Bottin and his team, Rick Baker who did the equally excellent effects for An American Werewolf in London (1981) has a credit as consultant too. The transformation scenes are impressive although there isn't a lot of blood or gore, in fact I can't really remember any. There is someone with half their face burnt off with acid and a chopped off arm and that's about it, but it's definitely the transformations that steal the special make-up effects show. There is a scene where two people start to turn into werewolves as they have sex, which is kinky I guess. It's generally well made and looks OK. The acting is fine and there are a few familiar faces in it, there's an extremely old looking John Carradine who can barely walk, Slim Pickens as the local Sheriff, Dick Miller plus director Roger Corman and screenwriter John Sayles also have small cameo's. This is also the only film that has the closing credits running over a shot of a burger being cooked on a grill, at least I think it is. Generally quite slow but there are a few good sequences in here if you stick it out to the end. Not too bad, but not brilliant either. "},{"Title":"You can't tame what's meant to be wild!","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Joe Dante's The Howling is a superb film handling about the coolest creatures in the horror field Werewolves!! Unfortunately, this sub-genre isn't really packed with masterpieces so that's an extra reason to particularly praise this one. Plot, screenplay and acting are terrific! The Howling contains several very creepy and atmospheric moments while the special effects and the make-up are outstanding (that transmutation scene!!). It may look like this film starts out a little slow and out of its horror-field but you'll soon forget about this during the second half of the movie. And, after witnessing the overwhelming finale, I'm pretty sure you'll regard this like a true genre-highlight. The Howling can depend on a clever crew and a more than devoted cast. Dee Wallace is quite impressive in her role of Karen White. She's a journalist suffering from a trauma after she nearly got raped and killed during an undercover assignment for the TV-news. As some form of therapy, she and her husband Bill join a bizarre spiritual movement called 'The Colony'. Karen soon gets the impression that something is not quite right in this group and that several members have animal characteristics. Other than a very entertaining and well-elaborated film, The Howling also is a purely ingenious tribute to other genre-classics. Joe Dante brings homage to Universal Pictures (The Wolf Man, WereWolf of London) as well as too Hammer Studios (Curse of the Werewolf) and a whole lot of titles directed by his mentor, Roger Corman. This simply is an excellent film, period. Over twenty years old by now but it still looks fresh and adequate. It has everything tension, atmosphere, a bit of gore and a grim sense of humor. If you're interested in purchasing all the fundamental films that made the horror genre&#133;then add the Howling to your list! "},{"Title":"Should have called this The Hurling....","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ....because that is what I felt like doing after watching this drivel. This rot was like all other wolfman films - redundant, boundlessly boring, hackneyed, poorly performed, even more poorly scripted, and finally, just plain silly. Why this garbage gets such high ratings is beyond my range of understanding, but to each his own. This junk was no better than the old Lon Chaney werewolf films from the 40's, and they were pathetic beyond belief. This vomitous bilge should be avoided at all costs. Thumbs way, way down. "},{"Title":"A True Werewolf Masterpiece!","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Big city reporter Karen White (Dee Wallace Stone) has been assaulted by a crazed killer named Eddie Quist (Richard Picardo) in a porn store, she decides to get away from it all with husband Neil (Christopher Stone) named to a forest retreat called The Colony. It seems like a relaxing and nice resort for travelers but at night, weird things happen involving mysterious murders and wolf howling that occur at night.One of the greatest Werewolf movies of all time! Joe Dante's dark and unique horror story is a different take of the Lyncanthrope myth other then your basic Hollywood retelling of the stories. The Werewolves in this movie can change at anytime and not just during the night, Rob Bottin's make-up effects are amazing and still is today. Joe Dante's direction is fantastic even the performances by Wallace with John Carrdain, Slim Pickens and Dick Miller. This movie with An American Werewolf in London back in 1981 made the Werewolf genre popular again.A real classic! check out this "},{"Title":"The First and Best","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Howling, The (1981) *** (out of 4)A newswoman (Dee Wallace) goes to the country to get away from her problems but soon realizes she's in a colony of werewolves. The early 80's featured all sorts of werewolf movies and this here is one of the best, although I don't think it's a major classic like some think. I think there are many long, drawn out and boring scenes here but you can't take away all the great things in the movie. Director Dante does a great job at paying homage to older films from the genre and he plants several in-jokes that fans of classic horror should pick up on. Another big bonus is Dee Wallace who, in my opinion, needs to be called the Scream Queen over Jamie Lee Curtis. Wallace does a great job in her role and really nails all the dramatic moments of the character. The supporting players are good as well but the real charm comes from all the cameos including John Carradine, Kevin McCarthy, Dick Miller, Slim Pickens and others. The special effects also hold up quite well and who will ever forget the sex scene in front of the fire when they slowly turn into werewolves? This here is without a doubt one of the greatest scenes in horror history. "}]