[{"Title":"As Good As It Gets","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  When it comes to films on the L.A. hardcore scene of the late 70s/early 80s this is as good as it gets!  It's very rare that cameras are around during the genesis of a music movement, and I will be forever grateful that Ms Sheeris was there to capture the beginnings of the LA hardcore scene that was growing out of the ideals and influences of the dying New York & London punk scenes.  I was living on the East Coast at the time this film came out, and back then the only way to see some of these bands, without going to L.A., was to see this film.  It was a rare event when one of these bands would pile into a van and head east on a tour, so to fulfill our love for the L.A. hardcore scene my friends and I would go see this film every few weeks.  This is a great document of that time in music history.  For people who liked this era of punk/hardcore music, here's a few other very similar documentary films you might want to check out...THE BLANK GENERATION - (70s New York punk - Johnny Thunders, Richard Hell, Ramones, Television, Patti Smith, etc...)THE PUNK ROCK MOVIE - (70s British punk - Sex Pistols, The Clash, X-Ray Spex, Eater, etc...)PUNK IN LONDON - (70s British punk - The Clash, The Adverts, The Lurkers, Subway Sect, etc...)D.O.A. - (70s American & British punk - Dead Boys, Generation X, Sham 69, Iggy Pop, etc...  *contains a priceless interview with Sid & Nancy*)UK/DK - (80s British hardcore - The Addicts, The Exploited, The Business, UK Subs, etc...) "},{"Title":"Get me a ****ing beer! A hilarious, dark, pulse-racing doc","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  One of the major successes to The Decline of Western Civilization, filmmaker Penelope Spheeris' indie breakthrough, is that it can perhaps appeal to non-punk fans as to the hardcore ones.  More importantly, it captures a moment in history before the movement became completely market-worthy, when bands would play (or, at the least, try to play in some cases) in dank, dirty clubs to an audience that had as much self-respect as they had respect for the bands.  For the fan, such as myself, there are precious interviews with some of the quasi-legends of LA's punk-scum, some dead, some still living and still hard-working in the scene.  Performances and interviews include the likes of The Circle Jerks, X, Black Flag (in the pre-Henry Rollins days), Catholic Discipline, Fear, the Alice Bag Band, and most memorable (in my opinion) being the Germs.  While I knew of a few of the bands and performers in the film (The Jerks and Black Flag mostly), I had only heard rumors about lead singer (the late) Darby Crash, and from the footage in the film he seems to be one of the, if not the, epitomes of the punk movement.  He doesn't take himself too seriously, he loves to drink, sometimes when he speaks it's complete gibberish, and the attitude he brings on stage is both funny and in a free-form way exhilarating.  A performer like that would probably scare Steve Miller and Jackson Browne out of their skins.Decline of Western Civilization may not turn on every non-punk fan that seeks this film out (it's hard to find on video), but it shouldn't necessarily turn them off either.  Like a kind of anthropologist that's sneaked into the party, Spheeris gets the behavior of these people down pat, their motives, their likes and hatreds, and the power that was their on and off-screen personas.  A few of them almost come off as normal, some don't, but they're only offensive to those who aren't too open to things.  On top of that, the film is a must-see to the kinds of kids that think they're punk fans just because they listen to Good Charlotte and Blink-182 if you want to get the real scoop on the movement and genre of rock you profess to love, give the pioneers a chance.  A  "},{"Title":"A good documentary","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  Here is a great movie. Now, first of all, I would like to say that I was born in the early 1980s. I really never knew, up-close and personal, what true punk rock was. Watching this film was like a history lesson of sorts. The music was great, good vintage rock n' roll from bands like Black Flag, Circle Jerks, X, etc. It seemed to me that with this film, Penelope Spheeris was trying to show people that these weren't all just stupid kids who were out to do drugs and kill people. Some of these punks really had some philosophies that they were working at behind their music. This seems most evident in the interview with Black Flag. I understand myself how a lot of people might view these bands' philosophies as under-developed and simple, but one must take into account that these were some pretty young people. Nowadays, as young as I still am, I find it refreshing to run into someone my age who understands in any way philosophical thinking. In this movie, the young people may seem a little half-baked in their philosophies, but you might keep in mind that most kids don't even get that far. I've met many full-grown adults who have not progressed as far with deep thought contexts as some of the punk musicians in Decline. Another thing I loved about this movie was how funny it got at times. Some of these kids were total idiots, while the story about the dead painter was devilishly humorous. Fear's performance at the end topped it all. Even if punk is dead, it was once very alive. All flaws aside, The Decline of Western Civilization was made for people who can tell the difference between some suburban wimp with a mohawk and the truly intelligent individuals who were genuinely upset and picked up music instruments as weapons against the forces of the corporate. "},{"Title":"The Decline of Western Civilization","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" Let start off by first saying that I have been a punk fan most of my life. I always kind of had a lack of respect for the LA scene of the early 80's, which The Decline of Western Civilization documents, with the exception of X and Black Flag, being more of New York and English punk guy. After I saw this movie that completely changed. The people shown may look like a bunch of idiotic, strung out kids who think they might accomplish something beyond street-Cree through their lifestyles, but it is a great display of hedonism at it's best, coupled with some fun, loud rock n roll. One of the best scenes, and actually most insightful, is the interview with Claude Bessy of Catholic Discipline, or 'Kick-Boy' as he was known to Slash magazine readers. Originally from France, he rants about punk like a dirty old Frenchman and clues in viewers to many aspects of the punk, or DIY, attitude to music, politics, and life in general. Darby Crash of the Germs comes off as a complete idiot most of the time, but the Germs' performance of Manimal is pretty decent, complete with a young Pat Smear. Black Flag's performance with Chavo Pederast on vocals (it was filmed a couple of years before Henry Rollins joined the band) is decent, and X and FEAR give the best performances in the movie. Look out for the interviews with the young punk kids. You'll hear some of the funniest things you have ever heard in a documentary. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to the little French guy?","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  Kind of a guilty indulgence nowadays, this used to be required watching when i was in high school. It really is a great illumination of the burgeoning punk scene in LA in 1980. As the bands play, Spheeris prints the lyrics in subtitles, which is of course necessary if one really wants to know what the guy is screaming into the microphone. But also it turns the camera's POV into that of tourist, passing through this alien world. The band interviews reveal an honest approach to the music that really doesn't exist anymore. Then again, it's not as easy to come by $16/month former-church closets like Chavez of Black Flag does. How many unheard of bands do you know that aren't trying like the dickens to get a record deal? These guys just didn't care. And who can't love the commentary of the little French dude who used to be the singer for Catholic Discipline (of which Phranc was a member). His gritty voice delivers one of the best soliloquies ever captured on film I have excellent news for the world ... there's no such thing as New Wave. Whew! What a relief! "},{"Title":"Could somebody please put this one out on Video?","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  Spheeris debut must be one of the best music documentaries of all time. And as far as I know it's also the only one that focuses on the L.A. Punk Explosion of the early eighties. It's all there not just great, great bands like Black Flag, Fear, X, the Germs, whose names may not mean much to you today, but whose influence on today's alternative rock music can not be over-estimated, but also the promoters, the media and first of all the audiences - the punks - all portrayed in a manner that makes you laugh, shudder and gasp with astonishment about the energy, the anger and the fury these youths put into their music. Where is that today? The eighties may have sucked big time when it cames to mainstream music, but the underground was rocking. If you need a proof for that, watch Fear's performance in Decline. Unmatched. Great film! How come this is not available on vid, LD or DVD? P.S. The follow-up Decline Pt. II is hilarious, too "},{"Title":"Brilliant, funny, scary...but selective.","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" Everyone who's seen Decline knows how great it is. My favorite segments are those featuring Black Flag and Fear, because they're the funniest and the most visceral. Still, all the bands that actually STARTED the Los Angeles punk scene, apart from the Germs, are missing from this film. Where are the Weirdos, the Screamers, the Dils, and the Zeros? The Alice Bag Band is here, but they were better when they were simply the Bags. The Germs' segment is depressing. The very brief glimpses of Catholic Discipline were fascinating and made me wish that this band had at least recorded some demos. As a documentary, Decline is flawed...but it's indispensable, too. To find out about the bands this film didn't cover, read We Got the Neutron Bomb by Marc Spitz and Brendan Mullen. And to see what was going on in San Francisco right around the same time, get the much shorter (but equally brilliant) documentary Louder Faster Shorter, directed by Mindaugis Bagdon. This twenty-minute burst of pure punk actually *does* feature the Dils--along with UXA, the Avengers, the Sleepers, and the Mutants. "},{"Title":"When Something Interesting Briefly Happened in Music","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" If I assume that you know what this film is about, I am also forced to assume that you've come to this review knowing that you will probably watch it regardless of what I say. If all this rings true - read on - you are likely to find some consonance with at least part of this review. If you're undecided, or not really entirely certain what happened in the late '70s and early '80s in the urban and suburban youth music culture, you should probably read one of the reviews which pretends to be objective instead.Although I didn't grow up in California, the American punk scene was the first music scene I ever truly lived in. At the height of the hardcore I was immersed in from about 1979-1981 everybody had a band and the only common denominators between bands and indeed members of their audiences were* the rejection of conformity* tolerance and enjoyment of difference* a desire to have fun - hard and fastHairstyles, politics, dislike of authority figures, and violent slam-dancing were not integral to what I experienced, though there were certainly cliques or factions who tended to be intolerant of those who did not dress, speak or act punk enough. And there was often a certain amount of unearned credit extended from some of these cliques to those who tried really hard to live down to the fascistic paradigm of anarchic, self mutilating, angry young cop-haters. Although the interviews with audience punks in Penelope Spheeris' excellent Cal-Punk documentary Decline of Western Civilization present a very narrow view of the subculture some of us enjoyed, the interviews with the bands, club owners, promoters and even the security people are much more representative of at least my own perspective and memories of 'the scene'. nevertheless, it is possible for those who approach this with prejudices about what punk is to experience this film without having their preconceptions challenged. Unfortunate as this is, the blame for it rests solely with those who promote, believe in or feel comfortable with stereotypes - Not the film-makers. Don't blame the messenger. The music presented here is not going to be for everybody - nor even most. It's not the most crude stuff out there, but it's loud, obnoxious, fast, and less concerned with technique than with raw energy. For me, seeing early Black Flag with Ron Reyes singing, X, Fear and the Circle Jerks was worth far more than the cost of this hard to obtain film. As much as I like The Germs, seeing Darby Crash for the mess - and the nice guy - that he was left me a bit cold. Nevertheless, the scenes of Darby playing with his pet tarantula while Shut Down droned on and on in the background were precious. The X interview is also great. Spheeris' straightforward documentary style is supplemented by wild pans and zooms during the musical segments. During the interviews, framing is used very nicely to provide context for whatever is being said. Considering her experience and the budget, Spheeris did as well as anybody could have with this film.Recommended for those who appreciate what this film is actually about, and for those who have forgotten those few years of fun, honest, direction-less rebellion before Amaerican punk was co-opted into yet another flow within the musical mainstream and the stereotypes became more important than the basic philosophy. "},{"Title":"Punk Rock Life from the inside","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  Before she made Wayne's World, Ms Spheeris documented the LA Punk scene with the kind of dead pan perspective that makes this the all time classic commercial punk rock documentary.  Of course Target Video's concert footage of the Dead Kennedys or the Mutants live at a home for the insane are much better, but unless you live near Leather Tongue Video in San Francisco, you probably won't find those, so this one will have to do.Best Irony  Members of a famous X-Punk band tattooing each other on a dirty couch while apparently under the influence of some processed opiate are talking about how pot makes hippies so pathetically passive that someone would come in and kick the shit out of them and all they'd say is Bummer maaan.  And then going on to a completely deadpan unemotional account of finding a dead guy in the back yard.Definitely the best insight into the whole era.  Sure The Great Rock and Roll Swindle is fun, but this one shows the whole scene unflinchingly from a neutral angle.  The camera is on and everyone becomes an actor on their own stage. "},{"Title":"Smell the glove","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" The decline series is amazing and director PS can't get enough credit for making these movies. I'm slightly surprised to see that not very many people have seen this one, or the other two, but their worth unearthing if you want the picture of punk in the trans-formative years between the late seventies and early eighties. The film starts out with a blistering collection of clips played over music from the band X. Many interviews with bands and punker's that offer an enlightening perspective as to what surviving was like on the low rung of the mainstream rock ladder. No internet, crappy jobs, and all out hostility collide in this genre. At some point later in the decade the emphatic singer from the drumside Phil Collins recorded a song that may have been written about Germs singer Darby Crash, the hook of the song goes I cant dance, i cant talk, the only thing about me is the way i walk which sums up Crash's performance here and on into infinitum perfectly. Forget about Keith Richards and f#*k AXL, Darby was for real and lived every moment like he was falling down an elevator shaft drunk. He really cant dance or talk or walk or fry an egg, he, in my mind is the perennial rock god, not afraid of what happens later, only thoroughly confused at the now. For new kids who haven't heard of these bands or are just starting one themselves this movie is a true lesson in how to rock. All the band performances (and there are many) are awesome, especially FEAR who never cease to amaze me. This and the second installment are amazing time capsules offering those who care a rare glimpse into the lives of these crazy people. It's true punk, like in the interview with Darby Crash's girlfriend when their recalling a painter who mysteriously/suddenly died outside their house and it took a week or so for them to figure it out, they take pictures next to the guy and everyone including the EMT's had a chuckle on this one, and in true form the interviewer asks the girlfriend if she was sad or upset that this guy had died while painting their house, the response no i hate painters. How about Black Flag renting their apartment/rehearsal space for 16 dollars a month! My jaw almost fell off at that moment seeing as i'm renting a ten by ten closet to practice in for 400. Between watching this and Deadwood i feel like i was born in the wrong time period, just missing those cowboy days and nights of the old way. The people and bands associated with the movie paved the way for what harder music today is, and they did it in their own unique way. Brilliant film, ten stars, see part 2 as well its equally awesome, part 3 though, i don't know what to say about. "}{"Title":"just covers one sub-punk culture. . .","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  Decline is an excellent movie, but we must keep in mind that it only showcases one of the many sub-cultures of punk rock in LA at the time. the Germs and Fear etc are all great bands and the shots of them don't do them justice. but the shots of the fans cast an almost negative light on punk rockers. this movie was made at a time when angry youth from orange county found their way into the LA punk scene. they made it violent, (it always sort of was, but it was never meant to take away from the music) they are shown moshing for the sake of hurting each other not for celebrating the music; like the punkers before them. Decline is an excellent glimpse into the punk scene of the 70s and 80s, but be wary when showing it to someone who only has this to base their opinions of Punk rock on.  "},{"Title":"A terrible stereotype and makes Punk come off as braindead.","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" Punk is supposed to be hopeful and inspirational. It is supposed to be intelligent and empowering. The rejection of fascism and materialism for genuinity. The ethic of DIY - Do It Yourself; Individuality is encouraged and the idea that everybody can accomplish things on their own. You don't have to rely on other people and you don't have to rely on the corporations - If you want to do something, you can show people an entirely brand new way of doing it.Punk is about freethinking. And freedom. Both freedom on the physical plane and the mental. Punk rock is very hopeful indeed. And I would like to consider myself a fan of punk because all of these things resonate with me.Which is why THIS DOCUMENTARY IS AWFUL. I couldn't even watch all of it. She makes punk people come across as complete idiots who just drink, do drugs and pick fights with people for NO REASON. That's all this documentary ever focuses on. And what's worst of all is that they can't even explain WHY they are fighting!You have a kid who rants about how everyone is a poser because they're wimpy and when asked about why he is so angry He replies that he DOESN'T KNOW. >_> The very definition of braindead. How can you possibly NOT know why you're angry!? It's like he's never even bothered to develop an advanced thought in his entire life and never even bothers with self-reflection.I really hate the notion that punk people are supposed to be dumb drug addicts. It's an awful stereotype that this movie tries to put across as a general truth. And what makes it worse is all the other reviews talking about how this is TRUE PUNK ROCK. It's not. It's a dilution of Sid Vicious and it's annoying to watch.Punk isn't about teenage angst and beer. It's about making the world a better place while living for yourself. "},{"Title":"Biased portrayal of the LA punk scene and punks in general","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  Spheeris used this documentary to push a stereotype of punks. This documentary is biased and guided, not objective. The cutting techniques that jump from interview to interview may be used to take the spoken word of interviewees out of context. When you watch the film, the sticking idea that comes from the interviews of the punks is that they are pretty dumb. Band members and other punks seem to be of low intelligence and unable to explain their motives or give detailed or coherent answers or even answers at all. I highly doubt that if some of those who were interviewed knew what Spheeris was creating or saw the final product would allow themselves to be included in the project. This film puts punks in a bad light by making them seem unintelligent and simple-minded. Spheeris' film should not be taken as a representation of the L.A. punk scene. If you want to see a good punk documentary watch Another State of Mind featuring Youth Brigade and Social Distortion. "},{"Title":"An excellent early work for Penelope","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" Though I both am neither a punk aficionado (I have seen X live in Detroit in 2008) nor an expert on Spheeris' films (I have seen and enjoyed both 'Wayne's World' and 'Little Rascals'), this was very satisfying. The energy and spirit of these rebellious youths really comes across well, and the clever assertion from one of the interviewees that punk is simply another form of folk and protest music, albeit with different instruments and at a faster speed, rings true. Though I'm not privy to the Los Angeles scene (I'm from Windsor, Ontario, for crying out loud), it appears to be quite an accurate depiction, although it doesn't seem to grab hold, perhaps, of the underground movement. Seeing this, I look forward to the latter two parts of the trilogy, and only wish over the years that Spheeris had expanded her sights, and made documentaries of other, vital, forms of music in L.A., such as folk, hip-hop, rap, jazz, classical, experimental, even soundtrack work for films, since Hollywood is right nearby, and as someone already part of the filmmaking scene, she would have had access to some of the greats of our time. "},{"Title":"early punk scene in USA/LA...many,many incredible performances unavailable anywhere else","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" Absolutely one of the 10 best music films Ever! A totally essential educational experience for any music fanatic--Especially young rock/punk fans today...understanding the beginnings of any particular artistic movement absolutely requires understanding the roots of the music,as well as the mindset and musical environment of the times....not to mention the political and social factors involved at the time. And,besides all that,this documentary is flat-out rock-n-roll F U N !! Do Not Miss It!!! that said,can anyone tell me when,if ever, the decline of western civilization...part 1,( Not part 2,the metal version) will be made available again..hopefully on DVD? "},{"Title":"LA PUNK ROCK at it's best","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" I LOVE this film. It was made JUST before the LA punk scene changed for the worse. It perfectly preserves the mood and attitude of that time and place. I feel really lucky to have been present at the filming of four of the bands at the Fleetwood that night. The only part that doesn't fit in too well is the sections with Catholic Disipline and their socio-political commentary. I didn't see too many people who were into that at all. The rest of the film shows attitudes that I witnessed a lot; people dealing with hard lives, or taking a swing at the music industry and/or lousy hippies. I don't think I've seen a documentary that captures so authentically and personally the subject matter being covered. "},{"Title":"Penelope Spheeris Strikes Again!","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS! The Decline of Western Civilization......what a great title eh? And of coarse a great movie. This is the best concert film I have ever seen. A close second being the Talking Heads movie Stop Making Sense. I first heard of this movie when Waynes World came out in 1992. I looked at the director's name Penelope Spheeris and thought cool name, what else has he directed? I thought the first name was pronounced like envelope. After some time looking in movie guides I came across the critically acclaimed Decline and realized Penelope was a woman.....my Mom corrected me. I spent 8 years of my life trying to track this down. I finally saw it on VHS in Vancouver, where I currently reside. It was worth the wait. This captures the LA punk movement very well. This is teen angst at it's best folks. My favourite is the band the Germs who need subtitles for the lyrics because Darby Crash sings so crazy, you cannot understand it. I laughed when I saw this. The band Black Flag live in an abandoned church and the band X are a very intelligent bunch. Also laughed at the letter some idiot writes in to Slash Magazine about how we do not need to save the whales, there are countless miles of ocean for us to pour toxins in! I became a huge Penelope Spheeris fan after this, and saw all her punk movies-Dudes was OK, and Suburbia is a cult classic! I own both of these on VHS. She is a true underground film maker and I love her stuff. I would have loved to have seen this movie in 1994 when grunge was so popular. I was a big Nirvana fan then, but alas I saw this in 2002 and by that point I had grown out of grunge and now I listen to Crystal Method/Fatboy Slim. Quite a change of pace, I know, but what can you do? But if you want a true depiction of the punk movement this captures it better than anything. Much better than 1991 The Year Punk Broke. This is a tough movie to track down, but if you get your hands on it, rent it, even if you don't like the music it is an excellent piece of work. Now days it might be easier to find with DVD's being so popular. By the way Penelope produced a little known Albert Brooks movie called Real Life which I also own. Very funny stuff in todays reality TV craptacular! Rent Decline......Highly recommended! Thanks! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  Today it is hard to understand the subcultural magnificence of punk. But watching this film makes me feel if only for a moment what punk really is. I wasn't even born when this documentary was made and only saw it about a yr ago. I had been detached from the punk scene and after seeing Penelope's Speeris's masterpiece I got that same rush I get when watching one of my favorite 70's punk bands do a set in the run down old attic club I used to frequent in my early teens. Those of you who choose to look down on the punk world, do not understand it. Not everything has to make perfect sense to everyone but this documentary deserves the respect it has earned for portraying an overlooked generation so perfectly.  "},{"Title":"Changed my Life","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater when I was 14 and it changed my life.  I immediately cut off my hair and began buying all of the records of the bands in the movie.  These were some of the seminal bands of L.A. punk rock caught on film at the peak of their powers.  Bands like Black Flag (pre-Rollins), Circle Jerks, Fear, X, and the Germs have few equals in the history of punk music.  I can't believe this film has never been put out on video or DVD. Great movie for fans of punk rock. "},{"Title":"LA X PUNK 1980!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" First of all, I reviewed this documentary because I had an interest in the subject it portrayed, the LA punks.I listened that music and I loved that music and I read a lot of the small zines that were made in the early 80's and that were not so easily achieved in Finland.So if you don't like this kind of music why you write here about it? I like this kind of music, it speaks my soul, thus I know punks from all over Europe & Americas, so why do you, who find this music repugnant care to comment at all? "}{"Title":"disaffected American youth","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" Penelope Spheeris (of Wayne's World fame) made her mark with the documentary The Decline of Western Civilization, about the LA punk scene in the late '70s and early '80s. Most of the documentary features interviews with the punks and footage of concerts (which often turn violent). Overall, we get to see how the punk movement was a reaction to the hippies whereas the hippies were into being natural, the punks wanted to have themselves as altered as possible, what with spiked hair and all. But also, we see how they're really disaffected and sometimes becoming skinheads.Anyway, this is a really great time capsule. We're not really sure whether we want to long for that era or feel repulsed by it. But this is definitely not a documentary that will leave you neutral. Truly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Classic Documentary","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" Famous documentary of the LA punk scene circa 1979 &#150; 1980. Cheaply made, but as is the case with most documentaries, interesting if you're interested in the subject matter. The LA punk scene was a real cultural ferment and the movie shows this ably. A theme of the movie is the violence attendant in the scene &#150; people seemed to really worry about this back then, and we do see a mini-riot sparked by the ultra-lame Circle Jerks, and an attempt to spark one from the more talented, but still pretty lame, Fear. Movie's most interesting for it's footage of Black Flag in its early years and the Germs, perpetually on the edge of falling apart but undeniably riveting live. Also has Catholic Discipline (sucks, and Kickboy Face is ridiculous), X (pretty good), and The Alice Bag Band (surprisingly pretty good). "},{"Title":"A Must See For All Punks","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best films made about the 80 punk scene. I saw this a few years back on a bootleg copy and was amazed. Very few of todays kids know the true roots of punk and this movie shows some of the 80s punk legends such as The Germs and shows how it was back then. Nowadays so much punk has gone mainstream with MTV and radio and its nice to see the true underground rebellious movement of the original scene. Darby Crash (of The Germs) is one of my heros and this film shows why. A must see for all punks and anyone curious about the 80s punk scene "},{"Title":"LA X PUNK 1980!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" First of all, I reviewed this documentary because I had an interest in the subject it portrayed, the LA punks.I listened that music and I loved that music and I read a lot of the small zines that were made in the early 80's and that were not so easily achieved in Finland.So if you don't like this kind of music why you write here about it? I like this kind of music, it speaks my soul, thus I know punks from all over Europe & Americas, so why do you, who find this music repugnant care to comment at all? "},{"Title":"This movie needs to be re-released!!","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  This movie did so much for me at an early age!From the Crudeness of Lee Ving, to the rawness of the Circle Jerks. Great movie to pay attention to the audiences, as they are very animated very punk rock. I loved this F*#@ing movie. "},{"Title":"Could somebody please put this one out on Video?","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  Spheeris debut must be one of the best music documentaries of all time. And as far as I know it's also the only one that focuses on the L.A. Punk Explosion of the early eighties. It's all there not just great, great bands like Black Flag, Fear, X, the Germs, whose names may not mean much to you today, but whose influence on today's alternative rock music can not be over-estimated, but also the promoters, the media and first of all the audiences - the punks - all portrayed in a manner that makes you laugh, shudder and gasp with astonishment about the energy, the anger and the fury these youths put into their music. Where is that today? The eighties may have sucked big time when it cames to mainstream music, but the underground was rocking. If you need a proof for that, watch Fear's performance in Decline. Unmatched. Great film! How come this is not available on vid, LD or DVD? P.S. The follow-up Decline Pt. II is hilarious, too "},{"Title":"punk rock roots","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  The One and the Only!The only really good description of the punk movement in the LA in the early 80's. Also, the definitive documentary about legendary bands like the Black Flag and the X. Mainstream Americans' repugnant views about this film are absolutely hilarious! How can music be SO diversive in a country of supposed liberty...even 20 years after...find out! "},{"Title":"One of the most pretentious movies I've ever seen","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":" The only reason I give it a star is because I can't give it a 0. Punks are the most disgusting beings out there. They are the equivalent of what hipsters are to our society. They try to set themselves apart but in reality they're all a bunch of sheep. The only difference is they're following a different herd, but they're still sheep nonetheless. & anybody who tries to keep this sheep trend alive is just as bad. Punk= bratty middle class brats who think they're different and unique, but are just tool bags like everybody else. I'm glad this movie opened my eyes to the reality that music is just a lie. "},{"Title":"some insight","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History, Music","Review":"  First off, let it be known that I came into this movie not for the music; actually I find it repugnant. Really, I was interested in the psychology of the punk subculture. On this point, the documentary did fairly well. One disagreeable aspect was the numerous scenes in which songs are played and the hyped-up band and belligerent crowd are shown running amok. If you've seen the first such scene, you've seen them all. This superfluity is party made up for by printing lyrics for some of the songs. With these, the audience is able to somewhat connect mentally with the band. The lyrics are of far more interest than the jumble of sounds projecting from the speakers. I don't know why all the lyrics were not printed. Scenes without lyrics slow (ironic eh?, given the many references to the speed of the music) the flow of the movie. Also insightful were the interviews with fans and bands, though there is a letdown when the latter band's interviews prove to be not nearly as enthralling or humorous as the first two. Overall, a good movie that I'm glad I saw. I'll check out the follow-ups if I ever get a chance.Favorite quote He tried to hide the fact that he couldn't play by rubbing peanut butter over himself and breaking glass. Broad punk generalization Though their disgracefulness, lack of vocabulary and hygiene, and drug-induced obliviousness is often hilarious, in the end it is understood that punks are just pathetic juveniles who rebel just for the sake of rebellion as seen through sophomoric lyrics and naive attempts to philosophize and politicize (disregarding Black Flag, who are slightly less misguided than their peers).  "}]