[{"Title":"Camp Classic","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It does amaze me at times to see what are considered camp classics and then see how so many people can miss an obvious one. This is one film that truly has it all...drunken midgets, nazi spies, princess leia, and a host of off-colour jokes sure to offend ALL. Seriously, if your a member of the PC thought police this film will give you reason to write your congressman (or is it congressperson?) but if you are intelligent enough to realize that when everyone is being poked fun at no one is stigmatized then you might just enjoy this comedic spoof which is as frantic and disjointed as the plot.One last point regarding the munchkins although it might be easy to see this film as taking liberty with the rumors (and some were true) that the midgets who acted in the Wizard of Oz were wild drinking partiers, it should be noted that this notion goes just as far to show how normal this population is; just as interested in getting drunk, laid, and having a good time as the rest of society. A very human face which has not always been offered to actors who are seen primarily in fantasy films (Oz, Willy Wonka, Time Bandits, and even Tiny Town). I do know that the actors on this film were paid better than those on Oz and certainly had no problem with the script in giving their enjoyable performances.A fun ride  "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Comedy of Errors","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With a bit of dark humor thrown in. This is one of my top favorite movies. Mistaken identities and foiled evil plots abound. Those concerned with its lack of political correctness should relax and not be so serious. One reviewer said that, if there was anyone they missed making fun of, it must have been only because they ran out of film stock. Exactly! This film has equal opportunity humor. A Japanese friend of mine, personally not known for his tremendous sense of humor, thought the film was hilarious, and has watched it several times, laughing hardest at the Japanese caricatures.I highly recommend this overlooked gem. Get it, watch it, loosen up and laugh. "},{"Title":"Like A Seinfeld episode","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That's right...this movie is as campy and goofy as you can get and one almost wonders why the stars that were in it (at the time) decided that THIS was a film that they wanted to be in...but...to watch it again...it's almost like a precursor to a Seinfeld episode whereas the many plots all come together at the end to make a very funny and often overlooked film...come on...if Rocky Horror is regarded as a classic, why can't this film?...it has a plethora of midgets, Japanese tourists and spies...Chevy Chase in his prime...and is a takeoff of the Wizard of Oz?...how much more odd can you get...a definite rental that grows on you! "},{"Title":"What a great underrated movie...","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a great underrated movie. Everywhere I look it gets awful reviews, but they don't seem to take into account the campiness of the movie. It doesn't make fun on little people, or at least it doesn't poke more fun at them than anyone else! It makes fun of everyone! If you can find it, at least rent it and give it a try. If you watch it, you'll want to buy it... I did.My whole family enjoyed the movie, and I believe yours will to... Wholesome fun for anyone who enjoys spoofs of spy movies or comedies in general.Chevy Chase is at his prime and best in this movie, sure the script isn't great, but what movie in this genre is? The slap-stick of the movie is incredible and the acting is above most in the category! I have several friends that happen to be little people, and they all enjoyed the movie, and didn't find it offensive in the least. The writers make fun of everyone, while not belittling anyone (except Nazi war criminals, give it a chance!)... "},{"Title":"It's a Funny Movie","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chevy Chase, Carrie Fisher, Pat McCormack, Billy Barty, Eve Arden, Joseph Maher, Adam Arkin, Cork Hubbard, Robert Donner &#150; how could it not be good. The temporary manager (Arkin) of the Culver Hotel, across from MGM in 1939, changes its name to Hotel Rainbow to take advantage of the publicity surrounding the soon-to-be shot Wizard of Oz. It works as the studio's talent agent (Fisher) books rooms for all of their wouldbe munchkins. So, we start with hundreds of partying little people who make a Shriners convention look like a religious retreat. Throw in an FBI agent (Chase) protecting a traveling Duke (Maher) and Duchess (Arden) from a crazed assassin (Donner), and then a couple of dozen photo- snapping Japanese tourists whose bus breaks down in front of the hotel. Finally, sift in a Japanese agent (Mako) and a dwarf Nazi spy (Barty) who are looking for each other in a hotel full of Japanese and dwarfs. The plot is decent without getting in the way of the comedy, the acting is great, and the dialogue is often superb (What floor do you want? Ballroom. Oh' I'm sorry, I didn't know I was crowding you.) All in all, it's a great way to spend an afternoon. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember this film film as among my favorites growing up.  Forget the fact that it is absolutely politically incorrect.  Of all my friends growing up (Japanese, African-American, and yes event a little person) we all have found it hysterical over the years.  The movie excited my imagination beyond most other films.  While no jewel of the cinema, it will always hold a spot in my psychological toy chest, with Fletch, Foul Play, Time Bandits, and other movies too busy entertaining than to think about oversensativities. "},{"Title":"It was a spoof","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" But it was supposed to be a spoof. I could not stop laughing as the movie was so much of a farce I found it to keep me laughing all the time. I would not recommend it for theater view but if you have never seen the movie I would say its worth watching as a rental as the cost of it is so little now. You could rent something much more costly and worse like Dead Calm. I found that all the dumb things that happened such as trying to keep the suicidal dog in the picture just more then my sides could take at times. When that dog jumped out of the window for the ball I lost it. How could you not think something as this movie which I assume was to be as B a movie as anyone could possibly make not be funny? I found it much better then the Vacation movies by far. I would say that this review has a spoiler but this movie cant be spoiled as there is no real plot. "},{"Title":"A funny satire of stereotypes","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie that satirizes Hollywood stereotypes in a fun filled slapstick romp. Sadly, many people miss the point of satire, and will only see the stereotypes. They will not enjoy the movie, but then why do people with no sense of humor even pick up a comedy??The main character is led through an unbelievable sequence of events while staying at a hotel awaiting a tryout for The Wizard of Oz. The hotel is filled with hopefuls for the Munchkin parts, and has been chosen as a supposedly quiet meeting place for a Japanese and German spy to exchange info.The German is a midget, and the addition of a Japanese tour bus stopping at the hotel makes the meeting of these two spies quite a mess.toss in lots of slapstick, satire, and chase fun, and you have a comedy romp that the whole family can belly laugh to.  "},{"Title":"Strange but True... sort of.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a farce. It's big, broad humor... or little broad humor, to be accurate because most of the actors are little people.The Culver Hotel played host to all of the actors who played munchkins during the filming of The Wizard of Oz. Apparently, it was a debacle. The actors partied, drank, and wreaked havoc on the hotel during a stay that has become legendary in Los Angeles.While the specific events of this film are fictional, most of the movie is indeed based on a true event. Now, of course a great story doesn't always make for a good movie. This is indeed a broad, goofy, slapstick comedy. Whatever your level of offense at ethnic and physical stereotypes, some of the humor is groan-worthy. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I know I will be in the minority but I love this film! ( you are probably even more confused by that statement if you see the films I like most in my review postings.) I found the film fun and light hearted. Chevy Chase is at his best,Carrie Fisher is amusing, gutsy and quite fetching. Joseph Maher and eve Arden almost steal the film as the Duke and Dutchess and A pre-Chicago Hope Adam ARKIN shines as the hotel manager. Yes, I give you the fact that some of the jokes may seem very un-p.c. today but they are not malicous,its all in fun. (OH, and did I mention that this film gave the great Billy Barty his best role in years? ) "}{"Title":"IMPORTANT  info for Under The Rainbow fans (MGM contact email address).","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recently left a message for MGM, regarding a release of Under The Rainbow on DVD, & sent them a link to the IMDb comments about this movie.If you would like your comments heard, please visit the following MGM web page, http//www.mgm.com/help.do, and instantly let your request be known.With any luck, our comments will be forwarded to the appropriate department, & they will finally get the ball rolling on a DVD release of this cult classic.Thanks! ...Randy G. ) "},{"Title":"Funny movie about little people","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed the funny movie.  It is about these people who are staying in the same hotel as the midgets are from the wizard of oz.  it is really campy and hard to find. "},{"Title":"The pearl is in the river!","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am sorry that everyone did not see the humor in this movie like I did. I love this movie!! Of course I love anything with Chevy Chase in the80's. How can anybody not love a movie with all of those little people?!!! (notice the PC term) Somebody please add some classic quotes from this movie. I will have to go home tonight and watch this again to add some zingers. When I purged my huge pile of VHS tapes I kept this one. I won't let it go until I find the DVD. For those who didn't find this movie even a little amusing, check it out again. Maybe you were just having a bad day.To this day, when I want to be intimate with my husband, I just look at him and say The pearl is in the river and he just smiles. "},{"Title":"Still a gut-buster","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this when I was about ten. Granted, I may not have matured much, but it's still just as funny. There is nothing socially redeeming or smart about the flick. I take that back... it does have some clever moments. Very tongue-in-cheek. They knew what kind of movie they were making at the time and, I think, hit the mark. Chevy Chase plays a pre-Fletch CIA guy whose job is protect a dopey ambassador and his wife while being chased by Nazis in the same hotel where the Munchkin cast of The Wizard of Oz are staying. Wow, that was a long sentence. Anyway, at the end of the day it's about drunken little people. That should be enough. Drunk. Little. People. "},{"Title":"Corny spoof","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Realize that this is not a factual representation of the making of the Wizard of Oz. You know Hollywood and the phrase dramatic license? I thought this movie was hilarious because I love corny stuff. This movie is a spoof on Hollywood itself. Only a spoof would include a Nazi plot, inept secret agents, a quirky romance, a dimwitted assassin, lots of little people and, of course, the making of a movie within the movie. The big chase scene is too funny and the movie ends as it should. Did I say a good chase scene? I don't want to spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen it. This would be a good movie for family night. So if you enjoy corny stuff, rent this and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"The pearl is in the river...","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Campy at it's best. A lighthearted look at one of the best movies ever made. It's a spoof, not to be taken too seriously. A spoof about the making of the Wizard of Oz possibly based on a rumor started by Ms. Judy Garland herself. During an interview she was asked what the midget actors were like to work with. Her reply They were drunks! (she was joking, of course.)Take that rumor, ad a little espionage, Chevy Chase in his SNL days, Carrie Fisher in her Star Wars days, throw in the incomparable Billy Barty...And you'll have plenty of laughs. True, as one other commentator said, it's not very PC. A few movies in the early 80's had that flaw...and mind you it takes place in an even earlier decade. It's also very slapstick, and cheeky. But I loved it for it's slapstick and cheekiness. It's a spoof. And, if you enjoy spoofs you'll enjoy Under The Rainbow.6.5/10 from me, for pure laughs. "},{"Title":"Those Munchkins know how to party","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not even the real Wizard Of Oz movie had so many midgets and dwarfs in its cast as Under The Rainbow. This nicely paced comedy starring Chevy Chase and Carrie Fisher has Chase as a secret service agent and Fisher as an agent and handler for the various little people hired to play the Munchkins in The Wizard Of Oz. They're staying at Adam Arkin's hotel or I should say Richard Stahl's hotel where Stahl has left Arkin in charge.Chase is staying at the hotel with Joseph Maher and Eve Arden a pair of displaced nobility from Europe who are in fear of an assassin who keeps trying for them, Chase is their security. In the meantime a German and a Japanese agent are trying to connect with Mako and Billy Barty playing those roles respectively. They're both trying desperately to make contact with each other because who knew a convention of little people would be staying there. Hard especially for Mako to find Barty in that situation.While all the cloak and dagger intrigue is going on, the would be Munchkins have taken over the hotel and have turned it into party central. Where did they think they were, on the Animal House set?Chase and Fisher prove to be valiant troopers in the midst of all the hullabaloo. This one is a real gem, one definitely to lift your spirits. There's a party going somewhere both Over and Under The Rainbow. "},{"Title":"Goodbye, Yellowbrick Road.","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Singer Midgets return to Hollywood and face the many legends which have filled movie books for years. Of course, they don't mention Nazi agents on the set and a fancy royal couple with a pooch named Strudel. Chevy Chase is a government agent guarding the Duke and Duchess and Carrie Fisher guarding the residents of Munchkinland and the winged monkeys. This leads to chases all over the Rainbow Hotel and MGM studios, visiting the Gone With the Wind set, pretty remarkable considering it was filmed at Selznick. The actual surviving Wizard of Oz munchkins appear as themselves, many ageless considering that Oz was made 40 years before.Sounds promising, yes? NO! This is one of the great comic disasters over the past 40 years, a film so unfunny that I wanted the witch to swoop down and cover them with the poison from her hourglass. Eve Arden tries very hard with a Eastern European accent to be amusing but is defeated by tasteless material concerning her beloved pup whom she fails to recognize with changing looks. Joseph Maher also tries as the Duke with similar results. Billy Barty gets a few good pratfalls as the German spy who starts his mission by hailing Hitler right in the no-nads. With its Mel Brooks style humor, you think there would be some humor but all it ends up being is a Bugs Bunny cartoon where all the gags land with a thud. And oh, those songs, which sound like the original munchkin songs sped up to make the voices even higher. "},{"Title":"Something to offend everyone","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sorry - I think Blazing Saddles used that first, and that's a much better satire! This is just silliness - we always get laughs out of this, it's not prejudiced against anyone because everyone gets skewered! Also, part of the fun is star-watching, it has a lot of our favorite character actors, including Billy Barty, Mako, Eve Arden! Surely they all realized that it was a bit of froth, and not to be taken seriously. I brought out the VHS because of the recent interview with surviving Munchkins. We would like to have a DVD because my husband, who is deaf, depends on captions or subtitles to get the jokes.SPOILER - It opts out in the end, making it a dream and not based on reality! "},{"Title":"Make what you will of those dreams.","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As for a Chevy Chase vehicle (and I remember this being my first encounter of his work in films and still a favourite), it's not much of one, but I still don't get the negativity towards this extravagantly wacky period comedy enterprise. I love Chevy Chase (and most of his films), but here he goes about things in kind of a laid back manner with everything else soon rising head over heels with its madcap humor and zany visuals. Truly there's so much going on (plenty of episodic sub-plots for the fodder), making it very unforeseeable with the style of 'Under the Rainbow' being very old-fashioned, but amusingly daring and erratically insane in its lack of respect for correctness. It looks cheap (but from my understanding it wasn't), but has a grand feel to it.The story sets up the events of 1938, when a major studio with plans to make a fantasy film called 'Wizard Of Oz', assembles 150 midgets to play munchkins and book them into the Culver Hotel&#x85; only to find that there reservations were lost and leaves their talent coordinator Annie Clark (a completely delightful Carrie Fisher) with a headache. Also at the hotel is an American secret Agent Bruce Thorpe (smoothly played by Chase) looking after two international guests the Duke (a terrific Joseph Maher) and Duchess (a perfectly airy Eve Arden) with an assassin (A fidgety Robert Donner) close behind. No it's over yet, because a very miniature German spy (who gets mistaken as one of the cast members) arrives at the hotel looking for a Japanese spy to hand over some very important documents, but his luck the hotel is filled with Japanese tourists. Now watch how everything raucously mingles together. Nothing is safe from the onslaught.There's something that's engaging about this gimmicky idea, which it caps it off rather nicely when it comes to the closing. Quite a clever touch. The cartoon-like screenplay is potent and elastic, although feels a little on the rushed side. Some of the gags do get tiredly reused, but its concentration on the eccentrically bumbling details of accidents, mischief and distractions getting out of hands and then coming together amongst a party atmosphere holds some charm. Everything falls into place&#x85; for some it might be like watching a car smash&#x85; but I liked this recklessly spontaneous fiasco.Steve Rash's busy handling is direction-less, but cheerfully staged with moments of a gliding camera working the action considerably well. The score is a bellow of dramatic sounds. The cast really do give it their all and I enjoyed watching them. Chevy Chase and Carrie Fisher made for a likable pairing. A flighty Cork Hubbert is fine. Bill Barty is quite fun as the dwarf German spy and Mako as the icy Japanese spy. Adam Arkin as the fill-in hotel manager is rather fitting too. Also appearing were Richard Stahl, Phil Fondacaro and Debbie Lee Carrington. "}{"Title":"Ms.Fisher Was Wrong","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have to disagree with Carrie Fisher's description of this movie as the worst she ever made. Besides, wasn't she drinking and drugging during the early eighties? (Source Ms. Fishers own Postcards From The Edge.) Her memory might be sketchy.Here is lots of low brow, Pythonesque humor combined with relentless political incorrectness and slapstick. If you're a fan of the Wizard of Oz, you will never think about the munchkins the same way again.Trivia Pat McCormack, a writer on Johnny Carson's Tonight Show, appears as Tiny. You may remember seeing McCormack appear occasionally on the Tonight Show, where Carson would introduce him as America's Number One Talent Scout, upon which McCormack would present some of the most howlingly awful acts ever to desecrate the stage. "},{"Title":"A great classic that so many have never heard of!!","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was just thinking about this movie the other day and started looking for it online. Guess what? There's only 4 copies on VHS available on all of Ebay. And as most of you have found out, it's not out on DVD, though someone posted a comment that it is scheduled for release in 2007. When I first saw this I loved it. Crazy as It's a Wild, Wild, Wild, Wild World with so much flavor and great actors. Never a dull moment and seeing Carrie Fisher in her Star Wars era is a treat. Chevy Chase is always a classic. And where else outside of Wizard of Oz can you see so many talented midgets create the zany and entertaining mood that permeates this show. Can't wait to see it again. So..do it buy one of the 4 copies on VHS on Ebay, or wait.....for the DVD. Hmmm "},{"Title":"Promising comedic story and players get lost in the frantic shuffle...","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A gloriously promising idea 1930s movie-studio executives have a difficult time controlling all the little people they've hired to play Munchkins for the movie The Wizard Of Oz. Director Steve Rash opens the film with the right amount of edgy whimsy and queasy sentimentality, hinting this may have been a twisted, funny fracas with a little bit of heart amongst its grosser gags. Unfortunately, the script seems half-completed, and stars Chevy Chase and Carrie Fisher (a likable screen-duo) are lost along the way. Scattered laughs cannot compensate for headache-inducing final third, with Adam Arkin screaming until he's hoarse. Even comedy legend Eve Arden fails to register, which is criminal. * from **** "},{"Title":"Go rescue your elevator.....","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1938 Los Angeles, the manager of the Culver Hotel leaves his nephew in charge for a weekend. The nephew changes the name to the Hotel Rainbow and overbooks with royalty, assassins, secret agents, Japanese tourists, and munchkins from the cast of 'Wizard of Oz'. Secret Service agent Bruce Thorpe and casting director Annie Clark find romance amidst the intrigue and confusion........So,e films can be very hard to find because the makers of the film had a little disagreement with the studio, so it can be very hard to get a proper release, so it just pops up on TV every now and again (think Michael Mann's The Keep).Others just remain hidden because they are so bad, that everybody involved wants to forget that it ever existed.And this has to be the prime example of such a film.What Chase and Fisher are doing in this film is anyone's guess, maybe the studio had something on them, photographic evidence of some sort of major crime, because they do nothing, absolutely nothing, to add a little depth to the proceedings.But then they must have seen the dailies and realised that whatever they would try, would not add any coherence to the film.Because the film is just an exercise in the offensive, being abhorrent to almost every single character on screen. So the last two acts consist of dog murders, vertically challenged people really showing themselves up, and the entire Asian cast getting murdered for some strange reason.But regarding the dwarf element of the chaos, surely they must have realised that they were having so many liberties taken from them, and their disability. Shouldn't have there have been a spokesperson or something to observe the atrocities that were being committed on screen.It's a woefully unfunny, offensive film, that should have never seen the light of day.Don't search for it, it's not available for a reason. "},{"Title":"Silly mess","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've heard that &#x84;Under the rainbow is a cult movie for some people. It's not surprising for me. It's such a silly and cheesy mess that somebody must have liked it . After all Chevy Chase plays here a private detective , Carrie Fisher (Princess Leia from Star wars trilogy) appears in underwear and there are midgets . A LOT of midgets . There is also some Nazi spy here and a bit of Wizard of Oz there.I don't think that this movie shows midgets in bad light. In the end it shows they are humans just like us and should be treated that way. After all , I doubt that any of those midgets that starred in this movie was ashamed .It's a rather forgettable comedy , or maybe it was too campy for my taste . Maybe you will find something interesting here . I give it 2/10. "},{"Title":"Under the Rainbow was such an underwhelming mess for Chevy Chase, Carrie Fisher, and cast","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After a little more than thirty years, I once again watched Under the Rainbow, another of Chevy Chase's early starring features after leaving Saturday Night Live. This time he's a secret service agent guarding a duke and duchess on a trip to America during a pre-production of The Wizard of Oz of which Carrie Fisher is in charge of handling the little people cast who are also staying at the Hotel Rainbow. To tell the truth, it wasn't very funny then and while I discovered a few more punchlines and gags to be amused by, it's still not that much funny now. It's even a little tasteless what with all the innocent Japanese tourists that accidentally get killed in the chaos. The fact that, like the classic movie that starred Judy Garland, it all turned out to be a dream by one of those Munchkins doesn't excuse any of it. Such familiar comic players like Eve Arden and Billy Barty are mostly wasted here though Barty made a pretty good villain here. Seeing Ms. Fisher being stripped was also good eye candy here, I have to admit. But it all was mostly pretty routine and boring so on that note, I'd only recommend Under the Rainbow for the curious and nothing more. "},{"Title":"Not Chevy Chase's best film, but I enjoyed it.","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Though this film has a rather low score here at the internet movie database, I thought this film was a funny light comedy. Nothing great mind you, but to me it worked. Basically, a story of crime and intrigue and the little people who would go on to star in the famous movie The Wizard of Oz. I enjoyed Chevy Chase in this role as I usually do. I always find him very funny, mainly during the 80's, he kind of disappeared in the 90's. Carrie Fisher is also in this one, one of her few movies outside the Star Wars universe. I enjoyed the whole dog subplot and a few of the other jokes like the mistaken identities and such. Billy Barty is in this one too and I usually enjoy seeing him in a movie too. Though not in that Roger Corman film where he played an imp. The film is not perfect though, I did not enjoy the way the film ended as I usually hate the ending presented here as to me it is a cop out. Sure they can try to paint it as a tribute, but I say it is because you do not really have an idea on how to end your movie. Still, while it is nothing really grand, I did enjoy this light comedy. "},{"Title":"i want my DVD.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a child i loved this movie. I taped it off of cable a very long time ago. I just watched ti again after years of not seeing it, and its still an awesome movie.To my dismay I found this movie does not exist on DVD. it very much needs to be on DVD.I was wondering how one could start the ball rolling on getting this title to DVD, i'm sure there are others out there that would like it. other movies have made it to DVD that were even less famous but still cult type movies, like monster squad.OMG and i still have to type more because it wont be posted unless i do. so i will continue to ramble on about nonsense until i have enough lines of text to be able to post this comment.As i said i would love this movie on DVD and like to know how i could get some type of petition going or who to contact as to get the ball rolling on a DVD release. "},{"Title":"This is the party I wanted to be at.","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am surprised this film is rated so poorly, it is one of my top 10 movies. A zany farce that takes place in a absolutely crazy party that I would so want to be at, with the glamor of the old Hollywood movies and a spy thriller thrown in.This film has been attacked for being discriminatory to Japanese and Dwarfs, I feel the film's Japanese character is shown to be sympathetic and and the dwarfs are shown to be doing fun athletic things, while the two stars of the film that happen to be dwarfs, needn't necessarily have been dwarfs to make the film work.If you don't take this film seriously, if you realize this is a wacky fun time, then you should love this film. "},{"Title":"OH...the pain! The pain!","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To first hear of UNDER THE RAINBOW is to disbelieve. No, a big studio wouldn't be dumb enough to fund a spy comedy caper set against the backdrop of the filming of THE WIZARD OF OZ with 150 drunken midgets. You're pulling my leg, right? Wrong! It is real and it is terrible. It feels like every exec's 70s drug binge induced dreams were all wrapped up tightly into one project and spat out at audiences in the early 80s.In 1938, Adolf Hitler (yes, that Adolf Hitler) sends his top spy (Billy Barty!) to the US to meet up with Japan's no. 1 spy (Mako!) to deliver a map of American military targets to get the US into WWII. Unbeknownst to Barty, his rendezvous is a hotel (run by Adam Arkin) across the street from a movie lot where 150 Munchkin extras are staying. Also at the hotel are a Duke and Dutchess (Joseph Maher and Eve Arden) who are being guarded by Secret Service man Bruce Thorpe (Chevy Chase) who also has his eye on OZ midget wrangler Annie Clark (Carrie Fisher). You still with me? You shouldn't be.So how bad is this flick? Well, the opening ten minutes have Billy Barty saluting Hitler and hitting him in the crotch. Nothing like Nazi humor in 1981. Perhaps the filmmakers were influenced by the success of Spielberg's 1941? And who exactly is this made for? The reliance on slapstick, dogs and midgets would suggest kids. But the midgets are all boozing it up and there is a brief sojourn through a woman's locker room. There are also some weak attempts at humor involving the Japanese. Get this...the Japanese take lots of pictures and mispronounce things! Amazingly, it took 5 writers to make a movie this unfunny (proving that DATE MOVIE isn't just an age thing). Perhaps the film's biggest copout is that, in the end, it is all just a dream of a guy who got knocked on the head a la THE WIZARD OF OZ. To the film's credit, there is one funny gag involving Tony Cox, who has since gone on to become Hollywood's leading little funnyman. Also featuring Zelda Rubenstein and Phil Fondacaro alongside his brother Sal Fondacaro (who is also a little person despite them being born years apart). "}{"Title":"Under the Rainbow","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meandering comedy that deals with the problems caused by the scores of midgets hired as Munchkins in the 1939 Wizard of Oz movie. Lots going on, but nothing that produces laughs.  "},{"Title":"See London,See France, See Princess Leia's Underpants.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a movie which had potential to be at least as good as an Austin Powers film in subversive sex comments and spoofs of classic movies. The potential to give theFractured Fairy Tales treatment to the Wizard of Oz and Gone with the Wind was wasted. The best sight gag was on the tourist bus for the Japanese Ameteur Photography Society. I was disapointed here and I am one of the few fans of 1941.  "},{"Title":"peeshaw!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Notorious flop intends to be farce fails big time with very unfunny situations, delivered by what appears boredom more than skill. Chevy Chase looking lost, Carrie Fisher, token sexist role asked to fall out of clothes through out story. And well, let's not even discuss the midgets. Barking dogs, evil Nazis, Japanese tourists , Eve Arden and A. Arkin, add nothing to plot, but dense confusion. Bumbling assassinated mess "},{"Title":"Beneath contempt....","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought they did away with movies like this.Under the Rainbow purports to tell the story of how hundreds of midgets apply for parts as Munchkins in The Wizard of Oz being filmed in the 1930s, and then proceed to trash one unfortunate hotel during their stay.  It also horns in details such as how an assassination plot is foiled, a nefarious Nazi plot is thwarted as one certain midget (Hubbert) learns self-esteem.All this while the movie makes demeaning caricatures out of midgets, Japanese, women, blacks, Italians and if there's any race, creed or color that was left out, they must have been running out of film stock by that time.They even kill off a lot of dogs, all for the sake of laughs.  Do they get any?  No, not even then.Chase is wasted (again), Fisher is still too well identified as Princess Leia to be convincing as anyone else, and when the screenplay isn't being racist, misogynistic or tasteless, it's just downright dumb (The pearl is in the river?  Please; I was a junior in high school when this came out and I could have written better than that!).If you just want to watch something for sheer stupidity's sake, here's your Rainbow.  Just don't expect a pot of gold at the end - just potshots.One star.  And never let midgets borrow your elevator cable. "}]