[{"Title":"What's wrong with this movie when it's so true?","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"40 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" People may hate this movie for the exact reason it was made it blew the facade off Hollywood, exposing it for the cutthroat atmosphere that it is. Both Julie Andrews & Blake Edwards had every reason to hate Hollywood for what they did to them (chastising Blake for his indulgence, boxing Julie into a corner with sticky-sweet roles), so this wicked satire was their way of firing back & people either got the joke & were offended or didn't get it & just hated the movie for what it was. No doubt the film industry had the former reaction, proved by the little publicity the film received. Moviegoers probably thought more the latter, causing it to flop at the box-office & not exactly giving Julie & Blake the better opportunities they were looking for (both have found it difficult to find films outside of the stereotypical ones they made their name with). Some thought the famous breast-baring shots of Julie were gratuitous & shameful, yet they were the point of the film wanting to evolve in the name of art & being talked out of it in the name of commerce. A movie like S.O.B. might actually play better today because such diatribes against the movie industry by its employees can find an audience who are now much wiser to the evil workings of the business (notice how THE PLAYER & SUNSET BOULEVARD are classics today, recognized as such by the industry they set out to skewer). "},{"Title":"A biting comedy for adults.","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How rare it is to see a terrific comedy meant for adults. S.O.B. is Blake Edwards dark look at life in Hollywood. And believe me he pulls no punches. Everyone and everything is a target and he hits it almost every time.S.O.B. tells the story of a big director whose latest film is the biggest flop in movie history. Despondent he spends the first half of the film trying to kill himself and the second half trying to save the film by re-shooting it as an arty porno film complete with a nude scene by the virginal female lead (played by the virginal Julie Andrews).As I said no stone goes unturned. We get hints of drugs, death, murder, suicide, sex, homosexuality (both men and women), transvestism, back stabbing, grave robbing, and much more. But it is done in a tone that is dark but extremely funny. Watching William Holden, Robert Preston, and Robert Webber in their scenes in the third act is worth the time alone. And, yes, we do get to see Julie Andrews in a brief topless shot. It's nice if you like her but nothing special.The only complaint is that the film runs a bit too long. Edwards would have benefited the film with a trimming of about 15 minutes. But if you like your comedy dark, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"So True, It's Scary","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a Hollywood movie about Hollywood that was ahead of its time twenty years ago. For people who read their movie reviews from this site, it gives a nice behind-the-scenes twist to what it takes to get what you want in the motion picture business. There are many who felt it was too over-the-top when first released, but as the years go by, it becomes more and more a reflection of how real life is in the dream factory. Back in 1981, there was much less interest among the non-glitterati for what happened to get films made. With the advent of more and more movie magazines trying to dig up dirt on the cogs that turn to keep Tinseltown running, a housewife in Oklahoma can now know the grosses of the latest blockbuster and who stands to gain from them. All this can be gleaned while waiting to check-out at the grocery just by reading the headlines.The studio owners and their investors are represented well in SOB. From the lowliest security guard to the producers, actors, agents, directors, writers, score composers, costumers and anyone else who is looking to improve their status in the movie biz. Everyone here has an angle, just trying to get through the film they are currently working on, making deals, selling out and generally living day to day and jumping from bedroom to bedroom in an attempt to hold on to what they think is happiness and success. The empty shell of reality is a theme we see throughout this Blake Edwards masterpiece.The running story behind the main plot concerns an actor, past his marketable prime, who collapses while jogging on a Malibu beach. The callousness of the residents of this community is played for laughs but it is tinged with a knowing wink that this is what becomes of those former stars who have nothing more to give their public. A forgotten actor lay dead in the sand for days while hundreds of people walk by, enjoying the sun, oblivious to this shell of an old man who was once a well-known talent, but is now no longer one of the beautiful people. Yet on this very beach in a later scene, Felix Farmer, the director who is the center of the story tries to kill himself and ends up driving his Cadillac into the Pacific Ocean. Because of the grand spectacle of this possible death, the masses come to the rescue and save him. A quiet humble passing is contrasted with rousing flamboyant suicide attempt and who gets noticed?The whole movie concerns a very serious frame of reference but the characters surrounding the situation are not playing it straight; they are silly and exasperated. This same plot could have easily been a humorless drama with almost an identical script. A movie costing $30 million, already a pittance by today's standards, flops at the box office and the major players try to turn it to their advantage as best they can. Everyone involved has an axe to grind and the motion picture in question almost becomes a character itself. It prompts greed, jealousy, lust, back-stabbing and even death. It is an evil thing which can engulf those who possess it, as it keeps getting bigger, more expensive and further out of control.There are some really nasty people here and they do terrible things without conscience. Some do them to make money and fame; others do them for art's sake. But I can't think of a single character who is completely upstanding and righteous, despite their redeemable qualities. The ones we think are heroic and good are just less terrible in comparison with the others. Really thinking about what is being said in this story can make your skin crawl. If it wasn't played for humor the result may have been too horrifying to create, let alone watch.I don't want to give the impression that I disliked this film. It is right on target. But I have seen it many times and with each viewing, another layer of its veneer slips off and I see the meaning behind the actions and words as presented. If you're really into the goings-on in today's Hollywood, take a look at its past in S.O.B. and maybe you'll think a little bit about what's happening on those sound stages and in those executive meetings behind closed doors. Today, it could have only gotten exponentially worse.  "},{"Title":"Funny, moving, wicked and Julie Andrews flashin' and cussin'","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ONLY ONE MOVIE gives us the best all time performances from Richard Mulligan, Robert Webber and Loretta Swit, coupled with over-the-top turns by Julie Andrews, Robert Vaughn, William Holden and the amazing Robert Preston as Dr. Finegarten.  (Madam, a shyster is an unethical lawyer!  *I* am a *QUACK*!)Blake Edwards has been a huge success despite, not because of, the Hollywood system.  In S.O.B. he throws it right in their faces, making an A movie filled with A stars that attacks, slices, dices, grinds up and flushes the moviemaking establishment.Oh, this is a wicked, wicked film.  Sam Goldwyn and the other old moguls would have sent a hit man after Edwards.The performances and the story are too intense to describe piecemeal. This is the undefeated world champion dissection of Hollywood.And FUNNY!  What a HOWL!  And Julie Andrews, what a TROUPER! "},{"Title":"A MASTERFUL AND WICKED SATIRE OF HOLLYWOOD","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  S.O.B., which is Blake Edwards' masterpiece, is a masterful and wicked satire of Hollywood. This is Edwards' revenge for Hollywood's shallow treatment of him during his 1968-1975 down period in which he made a series of quite good flops which died at the boxoffice.In fact, Edwards uses one of those flops, 1970's Darling Lili, which I gave three stars, as the backstory of S.O.B. Let me describe to you what happened with that film, as to give you the flavor of what this film is about In 1968-1970, Blake Edwards made Darling Lili, his first film with his wife Julie Andrews. It cost over 40 million dollars and took 3 at the box office. It was also savagely panned by the critics. Anyway,an undeterred Edwards withdrew the film, edited it down from 145 mins to 113 mins, took out the comic relief and rereleased it;here it did well enough to break even.(Today, the 113 minute cut is the one most often shown on TV)Critics liked the new version.In S.O.B., Edwards takes everything one step further to create a savagely hilarious comedy. Everything works here. Everything. The opening credits sequence, in which he see the Darling Lili surrogate Night Wind play out (it's supposed to be BAD, so relax), to the great slapstick sequences (Mulligan's suicide attempts are particularly funny) to the ontarget performances which include Andrews, cast against type as a rich bitch actress, William Holden as the director, Richard Mulligan as the Blake Edwards surrogate and especially the great Robert Preston as the local Dr. Feelgood (called Finegarten in this; preston should have received a nomination for his good work)There are also many other Edwards veterans in the cast such as Robert Webber, Craig Stevens and Stuart Margolin, just to name a few.Seeing this film once is just not enough. It demands multiple viewings because each time you find something new to enjoy and laugh at. Most of all, it makes you think about what occurred. And in the age of asinine so called comedies such as Tomcats, Joe Dirt and Deuce Bigelow, finding a rare and distinctive comedy like S.O.B is a real treasure. It's a real shame that Edwards has retired from theatrical films, just think of what he could say today. Fortunately, S.O.B. has remained fresh and original. "},{"Title":"Raucous, Uneven Fun","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next to Victor/Victoria, S.O.B. is probably my favorite Blake Edwards film. I'm not a great fan of his movies, but when his films are funny, they're usually hilarious.  This movie has its fair share of laugh out loud moments that more than make up for some of the slow and less-well-scripted parts. It features a number of wonderful, if sometimes over-the-top, performances by many well-known performers. Most of the scenery chewing is very well in tune with the theme of this Hollywood harpooning. Given the ever-increasingly cynical nature of movie producing, some of S.O.B.'s elements even seem quaint.The Viking send-off is one of my all-time most memorable movie scenes, and the fact that this is also William Holden's last role gives this section an added air of sadness.  "},{"Title":"A gem -- with ALOT of insider jokes, so take note from one who's been there!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I discovered this film on Cable-TV on a wonderfully programmed channel called Z in Los Angeles in the late 80's when they had a week long Blake Edwards Director's focus. Until that time, the only thing I thought Blake Edwards did was The Pink Panther which was not my kind of film(s) but was okay.S.O.B. is a funny yet sobering look at Hollywood. This is a film from a director that literally bites the hand that fed him. And as PC as we are today, a film such as this one could never be made on this scale. Many of the characters portrayed reminded you of folks who were more prominent in the 50's, 60's and 70's although it also reminded me of several people in the 80's, 90's and 2000's as well. But Edwards hits hard at it all, including the career his own wife, Julie Andrews. (And yes she does have great ta-tas under that Peter Pan suit!)This film will be a bit uneven for those who aren't very familiar with the above the line and below the line workings of Hollywood. Edwards leaves no stone unturned from the lowley Assistants to the snazzy Producers and studios, from being on top and living high in Hollywood to what happens when you die, even your damn funeral is an Academy Award event!!!This is about everyone that makes Hollywood tick and everyone who thinks because they work in the system -- is the system. It's over 20 years later and I think this will be one of those films that will grow better with age...and knowledge. I recommend this film as a top film to see for anyone wanting in in Hollywood, and for those who want to be on the outside looking in. A really talented, daring film. "},{"Title":"A Near-perfect Satire","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I discovered this movie on cable in the mid-late 80's and immediately fell in love with it. It's witty, scathingly funny and some of it is so rapid-fire that it requires viewing multiple times to catch all that is being said. I heard some Hollywood type espousing once that stereotypes are only stereotypes because they're true. We've all seen the stereotypical, ego-centric Hollywood agents and other sycophants portrayed in various movies/shows/etc. but rarely have they all been assembled in one hysterical place and portrayed by such a star-studded rogues gallery! Robert Preston is my favorite as the perpetually drunk/stoned quack doctor, and William Holden's last performance as the aged, burned-out director is particularly poignant when he gives a brief speech of encouragement to Felix (Richard Mulligan) about consciously trying to kill himself with drugs, booze and sexual excesses for the past 40 years. So some of the moments of truth are not just realizations about the business itself, but about the actors playing the roles. An all-around great movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, Biting, And Sad","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Blake Edwards, S.O.B., is one of the funniest satires of the vicious machine known as Hollywood ever made. Felix Farmer (Richard Mulligan)is one of Hollywood's most popular directors. All his films were box-office hits and everyone loved him...until his latest family oriented film is a HUGE flop. Farmer's life then goes down the toilet. His wife Sally Miles, America's Sweetheart(Julie Andrews),leaves him. Felix has a nervous breakdown, which gives in to suicidal tendencies. His 3 friends (William Holden, Robert Preston, and Robert Webber)try to keep his body and soul together. It's during a party at Felix's house (That turns into a orgy)that Felix comes up with an idea to save his flop buy back his film and turn it into a sexcapade, which includes a nude scene with his estranged wife.Throughout the film, you see the backstabbing that goes on when Felix is re-working his film studio heads that try to steal his film when it looks like it will be a sure-fire hit, assistants that try to get their foot in the door, youth pushing out the old, and sensationalism is the norm. It's also incredibly sad because it also shows that the Hollywood machine has no mercy stars and directors are put onto pedestals, only for those pedestals to be cruelly yanked from underneath them (The once-famous star that drops dead on a beach, and remains on the beach for a few days, unknown and unloved). Felix soon becomes a victim of the Hollywood machine when they underhandedly steal his film, and goes through desperate measures to get it back. The result turns into one of the most poignant endings I have ever seen.The lines in the film are sharp enough to draw blood. Robert Preston practically steals the film away from the fact that you see Julie Andrews pretty much kill her Mary Poppins image by showing her boobs, swearing and being a total witch! This would make a great double feature with The Player. Check it out! "},{"Title":"You're Only As Good As Your Last Picture","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the curious things about S.O.B. is that while it has an incredibly good name cast, there is no real star of the film. Julie Andrews gets first billing because she's the director/producer's wife and after her William Holden has the biggest marquee name so he's second. But if there's a star in this film it's Richard Mulligan because it's on his troubles that the plot of S.O.B. turns.Mulligan came in for a lot of criticism as the frantic film producer who after a string of hits, totally loses his mind. So much so that his movie star wife, Julie Andrews, is leaving him. The first half of the film involve some hilarious attempts at suicide, the best being when he falls through the floor of his beach house trying to hang himself and flattens nosy gossip columnist Loretta Swit. Julie Andrews is basically cast as a movie star like Julie Andrews who gained her fame and popularity with wholesome entertainment like Mary Poppins and The Sound of Music. During an orgy/party that his good friend, cheerfully hedonistic director William Holden has at Mulligan's house while on suicide watch, Mulligan gets a brainstorm and decides to redo his last G rated film as soft core porn with Julie Andrews displaying her glockenspiels. Mulligan gets crazier and crazier as the film now becomes a battle between him and studio head Robert Vaughn for control of the film. It all ends quite wildly indeed. A lot of people say Richard Mulligan overacts and chews the scenery. But that's what the part calls for. He no more does it here than Robin Williams or Jonathan Winters at their zaniest. A little fine tuning in his performance might have helped, but the director who should have done this was busy elsewhere.Instead of Blake Edwards doing it himself, he should have begged Billy Wilder to do this film. S.O.B. is the greatest Billy Wilder film that Billy Wilder never directed.Besides those mentioned such luminaries as Shelley Winters, Robert Webber, Marisa Berenson, Stuart Margolin, Craig Stevens, Paul Stewart, Larry Hagman and Robert Loggia play various Hollywood types. But the best by far in the cast is Robert Preston as the Doctor Feelgood to the stars. It's a variation on the conman Harold Hill he played in The Music Man only he's far more cynical. When Preston is on screen, he dominates the film.S.O.B. was the farewell performance of William Holden. Knowing the senseless way Holden died after completing the film, you twinge when you hear him cheerfully tell Richard Mulligan how he drank enough booze to kill a dozen healthy livers. Still S.O.B. was a good film to leave on for him.I enjoy what Blake Edwards did with the talented bunch he assembled for this film. It would have been perfect if Billy Wilder had done it though. "}{"Title":"Blake and Julie lash out in this frighteningly accurate skewering of Hollywood insiders...","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" S.O.B. was director Blake Edwards' own All that Jazz, a self-indulgent, slightly over-the-top, slightly disguised look at a particularly period in his Hollywood career where he and wife Julie Andrews were treated pretty despicably by the Hollywood big shots who can make or break people in Hollywood with one telephone call. This film is loosely based on the time after Edwards had completed his wife's film STAR! and the studio hated it, wrested control of the film from Edwards, cut like an hour of footage from the film, retitled it These Were the Happy Times and then tried to shelve it. After all of this Edwards couldn't get arrested in Hollywood until he hit a bullseye with the 1979 comedy 10. But this 1981 comedy was a reminder to Hollywood bigwigs that Edwards had not forgotten their treatment of him. In S.O.B.(which, BTW, stands for Standard Operational Bull***t), Richard Mulligan plays the manic Hollywood director, Felix Farmer, who is suicidal after his film Night Wind, starring his wife, Sally Miles (Julie Andrews) bombs miserably. Farmer is practically written off in Hollywood until he gets the inspiration to re-shoot the film as a near pornographic extravaganza and have his wife bare her breasts for the first time on screen. This uncompromising look at the inner workings of Hollywood may seem a little off the wall. These are not pleasant people for the most part and every character in the film, even Andrews, has their own agenda. The merciless screenplay is well executed by a glorious all-star cast backing up Mulligan and Andrews, including William Holden, Robert Vaughn, Robert Preston (hysterical as a doctor who gives out pills like candy), Robert Webber, Loretta Swit, Craig Stevens, Stuart Margolin, Shelley Winters, Marisa Berensen, Rosanna Arquette, Robert Loggia, and Larry Hagman. There are several funny scenes in this film and a lot of interesting things happen that by the time Andrews does bare her breasts, it is somewhat anti-climactic, but there is much to enjoy here for those willing to pay the attention that is required as the story is painted on a broad canvas with a lot of characters, but it is worth the trip and, after I saw it the first time, I wanted to see it again and again and think it is one of the great sleepers of 1980's. "},{"Title":"Robert Preston stole every scene he was in.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While the film did jump around between various members of its large cast, I loved William Holden, Richard Mulligan, Robert Preston and Robert Webber in almost every scene they were in.The best scenes included Preston's character Dr. Irving Finegarten, but it was the combined interaction of Holden, Preston and Webber near the end of the film, culminating in the Viking funeral, that made it truly enjoyable for me.Also pay attention to the dialogue and not just the actions.  There are several good digs in there if you pay attention. "},{"Title":"Lacks focus","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Edwards and his wife Julie Andrews wanted to make a kiss-off to Hollywood. This is not a bad inspiration for a film. But the result is a muddle.Edwards can be an uneven director; sometimes he's hilarious, sometimes he's not funny at all (and his Asian caricatures from Breakfast at Tiffany's to this film make me wonder if Edwards understands that playing racial stereotypes without irony is not funny).In this film, his best and worst are often in the same scene. It's hard to understand what Edwards is condemning because he doesn't put forth a realistic central character or premise (even in 1981, re-shooting a failed film as bad as the one he presents here by putting in sex sex sex wouldn't bring you instant box office). William Holden and Robert Preston are excellent in the film as old time cynics with a heart. But they're not the central focus of the film -- that would be Mulligan, a funny actor but not one to present the conflicted portrait of a gifted director gone bad. Edwards never takes Mulligan's Felix Farmer's plight seriously -- which undercuts the comedy. Why was his film so bad in the beginning? If he had shown the execs causing the problems, then that would have made Mulligan's actions more plausible -- if not in the realm of realism. Another narrative mistake with Felix, Edwards tells us this was Felix's first failure. Would a multimillionaire successful Hollywood guy with a giant ego go suicidal insane over one failure?That's the problem. Felix's downfall isn't understandable -- and he appears so inept his previous success isn't understandable; and the loyalty he inspires in Holden and Preston's characters isn't understandable, because we don't see why they'd have affection for Felix as a person or a filmmaker. If we're supposed to feel bad because Felix loses his movie, we don't, because we don't know how a man with so little talent got a 30 million dollar (1981 dollars) budget in the first place. If Edwards had drawn a realistic Felix character, and cut down on some of the slapstick elements, he might have had a good, if clichéd, Hollywood cautionary tale. Instead, he made a hollow film about a hollow business. In the end, this makes Edwards as bad as the ones he's trying to eviscerate. "},{"Title":"Sad Old Bomb","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" S.O.B had great promise when it came out in the summer of 1981. Director Blake Edwards, who was on a winning streak, used his greatest professional disaster, a bomb he made with wife Julie Andrews 11 years before called Darling Lili, as the basis for an all-star satire on shallow loyalties and bottom-line mentalities in Hollywood. The newspaper ad featured a cartoon bull in a director's chair, smoking a cigar with the legend The bull hits the fan July 1. Oh, yes, and Andrews was making her topless debut, too. It seemed all too cool to be true, and was. S.O.B. never caught fire, and watching it 25 years later is to understand why. It's a comedy that forgets to be funny.Richard Mulligan plays moviemaker Felix Farmer, whose latest picture Night Wind is in serious trouble after previews. (N.Y. Critics Break 'Wind' is the headline in Variety.) At first falling into a suicidal funk, he then gets the idea to reshoot the film as an erotic spectacular, deciding that sex sells and giving the public what it wants means getting his wife, Sally Miles (Andrews), to show them her breasts. As excitement builds for this second Wind, hard-charging studio boss David Blackman (Robert Vaughn) decides to use whatever foul means he can to steal Farmer's film out from under him.S.O.B. boasts an all-star cast of TV actors like Mulligan and Vaughn whom Edwards and the script throw out on the screen with lame one-liners they scream at the top of their lungs. Loretta Swit as a gossip columnist is the worst offender. William Holden in his last film wears ugly sunglasses and seems a frail shadow of the actor he was only a few years before in Network, leaving most of the foreground to Robert Preston, who adds a touch of class and gives S.O.B its few decent lines as a drug- and wisdom-dispensing doctor.If he doesn't remember me, mention his first case of the clap, he says of Blackman. I didn't give it to him, I cured it!S.O.B. doesn't work as a comedy because it doesn't really try to be a comedy. Instead, Edwards rubs old sores over Lili and tries to get even with the people who clipped his wings long ago. Maybe it worked for him. If someone told him back then that he couldn't make a worse film than Lili, then he proved them wrong here.S.O.B. has a lot of repetitious gags, like a hole in a floor people keep falling through. A flaccid score by Henry Mancini kills any lingering affection you may have had for that old number Polly-Wolly-Doodle. Mulligan's overacting is embarrassingly bad and shticky, and the narrative is advanced in the form of unrealistic television reports, including a live bulletin when Sally Miles is getting ready for her nude scene.Andrews' breasts are the fifth- and sixth-best reasons to see S.O.B (Rosanna Arquette and Marisa Berenson appear topless here as well). But there's not much else to perk your interest, unless you enjoy seeing a good director sacrifice his art for the sake of purging his bitterness. S.O.B. is as sad as the faithful dog we see on the beach, mourning his dead, forgotten owner and serving as a thematic device for the heartlessness of the other characters. It's appropriate in one way S.O.B. is a D.O.G. "},{"Title":"VICIOUS satire on Hollywood","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Director Felix Farmer (Richard Mulligan) directs a kids movie with his wife Sally Miles (Julie Andrews) in it. It bombs and Felix goes crazy. However he thinks he can save the movie by having Sally bare her breasts.Vicious satire on Hollywood. Writer/director Blake Edwards just lashes out at Hollywood and all its executives. He also got a very talented cast in it--there's William Holden (in his last film), Robert Preston, Larry Hagman, Robert Vaughn, Shelly Winters, Loretta Swit and Robert Webber. They're all enjoying themselves and it rubs off on the audience. They're all good but Holden and Preston are excellent. This is primarily known as the film where Julie Andrews swears AND bares her breasts but it's got more going for it then just shock value. It does derail at the end getting way too dark and morbid but most of the way through it's a lot of fun. This was not a big hit which is too bad but I think it was too cruel for mainstream audiences. "},{"Title":"A Rare Insider's Glimpse Into the Workings of Tinseltown","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" WOW! I have never read so many misguided negative reviews of such a great film!! Why are so many reviewers saying Yes, I did not get it then go on to blab about what they admittedly did not understand?It's more than just great comedy by great actors. For those of us who have lived in L.A. or worked in the industry, I can honestly say that in 1981 as much as 2010, SOB is so right-on-the-money that it is close to being a documentary. OK sure, it's Edwards in his funniest Pink Panther style of everything over the top, but the dynamics of the themes of Same Old Business nail it - greed, excess, sex, drugs, innocence lost, dreams traded for success, derived cynicism - as true today as probably back in the 1930's.And that's the funniest part of all - the Rockies may crumble, Gibraltar may tumble, but Hollywood never changes. "},{"Title":"it's fun","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although it's been quite a long time since I last saw the movie, some scenes will always remain present and lively in my mind Felix Farmer trying to kill himself in that big house crowded with party guests who have only one thing in mind, sex, which finally inspires him to re-launch his life and his movie; and his final voyage on the back seat of a car (if I get it right) through Los Angeles, now really dead, to a Normannic funeral. Besides all the big names, we should never forget Richard Mulligan, a great comedian who sadly passed away five years ago, who is really the heart of this wonderfully messy, funny, intelligent movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, funny!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the greatest all-star comedies around. It focuses on the lives of Hollywood movie moguls and their decision to make a G-rated flop into an X-rated box-office smash. Featuring many comedic talents including Richard Mulligan, Robert Preston, Julie Andrews, Loretta Swit, Robert Loggia, Robert Vaughn, Robert Webber, William Holden and Shelley Winters. Also, look for a shocking scene depicting sweet and innocent Julie Andrews being not so Mary Poppin-like. A fast-moving great ride. I didn't want to get off. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The hills are still alive...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dark satire about Hollywood; funny at times, but, as others have noted, uneven. A tune-up for Blake Edward's next movie,  Victor/Victoria, but worth watching for Robert Preston's very amusing performance alone... "},{"Title":"Not for the faint hearted or dull witted","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An angry protest film from Blake Edwards.  As with any emotion driven project, the directors choices are not always the most audience friendly. For all it's faults, though, S.O.B. is a wonderful film. "}{"Title":"Sour grapes in Lotus Land...","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Writer-director Blake Edwards vents his frustrations on Hollywood (via Hollywood!) in telling slim story of a filmmaker on the edge after critics have trashed his latest family musical. His solution is to reshoot much of the picture as a blue movie...and have the G-rated star expose her breasts. Great cast struggles through what might have been a sharp satire of Tinsel Town; instead, the film is pseudo-cynical, putting down the movie business (and audiences) while catering to the lowest common denominator (are the changes made to the movie actually meant to appeal to the mass market? Ironically, the most effervescent part of the film is the opening musical number, which is then lambasted for us!). The characters are mostly ciphers, talking all at once, and Harry Stradling, Jr.'s soupy cinematography makes the whole thing look like bad cable. * from **** "},{"Title":"Better in '81","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As much as it pains me, as my favorite actor is William Holden, and it's his last role, this movie has aged badly.  Bill is the only one in this film who doesn't overact.  Over-blown and dated, it's a pale shadow to other Hollywood satires.  It's not terrible, just not that good. "},{"Title":"'s.o.b'. ('standard operational bull****').","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  an acerbic, witty and funny spoof on hollywood from the delightful blake edwards whose only drawback is when he let's his other half (that's ms julie andrews) appear and (worse still) sing in it! the basic plot involves the trials and tribulations of a talented scriptwriter whose mighty film project is mauled by moronic studio executives into a porn musical ('night wind'). an interesting bit of trivia; when blake was replaced as the original director of  the later 'city heat' by it's two leading stars (clint eastwood and burt reynolds respectfully) his screenwriting credit for the aforementioned movie was under the alias of 'sam o' brown' ('standard operational bull****', geddit?!).  "},{"Title":"You want a black comedy?  This is a black comedy!","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are a lot of unkind things you can say about S.O.B. but there are two things which are undeniable.1. This is one of the angriest, most black hearted comedies you'll ever see.2. Blake Edwards busts his hump to make you laugh.Felix Farmer (Richard Mulligan) is a famous Hollywood producer who just created the biggest box office bomb in movie history. His film, Night Wind, has made so little money that almost everyone even remotely related to the production is in a complete panic. Except for Felix, who veers from near catatonic to suicidal. His movie star wife, Sally Miles (Julie Andrews), takes the kids and abandons Felix in his beach house and even considers divorcing him. The studio head (Robert Vaughn) is desperate to pull Night Wind out of theaters and salvage it through re-editing. He enlists Tim Culley (William Holden), an old school, old time movie director to convince Felix to give up his ironclad creative control and allow the re-editing. This doesn't sound much like a comedy, does it?Well, after failing in several suicide attempts, Felix has an epiphany. He can turn Night Wind into the biggest hit in movie history&#x85;if he changes it from wholesome family fair into a sex-charged nudie flick. Felix is willing to risk all of his, and Sally's, fortune to pull it off. But when it looks like he might actually succeed, the studio head is willing to do whatever it takes to make sure the success isn't Felix's alone. That provokes Felix to take his own desperate measures and leads to some of the darkest humor you'll ever encounter.The best description I can come up with for S.O.B. is that it's like an R-rated Austin Powers International Man of Mystery. Looked at as a single, coherent story, it's got more than a few problems. As a collection of funny bits, however, it's pretty entertaining. But while Mike Myers lovingly made fun of the 1960s spy genre, Blake Edwards was an angry, angry man ripping the cover off the inside deceit, back stabbing, ass kissing and other morally questionable realities of the movie business&#x85;and he did it years before it was the hip thing to do.Edwards throws everything but the kitchen sink at you in this movie. It has the crudest sort of toilet humor, the sharpest kind of satire, throw away one-liners, sexual decadence, slapstick pratfalls, Robert Vaughn in lingerie and Julie Andrews going topless. It doesn't fit together all that well but if you stop worrying about that, there are a lot of laughs.You'd better be able to appreciate very dark and very bitter humor if you're going to watch S.O.B. How dark is it? There's a recurring gag about a guy dying of a heart attack on a beach and his body just lying there all day with his poor dog pining over his departed master. When you use a dog howling for his dead owner as a punchline, that's some black comedy. When the guy who's supposed to be your main characters says absolutely nothing for the first half hour of the movie and just tries to kill himself by car exhaust in his garage, hanging himself, sticking his head in an oven and trying to blow his brains out, that's some black comedy. When they steal a corpse before a funeral where Larry Storch (yes, the F Troop guy) portrays an Indian guru who gives a eulogy about how much money the deceased made, that's some black comedy.You'll also be hard pressed to find a bigger collection of over the top performances than S.O.B. Whether it's Loretta Swit as a raging gossip columnist, Larry Hagman as a weenie studio executive, Stuart Margolin as Sally Miles' conniving personal secretary or Richard Mulligan almost exploding across the screen as Felix Farmer, subtlety is in short supply. The closest you get is Robert Preston's deadpan and hilarious zingers as the Doctor Feelgood to Felix' circle of friends.And in addition to Edwards' extended rant against the sleazy underbelly of filmmaking, S.O.B also revels in his delight and confusion at the changing moral climate of mainstream film. Edwards is clearly thrilled that he can get away with naughty language, naked boobs and all other sorts of things in a big budget picture, but he also clearly isn't sure what that means to society and his industry.S.O.B. is funny but it's very much Edwards laughing at Hollywood and himself. There's an inside joke quality to it that doesn't work much better in the 21st century, when everybody knows so much about the inside happenings of the movie business, than it did in 1981 when the public was still largely ignorant of such things. "},{"Title":"Terrific character studies","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  S.O.B. is one of the best of the show biz films about show biz. It takes a good look at multiple stereotypes pretentious stars, egocentric directors, sundry hangers-on, lecherous and world weary veterans, self-important producers, savage cutters, creppy gossip mongers, people users and others. Star turns by Richard Mulligan and William Holden, with outstanding support by the remarkable Robert Preston, Julie Andrews and especially Robert Vaughn (cast brilliantly against type).The Viking funeral scene was affecting, even if it was a rip-off of several fictionalized accounts of John Barrymore's demise.Only the boring could find this boring. "},{"Title":"Silly. Obnoxious. Bad.","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Full of nonsense comedy from writer/director Blake Edwards. Felix Farmer(Richard Mulligan)is a well known producer with a string of hits, but falls upon hard times when his latest movie, a full blown musical, is not received well by test audiences. The powers that be go into panic mode and decide something must be done and for the better of the film it must be re-edited. Farmer comes out of his funk with a major idea of having the star of the movie, his wife Sally(Julie Andrews), bare her breasts. Since she has such a clean pollyanna image, this bit of titillation will highlight the new soft-porn version of his film.Some strong performances from familiar stars like Robert Preston, Larry Hagman, Stuart Margolin, Loretta Swit, Robert Vaughn, Larry Storch and William Holden in his last motion picture. Of course the draw is the squeaky clean Andrews actually showing her breasts. Situational humor; just nothing that really made me laugh. The soundtrack is courtesy of the legendary Henry Mancini. "},{"Title":"Overlong and Uneven","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In this satirical look at Hollywood, a film producer tries to commit suicide after a big-budget flop, but then decides to reshoot it as porn. It has some very funny moments but runs out of steam long before its excessive running time. It boasts a terrific all-star cast, but Preston steals the film as a wise-cracking doctor. Andrews, playing a wholesome actress not unlike herself, flashes her breasts in an attempt to boost the box office of the reshot film. Mulligan plays her husband, presumably modeled after Edwards. In his final film, Holden plays a hard-drinking, hedonistic director. In a sad irony, the actor drank himself to death months after the film was released. "},{"Title":"Gets better with age","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw S.O.B. in its original theatrical release in 1981, when I was 15 (yes, we snuck in). Not having cultivated a taste for dark comedy yet, I thought the film was in extremely bad taste, including the defloration of Julie Andrews.Well, 24 years later (was it REALLY that long ago?), I picked up a used and badly battered copy of the videotape at a junk sale and watched it again. How could I have completely missed such subtlety? It's Sunset Boulevard on laughing gas, complete with William Holden in his last screen appearance.The setting is then-contemporary Hollywood and its environs, which in and of itself adds a few unintended laughs. After a big-budget family film flops, and its director's suicide attempt and nervous breakdown are treated with barbiturates, the director seizes upon the brilliant idea to re-cut the film to suit the adult tastes of the average viewing audience.As in Boulevard, The Player and myriad other movies about the inner workings of the film industry, a tapestry of cross-allegiances begins its delicate ballet, first to blackball the errant director, then to woo his wholesome actress-singer wife into a nude scene, and finally, when the re-cut film is a smash, to steal the film from the director via his estranged and newly emboldened wife.The jokes still work, and since Hollywood's only changes since shooting wrapped seem to be cosmetic, the wry commentary on the selfishness and fickleness of the film industry and its larger players still holds true. "},{"Title":"Edwards touch at its best","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" the best comedy of the eighties.Brilliant,funny,grotesque,noir,dramatic,all these stiles mixed greatly thanks to an almost perfect script(nothing to do with the comedy of the last 20 years,based on a simple situation which exhaust itself after 20 minute)and a great and ironic Julie Andrews on a parody of herself and of her career-which has been less shiny of what it deserved to be-,not to forgive all the other actors,william holden overall in his last stage,but also the great double Oscar winner shelley winters and J.R. Larry Hagman.An irresistible film full of ideas and definitely rich of style and elegance, with something which is almost impossible to find in nowadays moviesan atmosphere "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Films","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Its the story of a director (Richard Mulligan) that has a major career disaster with a universally panned film called Night Wind.   The director is suicidal while all of those around him are amusingly wrapped in their own ego-centric worlds.The movie is hysterically funny and rather touching,  a recurring vignette in the film is a cut-away to a man that has died jogging on the beach and his little dog. The man lies dead in the sand while people walk on by. This helps give a sense of isolation; the characters are disconnected from each other, even though they work and live together.It has great performances by the cast.  One stand-out is Robert Preston as very amusing Dr. Feel-Good; he steals every scene.Every time I see S.O.B. there are more little bits and nuances that I never noticed before.  If you are a Richard Mulligan or Robert Preston fan this is a must see.For fans of Blake Edwards this is, in my opinion, one of his best comedic films.  "}{"Title":"Good Film, Bad Packaging","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is Blake Edward's best work, in my opinion. S.O.B. is a great, biting satire on Hollywood that has many surprising stars turning up in unexpected places; Richard Mulligan is superb as the depressed director/producer of a failed Ishtar-like opus who tries to redeem himself when he has an epiphany at a typical Hollywood orgy, and remakes his movie to the sordid taste of today's audience.  Blake Edwards skewers everyone in this film, from producers to the film audience itself. (Though this largely goes over the audience's head, amusingly enough. He can't be talking about us!) He doesn't satire the behavior of actors enough, though this would be an entire film by itself. Two strange and fixable deficits hurt this film in my opinion  the unnecessary and juvenile raunchy humor at times (i.e. flatulance and peeing jokes to add humor at one point), and the unfortunate title.  When S.O.B. first came out, I and my family didn't go see it, entirely because of its title.  In my area when I was a kid, S.O.B. was a pretty bad term, and the impression was that it set the tone for the movie. When I saw it on cable a couple years later, I was surprised; it was a very funny satire on Hollywood with some of my favorite stars; everyone from Loretta Switt to Larry Hagman (as a beleaguered executive) showed up to play small but very funny bits in the movie.  I don't know if the movie did well financially, but it didn't do well in our area, and had come and gone soon. Maybe it was too sophisticated for the sticks, but my impression was that the title helped to kill it in certain places.  This was an unfortunate choice, and few people outside the Hollywood system knew it also stands for Standard Operating Bullshit, as mentioned by one of the characters; while a succinct description of the Hollywood system, a better and more accessible title could have been given this movie.  It was like giving Driving Miss Daisy the title of Driving the Old Cranky Bitch - not an inviting title for a movie.  It's funny how something as superficial as this can affect an entire movie's success.If you haven't seen it, it ranks easily with the Player and any other parody of Hollywood.  It's a shame that it can't be seen on the big screen again.8 out of ten stars.   "},{"Title":"It broke wind","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is true that many times you will get more truth out of humor than you do drama.This is a movie that should have never been made available to the general viewing public. Why not? Because it is a satire of Hollywood and the movie industry in general. Who should have been the target audience? The people in the movie industry.I hate to bring up another movie in discussing this one but that movie is the movie Mary Poppins. In it Bert and Uncle Albert are trading jokes and Bert tells a real stinker. Uncle Albert of course tells him it is not funny. And therein lies the rub. The dividing line between humor and sadness is some times razor thin. You do get truth out of this movie but the insiders need some truth laid on them. By the time it got to Julie Andrews down and dirty stuff I didn't even watch it. I was thinking of their complaints that I as a viewer didn't let them spread their creative wings and fly. Schindler's List was a highly acclaimed film. I don't like it either. But I do respect it for the high craft that went into it. But I like what I like and that is it. For an actor, producer, or director to expect me to make the transition from what I like to where they are going is too much to demand from their viewers. To demand that I shift from a genre that I like to one I don't like is asking too much. It's like expecting me to like some artist nailing a turd to a piece of wood and calling it Jesus on the cross. They can do that. But they have no right to expect, nay demand, that tax payers pay for what they consider to be a work of art. Art is in the eye of the beholder.Now I will do the unpardonable. When I see people who are paid so well as people in Hollywood are griping about their private dirt only they knew at the time, it ceases to be funny. It really does. So you should have made this movie for yourselves. I am sorry but I am a Chuckles the Clown in Mary Tyler Moore show type of humor person. That went dangerously close to going over the line but didn't tip over it for me. Callous people ignoring a dog whose owner had just died just isn't funny to me. My best and frequently only friends are animals that are not members of the Homo Sapiens species. When you harm one of my friends you have gone way too far and ceased to be funny.The only thing funny about this movie for me was what it showed in the newspaper about the movie in the movie titled Night Wind that just bombed. Critics break wind. For those not aware of the euphemism that means flatulence or a better word for it is f**t. This movie is a real stinker. "},{"Title":"scattered but biting satire","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Felix Farmer (Richard Mulligan) is a highly successful producer. He goes crazy when his latest release is a colossal bomb. The star is his wife Sally Miles (Julie Andrews) with a squeaky clean G-rated image. She wants a divorce but her team talks her out of it. Felix snaps out of it and buys Sally's next movie intending to turn it into an erotic musical. Sally is angry at Felix for using all of their money and reluctantly takes the risk of doing a nudie. It becomes a highly sought after property.It's a bit scattered in the beginning following a lot of characters. The heart of this is a dark biting satire. The comedy isn't always the funniest but it takes really sharp jabs at Hollywood. I was starting to really like this movie and then it takes a turn into Weekend at Bernie's territories. I love Blake Edwards taking dark comedic turns on Hollywood but some of it doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Wonderful slice of the slimy side of Hollywood that has stayed surprisingly relevant","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Lemme start by saying that this film is by no means a perfect movie. As a product of it's time, a lot of the freewheeling sex and casual/rampant alcohol and drug use seem rather dated. In fact, it feels decidedly late-70's in that regard, despite it being a film that came out in 1981. But setting all of this aside, it's probably one of the best skewers of the Movie Industry you'll ever see. It's funny, raucous, profane, lewd, many things you would normally expect from a brilliant comedic director like Blake Edwards. But it also has it's bitter-sweet and tender moments, and it's packed-full of stars from the 60s thru the 80s giving some of their best performances in years...so much so that it feels more legitimate and honest in it's examination of the insanity and pretentiousness of Hollywood than any other film I've seen about the industry yet. I've often had folks argue with me that The Player is a better critique of the Hollywood machine than this film is. They may think that, but I really enjoyed this movie so much more. It's not nearly as self-congratulatory or as overtly ironic as The Player...I love Tim Robbins and what he does in that film, but I'd take 5 minutes of William Holden (in his final performance) over ANY actor in The Player any day of the week. If you are a Blake Edwards fan, I must warn you that this is NOT like his Pink Panther films. In fact, I think folks that aren't fans of his work might enjoy this film even more, because then you won't walk into this with any pre-conceived notions of what kind of humor to expect. Don't get me wrong, there's some serious slap-stick gags in this films, ones I still remember to this day. But it's real humor comes from it's hilarious dialogues and conversation, something you don't get nearly as much from his Pink Panther films. You cannot go wrong watching this film. Especially if you love Hollywood. "},{"Title":"An unbridled masterpiece","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To say that Blake Edwards' satire on Hollywood is wicked would be a wild understatement...it's almost cruel. Fortunately almost doesn't count. S.O.B. is an unbridled masterpiece. Richard Mulligan (looking very much like Blake Edwards) is a producer whose latest saccharine soaked musical is a colossal flop. The trauma leads him first to a nervous breakdown and then on to the epiphany of re-imagining the film as a dirty movie. He corrals his wife into baring her breasts (shocking of course as she's played by Julie Andrews)and goes to war with kinky studio boss Robert Vaughn. Also in the mix are the likes of Marisa Berenson, Robert Loggia, Stuart Margolin (as Andrews' constantly conniving assistant), Shelley Winters as a lesbian talent agent, Robert Webber as a lunatic public relations man and Loretta Swit as a thinly veiled amalgamation of Rona Barrett & Joyce Haber. They're all priceless. Robert Preston is the quack doctor feel-good who's always ready with a needle to calm EVERYONE'S nerves (including his own). Edwards makes his most pointed satire since THE PARTY. No one is spared. Larry Hagman, Rosanna Arquette, William Holden and a very odd Larry Storch also appear. "},{"Title":"Want to see Julie Andrews boobies (HA)","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   Just recently bought the DVD of Blake Edwards S.O.B. If you are not familiar with Blake Edwards, he is the Director of the Pink Panther movies.  Armed with this you will get a general feel for this movie Richard Mulligan plays Felix Farmer a genius of a movie director who's latest movies is a stinker.  This leads him to a nervous breakdown and this is where the wild ride begins. Edwards lets us see behind the scenes of a movie studio on a manic scale And for those of you who might be interested Julie Andrews bares her breasts in this movieNow that I have gotten your attention, don't blink when she does this  ha haThere is more madness after this too so please be sure to watch the movie all the way though Happy Viewing  "},{"Title":"All hail Julie Andrews!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  S.O.B is outrageous! Julie Andrews is phenomenal. The term S.O.B comes from a phrase thought up and often used by star Julie Andrews and her husband, director Blake Edwards. The term is an acronym for Standard Operating Bullshi*. This movie is hilarious and Julie Andrews gives a stunning performance. I find it exciting that she gets glory or her stuning performance for she is first on the casting list (and its NOT because of her last name being alphabatized!) Praise goes directly to Julie Andrews and Blake Edwards!  "},{"Title":"laff out loud fall down comedy","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  outrageous commentary on hollywood & its denizens.  laff out loud fall down comedy w/the cleverest lines going to Dr. Feingarten.  too bad all these actors had to die. the end "},{"Title":"One of my three favorite movies ever","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out, just because of the advance publicity regarding Julie Andrews doing a topless scene. I've seen it a dozen times since, and there's always something new that catches my attention. It's got hundreds of great lines and throwaway gags, and I laugh all the way through every time I see it. Full of cameos, but the best characters were played by Stuart Margolis, Robert Webber and, of course, William Holden, in his last movie. "},{"Title":"Hollywood hated it ... and maybe that's why we love it so!","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   From the opening scene to the final fade out, this movie, for it's genre, is as good as it gets.I noticed when they gave Blake Edwards his lifetime achievement award at the Oscars this past year, they did NOT mention S.O.B. amongst his list of films. Interesting. Could it be that this scathingly witting, brilliant, intelligent ... and, oh yes, HILARIOUS ... film cut too close to home?The cast is top drawer and everyone is at the top of his or her game. From Julie Andrews, playing a delicious parody of herself, to William Holden, who in the course of the movie declaims his own obituary, to Robert Preston (not a shyster ... he is a QUACK), it is wonderful. I'm sure the Hollywood Power Players hated it. Unless you are One Of Them, you will probably love it. It's great.  "}{"Title":"Uneven.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My favorite aspect of this film is William Holden, other that that it's also pretty funny even if it is terribly uneven. Many people will know this as the film in which Julie Andrews does a little nudity, the film is so uneven, that's as good a reason as any to remember this film. Making fun of Hollywood is something directors love to do and they always get great cast to help them make fun of their craft. Funny film, but sloppy. "},{"Title":"William Holden's last film.","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Blake Edward's, who had an ax to grind with Hollywood, gets his revenge in this biting (and sometimes cruel) look at tinsel town.  I found the film hilarious and one of his best efforts.  His real life wife (Julie Andrews) destroyed her Mary Poppins image by showing her naked breasts in one scene.  This is also William Holden's last screen appearance. "},{"Title":"Terrible film making at its best!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *WARNING POTENTIAL SPOILERS* It's hard to say what the best part of this movie is The awesome late 70s attire, the many variations of Polly-wolly Doodle that play in the background, the horrible overacting, or a doped-up Julie Andrews asking Are you here to see my boobies? If you're like me and love movies for their camp more than whatever else they're trying to do, you're going to love S.O.B. Anyone who tries to glean any depth, insight or social value from this film is going to be disappointed. Very disappointed. This film is meant to be satire, but you get the feeling the director tried to reach for a little something more. Unfortunately, he fails miserably. Those are the few times where the satire is overshadowed by the horror that is late 70s film making. Otherwise, this is a must see for anyone who laughs hysterically at Logan's Run, mocks Planet of the Apes, gets drunk to 2001, or wishes for a quick, painless death over watching Hello Dolly. We can only hope and pray for an enhanced DVD version to be released with actors confessing to what the hell ever convinced them to appear in this film. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece? I think not.. and here's why..","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Blake Edwards, in his long career churned out many memorable films, not the least of which were the wonderful, but uneven, Pink Panther series, and, my favorite, the Bo Derek vehicle 10, easily Dudley Moore's best film.. just thinking about poor lovesick Moore hotfooting his way across a Mexican beach, or trying to explain who he is after a long dentist's visit and too much brandy and painkillers, makes me chuckle..In S.O.B. Edwards tried to expose/dissect/shred the inner workings of Hollywood, the rivalries, deals, back-stabbing, all as a film-within-a-film, a dismal flop called Nightwind is being re-made by hapless Felix Farmer (Richard Mulligan, who earned his claim to fame in the TV series SOAP)..In 1981, S.O.B. was looked upon as daring.  It has not aged well.It's two hours that feels double that length.. it has its moments but I found it for the most part, insufferably self-indulgent and brimming with poorly-executed good ideas.Watching it twice on HBO this month I couldn't help but think how distracting the Disco era wardrobe was.. how so many films have done certain similar pivotal scenes so much better.. 9 to 5's stealing a body from a Funeral Home was 100 times funnier than the one acted out in S.O.B. Hard as this may be to say, Weekend at Bernie's excruciatingly reptitive jokes about transporting around a corpse were absolutely hilarious compared to the way Edwards tries to pull off the same routine..A lot of S.O.B. is like that - you feel like you're being set up for something truly hilarious, but the payoff is a huge let-down..And the yelling.. and more yelling.. if there's one thing that grinds my gears, it's films in which nearly *every* character spends much of their on-screen time YELLING.  One-dimensional Loretta Swit with her enormous Steven Tyler mouth is the worst offender here.  Mulligan doesn't know the meaning of the word finesse.  Julie Andrews and so many others are guilty of this too, and her much-touted topless scene is, well, just plain lame. It's just another very long buildup to a disappointment.  (Although a brief topless scene with a very young Rosanna Arquette almost makes up for it ;)..The film is absolutely chocked-full of legendary actors, and the late Robert The Music Man Preston as a wacko flaming Doctor to the stars, (with the film's worst hair-styling).. easily steals every scene he's in.  But it's still not enough to save this self-indulgent shoutfest.S.O.B. leaves me feeling like I'm watching some kind of huge Hollywood in-joke that never truly draws me in.  I always felt like an outsider, watching some very good actors, playing very bad actors, playing very bad actors.  If you want to see Edwards at the peak of his Directorial skills, doing a truly fine dark comedy, leave this one on the shelf and watch 10 instead.  "},{"Title":"Lame insider's parody of Hollywood","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"          I have sort of mixed feelings about any of Blake Edwards' films. I think he is truly a genuine wit, a funny screenwriter and an enormously talented director.  However, his personal tastes in humor tend to run toward cheap sex jokes and banal slapstick (the two lowest forms of humor on earth, to me).  Yet I admire his work- even the junk. I think he's a very classy filmmaker (The Days of Wine And Roses, for instance, is superb), so it's an interesting paradox whenever I watch his attempts at comedy.  The truth is, he's never made a good one without Peter Sellers.               And so it goes with S.O.B., Edwards' attempt to strike back at the Hollywood establishment.  Richard Mulligan plays Edwards' alter ego, a successful film director suddenly on the outs with the Hollywood honchos after his latest film tanks.  He responds to his dilemma by, first, going insane, and then in an amazing reversal of mental fortune, comes to the conclusion is that all the public really wants is sex (which he expounds upon in coherently passionate refrains), so he decides to recut the failed film, spice it up with a lot of steam and cleavage and black leather, etc. and release it all over again to drooling audiences everywhere.        The problem with the film is twofold and that's putting aside the fact that the story is just plain unbelievable. I can't imagine the public plunking down another six or eight bucks to watch a movie that was a critical failure already just because whips and chains are thrown in. Can't you rent something like that for $1.95 at your local porn shop?  A lot of the film is an anachronism. Loretta Swit's character of the loudmouth gossip columnist is part of a Hollywood that doesn't exist anymore.  The days of Hedda Hopper and Louella Parsons wielding serious power are long gone. Also, the cast itself is mostly out of place in a Hollywood feature (Loretta Swit?) and a lot of the others are TV retreads as well (Mulligan, Robert Vaughn, Craig Stevens, Robert Webber, Larry Hagman, Stuart Margolin, etc.).  On the plus side, Robert Preston was very good and has great lines is about every scene he's in (the world is my armadillo) and William Holden lends dignity and style to any film just by walking on the set.        The other problem here is the irony of it all.  Blake Edwards is lampooning, more or less, the same sort of lame sex-filled junk he's been making for years, although his stuff has a little more verve and intelligence.  And the so-called climactic scene of Julie Andrews baring her breasts is contrived and ultimately, insignificant.   If Blake Edwards wants to trash Hollywood, let him write a kiss-and-tell book. He's certainly shrewd and perceptive enough to do it well, but enough of these tragically flawed exercises in hipness, unless that was the whole idea, a big in-joke on us all, in which case Blake Edwards really is getting the last laugh.  "},{"Title":"Not A BAd Film","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film many years ago, and really liked it. Richard Mulligan as a Corpse on the back of a boat was a hoot. I cannot say that this is a film you just have to go out and see, but it is good for  few laughs. "},{"Title":"A Narrow Window","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Seeing this movie as a 21 year old was not a good idea. I was literate and mature enough to understand that this was an adult satire, but I was too much of a little boy to understand the grownup-ness of the characters. Ultimately, my 48 year old mind understands that I missed something in SOB, but I can't get by the quarter century old memory of thinking that this Blake Edwards comedy was a dud.I do remember laughing. And Rosanna Arquette's stripping in front of William Holden (If that's nothing, I can't even conceive of what 'something' might be!). There was lots of sharp dialogue and slapstick. Julie Andrews looked, well, perky, but by the time she did her newsworthy strip, what little attention span I was paying to the movie had spooled out. Yet that's all I remember. A lot of insider jokes and bared breasts. This isn't so much a review as a confession that I didn't get the movie. I remember feeling faintly disgusted with Mary Poppins popping out, in a repulsive, leathery musical number. I had a narrow window of opportunity to get SOB, but I missed it.I'm not really interested in giving it another shot. "},{"Title":"Chicken!!!!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a textbook case of how to make a so-so movie with only a few worthwhile things, out of a good idea and a brilliant first act,by having a failure of nerve. If it had ended with the savagery with which it had begun, it would be a classic.For those who don't know, the film is a satire about a movie director who tries to revive what is looking to be a huge flop by turning it into a semi-porn film. Unfortunately it turns chicken, and doesn't follow through on its nastiness.Key to the plot is that the director, played by Richard Mulligan, intends to cast his wife, played by Julie Andrews, in an X-rated role, after she has spent her entire career in G-rated family movies. The movie comes to be about Julie Andrews showing her tits. Unfortunately, it didn't really work as a comic payoff, albeit Julie Andrews has very nice breasts, and I did always have a crush on her. But does it cause a laugh? No.What if, when the Julie Andrews character is drugged into letting go, it unleashes a sexual dynamo that brings to mind the great George S. Kaufman line that she'd by a nymphomaniac if only she'd calm down? What if she went nuts on the set, and had it off with all the extras, all the stagehands, and most of the props? What if, inside, she was a complete and total slut?You would, of course, NOT show anything of it, just people's reaction to it. And that, I think, would make you laugh. Think Julie Christie under the table at the dinner party in Shampoo. (Robert Towne, when once asked what was going on under that table, said, At this point, about $40 million at the box office. Adjust, where necessary, for inflation.)This is what I mean about S.O.B. showing a failure of nerve. The joke, it seems to me, should be Julie Andrews getting down-and-dirty. And if you're going to have Julie Andrews get down-and-dirty---then go ahead and have her get down-and-dirty.THEN you could have the director slowly turn from an obsessed nutcase trying desperately to hang on to his paltry Hollywood success---to a jealous husband who decides he would rather not have the rest of the world see his ex-wife like this. The last act of the film becomes much better motivated than the lame slapstick Edwards used, and gives a much greater opportunity for real comedy as Felix tries valiantly, but too late, to stop the juggernaut he has created, which rolls right along over him.As with all such hypotheticals, there's no way to tell if that would have worked any better. But I smile more at my version of how it should have been done than at the way it ends now. "},{"Title":"IT'S A MAD MAD TOWERING INFERNO","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hello, this is THE BEACH from somewhere south of Hollywoodland.  In the mood for a film about Hollywood starring half of Hollywood?  Have I got a flick for you.  Love Boat cast of circa-1981 actors in a film that shows us how actors and other Hollywood heavies REALLY live, talk, and party...we're talking booze! drugs! nudity! and a disregard for anything decent.  This sometimes funny (but not the way the director had hoped), and now seriously out-dated mess, is a bit like watching IT'S A MAD MAD MAD MAD WORLD meets THE TOWERING INFERNO with it's endless mini-roles and over-acting.First we have the old pros (most of them starring in more than one Blake Edwards film during the end of their career), the once major Hollywood film actors who were too old to have much offered to them so Edwards tossed a few bones to them.  Even old actors have to make a living  Julie Andrews (Director Blake Edwards' real-life wife who's career struggled under him...she has since recovered nicely with THE PRINCESS DIARIES), William Holden (yes, he was in THE TOWERING INFERNO too...it's no PICNIC when you're old in Hollywood, this was his last film so there goes our first victim up in flames), Robert Loggia (he danced with Tom Hanks on the giant toy piano in BIG so he survived nicely), and Robert Preston (formerly of Cecil B. DeMille's stock of actors, also a MUSIC MAN who sung a tune of drug excess in this flick...S.O.B. and that rhymes with D and that stands for drugs!).  They do their best despite the junk Blake gives them...or perhaps they were just being themselves.  A remake with such Hollywood royalty as re-re-recovering druggie Robert Downey, Jr. (what's with these relatives of directors anyway?), recovering drunKie and boobie-flasher Drew Barrymore (please someone tie her tubes, the Barrymore lineage must end!), recovering sex addict Charlie Sheen (let's include Martin and his assorted brothers in just for fun), would make us forget about the OCEAN'S ELEVEN remake.Next we have what could have been a typical HOLLYWOOD SQUARES cast of that era (if only Edwards would have found a role for Rose Marie) TV's Larry Hagman (he played the astronaut turned oil well baron on I DREAM OF DALLAS), Stuart Margolin (he played Angel on TOUCHED BY A ROCKFORD), Richard Mulligan  (of the dirty SOAP and the clean EMPTY NEST), Loretta Swit (M*A*S*H* with four asterisks), Robert Vaughn (MAN FROM U*N*C*L*E*...that's five asterisks, he's still the champ...please no more shows with asterisks!), Robert Loggia (ELFEGO BACA, hey they still play it at 3am on the Disney Channel), Larry Storch (F-TROOP, back when you could use the letter F without someone thinking it was a dirty reference), Joe Penny (JAKE, NOT THE FAT MAN), and Corbin Bernsen (LA-LA LAW).  They were all happy to be in a real movie and not on a game show or being welcomed with It's the plane boss, it's the plane!To fill out the cast are some of the best 'hey, I recognize him' guys.  These are the character actors we all know by face, not by name, and they always give great performances...just not here  Corporate-type Robert Webber (the original demi-star), stocky-type Ken Swofford, shorty-type Hamilton Camp, crusty-type Robert Loggia, Asian-type Benson Fong, and ethnic-type Bert Rosario (he starred in ON THE ROCKS, but that series about prisoners didn't last long enough to elevate him to TV star), and Craig Stevens-type Craig Stevens (sorry Craig, most people don't know  your name).Finally there are the babes, the best being Edwards and Andrews' own daughter (what a hottie she is!) and Rosanna Arquette (before she was famous).  All in all, if the film had starred these two and dumped everyone else, it would have been worth watching.  As it stands, it just a film with lots of famous faces, lots of pretty girls, and two really old ugly boobies...sorry, the hills are not alive with the sound of music!  If you feel like renting this film and fast forwarding it to scenes with naked and half-naked young babes in them then it's okay, you just got to put up with all those stupid scenes with old Hollywood actors not really acting, just playing themselves, TV-actors trying to ride a hit to stardom and catching autographs during their break, and that old broad Julie Andrews Mary Poppin' out of her blouse (not a pretty sight).  Heck, Robert Loggia made a better looking babe.  This is THE BEACH from south of Hollywoodland.    "},{"Title":"Banal, Pointless, and Ultimately Sad","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It has often been said that Los Angeles is a world all its own, and SOB sets out to make that point. From the very opening scene, everyone is wrapped up in their own cocoon and cares nothing about what's happening around them.In the very opening scene, a man is jogging on the beach and suffers a heart attack people walk around him, and throughout the movie his faithful dog tries to get help for him, but no one pays any attention--they're too wrapped up in their own lives. Apparently Good Samaritans don't exist in Southern California!A failing director has just premiered his latest movie starring Julie Andrews (probably her worst performance ever) which has bombed, and he tries several times to kill himself. When that doesn't work, he tries drowning his sorrows in dissipation, which gives him a stroke of inspiration on how to salvage his film. But even this is pointless, as his idea is to add darkness and degeneracy (in this film, there's already too much of it).All through the movie I kept waiting for someone to show a spark of decency or true humor, but it never came! Ultimately I realized this was Blake Edwards' point Hollywood cares only about success, and cash. Caring doesn't matter. What a joke!If you're planning on seeing SOB, don't! There is not one redeeming feature in this film. If you want to see a movie about movies, see Scream 3, or, Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. Even John Landis' Into The Night is better fare!And besides, I still feel sorry for the dog. "}{"Title":"Vomit-inducing comedy - should be avoided by everyone","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Miserable, obnoxious, depressing, lazy, and unbearably filthy excuse for a comedy with ne'er a laugh in it. In many ways, it resembles a bad dream.Everything in this picture is aesthetically and conceptually hideous - even the characters' names (Felix Farmer) - and though Edwards presumably intended S.O.B. as a grand slam against mainstream Hollywood, his sense of humor here is so off that the film immediately becomes physically repellent - it turns one's stomach... again, and again, and again.Richard Mulligan has been quite enjoyable on the small screen (in 'Empty Nest,' and in his brief appearances on 'The Golden Girls') but his performance here is wretched. It stands comparison with his somnambulism in another lousy film, 'Scavenger Hunt,' from two years prior.But the worst aspect of S.O.B. is undoubtedly its complete implausibility. The film within the film, 'Night Wind,' is so ridiculous that it seems impossible - and insults the audience. Are bad films made in Hollywood? Every day. But never one this terrible. Just how unfunny is S.O.B.? I laughed more at 'Ironweed.' I can't think of any director in history, American or otherwise, who is as uneven as Blake Edwards. Hard to believe that the same individual responsible for such classics as 'The Days of Wine and Roses,' 'A Shot in the Dark,' 'Experiment in Terror,' 'Darling Lili,' 'Micki and Maude,' and 'That's Life' could churn out crap on par with this and 'The Trail of the Pink Panther.' "},{"Title":"what were they thinking when they made this movie??/Spoiler included/","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  talk about your screwy movies this one sure was.. and why would Julie Andrews sign up to do such a stupid piece of junk like this one was.. i had seen it and didnt understand it at all.. and i dont know why i even rented the dumb movie.. and too .. Robert Preston ?? he was such a talented actor... what was he thinking?? and William Holden was Not suited for a comedy..SPOILER AHEAD >>>>>>> and the most dumbest part is when Richard Mulligan's character gets shot by the cops and all he had in his hand was a water pistol.. and the cops dont even try to talk to him first..and then William and Robert and the other guy sneak into the morgue to steal Richard's characters body.. what is with that???? then after the three of them take him out to sea to bury him.. I DONT recommend this movie at All.. pass it by on the shelve...and get something else.. these actors made good movies.. and if anyone is a fan of Robert Preston like i am . DONT i repeat Dont rent this stinker..rent The Music Man or another of his many good movies..this turkey deserves a Zero out of ten.. thats how bad it is...toss this one into the trash compactor ..  "}]