[{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Hilarious comedy -- hasn't aged -- like Austin Powers","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" On the assumption that you are considering renting Zorro, I think ratings and reviews should reflect the current day, not nostalgia or memory. I've seen Zorro The Gay Blade recently and was totally floored. It's flat-out hilarious and hasn't aged a day.The film is a parody of Zorro and makes fun of some of the over-seriousness of that long ago age when Zorro was invented. But at the same time, like a good parody should (Austin Powers) it has its own theme, its own compelling characters and plot. Nothing blows up, but swordfighting doesn't need a $100m budget to be fascinating. Nor does a parody. It's wacky but accessible to people who don't like cult films. Don't expect a romance.If you liked Austin Powers, definitely get this film. It's an intelligent and hilarious parody of the Zorro concept that yet is serious enough that we care what happens to the character. In getting this balance right, it's much like the first Austin Powers film. Who should see this movie-- Everyone who's heard of Zorro and won't mind a little dose(not a large dose) of wacky.-- Arty film types who won't find any compelling film drama here,but you owe it to yourself to explore the Zorro mystique.I'll give Zorro, the Gay Blade a surprisingly timeless 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Classic that never dies","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is surprising to me that more people don't know about this picture, since Zorro the Gay Blade is one of the great funny movies of all time. It is certainly George Hamilton's most memorable movie, an over-the-top spoof that never takes itself too seriously. This is NOT Jerry Lewis or the Three Stooges, but an entertaining social commentary written and performed as slapstick. Of course they do all of it firmly tongue-in-cheek.It does seem that a few people just don't get it. Well, to each his own. But if you liked Hamilton's Love at First Bite or most of the work of Mel Brooks, then this movie is for you. Personally, it reminds me of Young Frankenstein, Blazing Saddles, Ghostbusters, Groundhog Day and the Austin Powers movies. The writing is witty and the one liners are things you will remember and repeat for years. If you haven't seen this one, then you don't know what you are missing. "},{"Title":"Call It a Swishbuckler","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Say what you will about Zorro, the Gay Blade.  It's a silly send-up to the old cinematic standard of Zorro, made before our politically correct times.  Sissy jokes aside, it is enjoyable.  Granted, a lot of performances are over the top, particularly Ron Liebman's top-volume Alcalde, but quite a bit of the dialogue can still get a smile.  It's worth a look and a laugh or two! "},{"Title":"George Hamilton at his absurd best","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You have to have a gift for the kind of cocksure buffoonery that's unleashed in Zorro, the Gay Blade.  But you also have to have a special kind of gift to enjoy how wild and cockeyed it can be.  Hal Dresner and the rest of the writing team let loose with every conceivable bit of absurdity surrounding the Zorro legend, and succeeded in giving what looks to be George Hamilton's most engaging work.  It was Hamilton's talk show with his ex-wife Alana that made me trust his essential good will.  He may have been a cheating, good-time charlie to Alana, but it's just this willingness to let her at him over his own personal foibles that won me over.  It's there in spades in Zorro the Gay Blade.  Hamilton's not afraid to go all out, playing the fool.  He grins, and you can't help but grin back.  His tan may be legendary, but it's that blinding-pearl-white smile that equals it.  It's what carries his performance; I haven't seen a smirk this sardonic, since John William Sublett flashed his in the number Shine from The Cabin In The Sky.  And Hamilton's mugging and playfulness is as masterful as Cary Grant's was in Gunga Din.  It isn't only talented actresses who get wasted in Hollywood.  Hamilton is an example of the actors who watched opportunities dry up, their best years flit away, and obscurity meet them head-on in their old age.  It was nice seeing him on the Halloween edition of Talk Soup; the face may be a little jowly, and his hair grayer, but that tan is still there, and so is that trademark wantonness.  I hope it never dies.It would not have been very good for Hamilton to be playing at the height of his comic talents without a supporting cast meeting him jab for jab.  There are some who think Ron Leibman's performance is too much, but I'm not among them.  Leibman knew he would have to chew a lot of scenery to make the humor built into his role work; it takes a very astute actor to know when overacting, overdoing is the right pitch at which to carry a scene or a part.  And I don't think Leibman ever misjudges the moment.  I can remember myself enthralled over Nehemiah Persoff's El Presidente on one episode of Gilligan's Island, and Leibman's performance matches it, accent for accent, outburst for outburst.  It'll be a long time before I forget either.I've always thought Brenda Vaccaro a very funny actress.  It's hard to find actresses whose vibe puts you in a happy mood.  She's always reminded me of a primmer Susan Tyrell with her button eyes, sharp profile (the prim part), and extra husky voice (the Tyrell part).  As the Alcalde's wife, Vaccaro has some smart lines, and you wish director Peter Medak had let her go as far as Leibman had in his role.  And she seems wrong for the part that requires her to be vain, self-absorbed, and sex-starved.  With Vaccaro, you get the feeling that the woman she plays would be aware of how empty her existence was; how to resolve her sexual frustrations (She's accorded her husband's favor twelve times a year; not once every month, but twelve times in one night, and then nothing for the rest of the year.); how to pool her resources and become a foxy champion of the downtrodden herself. The movie is full of little surprises from the gap in Lauren Hutton's front teeth (It's like an emblem of the absurdity this movie loves.) to Donovan Scott's shaggy-dog costume (or was he a bear?) to Hamilton's alter-ego, Don Diego's brother Ramon who throws off his Spanish heritage for a freer, more suitable, more English estate as Bunny Wiglesworth (A name with a built-in come-on, if ever there were one).  The fact that Ramon is better at wielding a whip than a sword points to how knowing the writers are; it's things like this that make you beam at what Dresner and Bob Randall and others had cooked up.  Their efforts returned the word gay to what it used to mean, and gave its new meaning, well, new meaning.  It's undiluted joviality, and even that doesn't cover it. "},{"Title":"Zorro.....As We Have Never Seen Him Before.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another great Zorro movie that has George Hamilton playing dual roles. The first role, being the suave Don Diego and the second role being the ummmmm.......not so straight Bunny (Diego's twin brother). After a leg injury to Diego it is up to Bunny to keep the peace. A hilarious parody/action-adventure/comedy that works because of quite possibly George Hamilton's greatest performance and a super supporting cast which includes the priceless Ron Leibman, Brenda Vaccaro and Lauren Hutton. Definitely unique to other Zorro films. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Best comedy i've ever seen","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i saw this when i was 11 yrs old and it was one of the first videos i had ever watched.it has remained one of the funniest comedies i have ever seen, every scene is funny on so many levels. George Hamilton is most definitely a genius in it, Brenda Vaccaro and Rob Leibman are the funniest comedy actors i have ever seen. if you get the opportunity, please watch it, for all the family and worth a Saturday or Sunday afternoon watch. Guaranteed to cheer you up if your feeling low. The fact that it is so over the top makes it all the more enjoyable. I cannot wait for the day that i can show this to my kids and have them laugh as hard as i did when i was there age. "},{"Title":"A classic that ranks with Blazing Saddles and the Pink Panther","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was hysterical. I only just saw it for the first time the other day. I never heard of it until a friend of mine spoke about it. It's slapstick comedy at it's best. You can't find comedies like this anymore. I think the name says it all about it's humorous nature. Picture Zorro shouting one-liners and then picture him being gay. It's worth the $1.99 it costs to rent it at Blockbuster. It goes all out with stereotypes as well. The crowd listening to Esteban speaking to them, all wearing sombreros. Esteban saying he is a man of the Peeples. It's great for a Sunday afternoon viewing.  "},{"Title":"I have watched this many times and it still makes me laugh.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw it in 1982 I thought it was one of the worst movies ever made. Over the years it has become one of my favorites.  Its dialogue and Hamilton's one liners. It is a Z not a two, the peeples, it is better to be poor than to dress poorly, etc. There are so many subtle comments and in jokes you need to watch it many times to pick them all up. "},{"Title":"A film that is ever new, ever funny","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have seen Zorro the Gay Blade several times since it was released in the 1980s, and I get something new from it each time. I have liked all the Zorro films, and this comic spoof is yet another twist on the original Zorro plot.My favorite part of Zorro the Gay Blade is the masked ball, at which the Alcalde hopes to catch Zorro, only to have all his male guests arrive in Zorro costumes. The result is a dizzying house of mirrors effect as the Alcalde looks from one Zorro to another around the room and then finds himself unable to identify and arrest the real Zorro.Another favorite part is the soundtrack, taken from Max Steiner's compositions for the soundtrack of Don Juan (which starred Errol Flynn in the 1940s) and The Danzas Fantasticas, some Spanish classical music. Unfortunately, Steiner's music is unpublished; I do hope it will be published some day so that fans of Spanish-style music can enjoy playing it.I would recommend the Zorro series by Disney and all other movies about Zorro. I also would recommend Don Juan (starring Errol Flynn) and Don Juan DeMarco (starring Johnny Depp and the late Marlon Brando). "},{"Title":"Totally Hilarious!","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is a completely funny spoof of the Zorro legend - complete with sword fights, injustice, and cross dressing. There are many small innuendos, lines, and moments that the first time viewer may miss, so be sure to watch it again - also look for the reactions of the lesser characters. George Hamilton shows his silly side and his ability for self-mockery - which is totally worth watching! The supporting cast are all great veteran character actors - people you couldn't name, but whose face you recognize. Paco, who plays George's mute servant, is priceless. It's definitely included in my 80's Comedies Worth Owning list. "}{"Title":"A comedy classic","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie that keeps you laughing the more you see it. The interplay between Ron Liebman (Esteban) and George Hamilton (both Zorros) is the perfect comedic match. Excellent cast and great writing combine to a true cult classic. Lauren Hutton provides a tolerable love interest that possesses a feminist liberal touch to her character. This is overshadowed by the comedic confusion created by Liebman and Hamilton. Liebman is outstanding as the overly obsessed Captain Esteban for his nemesis Zorro. Brenda Vaccaro plays Florinda, Esteban's devoted buy love starved wife, who of course, has secret desires for Hamilton that adds spice to the interplay between Liebman and Hamilton. Must see, 5 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Hamilton","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The highly underrated Zorro, the Gay Blade does what, unfortunately, a lot of comedies don't It entertains. George Hamilton is perfect in his duel roles as the long-absent son of the legendary Zorro and his identical twin, who has joined the British navy and flaunts his effeminate lifestyle. I don't understand why this movie gets such a low rating on IMDb. It may not be classic cinema destined for a spot in the Smithsonian, but it delivers what it promises Lots of laughs. Sure, the characters are stereotypes, many of the scenes are over the top and the plot is perhaps a bit uneven. But in a farce, there's nothing wrong with that, and that is what this movie is. Ron Leibman as the corrupt alcalte and Brenda Vaccaro as his long-suffering wife add to the film with their wonderful over-acting. The movie has a good comic pace and even manages to finish on a warm note. Sure, it isn't perfect, but not many movie comedies can manage to accomplish what it should This one does. "},{"Title":"The BEST of all ZORROs!!!!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really do consider this the best of all Zorro's, mainly because it is so FUNNY!!!! I do want to take a moment to mention to any gay person out there who considers this a negative stereotype....GET OVER IT!!!! It's fun!!! And, how many queers do you know who really DO act that way?? I know lots...and I'm a gay man too!! There are only 2 negatives I can mention 1. Lauren Hutton is a TERRIBLE actor and not that pretty....her role is forgettable. 2. Why not a love-interest for Bunny????? OH, I forgot, that was before Making Love, when men couldn't love men on screen! The music is absolutely WONDERFUL....although, I'm surprised to learn it's a MONO soundtrack! Most of the music was from Joachim Turina's Danses Fantasikas, which persuaded me to go buy a recording of that work, but, the love theme, which is BEAUTIFUL, and makes me cry, is not Turina's work. I wish they would have produced a CD soundtrack recording of the music from this movie...interspersed with quotes like 2 bits, 4 bits, 6 bits a peso, all for Zorro, stand up and say so! and the ships in the field...the little ba-ba-bas, etc.GREAT fun and a timeless classic!! "},{"Title":"no matter how you look at it, still a funny one","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have to admit that I don't the Zorro series except for Zorro, the Gay Blade and Mask of Zorro (and Isabel Allende's novel portraying the origins of the character). You gotta love the former movie. Basically a parody of the genre, they pretty much get as silly as they want. I, for one, am always going to remember George Hamilton as Zorro and Dracula (from Love at First Bite). And if I may say so, Lauren Hutton is quite sexy here! So, if you like totally zany nonsense humor, then this is the movie for you. Even though I've only seen two movies directed by Peter Medak (this one and his satire The Ruling Class), I like them both and recommend them very much. Muy bien! Also starring Ron Leibman and Brenda Vaccaro. "},{"Title":"Zorro to the extreme","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Tyrone Power in The Mark of Zorro plays a foppish character designed to throw off suspicion that he is, in fact, the legendary Zorro. George Hamilton in an Oscar-worthy performance (if they gave an award for comedy - which they don't!) plays Zorro who is injured and has to rely on his twin brother to stand in. George Hamilton as Bunny Wigglesworth is a riot. He is flamboyantly gay and wears lemon, plum, and scarlet instead of Zorro Black. He also likes to use a whip, which is not entirely out of character for Zorro, as he is as adept with the tail as he is with the foil. This is an entertaining farce that Zorro fans, Hamilton fans and others will enjoy. An excellent supporting cast includes Lauren Hutton, Brenda Vaccaro, and Ron Leibman. "},{"Title":"Ode to a bandit","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the first movies we rented right after we got our VHS player back in 1983, and to this day it is still a family favorite.  I will never tire of watching this movie.  George Hamilton does an outstanding job as the smooth-talking Don Diego Vega and as the flighty Bunny Wigglesworth, and the rest of the cast is just priceless.  This movie is fun from beginning to end.  For anyone who wants a great laugh, this is definitely a must see. "},{"Title":"Flamboyant, and a lot of fun","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  George Hamilton is very funny, both as the serious twin and his outrageous brother.  The script is witty and no more idiotic than any other Zorro movie.  The score is excellent, stirring in the chase and fight scenes, appropriately dreamy in the tender moments. I believe that the main theme is lifted from a classical composition and adapted for the movie.  This is one of those movies where a lot of the pleasure comes from the second rank of actors, like Ron Liebman and Brenda Vacarro as the alcalde and his dissatisfied wife.  No one movie is going to appeal to everyone or at every time, but this is a good way to spend a couple of hours in light entertainment without having your intelligence or your taste insulted.  "},{"Title":"OK, I've been watching this movie for years and it is still hilarious!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, if you ain't laughing at the jokes in this flick then you just don't need to watch comedies. We screened this at school and everyone, no matter how young or old, was cracking up. Hamilton was good but the Al Cade was great! He had all the best lines and that scene with the masquerade ball is priceless. Also, the execution drummers who didn't know when to quit, the scene Bunny makes his first appearance and all the other Dons are describing what he's wearing; He was wearing green signor. Al Cade; You mean green like a Lime? Don Francisco No, green like the avocado Also, the end battle and the Al Cade and a few guards are surrounded by the rebelling peasants, he immediately orders the peasants to drop their weapons and that they are under arrest, there is like a second beat and the guards turn and arrest the Al Cade instead. Unexpected funny bits like that are what made this movie enjoyable for me and if you have an ounce of a sense of humor, you will enjoy it too. There is so much more to this movie and I see something new every time I see it. Worth watching, especially as a double bill with Love at First Bite "},{"Title":"Er, we could go shopping","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time. I never cared for George Hamilton who played boring playboys until this movie where he had fun with the role. When he showed up at the masked ball as Margareta Wigglesworth, I almost fell on the floor laughing.Later, the Alcalda goes to the bar and orders a drink for Margareta. The bartender replies '4 margaritas'.My favorite line was at the end when the two brothers were on horseback saying their goodbyes and Bunny told his brother that Lauren Hutton was in love with him and 'would do anything for the man she loved' His brother said 'She said that?' Bunny replies 'Said it, she almost sang it'. "},{"Title":"Goofy, light-hearted send-up of the Zorro legend.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've never been a big fan of the Zorro films, or the TV series for that matter, but I loved this movie.  Zorro, the masked avenger, takes up for the downtrodden peasantry being exploited by the evil alcalde (played with delicious maliciousness by Ron Leibman).  When the Zorro character injures his ankle and is unable to wreak havoc on the oppressors, his twin brother Ramon appears on the scene to take over where Zorro has left off, with a couple of slight differences.  Ramon has joined the British Navy and changed his name to Bunny Wigglesworth (and all that the name implies), and he uses a whip instead of a sword to smite his enemies.  Oh, and he's a snappy dresser as well--instead of a boring black cape and hat, he wears color coordinated outfits--purple, green, yellow, orange.  A wonderful supporting cast (Brenda Vaccaro and Lauren Hutton) and witty dialogue make this a very enjoyable romp.  It is pure fluff, but very funny and worth watching. George Hamilton is wonderful as he skewers the Zorro legend and his own lady-killer persona as well. "}{"Title":"A Big Budget B-Movie Classic","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Zorro, the Gay Blade is one of trippiest movies ever. It obviously was made on the heels of the massive box office success of George Hamilton's comedic vampire movie Love at First Bite. They had a big success with Hamilton playing Dracula, why not move onto another comedic version of an iconic character? And thus, we get Zorro, the Gay Blade! George Hamilton is hilarious in his dual role as Don Diego de la Vega and his flamboyant gay twin brother Bunny Wigglesworth (one of the great camp character names ever).Lauren Hutton gives a cool performance too as Zorro's leading lady. She's not as good as Susan Saint James in Love at First Bite. But we couldn't expect comedic lighting to strike twice. Since Love at First Bite was good but one of those films that its success is more of a fluke than anything else. It's one of those films that shouldn't have worked but amazingly did. Ala films like The Blues Brothers, Meatballs and Smokey and the Bandit.Zorro, the Gay Blade is one of those off the wall flawed comedies that belong alongside other late night comedy classics like Jekyll and Hyde Together Again starring the amazing Mark Blankfield.Also, Ron Liebman as Esteban, Zorro's nemesis, is hilarious here as is Brenda Vaccaro as Florinda, Esteban's mondo sexually frustrated wife.Not the greatest comedy ever captured on celluloid. But far superior to most at your local mutliplex, amigo. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of George Hamilton's best comic roles.  It is hilarious, a very campy send-up of Zorro movies.  Zorro is played as a drag queen giving the classic a very different effect.  George Hamilton plays Don Diego and his brother Bunny Wigglesworth, a British naval officer who arrives for a visit and who takes up the cape and sword of Zorro to help out his injured brother.  "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 31","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 31. ZORRO The Gay Blade (comedy, 1981) When Major Don Diego dies his evil police commissioner Esteban (Ron Liebman) assumes his post. Before his death, Don Diego sent his son a casket containing the costume of 'El Zorro', a role he invented to fight injustice. Following in his father's 'boots' the new Zorro (George Hamilton) takes over. Injured whilst fighting Estebans' men, Zorro sends for his twin brother Ramon (George Hamilton again). There is just one problem, this new 'Zorro' is gay.Critique Send-up spoof of the legendary Zorro character was George Hamilton's follow-up to his delirious Count Dracula in 'Love at First Bite' (1979). A performance that revealed a hidden comic talent. Playing another fictional role, his Zorro is a treat to watch. When we first see Zorro he is the dashing, demeanor figure we've all come to know. But when 'Ramon' takes over, the fun starts. It's fun to see him don a whip instead of the famous sword, mixing his heavy Spanish-accent with a gay lisp, and dress in an assortment of colorful get-ups (he was dressed like a big banana). Though Ron Liebman's 'Esteban' is sometimes off-putting with his overacting, its still fun for the whole family.QUOTE Zorro That's right, Zorro is back! To defend the defenseless! Befriend the friendless! And to defeat. . .the 'defeatless'. "},{"Title":"This Is No 'Love At First Bite'","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" All the reviews I read said this was hilarious and just as entertaining as George Hamilton's earlier hit, Love At First Bite in which he played Dracula. I found it not even remotely close Love At First Bite was far, far better than Zorro here. In fact, thanks to Ron Leibman's constant shouting, this film was more annoying than it was funny.Hamilton does provide laughs, no doubt about it, many of them simply with his accent (pipples instead of peoples) but overall, this isn't what it's cracked up to be, especially when compared to Love At First Bite. "},{"Title":"Zany for sure. Zucessful? Ehh....","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A spoof of one of fiction's most beloved masked men, 'Gay Blade' is what it sounds like Don Diego (George Hamilton) inherits the mantle of the black garbed champion of the people, only to be injured and now relies on his effeminate twin brother (also played by Hamilton), Bunny Wigglesworth, to thwart evil.Thankfully free of lame pop-culture references, this straight forward jab at the Zorro mythos still doesn't quite become a legend of its own. Despite a charismatic cast, with Hamilton displaying both comic as well as action chops in both lead roles, and some decent production values that create the appropriate feel of an old Hollywood Zorro picture, the film lacks many hearty belly laughs. Big slapstick setpieces deliver more titters than yucks, and the wordplay isn't especially snappy. Indeed, outside of mocking the theatrics of Zorro, the film has only one other joke in its repertoire Bunny being gay. This element becomes hit or miss, with a gag about his flamboyant costuming possibly being that side's highlight.Add to that, the film is slow paced, and this mean whenever there's not a fight or a gag, the film does become a tad dreary as its actual plot is not especially compelling and is clearly more a platform for said fights and gags. It's essentially a boiled down version of the future 'Mask' and the prior 'Mark' films smooshed together.'Gay Blade' is by no means a terrible parody, with a consistent enough chuckle rate to never be boring, but it never exploits its swashbuckling antics like its distant nephew, 'Robin Hood Men in Tights', would over a decade later. "},{"Title":"Funny And Good","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Believe it or not, this comedy has a very good, interesting story to watch. The movie is a dorky comedy so if you are looking for a more serious Zorro film then I would recommend you to watch The Legend of Zorro (2005) or Zorro (1975).Zorro The Gay Blade has outstanding performances by all involved but George Hamilton's Zorro really does steal the show.I think this movie would liven up a boring Saturday or Sunday afternoon and would make a great double feature with movies like Blazing Saddles, Robin Hood Men in Tights or even The Mask of Zorro.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun stuff.","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The dashing, suave, debonair Latino who is a sword master and champion equestrian of the downtrodden peasantry, returns to the silver screen in this send-up of our favorite Spanish speaking swashbuckler, or, in this case, swish-buckler. George Hamilton leads a list of A-List talent in a comedy that tells the tale of two Zorros, one who is the traditional ladies man, the other who is a homosexual. The zingers and sight gags are timed perfectly in that Hollywood old-school style; no super-fast gags with obscure well- educated references. It's just plain good old fashioned humor.But as great as George Hamilton, the graceful Lauren Hutton and brilliant Brenda Vicarro are, it's Ron Leibman as the fiery tempered alcalde who steals the show with his portrayal of a local military leader gone mad with obsession and power.Truly a great film. Funny from start to finish. It's one not to miss.Check it out and enjoy! "},{"Title":"One Swishy Swashbuckler","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Following up his comic triumph in Love At First Bite, George Hamilton took on the dual role of Zorro in Zorro The Gay Blade. Although the man handles a sword well, Douglas Fairbanks, Tyrone Power, and Guy Williams would not recognize both the Hamiltons who take their turn at championing the peasants of Spanish California.George Hamilton returns to California from Spain and discovers his father is no longer the Alcalde of Los Angeles and in fact is now dead. His friend Ron Leibman, captain of His Majesty's guards is now the Alcalde combining both civil and military authority and he is having a great old time taxing the peasants to pay for the expensive lifestyle that Leibman and wife Brenda Vaccaro now enjoy. Of course Leibman isn't taking care of some of Vaccaro's other needs and she's giving Hamilton the same eye she gave John Voight in Midnight Cowboy.When Don Diego Hamilton injures himself doing his Zorro thing, by chance he's visited by his twin brother Ramon who is now going by the name of Bunny Wigglesworth. Dad sent him off to the British Navy to get the gay out of him, but as Bunny puts it he was reared in the British Navy, I'm betting he was a most popular cabin boy on long voyages.Anyway when Bunny takes over the Zorro role he brings a sense of style to the part, having a rainbow flavor of costumes instead of the basic black Zorro was known for. And stereotypical gay that Bunny is, that is precisely what is driving Leibman crazy, Bunny's a better swordsman in every conceivable way.Lauren Hutton is also in the cast playing a part that her contemporary during the era, Abigail Adams would envy. She is making sure that the ladies are indeed remembered when as a suffragette some fifty years ahead of her time Lauren is spreading the gospel of the American Revolution being fought at that time on the other side of the continent.George Hamilton plays both Diego and Bunny with a flair and twinkle, the best one in the cast, the one who seems to be having the most fun in his role is Ron Leibman. Leibman is having one whale of a good time overacting outrageously as his part calls for, getting a chance to do what he could normally do only in slasher flicks. He has a great flair himself for comedy, I'm not sure why Ron Leibman doesn't do more of it.I think Fairbanks and Power who had been long gone by the time Zorro, The Gay Blade was released would have really enjoyed this terrific satire on a part that was special to both of them. "},{"Title":"Simply sublime","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" in the mid 80's I was in Sana'a, capital of Yemen, for 6 weeks on business. This was before satellite TV had really arrived.Someone had brought this video in and it was played through the hotel TV system along with 'Hang 'em High' as the only form of entertainment. I got to know every line of dialogue in both films! While I cannot bear watching Clint's escapades today, I rejoice at the thought of watching this totally mad and wonderfully meaningless piece of film-making! It just makes me laugh out loud in genuine happiness and I have to say George Hamilton is nothing short of brilliant, tongue firmly planted in cheek giving it his all.If you haven't seen it then you have missed a real treat- see it today! "},{"Title":"Viva el Zorro!","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A wonderful fun movie. Guaranteed to lift ones spirits. George Hamilton has made a career of mocking himself and this is his best.The film is colorful, dashing, funny and well worth watching. I love this Zorro's bravado with the qualification, Was he alone?, and Bunny's classic rose perched so daintily on his sombrero.OK, suspend belief that whips are mightier than rifles and that Bunny is a challenge for a somewhat ragtag army. Who cares? Brenda Vaccaro is Brenda Vaccaro, delightful (You beast!) and Lauren Hutton is, to me, mysteriously attractive to other people. But she is a good counterpoint to Zorro.A fun time at the movies or in your living room. "}{"Title":"Oscars were not good enough","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes Oscars could not lend enough credit to this magnifico work of screen art. That 2 bits, 4 bits, 6 bits a peso ALL FOR ZORRO STAND UP AND SAY SO is definitely a classic line that will go down in the anals of film history. The music was extraordinarly redundant. But yet some how titallating and provocative. Every person in the world that is 12 years of age or older should see this movie! "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just finished another of many viewings of this superb comedy. Everything is virtually perfect the script; the actors and their performances; the cinematography; the various comedic zingers. Hamilton's dual role is a masterpiece of comedic acting, as is Liebman's over-the-top and subtle portrayals of the sexually repressed martinet Esteban. Hutton is more than gorgeous; she presents the ideal of liberated femininity and power. The actors are having a contagiously great time with this, and that alone is worth the viewing.I do not see a single wrong move in the film. Great farce is not easy to do, and this is an example that should be appreciated on its own terms and not measured against other genres. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever!","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" No matter how many times I watch this movie it never gets old. George Hamilton at his comedic best.Until I saw this movie when it first came out, I was under the impression George was sort of full of himself and then I saw ZORRO the Gay Blade and realized George understood himself better than anyone. His double characterization was comedic genius. His over the top Don Diego was funny but then it went into overdrive when Bunny Wigglesworth showed up. I almost fell over. Truly funny funny writing and acting.Brenda Vacarro was chewing up the scenery, but the one who just looked he had the best time with his role was Ron Liebman. He must have had a blast going so far over the top with his character as The Acalde.Launen Hutton was beautiful as ever and was a terrific compliment to George's Zorro.And of course the music from The Adventures Of Don Juan was just perfect.Although not one to ever gush over a star were I to meet one, I think meeting George would bring out the fan in me and thank him for a truly classic comedy and one for the ages.I cannot understand why it doesn't have a higher rating.The movie has a ton of wonderful quotes, but I love this one You have to been kidding me... I was in Boston for a week, and I never heard a decent Mariachi playing "},{"Title":"Fun film, although some of the jokes fall flat.","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember when this film first came out. I was a huge Zorro fan and wanted to see it, nut was unable to. I did have the novelization, which was hilarious. I eventually got to see it on cable, but was a bit disappointed. Oh, there was plenty of fun to be had, but many of the jokes fell flat, including some of my favorites from the book. Tming is everything in comedy, and t wasn't always there on screen. Still, enough of the comedy works that you can forgive the parts that don't.George Hamilton is great in the dual (quadruple?) role of Diego and Bunny/Ramon. He had a deft touch for comedy, as proved in Love At First Bite, and it's displayed well here. he is also charming and handsome enough to pull off the swashbuckling, although that mole and his permanent tan are a bit mesmerizing. Ron Leibman is a little too over-the-top, and most of his jokes are the ones that fall flat. Lauren Hutton is rather bland and miscast. Brenda Vacaro is a hoot! The film plays up stereotype, to be sure, but no worse than La Cage Aux Folles/The Birdcage. It's camp, which is meant in fun, rather than venom. Geogre Hamilton must have been pretty secure in his ego to swish about as much as he does.This is a great bit of fun and should be taken as the lightweight entertainment that it is. It could have used a little more swash than swish, for my tastes; but, it has plenty of excitement to go along with the laughs. "},{"Title":"Can't Go Wrong","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After meeting a new friend who said, cheap is cheap about something he was wearing, I just had to find Zorro The Gay Blade on DVD. I wasn't sure I could but I did...easily. It was best $14.95 I have ever spent.I've seen the movie many times and certainly it is dated in content and looks. Still, it never fails to make me laugh...or to quote several of the seemingly thousands of zingers in it. My terrible deaf mute, Paco. And he is not in Barcelona. The little baa, baa, baas? ...who was the dressmaker to Jesus. I could never get into his pants. Oh, I bet I could. Sheep oil. And of course, Cheap is cheap. Stop me. I'm cracking myself up.There is absolutely no social redemption in this film. it's just fun, fun, fun. If you enjoy pure nonsense, please rent, buy, borrow or steal Zorro The Gay Blade.One more. Why didn't I marry you and not him? Perhaps because he asked you and I did not. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Gets me on the floor laughing after all this time!","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Zorro, the Gay Blade is a classic comedy with George Hamilton who can get even the grumpiest man laughing on the floor. He plays twins who were separated, on is a smooth Spanish womanizer who comes across his father's cape and becomes Zorro. But when a bad accident happens at a party causing him to break his leg, he must now ask his flamboyant brother to take on the role of a more colorful and happier Zorro. With some brilliant and zangy jokes, if you enjoyed Zorro, the Gay Blade, I'd highly recommend Love at First Bite. It has the same humor and the wonderfully talented George. He and the cast are just great together in this all time classic, Zorro, the Gay Blade.8/10 "},{"Title":"It's good summer laughs!","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  George plays the ever-tan (does his tan EVER fade?) Diego to perfection in this movie.  Antonio must have watched a bit of it, but George does the comic bit a bit more while Antonio played his Alejandro straighter.  And boy do I mean straighter!  Bunny is the funniest thing I have ever seen.  I watched this back when it was on cable (Showtime, The Movie Channel--one of those types) and it hasn't aged at all!  I love it!  There's something about seeing George not only as gay, but in a dress at that that's deliriously funny!If you have a night where you need cheered up, pull this movie off the rental rack or buy it outright.  It's a fine addition to a comic-collection!~9 out of 10~ "},{"Title":"All the screaming and the cross-dressing","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is Hy-larious. Everybody I know likes this movie more each time they see it. I have seen it at least five times, and I never get bored with it. The entire cast seems to float effortlessly into the depths of insanity, but I must say that Ron Leibman leaves his colleagues far behind with his vein-popping portrayal of the Al Calde. A classical theme that I think is lifted straight from The Adventures of Don Juan, starring Errol Flynn (also a great and mildly satirical period movie), along with beautiful costuming gives the film a rich character that plays into the farcical story and characters.  "},{"Title":"a lot of work for few laughs","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One commenter said if you like Austin Powers you will like this movie. I liked Autin Powers and was disappointed with this movie. The film works hard, maybe too hard for laughs. Maybe it was that all the villains in this movie were shouting as if the shouting in itself is suppose to be funny. I get where they were trying to go with this flick. A cross between Zorro and the Scarlet Pimpernel but it just doesn't work. Austin Powers if silly but intelligent, Zorro the Gay Blade lacks the savvy of Austin Powers, The Big Lebowski or Kingpin.I kept waiting for a laugh and while waiting found myself amazed that someone actually got paid for the script. My 15 year daughter also thought the movie was flat. My 17 year old who selected this flick on it's title, walked out after 20 minutes.It seems many people on IMDb liked this film, but for me it lacked the good timing or jokes of a good comedy. "},{"Title":"A funny film but a let down after Love at First Bite","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" George Hamilton's finest role was the hilarious send up of the Dracula Film genre in Love at First Bite Now he sets his sights on Swashbucklers like Errol Flynn and Tyrone Power, and the immoral Douglas Fairbanks Junior in this howler, Zorro the gay blade. Ironically, this is one of the first mainstream comedies to use a gay character in a lead role, long predating such films as La Cage Au Foules. And while Hamilton does well as the two main characters, there is a sense that this film tries too hard. Some of the comedy is as shrill as Leibman's Alcalde character. All of this aside it is still a fun film, and the underlying tribute to the character created by McCauly Johnson over a century ago still rings true. So let the Fox hunt commence. "}{"Title":"don't forget the music too","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fraser and Steiner's music add just the right touch to the absurdity in this very funny film. If I ever get the chance to meet George Hamilton or any of the other stars, I will surely thank him (them) for their performance(s) in this movie. Like Love at First Bite, it stays fresh year after year. "},{"Title":"George Hamilton's finest work","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw ZORRO THE GAY BLADE on television in 1983. I was 7 years old and fell in love with the movie. I still remember that amazing night watching George Hamilton in dual roles Don Diego Vega and Bunny Wiggelsworth. It is truly a hysterical comedy. The performances are over the top, but it works for this camp comedy. George Hamilton gave the performance of his career in this film. In 1995 on his short-lived talk show GEORGE AND ALANNA, he constantly trashed the film and the director, even though he was nominated for a Golden Globe. I recommend ZORRO, THE GAY BLADE to anyone looking for a fun evening. The music is also great.Z "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  one of the most under rated comedies in years.  The performances are fantastic, the dialog sharp, and the story - hilarious.  If you can't laugh at zoro's gay brother stepping in to the hero's boots to help rid the country of tyranny, you need to take yourself less serious. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it was meant to be","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A side busting spoof of the Zorro movies of the '20's and '30's with an '80's twist.  When the real Zorro is hurt his brother, after doing a short stint in the British Navy, steps in to Jazz things up.  Enjoy it for what it was meant to be (not an Academy Award Winner) but an uproarious comedy.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was trying at times but in the most part, I found it very entertaining and comedic. George Hamilton did an excellent two-character role as Don Diego Vega (Zorro) and Bunny Wiggelsworth (formerly Diego's brother, now turned gay). The plot of this movie was thought out, although at times sloppy. But it has a good meaning about how horrible torture can be, and an amazing, unexpected romance. All together I enjoyed this movie very much and will recommend it to most audiences. I do not recommend it for young children though, it will have to depend on the parent's decision. Some remarks include sex/adult jokes. It is not extremely crude or raunchy, but funny in a lighthearted way.  "},{"Title":"Childish, occasionally amusing.","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It begins as a spirited, freewheeling farce, but somewhere along the line it runs out of script and goes flat; this is the kind of comedy that will occasionally have you grinning but rarely truly laughing. George Hamilton is equally zesty and self-spoofing in both his roles, but Leibman, as Zorro's merciless enemy, gets increasingly annoying as the film goes along. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Could be the worst movie ever....","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is horrible filmaking.Not funny,not believable and offensive.How this movie ever got made is a wonder to me.Its like a sick drunken joke between these has beens and never weres.Who does george Hamilton think he is anyway?Total crap any way you look at it.0/10 "},{"Title":"If not the worst movie of the 80's, darn close","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie that is trying.  Very trying. OK, now that that is out of the way, there are  attempts of humor here, but never is the attempt successful.  George Hamilton, in the  dual role of Don Diego and his long lost brother, Bunny is a not funny joke.  Even the  few attempts at some racy adult-oriented sex jokes fall completely flat.How bad is it?  Do you remember the pathetic Smokey and the Bandit rip-off/spinoff  Smokey Bites the Dust also from 1981?  that's a better movie in all ways except for the  quality of the production itself.  Z, tGB certainly had some money thrown at it, and even  some talented actors.  Too bad they didn't spend any money on writers.  "}]