[{"Title":"Robbed of an Oscar...","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Lange was robbed of an Academy Award for her mesmerizing performance in the 1982 film, FRANCES, a relatively gripping character study/biography of the late 1930's actress Frances Farmer, who, after being ostracized from Hollywood, ended up being declared insane, institutionalized, and lobotomized, according to this screenplay. Not knowing a lot about the actress before the release of this film, I have never been sure of how factual it is (I always got the feeling that the Harry York character, played by Sam Shepherd, was fictional), but how many screen biographies are big on the facts? Sometimes facts are glossed over and/or ignored for the sake of preserving or igniting drama. Whether or not this is true is for those who knew Farmer to say. I did see an interview once with Farmer's nephew (?) who was very pleased with Lange's interpretation of Farmer and that is exactly why this film is worth seeing. Despite a meandering screenplay, turgid direction, and a feeling the movie is about 30 minutes too long, this movie is worth seeing for one reason and one reason only...the riveting performance by Jessica Lange. She is in virtually every frame of this movie and makes every single moment vivid and striking and achingly real. This film should be shown to acting classes on a daily basis...maybe the best performance by an actress in a leading role during the decade of the 1980's. Not a great film, but an amazing performance by a consummate actress that must be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Wonderful performance from female star, a sad romance","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an important film, and I am compelled to write a few lines to attract other viewers to see it. Sensitive music by John Barry to set the mood, yes it is a love story really, I enjoyed seeing Jessica Lange and Sam Shepard, they work well together. What can you say about the talent of Jessica Lange? I could not take my eyes off her. Impeccable acting. She is so stunningly lovely,as was the Frances Farmer of the story, they are much alike both breathtakingly beautiful. No other actress could have played this part in 1982. A non conformist ahead of her time, today Frances would be almost normal, the Frances Farmer story is sad and infuriating,such a waste... the child pressured by her mother to be everything the mother wanted for herself, to be a Hollywood star, the ineffectual father who could have stepped in to determine a less shattering future for their daughter. How often do we see that the wrong kind of parental influence on their children can lead to disastrous results? I found Frances courageous and admirable in the face of evil and adversity. The sadness felt by the wonderfully supportive Harry York (played by Sam Shepard) toward the end of the movie brings tears to the eyes, she has forgotten how to love, but she has survived... only to die alone in 1970. Breaks my heart. True to life, caring and detailed movie. Best actress for Jessica Lange, in my view, I noticed her in King Kong and I knew she was going to make it big. Highest marks and comments from malcotoro, Toronto, Canada "},{"Title":"The horror of lobotomy and mental institutions as an American tragedy","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"34 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Containing both the greatest score (John Barry) and the greatest performance (Jessica Lange) in motion picture history, FRANCES is a film unrivaled for creative talent. Often overlooked, whether because it is a secret dark enough that some people may like it to be buried or because it actually frightens us into blocking it out, is the central theme of the story the tragedy of lobotomy and the corruption of mental institutions in American history.Lobotomy was developed in the 1930s--a procedure that severs a nerve in the brain, making the patient unable to feel intense feelings, including love, and diminishing creativity. Neurosurgery, as it is also known, was given to patients who were too willful or uncooperative, usually in a hospital setting. What history books will probably not tell you, but FRANCES may (by inference) is how liberally administered lobotomies were. Anyone deemed a nonconformist or a radical, who possessed traits then associated with mental illness (one of them, according to science before the 1970s, homosexuality) could receive a lobotomy. An example then, may be a homosexual who was in love. A way to cure his or her homosexual tendencies (by diminishing his or her capacity to love) would have been lobotomy.It is tragic and heartbreaking to imagine losing that freedom to love, but it undoubtedly happened to many people. One of those people may have been Frances Farmer. It is not known whether Farmer received a lobotomy or not, but the film is of the belief that she was lobotomized--and it presents to us an intelligent film illustrating the tragedy of that event, and time, in history.It is key that FRANCES is, at its core, a love story--for it is this love that Frances must tragically lose. As played unforgettably by Jessica Lange, Frances is a freedom fighter who will not conform. Deeply sensitive, she sees things others do not (hospitalized, she reveals to the confused psychiatrist, Do you really think you know more about what goes on in my mind than I do?). The only person who loves her is Harry York (mistakenly referred to by some film reviewers as a plot device, he is essential to the story). She tells him, sadly, in one moving scene, Sometimes I wonder if anyone really loves anybody (and we wonder along with her).Also key to FRANCES is the use of emotion over reason, for after all this is a film about losing one's freedom to FEEL--and all that one may feel, including love, through lobotomy. When at every moment we experience Frances's wistful longing, and experience it through her tortured eyes and John Barry's strings, the startling images and music have the power to haunt our dreams. And when Frances loses her ability to feel, at the end of the film, and meets Harry York one last time--we know the tragedy of losing the ability to feel and love another person, for Frances's eyes are then completely, horrifyingly blank and empty, like those of a sleepwalker. And Harry York sees it, too, which is the sad end of the film. We are told that Frances died alone, and we know how many tears Frances had inside that she would never cry again.One reviewer complained of the film's appeal to emotions over reason--well, just think what would the opposite be? An Orwellian world of people who never loved or felt? Others complain that the film is not true to Frances Farmer's life--but that is little to complain about, considering how true the film is to a time in American history when one could lose their freedom to be who they were, and love who they wanted. That is the big picture, and if you can't see it then you are not intelligent enough for this great, great film that promotes all of the human virtues--and how sometimes, by those who possess no virtues, they can be taken away.*UPDATE The character of Harry York is NOT a plot device or a fictional character, as some have alleged. He is based on a real person who knew Frances. I learned this by watching the film with the director's commentary on. "},{"Title":"Madness as a result of being haunted by the media because you are honest.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Frances' is a highly touching reconstruction of the life of fifties actress Frances Farmer, from Seattle. Jessica Lange did a miraculous job in playing Frances, with paranoia in her rolling eyes, which -I must admit- makes her look like a madwoman indeed. The movie shows how someone can be completely destroyed by misunderstandings, enlarged by a ridiculous amount of media attention. The most beautiful part is that, where Frances returns to Seattle, now a star. The people who used to scorn her, are now kissing her butt to gain her sympathy. She stands still in the middle of the hallway, and with all eyes on her she starts to scream they are hypocrites. After that, she is of course again considered crazy, like before. Even when she only wants to be left alone, she is haunted and harassed by those who feel called upon 'helping her'. This, combined with a rather sensitive and unstable character, makes her paranoid and finally leads to her destruction.I first heard about Frances Farmer through an interview with Kurt Cobain, who admired her courage and was experiencing the same as she had. Courtney got married in one of her dresses and even though their baby wasn't named after her but after a male Frances, they both thought of her later. Cobain also wrote a song about her, 'Frances Farmer will have her revenge on Seattle', which appeared on the second Nirvana studio album 'In Utero'. "},{"Title":"You'd better get into it.","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Lange gives the performance of a lifetime as iconoclastic actress Frances Farmer, whose rejection of the star system led to her mental collapse and ostracism from her fame-hungry mother Lillian (Kim Stanley). Lange's command of the role makes you feel like there's a knife in your stomach. It's that intense. As for the question of what's accurate and what's not, that's not really important. The point is that Lange gets into this role to the max. Frances isn't the sort of movie that you can just watch; you have to feel like it's happening to you, or you might not get the full experience. All in all, a great movie. Also starring Sam Shepard and Jeffrey DeMunn. "},{"Title":"A great performance","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" That's the kind of movie I see over and over and over and it always give me the emotional density I was looking for... One of my favorite scenes is in this drama Some time after lobotomy, Frances tells Jack that from this moment on the things will be slower... She has no more emotion, is no more that vivid girl she was. No matter if this really happen or not to the actress the situation is pure emotion. I saw all the movies starred by Frances Farmer that was possible for me to see and it makes me like her very much. Again, the music of John Barry makes me cry. The Hollyood background have never been so perfect. Jessica Lange gives the right density to the drama of the girl... Oh, my God, how she deserved that Oscar she did'n get... "},{"Title":"Nature or Nurture","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film parallels the Biography Channel's version of Frances Farmer's life and career. Neither gave a definitive answer as to the cause of this actress' problems.Was it inability to cope with society due to her own high standards of artistic integrity? Or was it a mental flaw that grew more intense as she got older? It was James Jones (in From Here to Eternity) that wrote Maybe in the days of the pioneer, you could go your own way. Pvt. Pruitt, but today you gotta play ball. That obviously implied demonstrating things like compromise, humility, condescension, flexibility, and sundry social graces.It also implied that one can be right and still be very lonely.Frances apparently chose the wrong profession, if she expected to be right so often. She'd have been better off on a farm or ranch, engaged in solo activities rather than the group endeavor of acting.As it was, she seemed never to have learned to work professionally with colleagues. From her standpoint, she was indeed right. She constantly exposed the hypocrisy, insincerity and frailty in people and the system. Yet the price she paid was a loss of what mattered to her a career that was nourishing and satisfying.In '82 Jessica Lange followed up her fine Oscar-winning performance as Julie Nichols in Tootsie with this incredible portrayal of Farmer in Frances. The legendary Kim Stanley was her mother and Sam Shepard rendered a perceptive performance as Farmer's close friend.Not an easy film to sit through, the quality of acting by this trio is exemplary. As much up to date today as when first filmed. Riveting performances by all. --harry-76 "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I really wished I had not read the spoilers about what is fiction and what isn't after I saw the movie, and before writing this review, I will say that 'Frances' offers a story of stardom and it's price in a most excellent way. Jessica Lange just is a house on fire playing Frances Farmer, a 1930's actress probably more known for the fact that she was institutionalized than any movie parts she played. Lange plays all aspects of her life beautifully here, from a smart-tongued 16 year old youth, to one of Hollywood's brightest young stars. And man, what a part Kim Stanley has as Frances's mother, whose motherhood may be eclipsed by the stars in her eyes. Now, despite from what is in fact true or not, this is really an amazing movie. "},{"Title":"A disturbing and gripping character study.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When you see a glamorous movie star on the silver screen, you immediately picture them having a glamorous life with no flaws or problems whatsoever. The film Frances proves that that is definitely not true.Jessica Lange is excellent as Frances Farmer, the movie star from the 1930s who constantly wants to live life her own way. She becomes a big star until all the weight of being a star (publicity, bossy agents, the media) falls down hard on her, causing her to have a nervous breakdown. Eventually, she is wrongfully declared criminally insane and thrown into a mental institution.The movie is glitzy and glamourous at one point, and turns disturbing and realistically gritty at the next. Lange gives her best performance here, which was nominated for an Oscar. In the end we realize that she wasn't crazy, she was just trying to be herself. It makes the viewer sympathize with movie stars, for the stuff they have to be put through. A fascinating movie. "},{"Title":"Great performances but largely false","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Lange and Kim Stanley give remarkable performances in Frances, but if you are looking for anything resembling the truth about this gifted actress, this is *not* the film to see--in fact, unfortunately, no factual account of Frances' life has yet been presented on either the movie or TV screen, with the possible exception of A&E's excellent Biography episode about her.The film completely fictionalizes and sensationalizes several aspects of Frances' life, inventing characters out of whole-cloth and completely misrepresenting her institutionalization, including spuriously alleging she was lobotomized. There is ample documentary evidence proving Frances never underwent this horrible procedure; you can read the facts in my web article Shedding Light on Shadowland, which is linked under the miscellaneous sites section on IMDb's Frances Farmer page (or do a Google for Shedding Light on Shadowland).In the recent DVD release, director Graeme Clifford can be heard commenting, in what is surely the understatement of the decade, We didn't want to be nickel and diming the audience to death with facts. The *real* story of Frances Farmer is far more fascinating than this sad exercise in Hollywood fictionalizing. "}{"Title":"Lange's tour-de-force","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Lange has delivered an outstanding tour-de-force in this horrifying true story about a somewhat unstable Hollywood actress who was continually pronounced insane by her mother for nothing more than open defiance. Miss Lange's performance is hardly short of incredible, and more than deserved the Oscar nomination it garnered.Graeme Clifford tells this shocking tale with the utmost assuredness, never hitting the audience overly hard (in fact perhaps not hard enough) nor attempting to sway their opinion. The screenplay from Eric Bergren, Nicholas Kazan and Christopher De Vore is even throughout, and always the writers are careful to avoid bias, allowing film goers to come to their own conclusions.Frances Farmer is never portrayed as a complete victim by Lange, and each facet of her personality is brought to life with equal passion in this unparalleled turn. In most worthy support is Kim Stanley (nominated for Best Supporting Actress) whose performance as Frances' self-serving, domineering mother is frighteningly efficient and convincing. Alongside her is Bart Burns as Mr. Farmer, and Sam Shepherd as a young admirer who takes the wayward girl under his wing for a time. John Barry has provided a typically melodic score.Frances is certainly a movie that will disturb those who believe that insanity is more an illness than something a person can be driven to. This is truly a very discomforting look at how the human spirit can be totally crushed by tragic, though changeable, circumstances. An original story like this carries enough weight on its own to impart much dramatic power. Coupled with Jessica Lange's triumphant performance (she literally owns this film), this is doubly so.Monday, June 12, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Movie captures ambiance of Red Scare era","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frances is my favorite movie of all time! I just love everything about this movie, even though I know it is not for everyone. I can identify so much with Frances'relationship with her controlling mother and how hard it is when you love someone whole-heartedly yet they love you back in their own way. I loved the costumes, make-up, hairstyles, furniture, even the color of the film itself, brownish, golden tones, which gives it a melancholic feeling. Jessica Lange's performance should have won her the Oscar instead of winning it for Tootsie. Hollywood knew they had to give her something and not leave her out that year. The Red Scare was all over this film and what the consequences of being true to one's ideals may be in a selfish world. "},{"Title":"Jessica Lange in a tour de force...","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" How she didn't win an Academy Award for this riveting performance is beyond me. Hollywood has done Frances wrong and the same can be said for Jessica not getting her Oscar. I initially read the book, Will there ever be a morning? which was heartbreaking. When she was cast in the movie I figured she was the only actress that could do Frances right and play her with such emotion and fire. Jessica is on fire in so many scenes its hard to pick out the most memorable. For me it was when she was yanked out of her bathroom in the middle of the night saying you have no right, and the biting, sarcastic conversation with the police when she is arrested. The one on one chat with her psychiatrist is priceless when she tells him of the little bead of sweat above his lip along with the fact that where does he come off thinking he has more insight into her mind than she does. All true, which in effect makes it so sad. A tragic, yet important film to view for Ms. Lange's unforgettable portrayal. "},{"Title":"sympathetic characters and horrifying plot","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Trying to live one's life according to one's own principles is, as can be seen in this movie, sometimes really dangerous.  Frances Farmer had to experience right that the movie Frances, which is based on her biography, proves it from an impudent high school girl to an independently thinking woman, she permanently got in conflict with authorities.The greatest disadvantage of the movie is that it lacks a good deal of background information on why things happened the way they did. But keeping in mind that and how society and the state usually repressingly react to deviant (not only sexually) behavior, one can easily imagine this background. I should like to mention that Frances was supportive of the anarchist/communist movement in Spain during the 1930's, which means she must have been rather leftist herself. That and the fact that it was back in the conservative 30's makes me owe her great respect and sympathy.I really recommend the movie as an impressing piece of evidence for the fact that eccentricity obviously has a limit even for Hollywood stars. "},{"Title":"Unsettling, exciting and difficult to let go. Definitely a Must Watch.","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" To begin with, Thank you to everyone involved in this project.I watched this film and was drawn in to a point of feeling constantly off balance.That says a tremendous amount about the participants. They set the right mood, tone and pace and performed the hell out of their roles.It is, as many have said, an important and underrated film. In truth Frances Farmer was an actress best known for sensationalized and fictional accounts of her life, a Hollywood legend so to speak for all the wrong reasons. (Especially her involuntary commitment to a mental hospital.) But the this account speaks volumes on the Institution system and treatment of those non-compliant with social norms of the time.As in the the film Changeling (2008), this film pricks up our ears to the dis-empowerment of women during that era (which still goes on globally). Like many other women of the period who were deemed disruptive, women often times were forced into the secret custody of a mental institution or denied rights (turned over to spouses, parents or other family). After the passing of the 19th Amendment, as women started to openly assert their independence many establishments tried to maintain their control over the free will of women. In the end they were in large part manipulated by a number of agencies and political machinery and ultimately had involuntary medical treatments/experiments in behavior modification performed (or extensive removals from society). Sadly there was a great deal of old school thinking that feed into that from prior generations of other women. This film pulls no punches in areas that are well documented historically.You can easily see where this film is headed but the deceptively simple script and compelling composition wrings out every bit of viewer-ship you have. I was welded to my seat until the end credits. I would have to say it would be very hard to watch this piece and not want Jessica Lange's Frances to win.Great work... definitively should be on the major must watch lists. "},{"Title":"Jessica Lange is Spectacular as Frances Farmer","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hadn't really remembered who Frances Farmer was until this poignant film was made. This is a rags to riches to insanity true story of Farmer's life. Lange is supported by Kim Stanley who plays Frances' mother Lillian (both were nominated for a 1983 Academy Award!) and Sam Shepard, who plays Harry York. Frances Farmer was ahead of her time in the ways she opinionated herself and the outspokenness with which she lived her life. Treated very badly by the same studio system that made her a star and her own mother's betrayal, Frances' descent into madness and Lange's impeccable acting makes this movie a must to see and, perhaps, own. "},{"Title":"Frances Farmer's Finest ***1/2","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A towering performance is depicted by Jessica Lange in her Oscar nominated performance for best actress in 1982. It could only take a Meryl Streep of Sophie's Choice to beat her out.Lange is absolutely shattering and mesmerizing as the actress who had everything and gave it all away courtesy of mental illness.There are some parallels here to the great Ill Cry Tomorrow of 1955. Both Lillian Roth and Jessica Lange had domineering mothers who ruined their respective lives. Both women never were suited nor wanted the life of the Hollywood jet-set.Lange does an outstanding job as a non-conformist whose tragic life can never be forgotten.The picture also depicts a very sad state of mental health in this country during the 1930s and 1940s. The institutions themselves were nothing more than factories turning out unsatisfactory human products.Kim Stanley merited her supporting nomination as Farmer's over-possessive mother. Ironically, Lange beat her out for the supporting award that same year for Tootsie.Sam Shepherd is equally effective as the love of her life during all her trials and tribulations. Non-conformist Clifford Odets really comes off as a traitor to non-conformity. "},{"Title":"Powerful but disjointed","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Be warned--there are spoilers all throughout the review.Somewhat fictionalized biography of 1930s film actress Frances Farmer played by Jessica Lange. It follows her stormy relationship with her mother (Kim Stanley) and her wrongful institutionalizations.I've read Farmer's autobiography Will There Ever Be A Morning and this movie plays hard and loose with the facts. It throws in Harry York (Sam Shepard) a totally fictional character and make him the narrator. It also gives Farmer a love interest (which isn't needed). It also has her hating the 1936 movie Come and Get It--in reality she loved that film. It does show correctly how badly she was treated in Hollywood but REALLY drops the ball when she in an institution. The book goes into gruesome and harrowing detail over how she and other inmates were treated--the movie cuts it down to maybe 15 minutes. Also they sanitize it a lot. And the lobotomy shown never happened--she did not spend the rest of her life as some zombie. So, as a factual biography of Farmer its WAY off base.As a movie it's not too great either. It's flatly directed and the story skips around all over the place. Also Farmer's self-destructive tendencies are never really explored--far too much time is spent working on her relationship with York. On the plus side there are impressive recreations of 1930s and 40s New York and Hollywood.What makes this worth seeing is the acting. No one is bad but Lange and Stanley are just superb (both were nominated for Oscars for this). Stanley plays the loving, caring mother role to the hilt--you see the darkness in her that she tries to cover up. Lange just explodes in this one. She later said playing Frances almost killed her--you can tell! Her screaming and rage comes roaring off the screen as well as her confusion and vulnerability. A truly great performance--she deserved the Award for this not Tootsie.So it's worth seeing for the acting but don't look for a factual bio on Farmer. For that read her book. I give this a 7. "},{"Title":"riveting but very tought to watch-amazing performance from Jessica.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this a very long time ago. Francess has got to be one of the bleakest, most difficult to watch films I've ever seen yet it's an absolutely incredibly done picture from start to finish. This is a film that is almost guaranteed to disturb-I saw it so long ago I can't really remember it scene by scene. However, what I CAN remember is how disturbed I felt when it was over. It's pretty tough to watch yet incredibly well acted and poignant. I doubt I could view this again but as far as the movie itself goes, it's intense, unpleasant in MANY scenes, overwhelming and highly charged as well as featuring topnotch acting and being incredibly welldone. As mentioned, it's difficult in many scenes, but a must see for film buffs who can handle the intensity. "},{"Title":"The true story of the immortal legend and beauty of the tragically ill-fated film star Frances Farmer.","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's incredible that neither Jessica Lange nor Kim Stanley received the Oscar they were nominated for in this gripping film of a true story of a Hollywood actress who didn't make it because of her own over-brilliant personality, getting into conflict with everyone, having problems with adjusting to a society she couldn't agree with from the beginning; and although the film differs slightly from the true story, at large it sticks to the absolute truth at least psychologically. Jessica Lange is just formidable, and this must be her best performance. The interesting thing is that she actually very much looks like Frances Farmer, she was in reality just as beautiful as Jessica Lange if not even more, and her personality in Jessica Lange's impersonation couldn't be more convincing. Her mother Kim Stanley accomplishes a similar feat, and all the other actors tune well in to make this film as perfect a documentary biography as could be accomplished. To this comes the softening and almost seducing music of John Barry gilding the hard lines of the picture and making it more digestible, while my only objection is against the lobotomy ingredient, which is the one departure from reality. Although the terrible nightmare scenes from the asylum had to be included, since they were true, the exaggeration of the lobotomy was unnecessary. Perhaps it was just put there to end the traumatic hospital sequences.Frances Farmer became a legend, and by this film the legend was given an extra injection of continued eternity, and it's a uniquely fascinating portrait of an over-talented actress at odds with a reality, especially Hollywood at that time, that in no way was humanly acceptable. "}{"Title":"Jessica Lange at it...","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Of course, it makes sense that Jessica lange has a certain reputation for playing the types of characters she plays. She can be extremely graceful, as she is here, bringing a certain warmth and sense of vulnerability that not many other actresses could've captured. Giving her character a real sense of victimization, so gentle and pure, and then really becoming the devil and her mental health deteriorates. It's a scary performance in many ways from Lange, who i've seen be campy and loud and over-the-top but not handle such delicate aspects of her range in this way. Very impressive work, although I'm sure it will leave many people not big fans of that type of acting. "},{"Title":"Jessica Lange - an actress at the top of her game","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Frances because I seemed to remember that Kevin Costner had a tiny part at the start of his career and I'm a big fan. I didn't expect necessarily to see anything startling other than what it said on the tin, a film about the real life movie star from the 40's, Frances Farmer, as played by Jessica Lange. I've always admired Jessica Lange as a really good actress but she's never blown me away like some stars do. At least, not until now. Now watching this 1982 movie in 2014 (a bit late, I know), she's completely reversed my previous thoughts about her. Her performance in this picture has to be one of the most dynamic, hypnotic acting stints I've ever seen by an actress. It reminded me a bit of Faye Dunaway in Network (where she won the Oscar). Looking this movie up I saw that Jessica was beaten in 1982 by Meryl Streep in Sophie's Choice, but if ever an actress was robbed of the Oscar, this performance was it. I'd urge anyone who loves acting at the highest level to watch this movie, just for Jessica Lange's performance, although there is also a very strong backup show by Kim Stanley as her mother. Very long at two and half hours, but I couldn't take my eyes off Jessica Lange's face. It's hard to detect between when she's being charming and when she might suddenly explode. Mesmerizing. "},{"Title":"Excellent performance by Lange","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a stand out performance by Jessica Lange, who at this point in time appears in some films as the neurotic mother(as in Prozac nation), which covers the issue of clinical depression in a rather convoluted manner.This film details actress Frances Farmer's life, early success, stage and screen, her contempt for Hollywood superficiality and the eventual downward spiral f her career, as well as her sanity.The scenes with esteemed NY playwright Clifford Odets are interesting, well portrayed by Jeffrey DeMunn. Lange looks lovely, fragile yet tough, a defiant and independent spirit, especially considering this was the era of 1930's and 1940's.Her mother is well-portrayed by the rather schizoid Kim Stanley (Séance for Wet Afternoon'). Ms. Stanley portrays a narcissistic, controlling and even malevolent force in Frances' life.When Frances tires of Hollywood facade and glamour, she states to her mother she just wants to live her own life, quietly, and rejects Hollywood. This seemed to be the mechanism which enraged her mother, and eventually causes her to have Frances committed to the Western Asylum in Washington State.Many books have been written (although the supposed lobotomy issue has been debunked), but clearly Frances underwent insulin and other barbaric treatments while committed to the barbaric asylum. Lange is very believable here, disheveled, angry, but also edgy and raw. And not necessarily in the wrong despite American society and it treatment of emotionally disturbed inmates at the time.In a disturbing scene with psychiatrist, Dr. Symington it is evident at the time that railroading patients into involuntary commitment was all too commonplace. Frances may have been a common bipolar patient who would have responded to talk therapy, but this was never given a chance. Indeed, she was never given a chance.The book Will There Really be a Morning? is also a good reference for those interested in delving into Frances Farmer's biography. While some have mentioned this film doesn't accurately portray the story, I think overall the audience gets a clear sense of the despair, longing and passion which were interwoven in Miss Farmer's life, and Jessica Lange does an excellent portrayal here. Highly recommended. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Much More Than The Frances Farmer Story","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Lange's Acting in this Film is one of the Best Performances In Motion Picture History and is Pitch Perfect in every way. She plays Real Life Hollywood Star Frances Farmer that was Completely Forgotten except for the most Die Hard of Movie Fans. Her Story is told here and it has been Criticized for not being Accurate on all Accounts. But although She as a Real Person who did Attain some Fame, from this Picture's Point of View that can be seen as Irrelevant. A Sounding Board and an Outlet to Explore the Human Condition, Institutional Tyranny and Malpractice with a Central Character that is Inviting, Intelligent, Talented, Rebellious, Committed, Deep, and Forever Looking for Love in a World that can be Loveless.A Tragic Tale of Dramatic Dissidence and its Consequences in a Society both Culturally and within the Family Structure that Expects, and Sometimes Demands Conformity and Obedience. Frances is a Free Spirit that cannot fit in. She is Haunted and Troubled by Life Itself. The Movie is a Fascinating Show Piece of Significance that is Spellbinding, and Haunting, Disturbing and Determined. It is a Timeless Tale and a Cautionary Movie that is so Deeply Layered it Completely Covers the Viewer in its Sincere Ability to use the Life of Frances Farmer to make Statements about the Insensitivity and Unfairness of it All. She would, most likely, Proudly Approve. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable story of movie star and madness","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This biopic of Frances Farmer traces her life from outspoken teen to Hollywood starlet, followed by long periods of mental illness and barbaric treatment in institutions.Jessica Lange is magnificent as Frances; her performance is riveting and heartbreaking. Sam Shepard co-stars as her lover and Kim Stanley is excellent as her mother.It is never clearly established whether Frances was really mentally ill or just a very high-strung and hard-to-handle alcoholic. The conditions she faced in the asylum were brutal and these scenes are very unpleasant.The whole film is a treat on one hand, as the acting is flawless. The story, however, is unceasingly grim, depressing and exhausting and I won't watch it again. "},{"Title":"Frances - Lange's tour-de-force","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1982 is such a competitive year for actresses, most prominently is Meryl Streep's critics- consensus the all-time best female performance and Oscar-crowning SOPHIE'S CHOICE (1982), which shamefully I haven't watched yet. Thus unfairly other contenders didn't stand any chance to beat her for that, but I never doubt that it was a nip-and-tuck between Streep and Lange in her tour-de-force sensation FRANCES. Frances Farmer is hardly a household name among film boffins, she was a shooting star in the Tinseltown, whose defiant nature is destined for hemming herself as a fair game to the studio persecution, and the inhuman therapeutic treatments she receives in the mental hospitals are fierce indictment of our society's callous depersonalization under the aegis of medical remedy, although whether the lobotomy operation was executed still lacks of conviction. Farmer exhibits her rebelliousness from the very start with her religion-defying speech god was gone when she was simply a high-schooler, a fearless doll under the high-handedness of her control freak mother (Stanley), Lange's rendition is begging description, an almost 30 years age-range and 140-minutes running time thoroughly proffers her an once-in-a-lifetime stretch to embody herself into this anguished persona, she minutely delineates how the life-force has been mercilessly ripped off her inch by inch and a belated and vehement face-off with her mother is the most theatrical moment and is the apotheosis of a heart-wrenching vicariousness, bravo to both Lange and Stanley! Henry York (Shepard), a fictional character as the only man who truly understands Farmer and loves her unconditionally is the narrator, this concoction is a poetic license to add some solace in Farmer's wretched life and a considerable move for its audiences' sake, but meanwhile it barely serves a slush albeit Shepard and Lange work wonder together, the make-believe default also makes no room to expound why those two lovers could not be together, an over- romanticized tone may counteract the despondency of the film but it is also an untimely reminder of how close itself could be as brave as its leading lady Jessica Lange! "},{"Title":"saw first in black & white","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thought I had seen this movie before, but remembered it in black & white. Had seen it on a black and white TV.  Saw it again the other night and am fascinated how much Jessica Lange, looked like Frances Farmer.  Thought a lot of the movie after I watched it.  Haunts me. "},{"Title":"2 Oscars for the year would've been awesome","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I seen this last night. It shocked the heck out of me. I've never seen anyone that crazy before. Jessica Lange had the role of Frances Farmer to a T son. This is tied with Tootsie as my favorite Jessica Lange flick. I don't get how she didn't win both awards in 1982. Of course she was awesome in Tootsie but with this role she deserved both Oscars. I was in shock that she actually talked back to the police, calling him a c**ksucker. That s**t came out of nowhere. If that doesn't describe a G, I don't know what does lol. It was kind of funny seeing a grown woman throw a temper tantrum but then I really felt sorry for Jessica's character. Then there is Kim Stanley who was annoying as hell. She expected Frances do to what she desires for her future. In that scene where Frances told her mother that she was gonna quit acting. The mother throws a tantrum(like mother, like daughter). I loved that Jessica finally set her mother straight by saying. If you follow me this time, MAMA!!, I'm gonna F**KIN KILL YOU. Jessica Lange has always been one of my favorite actresses. After seeing this movie, she moved up into the top five. "},{"Title":"Mind-Shattering Turn by Jessica!","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A decent film with an incredible performance by Jessica Lange (her best, followed by SWEET DREAMS). She met Sam Shepard during the filming of this and he is sturdy and reliable. Kim Stanley is frightening, tough, and selfish and should have won Supp. Actress. Jessica should have won as well instead of Meryl Streep. She tossed her a Supp. Actress bone for TOOTSIE instead. Some of the film is messy and tries to cover a lot of ground, but Ms. Lange hangs in there in her 2nd great performance (after stealing POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE from J. Nicholson).An 8 out of 10. Best performance = J. Lange. Nice musical score and cinematography. Frances Farmer brought on some of her own problems, but THEY took her down anyway. Some incredible scenes as Ms. Lange plays her from age 16 to her 50's. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A Woman's Pride","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whether or not the movie is entirely true, Jessica Lange gave an amazing performance. The transformation of Frances Farmer is shocking. Lange is a force on screen. Her natural beauty not only wins you over, but can scare you into believing that she is the character she is portraying. The story of Frances Farmer is sad. Sad for her and the people in her life. The overall theme of the Frances Farmer story is pride. Many times, she has the opportunity to run, but doesn't. To Farmer, she is running from nobody but herself. Knowing this, Frances is the life story of a woman trying to be her own woman. Whether or not we can say that this movie is 100% factual, we can agree that the Hollywood life can destroy you! Much like the Julia Philips story or the Dotty Parker (Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle) we can agree that the issue of Women's pride and their role in Hollywood has been showcased before, but not before Frances Farmer's story.  "}{"Title":"Tour de Force","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am always amazed when people say that a film is difficult to watch. Perhaps, I have a simplistic view of film, but I believe that films are either good or bad, and to be categorized as difficult to watch only says to me that a film is uncomfortable for the viewer for personal reasons, not because of the film or its contents. Although flawed in its cinematography, mostly due to a dated 80s aesthetic, Frances is undoubtedly a strong film that soars thanks to the commitment of its actors. Jessica Lange visibly lives the part of Frances Farmer, and transmits the pain of having to prove one's sanity in an insane world. Kim Stanley provides the perfect reflection of Frances' pain and trauma. The remaining supporting characters all lend truth to the film without falling into cultural clichés of the Depression era. Despite its visual weakness the film cannot be ignored. Lange is Farmer and I cannot imagine this film without her. The grace, nuance and rage in her performance simply prove that she believed in this project and filmed it as the work of a lifetime.  "},{"Title":"A Jessica Lange tour-de-force!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to confess to a certain amount of bias in this review.  While I found that the film had several weak elements, I give it a 9/10 simply because it showcases the best work that the incredible Jessica Lange has ever done in her career.Frances comes directly from the pages of Hollywood Babylon, detailing the work of 30's actress Frances Farmer. The choppy script skims through the life of a woman who bucked the Hollywood system and in return was committed (several times) to an asylum by her overbearing mother (Kim Stanley). The script takes several liberties, including the addition of a recurring confidant/boyfriend, Harry, played by Sam Sheppard. In fact, some argue that those events that did take place, were not portrayed fairly in this film.  As a movie it seems more interested in the communist scare that was endemic to that time, and the tragic state of mental health care that Frances Farmer was a victim of. All that aside, Jessica Lange carries the show.  The story is not great, but the role is, and Lange takes every opportunity to chew up the scenery around her. Lange plays a tortured soul with just the right amount of conviction, avoiding any temptation to camp it up, which might have been the result of another actress in this role.   "},{"Title":"Jessica Lange is great!","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jessica Lange is one of today's best actresses. In this movie one of her earlier works, she plays an actress of the 30's who turns to alcoholsim and gets wrongly and unjustly thrown into an institution by her overbearing bitch mother.  The scene where Jessica finally throws her mom aside you just want to say 'Yes, about time! but before long Jessica is in another worse asylum and your heart goes out even more for her.   This is a good movie but somewhat disturbing. Recommended. "},{"Title":"FRANCES and Jessica Lange-Simply THE Best!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Talk about a TRUE freedom-fighter!! My favorite movie of inspiration! I pull this baby out when I think of MY life as rough, and it helps every time! Sorry-Jessica Lange SHOULD Have won that Oscar over good ole' Meryl Streep...Easy. Lousy Academy politics in action...Again. Oh, well. I was livid at the time (and young), yet now it's just become a listless norm. Solid characters all around but...Jessica, simply Perfect here.Clare Souza--- Northern California--- "},{"Title":"A tale of an extraordinary girl!","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This does tell a lot about Frances Farmer. She is a woman who has been thorough hell from being a Hollywood star to being a patient in a mental institution. I have no doubt that Hollywood triggered her anxiety, including her mother Lillian who pushed her to go back to Paramount when Frances didn't want to. Seriously, she is a grown adult, she shouldn't have treated her like that. I swear to you, Frances was a really intelligent person and she was way better then the doctors,lawyers and so on who were involved in putting her into an asylum. Of course there you go with ignorance, shutting people with all kinds of problems and not trying to find solutions or goals to make that happen for the individual. Thankfully that ignorance is history even this world is still crazy today with wars!Anyways, Jessica Lange was absolutely amazing and brilliant to play Frances Farmer. It was funny to think herself and her co-star Sam Shepard who played Frances lover Harry York were an actual couple in real life. I guess it was love at first sight on set eh? I have to say, this is a great film to watch even though there is one rape scene that can be extremely uncomfortable to look at and of course, the angry outbursts were upsetting. Two hours is really worth your time and you get interested in the life of Frances Farmer regardless if you know her or not! "},{"Title":"The Nirvana connection.","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Indeed, Nirvana's song 'Frances Farmer will have her revenge on Seattle' lead me to this title faster than I may have otherwise found it. There is a lot of interesting, but unfortunately largely contradictory reading to be found on the net about her (I am yet to see a movie with her in it), and at this point I couldn't tell you what to believe. Her own statements in the book 'Sexual abuse in the lives of women diagnosed with serious mental illness' are shocking she recounted her stay in the state asylum as unbearable terror; I was raped by orderlies, gnawed on by rats and poisoned by tainted food. I was chained in padded cells, strapped into strait-jackets and half-drowned in ice baths. These claims have been disputed, though, and William Arnold had to admit before court his claim about her lobotomy was 'fictionalized' (though at that time there wére apparently lobotomies performed by a doctor of the same name as the one in the film).It is certainly clear though that she has had to put with a lot of hardship in her life, but the film hardly conveys an adequate story for the first sixty minutes; there are parts that work (also because the film has such a beautiful look to it - with all the wonderful settings, clothes and camera work), but on the whole the story feels like a pile-up of events. The story(telling) dóes get better and more gripping toward the end, as does Jessica Lange's acting (but that also has to do with the fact that she is simply too old to play the part of the very young Frances in the beginning of it), but because of all the aforementioned uncertainties, the horrific parts toward the end, when Frances is once again institutionalized against her will, and subsequently lobotomized and gang raped, feel somewhat compromised - it's a shame.Even though the facts of 'Frances' are uncertain, this film is still very much worthwhile. And beyond that, it has certainly motivated me to want to dig deeper into (the truth about) her life, to go see some of her films and find out more about (mal)treatment in psychiatric institutions then and now.A big 7 out of 10 for now. "},{"Title":"The Film 'Frances' A Personal Perspective","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone who has experienced some degree of mental illness will find this film relevant to their experience in some degree. I wrote the following about my own experience--and this film helped bring it into focus ____________________My longest depression was in 1963 and 1964 with perhaps two six month periods from June to November and July to December, respectively. The longest episode of hypomania was from June to November 1968. The hypomania in 1978, 1979, 1980 and 1990 were treated quickly with medication, although the 1978 episode, beginning in January, seemed to last for at least three or four months and had a mostly depressive component. I had no experience of this variously characterized illness in childhood. It was not until I was 19 that any characteristics of this illness became apparent in my day-to-day life. My episodes seemed to be quite separate tendencies; hypomania often lead to depression and vice versa. In the 1978 episode, elation and depression followed each other within a two to three month period. Clearly, in the episodes in the late '70s, fear, paranoia and the extremes of depression seemed to be much less than those of the 1960s. ________________________ This, of course, is not my whole story. Nor is this film the whole story of Frances. But the treatment of mental illness has come a long way since the 1940s and 1950s light years. If this film has no other purpose than to show its progress---the film will have done its job.-Ron Price, Tasmania. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking, true story of Frances Elena Farmer","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"   This movie broke my heart for the life and heart of Frances Elena Farmer played chillingly and incredibly by Jessica Lange. Frances wins an essay contest at age 16 entitled God Dies and this sparks off her incredible yet heartbreaking career in Hollywood as the golden girl of Hollywood and yet ends up spending over eight years of her life in the most vile and barbaric mental institution in Seattle.     It is a frightening story of the McCarthy era when Hollywood was backlashed by tales of so-called communism that any hint could cause an actor to be blacklisted. It is this era of paranoia and the fear of being communists that causes such a fuss when Frances goes to Russia. The scene her mother (Kim Stanley) makes as the bus leaves makes the front page of most newspapers. Lillian Farmer had a talent of her own for being able to manipulate the media and get herself into newspapers first as a woman who had a sincere concern about nutrition, then later because she was Frances' mother.    Frances is first labeled as a communist sympathizer when she wins a trip to Russia because of her essay and then thrown into the Hollywood machine in order to finance her first love, the theater. She uses the trip to Russia as her ticket to New York City and Broadway but her mother doesn't see it that way and so begins the battle of Frances' soul from gritty determination to total annihilation.  Frances and her mother take up a lot of screen time and the relationship between the two of them was so sad, so heart-wrenching, I could hardly bear watching some of the more intense moments between them. That her mother knowingly kept her in a barbaric institution-- and then, after getting out, never telling her she was free and had her adult rights restored to her-- was France Farmer's final downfall.  In reading Frances Farmer's autobiography Will There Really Be A Morning? I felt hope that Frances did actually live some of her life after the death of her parents in a more loving and tender environment surrounded by friends who were not in the acting business and helped her find her own way as an adult.  Frances had moved to Indianapolis and was, for years, a TV host for a local Indianapolis TV station.     Frances Farmer was a free spirited, out-spoken woman who lived out of time. Had she lived in the Hollywood and the mental health field of today, she would not have been deemed as anything but genius at her art.   Clearly Frances was used by her mother who lived out what she missed, or tried to, through her daughter, used by Clifford Odets to get his plays financed, and used by the Hollywood gossip machine to break her spirit.   Jessica Lange does such an amazing job of portraying Frances Farmer, you become convinced that you are an eyewitness to perhaps the greatest tragedy in all of Hollywood's history.  Kim Stanley and Sam Shepherd turn in performances that are Oscar-worthy and a young Lane Smith as Dr. Symington is chillingly portrayed. Watch for a very young Angelica Huston as a mental patient in the institution with Frances.   Frances is incredible, stunning...with Oscar-worthy performances by all key players. The true story of Frances will keep you glued to the screen and almost everyone who has seen it can tell you that to watch this movie based on Frances Farmer is to nearly feel each and every frame of it.  The acting is superb by the stellar ensemble of actors and Jessica Lange IS Frances Farmer in a riveting role that shows her acting chops are so well defined you feel as if you are there with her. The worse thing about Francesis....it is true. It happened.   "},{"Title":"A Science-Fiction version of Frances Farmer's life.","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie skirts the line between actual iconic film and utter Mommie Dearest trainwreck. Mostly it stays on the iconic side, but only barely. The film is fairly ghastly in it's depiction of the Mental Health Industry in the 40s and 50s, and some of it is justified, but it becomes very apparent that the production has an axe to grind, an agenda to promote, and accuracy be damned. As a result, very very very very elaborate liberties are taken with the facts of Miss Farmer's life (That's a polite way of saying they lie like crazy in this film.) For instance, the centerpiece of the second half of the movie is that Frances had a lobotomy. She never did. The way the scene is filmed gives us the strong implication that we're supposed to believe that her soul died in that instant, though her body lingered on for several more decades. This is simply not true, and I feel it's a disservice to Frances to co-opt her into someone's personal propaganda war. Another instance we see her go on TV and talk about how her faith in Jesus pulled her through her hard times, and again we're given the impression that the real girl is long gone, she's been turned into a mere automaton. Again, this isn't true she never said this, she never did this, it's all made up. The movie is at least a half-hour too long, and it's very biased. I will say that Jessica Lange is brilliant in the movie, however, and fans will be impressed her tour de force here is clearly the high water mark of her career. In the end, though, this movie is not even remotely a real biography it's a 90% fictional 'decline and fall' story with an axe to grind watch it with caution. "},{"Title":"Frances Ha!","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Overly long, pointless, standard issue biopic that doesn't seem to know what to make of Frances Farmer who never was a big film star, but who was apparently a big train wreck, and so is the film. She's portrayed as a victim of the press, the law, the studio, the medical profession and her mother. Hollywood and the world in general appear to exist for the sole purpose of making her life hell. And the sole purpose of the film seems to be to earn an Oscar for Lange by giving her a series of show downs that has her shrieking at and/or physically assaulting any and everyone, and though Lange does indeed resemble Farmer, she's largely shrill and one-note making Farmer look like an obnoxious, self righteous, self appointed martyr; a Lindsay Lohan with delusions of grandeur. The film is a dud and Sam Shephard plays a fabricated character who wanders in and out of the proceedings in an attempt to provide an unfocused script with a sense of structure. It's a mess, and the scenes set in the mental institution recall such camp classics as The Caretakers(1963) and Valley of the Dolls (1967). Kim Stanley who plays Frances' mother gave a powerful performance in The Goddess (1958) as a lonely, unloved, unwanted girl who sought fame as a way to escape her emptiness, but discovered Hollywood was not a cure nor as the film had it the cause of her unhappiness. Frances lacks that insight and observation. "}{"Title":"Great performances, but the film lacks integrity","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Lange is Frances in this 1982 partially fictionalized biography of actress Frances Farmer. Farmer has been the subject of various films and books, including Will There Really Be a Morning?, a TV movie based on her autobiography, published posthumously.The tragedy of Farmer's life is that she had an independent spirit at a time when, particularly under the studio system, this was not valued. She possibly had some sort of mental or psychological illness, maybe manic depression. She lived at a time when mental illness was not clearly understood; one treatment was to give a patient insulin, which was later debunked. Farmer had that, as well as electroconvulsive therapy. She had difficulties with alcohol, which probably exacerbated whatever she had. She was committed against her will where, according to her autobiography, she endured rape and other indignities.I can't tolerate biographies that create fictional characters and don't name famous people. Public personalities can be named in films and books, and legally, they can't stop it. Lauren Bacall tried to stop a film about her and Humphrey Bogart and could not; Elizabeth Taylor couldn't stop a TV film about her life, and no fake names were used. Famous names are changed in Frances - Lief Erickson, Lange's first husband, becomes Dick, and there is a fake character, played by Sam Shepherd, named Harry. Farmer's devastating affair with Clifford Odets remains intact.The other thing I take issue with is the lobotomy. Farmer never had one.The performances are terrific. Farmer was a beautiful, somewhat androgynous looking woman, with a husky voice. There is a strong resemblance between Farmer and the softer, more feminine-looking Lange. Lange doesn't try to impersonate Farmer's voice; she embodies her strong spirit, emotional outbursts, and depressive episodes magnificently. It is a real tour de force. The great Kim Stanley plays Farmer's mother, and she is fantastic. As the quiet, loving, and kind Harry, Sam Shepherd is excellent.Frances Farmer did recapture some of her career. After working several menial jobs, she eventually returned to stage work and television drama, hosted a long-running syndicated television show, and lived quietly. Toward the end of her life, her behavior again became erratic and alcohol again was a problem. She finally died of esophageal cancer at the age of 57. Beautiful, talented, and original, Farmer was a victim of her own terrible demons. While I think that Jessica Lange did her justice, I really don't think that Frances did. "},{"Title":"The movie Frances (1982) is an accurate depiction of the life of Frances Farmer.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING - POSSIBLE SPOILER!Frances Farmer was a victim of control.  Her mother was the main controller in her life; Frances gave away her own power to her mother hoping to gain love and acceptance as a trade-off.  The more power she gave her mother, the more power the mother took.  Betrayal is the main theme of the movie and was the main theme of Farmer's life.The movie can leave one with a deep sense of darkness but serves as a teaching tool in that darkness.If Ms. Farmer had realized early on the degree of control-freak her mother was, she may have been able to salvage her own life.  Instead, she entered a path of extreme self-destructiveness, allowing herself to be abused in many different manners.  In other words, she just gave up.  Her desire for love was deeper than her desire to live her own life independently.  It is amazing that she lived as long as she did.  More than likely, it was her belief in a God that sustained her for 57 years, despite the control that she hated but needed.Ms. Farmer also had her own control issues that she was unable to make peace with during a large portion of her life. "},{"Title":"A pack of lies","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" With all the witnesses and biographies exposing the lies in earlier biographies about her, it is disgusting that a major film would be produced containing so many lies from those false publications. This is a real person we are talking about, not a caricature.For one thing, she never got a lobotomy. And if she had, she would have been a near-zombie, and never gone back to acting, nor gone on to have her own number 1 rated TV program.A truer bio on Frances is available right here on IMDb.Yes, she had troubles, but she was not a Communist, and not an athiest. And though she had friction in Hollywood, she did not run away from Hollywood in favor of Broadway; (she actually walked out of a play bound for Broadway, and returned to Hollywood). In short, she never did half the things depicted in this rather sleezy film.The film is entertaining if you enjoy the shock of foul language, and the violence of squads of cops and psycho-ward bouncers wrestling her all over the place.I prefer to remember the good side of Frances, i.e., her sweet character in Flowing Gold (1940). That was the film that made me interested in her in the first place. I saw the film Frances (1982)out of curiosity regarding her personal life, and came away from it outraged. I cannot recommend it for the foregoing reasons. "},{"Title":"Very difficult to feel sympathy for the character Lange plays","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently saw this movie for the second time on AMC. The movie opens with Frances Farmer presenting an essay in a high school competition, one in which she denies the existence of God - quite a brave thing to do in 1930. It is supposed to show that Frances is a woman who takes life on her terms, and her terms alone.But after an hour or so into the film, after she has been arrested for drunken driving and gotten into worse-than-Marilynesque working habits, her free-spirit act has worn dreadfully thin. The script depicts everyone she meets as some kind of combination of shallow, treacherous, or venial. In time you have to wonder if the script simply presented the world through Farmer's eyes, colored as they are with an attitude unrelentingly condescending as a person and unprofessional as an actress. She is able to talk amicably only to her milksop father and her undemanding occasional boyfriend, played by Sam Shepard. With everyone else - that is, with anyone who would have the slightest expectation of her - the scene ends with anything between a hissing contest to a major donnybrook. In the end, Hollywood finally decided that her talent was not worth the trouble of working with her.Without denying the horrors of her mental hospital incarceration, by the end of the film I could not help but think that if the movie was anything true to the character of Frances Farmer, the fact that she did not become a major star is not the huge tragedy her fans believe. Something so obviously inevitable cannot be called a tragedy. "},{"Title":"A Hollywood Shadowland From Hell","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say that Frances was far from being an enjoyable film to watch, but that certainly doesn't mean that it wasn't fascinating, as well.Frances is a harrowing bio-film that chronicles the tragic life of 1930s movie star Frances Farmer who brazenly snubbed the Hollywood power-structure and wound up being involuntarily committed to an insane asylum where she was subjected to horrific treatment, including repeated rapes. (Farmer was eventually lobotomized, at the age of 35, thanks to the legal power of her crazed mother)Even though Frances is an exceptionally well-crafted film, with a superb performance by Jessica Lange as the title character, this is a cold and extremely depressing movie where we never learn to understand the reasons behind Farmer's apparent self-destructive tendencies.Released in 1982, Frances is a chilling motion picture that clearly shows us a truly dark and, yet, very real side of Hollywood.If you are at all interested in learning more about Frances Farmer's life, there's a book that's worth checking called Shadowland, which was written by William Arnold. "},{"Title":"Quest for Liberty","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had read the autobiography years ago. So, I knew all the salient facts. No movie can improve on an autobiography. Still, this film held my attention because it is made with passion and style. It uses Frances's life to weave a theme on the subject of freedom. At times the makers of this movie root too obviously for Frances, portraying her almost like the Maiden of Orleans, explaining away her unsavory behavior.  "},{"Title":"It's a haunting musical blonde abyss","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frances excels in its artificiality, the way Hitchcock's The Birds did. Hollywood is abstract and pointed, the years are blurred like medicated passages of time and nothing is more secure than Home, which is undermined by its cruelly naive stage mother and a glorious but passive father, and as fate would have it, a damp, morose Seattle. I've seen the pink house that is most attributed to Frances' upbringing...Little, alas, is made of the enormous soundtrack of harmonica backed by a 60-piece string orchestra. The composer John Barry would receive much esteem (and an Oscar) a year later for Sydney Pollack's Streep-Redford-Ralph Lauren gem, Out of Africa, wherein Barry uses the Mozart piece he also used in Frances.Nada is mentioned of Farmers' lesbianism, but I myself cannot see how it could easily have been integrated into a story of a gal already doomed to succeed simply because she would not play The Game with The Man.You'll note how the shadows of venetian blinds are utilized visually to show Farmer's entrapment in a system that works for most everybody else. There's one time where the blinds are only half across her body - there's still a chance. But we know in our souls that sometimes there can be no escape...When you are alone - and you hear Barry's piano-sewn music, much of what we associate with Frances Farmer, and by extension her two KC - Kids of Culture, Karen Carpenter and Kurt Cobain, wells like tears from the listening soul. Ho! Those ARE tears! The violins cut like sharks, the violas like shadowy razors, and the 'celli like nostalgia's daggers.The colors, symbolic poses, and psycho dynamic tableaux in Frances are always heightened and always a bit supremely artificial - as if aliens resuscitated a hopelessly fragile and decayed Frances Farmer and got the poop on success in Tinseltown.  "},{"Title":"Jessica Languishing","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can see why Jessica Lange would grab at such a part, which allows her to be glamorous, impassioned, tortured, angry, victimized -- real Oscar bait. Plus, since most moviegoers aren't that familiar with Frances Farmer, Lange needn't compete with their memories of her. She's terrific, but she's victimized in ways she didn't foresee by a choppy script, uncertain direction, and an unconvincing production. The continuity is hazy (we're constantly guessing what year it is), the re-creation of Hollywood consistently inauthentic. The script provides her with an understanding sometime-boyfriend (Sam Shepard, with Device practically written on his forehead) and a gorgon stage mother (Kim Stanley, excellent), but it skips over key plot developments and character points. What DID really drive Frances, and how real was her madness? You won't find out here. Instead, you'll get a standard-issue Hollywood-destroys-what-it-creates indictment, illuminated only by a powerhouse performance. Trivia note Farmer really did appear, lobotomized, on This Is Your Life, and they really did give her an Edsel. This gal just had no luck. "},{"Title":"Wallowing in it","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" At the time Frances was released, a full-court-press of PR for Lange was underway, with Hollywood marketing departments insisting that we all loved Lange, and that she was some sort of prodigy. Many people fell for this. And Brooksfilms was being rightfully criticized (Whose Life is It, Anyway? American Film) for cynically noting that a few lives of interest were now in the public domain (Frances Farmer, The Elephant Man) and getting a movie out before the other productions could finish theirs.Those matters aside, Frances is not very edifying. What audience was such a miserable story intended to capture? The story-arc goes from depressing to even more emphatically depressing. Harry York is a piece of fiction. The most I can muster is a grudging respect for a movie that will show a protagonist combatting a pair of insane parents; and one extra star for some infrequent, nice compositions. "},{"Title":"Nothing has changed today in mental institutions","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frances is a very good movie. Frances was abused by her father and so was her mother, her lawyer was crummy, the mental institution scammed. Frances died young working as a clerk after surviving a lobotomy surgery by Mr. Freeman, which she of course was forced to do otherwise psychiatry would not survive, if they were not allowed to kill their victims (patients?) and create job opportunities for themselves. Lobotomy is banned in US but not in Sweden. In Sweden the doctors are also allowed to make incisions and put battery or chips in their patient, not in the head, but beside the neck in the shoulder. That take place at least ten years before the ECT. After the ECT is performed it is claimed that the patient has made that up after the ECT and is paranoid. Sounds like crazy science fiction but is rather smart weapons.The psychiatrist always claim a mental disturbance when it is 100% electrical and not in the head but in the shoulder.Those who get damned by the pope are called aggressive.After the incision the doctor talk in a message in latin on his little tape recorder, the patient is forced to go to a pansar troup in the army and is then force to study spanish or some other latin language.ECT treatment attack the frontal lobe, and the patient won't be able to recall memories and reconstruct events taken place in the passed anymore. The patient is no longer legible to defend himself and is no longer a threat. "}{"Title":"Metaexploitation","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I continue to be astounded at films that are self-destructively self-referential. That's where a story is about a certain trend , often in filmmaking, that is portrayed as evil. But at the same time, with the same players, the form of the film is precisely along that trend.Here is the story of a fragile girl, pretty and accidentally thrown among radical ideas which presumably have an intelligent edge. She is destroyed by a system, American in the large and Hollywood in the small which wants her pretty but unradicalized. The tone is what would be called `Susan Saradonized' preachy by example and reliance on emotion rather than reason. As such projects go, it is less tedious than most just because Jessica is charming and works hard.But all the way through, we know a few things about it that make us uncomfortable. This is a beauty who exploits her beauty with our cooperation, who after all was introduced to us in `King Kong.' Later, she would become a `real' actress. In Titus for instance, she uses sex in an outrageously self-referential way, outacting and outsmarting Tony Hopkins. But here, she is just expected to be endearing and pretty. Why place some nude scenes in the story? The dissonance is pretty overwhelming.Here, we also know that Jessica started out as a dumb model, something of an elite floozy and by stint of pure discipline was able to grow smarts - but only through mentors like Sam. At this point, Sam was already a radical success in theater, had a weird film experiment with Dylan and entered the world of intelligent film with Malick. So the play between their on-screen characters is oddly off-kilter from the more important film events behind the creation of two important film people.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"An unemotional madness","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Lange in a preconceived tour-de-force, playing 1930s actress Frances Farmer, an unwilling celebrity who was institutionalized for--among other sins--not playing by the rules. It's a grueling movie from an entertainment standpoint (there's nothing visually stimulating going on, so all we're left with is the showy performances). Lange does some fine work here, but the writing is pedantic and the direction smooths everything out. Before we're allowed to get worked up, the filmmakers have moved on to another trauma. Films like this can be successful (I Want To Live! is a good example), but this one isn't truthful enough nor thought-provoking enough to stir more than a minimum of interest. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Jessica Lange is brilliant","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Lange gives the best performance of her career as '30s movie actress Frances Farmer. It's unfortunate that FRANCES isn't a better movie. It's a train wreck that rambles all over the place, which is particularly surprising considering director Graeme Clifford is an established editor who previously worked with the likes of Sam Peckinpah. Nonetheless all of the acting is first rate. Along with Lange, there is Kim Stanley, in a rare film appearance as Farmer's control freak mother. Stanley and Lange make a great mother and daughter from hell. There's scenes together are hair-raising. Sam Shepherd also appears as some sort of guardian angel figure, but FRANCES is Jessica Lange's show all the way. "},{"Title":"I really wanted this movie to work.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We had the kernel of an interesting story here.  During the burgeoning power of women in the work place, especially in the motion picture industry, here was a woman who seemed to not to be afraid to act like a man, but use her female status to get special treatment.The story could have delved into the question of was she crazy or was she liberated?  Did society or the new responsibilities of getting out of the house make her crack?Unfortunately, many details that could have made this story interesting seem to have been cut out of the version of the movie I saw with a meat ax--like her trip to russia and how she got into the movies (might have explained the cock sucker remark at the police station).Was the final solution a final act of male repression of women or was she really ill or did both feed each other?The conclusion was kind of a let down. "}]