[{"Title":"The real thing.  Accept no imitations.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"53 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the one of the movies that kicked off the buddy cop formula.  Technically, Nick Nolte's the only cop, but other films have tried to imitate the style by having a tough, cranky, by-the-book cop (Nolte's character) paired off with a loose, easygoing, unorthodox cop (like Murphy's character).  Some of these imitators have failed miserably and even those that succeeded don't match up to 48 Hours.  I haven't seen the unedited version of this movie in over ten years (it plays on TV like 4 times every month), and even when I did catch it on TV, I caught it in bits and pieces.  Now that I've seen it straight-through, in its uncut form, I can regard this as an overlooked classic.  Watching Nolte as the gruff, chain-smoking Jack, I thought to myself, He owns that part.  Many actors have tried to take on that same role, but nobody plays it better than Nolte.  And the same goes for Eddie Murphy.  His talent has been taken for granted over the recent years, since his career has hit a major slump.  And rightfully so.  He should choose his roles much more wisely.  How do you from doing such fun, memorable films as 48 Hours, Coming to America and Trading Places to doing Showtime and I-Spy.  This movie proves that Murphy can go leaps and bounds with his comic talent, if the script is well-written.  The scene in the all-white, country-western bar, where Murphy shows off his skills as an interrogator, is a classic. The film is directed by Walter Hill, who's great at directing action sequences.  So the movie packs a punch in both the action and comedy department.  Nolte and Murphy's chemistry is priceless, and the banter between them is sharp and hilarious.  One of my favorite examples is when Murphy asks Nolte, Can you tell me a bedtime story?  Nolte responds, F**k you.  That's my favorite one.  Of course, Murphy gets most of the credit for being the comic relief, and he is terrific in one of his best comic performances, but Nolte belts out just as many funny lines as him, though he's the official straight man.  He never seems to say anything intentionally funny, but that's what's funny.  He says things that are hilarious, but sounds dead serious about them.  And of course, it's also hilarious to watch him react furiously to Murphy's taunts. Those who haven't seen 48 Hours should really check it out, because it's an action classic!  Sure, the Rush Hour films are good, but Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan don't have close to the same magic as Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy!  THIS is how an action/comedy is made!!My score  9 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining thanks to great performances from the two leads...","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"     It's the chemistry between Nolte and Murphy that makes this work, plus the fact that both men really attempt to 'get into the skin' of their character, something mostly ignored in other examples of this genre.  Director Hill knows he's got a great team in front of the camera, and all that remains is for him to incorporate some spectacular action sequences around them.  This he does competently.  That one-two punch is what gives the movie its fireworks.   The banter and situations concerning the characters are also gleefully un-PC.  It'd be interesting to see what a studio and director would make of the same premise in these 'enlightened' times.  Murphy's comic stage persona is less restrained here than it would be in later films, and the results are often shamefully funny.   Don't expect Shakespeare, there's far too much cursing and other unsavoury shenanigans going on for that; do expect a pacy and entertaining early example of the 'buddy thriller'. "},{"Title":"Alternately hilarious (of course) and thrilling","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nick Nolte is well-cast as the average tough, somewhat maverick cop who gets involved in a case involving an escaped convict and his partner and their psychopathic rampage through San Francisco. He's forced to enlist the help of fast-talking incarcerated con man Eddie Murphy, who has dealt with one of the killers in past. Murphy insists he be let out for 48 hours in order to secure a stash of money he has that the killer wants. Nolte and Murphy are a mismatched pair, Murphy being the sly young criminal, Nolte being a tough, somewhat ignorant cop who tires easily of his partner's fast mouth and wayward way of giving information, and constant attempts at getting a gun.There's one good scene where Murphy walks into a redneck cowboy joint with a bet about what it takes to be taken seriously as a cop, and trades places with Nolte as a detective trying to get information on where one of the guys is. Later on, Nolte and Murphy get into a fight because Murphy won't say what he knows the escaped killer is after.Walter Hill creates one of the best cop movies ever, and a perfect movie to act as Murphy's first real vehicle for his comedy style. However, this is not comedy like, say, Trading Places. This movie is more the comedy style of the first Lethal Weapon movie. Alternately serious and funny. "},{"Title":"The start of the 80's buddy cop movie?","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It seems that after 48 HRS, buddy cop movies had a simple plot. Catch the bad guys while being as funny and silly as possible. There is alot of bad buddy cop movies, this is one of the best. Considering one is a cop and the other is a convict it shouldn't really be considered a buddy cop movie. I watched this film a couple of days ago because it had been awhile since I watched it a thousand times on cable television as a kid. I was surprised at the amount of racial comments made in this film, I guess as a child I didn't really pay attention to those comments. The movie is still solid, definitely one of Walter Hill's best films. Eddie Murphy is perfecting his onscreen personality in his first film. Beverley Hills Cop wasn't far behind. Nick Nolte feels like a tired detective in this film. Nolte has always seemed like the perfect tired private eye or detective to me. The rough voice, the lined and aged face, he just seems right. The movie is exciting and tight, one of the best action films of the eighties. "},{"Title":"The original - and probably the best - of the buddy-buddy flicks.","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walter Hill is one of those directors who seems never to make an average film. His movies are, generally-speaking, either very good or very bad. 48 Hours is one of his very good offerings. It gives Eddie Murphy one of cinema's most unforgettable movie debuts, and invents the conventions of the buddy cop genre that were to become blueprints for years to come. Every buddy picture after 1982 - including Lethal Weapon, The Last Boy Scout, Fled, Bad Boys, and a thousand more - owes something to 48 Hours.The film opens with psychopathic Albert Ganz (James Remar) escaping from a chain gang. Determined to track down Ganz, tough cop Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) springs a fast-talking convict named Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) from jail for forty-eight hours, during which time the mismatched duo must find their quarry. Cates doesn't like blacks, and Hammond doesn't like cops, so before they can even get to the business of tracking down their man they first have to come to terms with working alongside each other.Fast-paced, energetic, foul-mouthed and funny, 48 Hours is simply a great ride. Nolte underplays brilliantly, wisely allowing Murphy to handle the loud and showy role while he etches a gruff, rugged characterisation as a cop on the warpath. The leading characters are rounded off wonderfully by James Remar, as a genuinely bad baddie. If the plot to 48 Hours sounds like a collection of all the clichés and predictabilities that ruin most films, it's important to remember that before this film nothing like it had really been done. These plot devices and conventions are only considered cliches nowadays because 48 Hours was so influential, not to mention frequently-imitated, in the ensuing years. James Horner's music score is perfectly judged too. Finally, no review of 48 Hours would be complete without some acknowledgment of the film's most famous scene. I'm talking - of course - about the bit where Murphy causes a stir in a redneck bar. More often than not famous movie scenes fail to live up to their lofty reputation, but in this case that simply isn't so. It really is an electrifying screen moment.... in a film that really is an electrifying screen experience! "},{"Title":"The best of the buddy pics; Murphy's debut is one of the best in film","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  48HRS. (1982) *** Nick Nolte, Eddie Murphy, James Remar, David Patrick Kelly, Sonny Landham, Frank McRae, Brion James.  One of the best `buddy' action films of all time Nolte is in rare form as perpetually growling, angry heavy &#150; drinking San Francisco cop Jack Gates who has his hands full when a crazed cop-killing escaped con and his partner go on a rampage with his only resort being motormouthed, street smart Reggie Hammond (Murphy in his scene-stealing big screen debut that made him an overnight sensation in addition to lighting the fuse while the star of `Saturday Night Live') who coincidentally is serving a sentence for being one of the maniac's former crew members on their last gig together (a cache of money only Reggie knows where is hidden).  With only 48 hours on leave from the joint the odd couple are forced to help each other overcoming their own racism, violent means and genuine opposites attract mojo working in overdrive.  High octane action directed sleekly by Walter Hill and the unexpurgated energetic glee Murphy exudes kicks the film into overdrive.  Look for The Busboys (Eddie's fave band) providing the ironic cover of `The Boys Are Back in  Town' and for trivia buffs, that's Olivia Brown as the object of Eddie's libido, who would go on to co-star in tv's `Miami Vice' and indie star Chris Mulkey in a bit part as a uniformed cop.   "},{"Title":"A seriously edgy and explosive thriller.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A seriously edgy and explosive thriller about an untidy yet tenacious San Francisco cop, Jack Cates (Nick Nolte), who must take Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy), an ultra-cocky convict with him and search around the city for a brutish cop-killer, Ganz (James Remar)and his nearly out-spoken Indian accomplice, Billy Bear (Sonny Landham) and take them down in less than forty-eight hours. What made me enjoy the movie is the trust and respect that the Murphy and Nolte characters begin to show, even there are moments where they want to pound each other's head in. In addition to Nolte and Murphy (who's in his film debut), Remar is pretty good here despite having a limited amount of screen time. The photography of the city by Ric Waite is well, excellent and the skillful direction by Walter Hill can't go unnoticed. 48 Hrs. may not look as well-crafted as The French Connection, but Hill sure knows how to make something memorable out of nothing. "},{"Title":"Walter Hill's dark cop drama doubles as Eddie Murphy's propulsive film debut","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Only a privileged few who remember 48 Hrs. acknowledge it as the primary influence of the buddy-cop films of the 80's (Lethal Weapon, Miami Vice).  Nick Nolte plays Jack Cates, a rusty, cranky, tough-guy cop working the homicide department in San Francisco.  When a violent chain-gang escape reunites two hardened criminals (the greasy-looking Ganz and a towering Indian named Billy Bear) who subsequently murder two police officers and a prison guard, Cates is assigned to babysit paroled convict Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy), an old member of Ganz's gang.  Reggie has been released for one weekend (hence the title) to aid Jack in capturing these two cop-killers.  Unbeknownst to Cates, Ganz & Billy Bear are not simply out on a killing spree but rather in search of a very important briefcase that belongs to Reggie.I can't think of another film debut as explosive as Eddie Murphy in 48 Hrs., even though Murphy's work on Saturday Night Live already tossed him into the public's consciousness.  It's also worth noting that because director Walter Hill is known for casting interracial leads in his non-western films (Brewster's Millions, Crossroads, Supernova), never before had we seen a black man act like this in a movie; assured, aggressive and confident to the point of being cocky.  It would be easy to dismiss Murphy's character as a black stereotype; well-dressed, horny, smooth-talking, bantering, but Murphy pulls his character away from stereotype cobwebs with unfiltered charisma and instinct.  Think of it, most people who now wail away the chorus to Roxanne are invoking Murphy instead of Sting (and what a hilarious introduction that is).  Also, there is the unforgettable sequence where Reggie takes over a redneck bar, posing as a cop!  It's the most magnetic scene in the film, and Murphy delivers (You know what I am?  I'm your worst f***in' nightmare!  That's right I'm a nigger with a badge and I got permission to kick your f***in' ass whenever I feel like it.)Obviously, this film wasn't written as a comedy.  Nolte spends much of his time hurling every kind of racial epithet imaginable at Murphy when he's not chain-smoking or guzzling from a flask.  Murphy injects his humor into the story without disrupting the movie's violently grim tone, and Murphy & Nolte are excellent at creating an oil-and-water duo that keeps them at odds for most of the film.  There are no stylistic explosions, but there are some tense gunfights including a chase scene in a train station and a shootout that employs a convertible and a public bus.  Composer James Horner, who would come to prominence in the 90's as one of the more reverent film composers, creates an unusual, percussion-driven score heavy with Caribbean flavor.  It's works well, adding an element of heat while Jack & Reggie cruise San Francisco with the top down.  The film has thankfully dated pretty well, and sometimes even holds the faint resemblance of a 1970's cop film (I'm sure interracial blaxploitation movies like Across 110th Street served their influence).  Of all of Walter Hill's work, Crossroads remains closest to my heart, but this is certainly his most mature effort.  Expect to laugh, but expect to be shaken too. "},{"Title":"The finest of buddy flicks known!","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte strike it rich in 48 Hours. Eddie Murphy play Reggie Hammond, a smooth-talking, wise cracking, parolee who teams up with Jack Cates(Nolte), a hard-drinking, hard-nosed, and sloppy-looking policeman. During a gunfight Cates loses his piece to a dangerous killer. And it's up to Hammond to help him bring him down. Reggie has got 48 Hours to have him stopped before he runs amok again. The killer is Albert Ganz(James Remar) he and his partner Billy Bear(Sonny Lantham) go on a killing spree all over San Francisco. Cates and Hammond don't really get along with each other in the beginning, when the smoke does settle they gain trust and respect for each other. In order to stop the dangerous duo, Reggie gets his own piece, and they go out to find and stop them. Reggie got Billy Bear, even when he defied Reggie's warning. And Jack finally gets his man. The movie is hard core Language, nudity, racial remarks, and violence. That doesn't bother me anymore. The real deal was the soundtrack. Especially The Boys are Back In Town. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Influential & Fantastically Successful","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The incredible box office success of 48 Hours was attributable to its brilliant combination of action, pace and comedy and the pairing of a couple of guys whose relationship was a continuous source of entertainment. This formula proved to be so successful that it blazed the trail for the whole genre of buddy cop movies that followed. 48 Hours was also significant, however, for being Eddie Murphy's first film and the one that made him into an instant star.Detective Sergeant Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) is a tough San Francisco cop who's out for revenge after two of his colleagues are killed by escaped convicts Albert Ganz (James Remar) and Billy Bear (Sonny Landham) in a shootout at a local apartment building. Jack's investigations soon reveal that another member of their gang is still in prison serving a three-year sentence for robbery and so he arranges for Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) to be released on a 48 hour pass so that he can help to track down the two killers.Reggie proves to be useful in assisting Jack's pursuit of Ganz and Bear who'd killed a couple of guards when they broke out of prison and are now intent on finding the $500,000 that they stole before being sent to jail. Reggie discloses that the money was stashed away in the trunk of his car which had been parked in a garage for the 30 months that he'd been in prison. Predictably though, Jack and Reggie's mission to recover the money and bring Ganz and Bear to justice within the 48 hours available, proves to be both challenging and extremely dangerous.The relationship between Jack and Reggie is so highly-charged as it develops from open hostility to mutual respect (and eventually friendship) that it becomes absolutely fascinating to watch. It's also incredibly funny because they're so different and their interactions are so abrasive. The dialogue is sharp, witty and often coarse and when they trade insults (in pre-politically correct language) their brilliantly-written quick-fire exchanges are delivered with tremendous panache.Nick Nolte is excellent as the gruff, hard-drinking detective who chain-smokes, always looks dishevelled and has a totally dysfunctional relationship with his badly-treated girlfriend Elaine (Annette O'Toole). Eddie Murphy is sensational as Reggie, who's a fast-talking, wisecracking, smartly-dressed ladies man with a lot of attitude and reasons of his own for being prepared to help Jack. Murphy's first appearance in the movie is very memorable because of the excruciating way in which he sings Roxanne and the now-legendary scene in which he takes control of a redneck bar while posing as a police officer is still terrific and laugh-out-loud funny.In retrospect, it's clear that, as well as being a fantastically successful movie that's hugely entertaining, 48 Hours also proved to be far more influential than anyone could possibly have imagined at the time of its original release. "}{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of the best. Brilliantly acted, very good scenes, the scene in redneck bar and the scene where the boss has a rant after the infamous bus losing incident are the best. The boss is excellent. The way he delivers his lines with such anger, and the lines themselves are very hard. YOU GO F*** YOURSELF CONVICT!!! is my favourite of the whole film. The look on Eddie's face is priceless. Just proves how class an actor he is, if proof be necessary. Redneck bar scene is equally good. The music the band are playing fits the scene beautifully. The dancing stripper adds to the value of the scene too. She's great. A flawless film, Eddie Murphy's best work too in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The two main characters in this movie, reggie hammond and jack cates, are caricatures of the stereotypes present in modern/industrial society. When the movie began I thought I would not like it because the characters were so stereotypical, but director Walter Hill did a fantastic job bringing the characters to life as real people. This movie is not interested in being politically correct. In the beginning Murphy is a pussy hunting, lazy convict and Nolte is a cornbred, cracker police officer. By the end of the movie we see that the two characters have become good friends and are not so different(spoiler Nolte is a pretty dirty cop that fakes signatures, beats prisoners and drinks).The direction is good and the story is very simple. The great action sequences and the chemistry between nolte and murphy make this a classic.Spoilers My favorite parts were when Nolte stuck up for Murphy despite the criticisms and slurs the police captain was directing at Murphy and the part when Murphy and Nolte were separated and Murphy could have bolted and left Nolte to get in trouble but he called the station and gave nolte a hint to where he was located. I liked the part when Nolte gave Murphy time to get laid.9/10 "},{"Title":"Slam-Bang Shoot;em Up Saga Set in San Francisco","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This gritty city buddy picture about an incorruptible, hard-as-nails, San Francisco plainclothes detective and a convict on a weekend pass who team up to track down a couple of ruthless, cold-blooded killers with a half-million dollars at stake qualifies as an above-average opus. Nick Nolte was well on his way to super-stardom when he shared the screen with Saturday Night Live sensation Eddie Murphy in his feature film debut. Hard Times writer & director Walter Hill and scenarist Roger Spottiswoode deserve credit for conjuring up--with co-scribes Larry Gross of Streets of Fire and Steven E. de Souza of Die Hard--a tough-guy action thriller that was short of originality but long on the charisma that its two stars generated. Reportedly, producer Lawrence Gordon had an idea that barely resembled the outcome. In the Gordon premise, a criminal abducts the Louisiana governor's daughter, attaches an explosive device to her head, and demands ransom in 48 hours. The brutal cop assigned to the case recruits the kidnapper's prison cell mate to assist him on the investigation. Actually, they could have made the Gordon plot as a straight-to-video spin-off. After a hardened criminal, Albert Ganz (James Remar of The Warriors), escapes from a California chain-gang, Ganz with his crazy-as-a-loon Indian partner Billy Bear (Sonny Landham of Predator), they head for San Francisco to get the cash that their cohorts, Luther (Daniel Patrick Kelly of The Warriors) and Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) have secretly stashed in a convertible WV sports car in a garage. Rough-hewn Jack Cates (Nick Nolte of North Dallas Forty) decides to take a chance on a loud-mouthed convict who knows Ganz. Reggie has served almost three years on his sentence in San Quentin with six months left when Cates comes a-calling. Reggie convinces Cates to spring him and Cates forges a signature to get Reggie out of stir. The two have a hard time getting along initially but by the dust has settled, they are literally as thick-as-thieves. The shoot-outs are as thuggish as the characters squeezing the trigger as our heroes hunt down the hair-trigger villains. Neither Ganz nor Billy Bear show any qualms about blasting cops and taking hostages. Literally, there is never a dull moment. 48 HRS may not have been the first cops and robbers shoot'em up in the 80s to feature a foul-mouthed, screaming police superior--Frank McRae fits the bill to a tee--but it was probably near the top. Some say 48 HRS spawned the police buddy picture genre, but they are presumptious. The earliest buddy picture about cops was In the Heat of the Night (1967) with Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger. 48 HRS might have inspired the pairings of other stars in an urban actioneer, and the Jack Cates character served as a prototype for Mel Gibson's suicidal Lethal Weapon hero Martin Riggs. You cannot help but wonder if Spottiswoode and Hill weren't inspired by Akira Kurosawa's 1949 crime thriller Stray Dog because Cates loses his .44 Smith & Wesson revolver early on during the action. Cates is trying to help Detective Algren (Jonathan Banks of Beverly Hills Cop) and Detective Vanzant (James Keane of Apocalypse Now) make an arrest at the Walden Hotel. Ganz surprises the cops when he slips out of his room by another door and comes up behind them in the hallway. A gunfight erupts. Vanzant takes a couple of slugs in the chest, and Ganz threatens to finish off Algren. Ganz grabs Cates' handgun just as Toshirô Mifune lost his pistol in Stray Dog. Nolte and Murphy make a perfectly matched but mismatched heroic pair who spend most of their time in each other's faces. They develop a grudging respect for each other after a savage slugfest on the sidewalk. Miraculously, Reggie's Giorgio Armani suit isn't torn to shreds during their knock-down, drag-out brawl. These guys run into more trouble from the law as they close in on Ganz and Billy. At least twice they find themselves interfered with by men in blue. Eventually, they corner the villains in Chinatown and blast it out with them. The ending with Ganz holding Reggie at gunpoint as a human shield against the sullen Cates is straight out of Dirty Harry. The relentless action, the wisecracking--mostly improvised--dialogue, and memorable performances by Nolte and Murphy boost this routine thriller. Murphy's scene in a redneck bar as he masquerades as a cop makes this police movie worth watching. Indeed, Murphy garnered an Golden Globe nomination for his debut performance. Hill anted up a sequel Another 48 HRS about eight years later with Nolte and Murphy reprising their roles. "},{"Title":"Lives up to its classic reputation and then some","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Scruffy maverick police detective Jack Cates (a marvelously gritty portrayal by Nick Nolte) springs smartaleck convict Reggie Hammond (a bravura star-making performance by Eddie Murphy) from jail so he can catch dangerous criminal Ganz (a frightfully intense James Remar) and his equally lethal partner Billy Bear (the always imposing Sonny Landham) within a single frantic 48 hour time period. Walter Hill's masterfully lean, mean, tautly streamlined and economical direction keeps the pace roaring along at a nonstop breakneck clip and stages the frequent stirring shoot-outs with electrifying brio. The raw, nervy, rat-a-tat-tat volatile and explosive chemistry between the gruff Nolte and the smooth Murphy delivers plenty of incendiary fireworks which are often peppered with harsh full-bore profanity and culminate in one hell of a knock-down, drag-out back alley fist fight. The now legendary sequence with Murphy terrorizing the hick patrons of a rowdy redneck honkytonk bar with his fiercely cocky and aggressive in-your-face attitude rates as another undeniable highlight. The excellent supporting cast includes Annette O'Toole as Nolte's fed-up bar maid girlfriend, David Patrick Kelly as a sniveling weasel, Denise Crosby and Greta Blackburn as hookers, Jonathan Banks as a doomed cop, Frank McRae as Nolte's huffy disapproving superior, Brion James as a fellow flatfoot, Peter Jason as a racist bartender, and Luis Contreras as a gang member. Both Ric Waite's sharp, slick, glittery cinematography and James Horner's robust, rousing score hit the spot. The great, thrilling song The Boys Are Back in Town by the Busboys likewise scores a bull's eye. Essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Awesome Buddy Buddy Flick!","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is an awesome Buddy Buddy Flick, and one of the best!. It's not dated at all, even though there have been a lot of Buddy buddy films since then, it's very entertaining throughout, and Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy have awesome chemistry together!. James Remar, and Sonny Landham are pretty menacing as the main villains, plus, Nick Nolte, and Eddie Murphy provide a lot of laugh out loud moments!. The Ending is pretty funny Reggie My Lighter, and the story was pretty cool as well.The Direction is great!. Walter Hill does a great job here, nothing fancy, but he does a great job keeping the film at a very good pace. There is a bit of blood, but all we get, is quite a few very bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is GREAT!. Nick Nolte is awesome here, he has awesome chemistry with Eddie Murphy,and even though his character, was rough , gruff and grumpy, i still found him very likable!, awesome job. Eddie Murphy is GREAT here, he is as likable, and hilarious as ever, he also had great chemistry with Nolte, and does what he does best!, great screen debut!. Annette O'Toole, does okay here, and is beautiful, but doesn't have much to do at all. James Remar is great as the main villain, and was pretty menacing. Sonny Landham, is very good here,he was menacing and did well.Brion James does what he has to do. Overall a Must see! for fans of Buddy Buddy flicks (like me) **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"A dazzling film debut for a future superstar","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 HRS was one of the best action/adventure/buddy cop movies ever made that introduced a brand new movie star to the world named Eddie Murphy.The film stars Nick Nolte as Jack Cates, a world weary cop, who finds himself in a bind when a fellow officer is killed with his gun by a slimy criminal who broke out of jail in order to get his hands on a booty that is in the trunk of the car of a former running partner named Reggie Hammond, who is now in jail. Cates realizes the only way to get this guy is by enlisting the aid of Hammond, who he gets a 48-hour pass out of jail in order to nab the bad guy.Eddie Murphy deservedly became a movie star with his star-making turn as Reggie Hammond, but Nolte's Cates is an equally effective characterization, a veteran cop who might be slightly over the hill but in complete denial about it. Nolte effortlessly nails the world- weariness of his character without ever letting Murphy blow him off the screen. James Remar also had one of his best roles as Ganz, the bad guy that Cates and Hammond are after. The scene where Murphy takes command of a redneck bar is just outstanding.Nolte and Murphy were reunited for a sequel, but like I always say, stick to the original. "},{"Title":"The original buddy cop movie, and still one of the best","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is an all-thrills, no frills buddy action comedy with excellent performances by Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy. One of the beauties (and source of some faults) of this movie is its simplicity. The plot is rather straightforward and doesn't stop too long or too often for exposition, which is good. However, a lot of the characters are underwritten, most notably the villain who gets a worthy introduction but isn't seen too much until the inevitable climax. Nick Nolte's girlfriend is also underwritten and seems to serve little purpose other than to give him something else to bitch about. However, Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy's characters are very well-defined and developed, and their chemistry is what makes the movie so special. Eddie Murphy really hit it out of the park with this film, his feature debut. There's a lot of great action and comedic scenes, but my favorite has to be when Eddie Murphy takes on a bar full of rednecks. What transpires is truly hilarious, and an excellent character-building moment. Also, since the movie moves along so quickly, you never get bored watching what happens on screen. My last complaint would be that the film is resolved maybe a little too quickly, but it still was a satisfying ending, nonetheless. I should also mention that this movie has a killer soundtrack, with one particularly good song by The Busboys, (The Boys Are) Back In Town, which is a rollicking good blues rock tune. All-in-all, this is a must-see 1980's action-comedy made by movie veterans at the top of their game (just check out the writers on this thing). "},{"Title":"Nasty Nolte and Mouthy Murphy...","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The thing that most impressed me the first time I saw 48 HRS. was Walter Hill's sure-handed direction despite the clichés and the formula approach, the movie manages to be quite entertaining. It helps that both Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy (not to mention Annette O'Toole) are consummate pros. James Remar and David Kelly are no slouches themselves, and their performances are strong enough to balance the scales vis a vis The Good Guys versus The Bad Guys; it seems like a toss-up at any given point just WHO will come out on top (although, precisely because it IS a formulaic buddy movie, we already KNOW, deep down, who's going to win; the only real question is will the Con make it?). Under-utilized Sonny Landham also plays one of the villains. I, for one, would've liked to have seen this guy go on to a career like that of Danny Trejo. Like Trejo, Landham was always an interesting actor to watch. "},{"Title":"Great and underrated action comedy","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It makes me sad , that such a great movie doesn't have even a 7.0 rating. What is wrong with you , people ? It's a classic ! The whole movie even after all those years has a sense of freshness in it . It is based on original idea about cop working with thief to catch bandits. Usually an action comedy is a buddy cop movie when two cops with different personalities try to work together solving a case (Lethal weapon , Red heat, , Tango and Cash and so on ) . The idea of making a cop work with thief is brilliant , because it allows us to watch the struggle between people from two different worlds (law and crime ) not two people from one world (law). It opens up new possibilities for fun and the movie uses the idea to the maximum.Nick Nolte (Jack Cates) and Eddie Murphy (Reggie Hammond) are brilliant together . They have great chemistry and each one of them shines in his role . Some people say that Murphy overshadows Nolte , but I don't agree . Yes , the 48 hours was the movie that started Eddie's career , but it was a team effort . After all , when you think of Nolte , you probably think of 48 hours first.It's Nolte's most recognizable role and one of his best performances . He's great as aggressive, cynical , burned out and brutal cop . Murphy also makes his character much more than a typical funny black guy who is a comic relief role , that often appears in action movies. His Reggie Hammond is a thief with strong sense of elegance , pride and weakness for pick pocketing. Together both are fun to watch as they argue and slowly become friends.James Remar (Ganz) , David Patrick Kelly (Luther) and Sonny Landhan (Billy Bear) all were very convincing as the dangerous criminals . Frank McRae was big fun as typical big black boss yelling at our heroes . I was in tears , when he was shouting at Cates and Hammond ! Brion James (Blade runner) has a supporting role as Kehoe &#x96; a friend cop of Cates . Annette O'Toole plays an instrumental role of Cates angry girlfriend Elaine. Too bad , the movie could use her more.Funny fact &#x96; Jonathan Banks plays here a small , but important role of good cop. He doesn't have a scene with Murphy , but he appears in Beverly Hills cop as a thug.The movie is a powerful mix of action and comedy . The two outstanding scenes are the bet between Hammond and Cates (There's a new sheriff in town) and the bus chase . Especially the first scene is wonderful , because it explains why Murphy was so awesome in the 80's.A really good script combined with top notch acting and a confident direction from Walter Hill make this movie a winner . It's more in style of Lethal weapon than Beverly Hills cop . Remember that . Also remember the great song from Bus Boys The boys are back in town. And don't forget to watch this classic movie . I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy go after a veeery bad killer","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 Hours is not only better than a great many action/crime movies that come after it, it also stands tall on an absolute scale. This picture holds up after 30 years. It's as fresh, coherent and entertaining as the day it was made.The reasons are a witty and tight script, characters that are well-drawn, top-notch acting and very fine directing. This movie is a winner.Nolte is so into the part of a gruff and rough cop that it's hard to imagine anyone else taking his place. Murphy's combined comedic and acting talents light up the screen. He has just the right combination of in-your-face barbs with letting down his guard and showing his feelings.The action scenes are realistic, harrowing, never over the top, and they don't go on too long.The villains are effective and believable, if blanks as characters. James Remar has the role of a psychopath completely at his disposal.The story line is very clever, teaming a cop with a convict for 48 hours in order to catch a cop-killer that the convict knows. Murphy as the convict is a fast-thinking con man, but Nolte will have none of it.Watching this again after many, many years was a pleasant surprise. "}{"Title":"A heck of a debut from Eddie Murphy","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's funny how my favorite entertainer of all time is Eddie Murphy and he made his theatrical debut the year I was born, 1982 with 48 Hours. I can just imagine what folks thought when they saw this film originally 28 years ago.The 1980s represents in my opinion one of the better decades for entertainment EVER! And 48 Hours has a lot to do with that statement. I have seen this movie a million times and its kind of bittersweet, that Murphy ended up becoming one of the biggest movie stars ever while the very talented Nick Nolte was a criminally underrated actor for much of his career.This represented not only the movie debut of Murphy but also one of the finest hours of Nolte and head villain James Remar's (Albert Ganz) career. Remar is also an underrated actor who I have enjoyed in many shows and movies; but he was really a scumbag in this film beating on women, killing people for nothing, etc.This film was one of Walter Hill's better films and it was also a very, very well cast film. This movie ranks in my Top 5 of best Eddie Murphy films. For all of you who grew up in the 1980s be VERY thankful, because they don't make stuff anymore like they did back then. "},{"Title":"pretty good odd couple buddy picture","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" this is is a pretty good action/comedy movie.it stars Nick Nolte as a hard nosed cop,and Eddie Murphy as a con who he gets paired up with to solve a crime.the movie moves at a great pace,and there are some great action scenes.the dialogue is also very good,especially the interplay between Nolte's no nonsense cop,and Murphy's smart ass ladies man convict.the 2 have great screen chemistry.both also put in great performances in this film.it is a bit more violent then i thought it would be,and there is a lot of coarse language,as well as some nudity.but none of that really effects the quality of the movie.it's a funny,action packed ride.my vote for 48 Hours7/10 "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before I decided to comment on this film I clicked on Eddie's name to see what films he had coming up, Daddy Day Camp, thats right a sequel to Daddy Day Care. Is there really anyone who wants to see that? Compare Daddy Day Care, Dr Dolittle or god help us Haunted Mansion to 48 hrs, hmmmm slightly different aren't they. What has happened to Eddie Murphy, OK fair enough do the odd kiddie film but please, please do some adult comedy/action thrillers too, because isn't that what made him a superstar in the first place? 48 hrs was Eddie's first film and he is absolutely brilliant in it. He is helped by the excellent Nick Nolte to be fair. Eddie is in prison and cop Nolte needs his help to catch a very mean criminal, so he gets him out of jail for 48 hrs to team up with him, and they hate each other! they hate each other a lot! what follows is some of the best comedy and action seen in any film in the 80's or anyother decade for that matter. Directed by Walter Hill who has made some cracking films like The Wanderers and Southern Comfort, this film never lets up its terrific entertainment. Several years later they made a carbon copy follow up called Another 48 hrs but it was very disappointing, it couldn't match the original but then again what could? Even Lethal Weapon isn't quite in the same class as 48 hrs ***8/10*** "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great buddy buddy movie. Eddie Murphy is a real movie star in his first movie. He is a million miles away from the family oriented movies he makes now. Which is a shame because his early performances had a down to earth quality that changed when he became a superstar. The movie is fast paced and has a great score.  Nick Nolte is also terrific in this and the movie is miles better than the awful summer blockbusters i have sat through recently. I wish Murphy would come back to this type of movie. A great action movie with enough genuine laughs and great performances. This is one Buddy Buddy picture that is as good today as it was 20 years ago. "},{"Title":"Eddie's debut is tremendous and excellent!!!!!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The only movie i associate Nick Nolte with.Not to say that he hasn't had other good roles,but this is the one i liked him versus the others. Officer Jack Cates looking for Ganz and Billy Bear who killed a couple of police officers and are after hidden money  stolen from drug dealers a couple years earlier.Which Jack Cates needs Murphy's character convict Reggie Hammond to help him. Whose money Ganz and Billy are after.Eddie murphy is as funny as ever with his entry 30 minutes into the movie. singingroxanne-by Sting and the Police from his cell. They made a good team together.Trend of Buddy/Buddy flicks started after this.Funniest scene in the movie was bar scene where Murphy gets loose going off on rednecks.10 out of 10 . Argubaly, Murphy's Best performance in film. "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  48 HRS. is one of the funniest movies I have seen. Especially that scene in the redneck bar. Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte are the perfect duo, and Murphy makes it funny. It was great how Nolte grew to trust Murphy and they kept emphasizing their hate for each other. I think I liked this movie also because I love 80's movies with cops investigating drugs or money, and 48 HRS. LETHAL WEAPON and BEVERLY HILLS COP are my favorite 80's cop movies. They all have comedy and action, and I think this is my fav of all of them but its really close. This is a great film go see it its an 8/10!  "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is really very simple. It's about a hard-nosed go by the book cop named Jack Cates who teams up with a sarcastic and slick convict named Reggie Hammond. The formula is basically your typical buddy cop film, but what makes this movie so great is the chemistry between Nolte and Murphy. Both provide us with tons of laughs as they race to catch a vicious killer. This movie also has some great action sequences, and even a little bit of drama. And of-course one cannot forget the classic scene where Murphy takes over the Redneck bar posing as a cop. I don't think anyone has ever had such a successful debut on the big screen as Eddie Murphy did in 48 HRS. Anyway, I recommend this to anyone who's a fan of the Eddie Murphy from the 1980's. You know, the one who did movies such as 48 HRS., Beverly Hills Cop, and Coming to America instead of garbage like Daddy Day Care and Dr. Dolittle? "},{"Title":"One of the best buddy films ever!","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  1982 was a revolutionary year for movies. There was PORKY'S, there was POLTERGEIST, and most importantly of all, there was 48 HRS. Starring Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte, one of the greatest duos ever to appear onscreen together, the movie not only helped revolutionize the buddy genre, but also jump started Eddie Murphy's career. Part of the reason the movie is such a successful buddy flick is the great blend of action, comedy, and drama. The three genres are mixed together perfectly to form not only a great dramatic action-packed movie, but a hilarious one too. The movie doesn't hold up quite as well as some of Eddie Murphy's other movies from the 1980s such as TRADING PLACES and BEVERLY HILLS COP, though it's still better than any of Eddie Murphy recent movies (THE HAUNTED MANSION, anyone?)My rating 9/10 (***1/2) "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's breakout performance!","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 488 Hrs. (1982) was a firsts of many. Eddie Murphy got a big break and shines in his role as Reggie Hammond and this film became one of the most copied comedy formulas during the 80's. Nick Nolte stars as Jack Cates whilst Anette O'Toole co-stars as Jack's long suffering girlfriend. James Remar and Sonny Landham also co-star as two of the most despicable criminals you'll ever want to meet. Denise Crosby has a small role as well.Walter Hill (protege of Sam Peckinpah) directs.A nasty cold blooded criminal Ganz (James Remar) escapes from a chain gang with the help of his Indian crime partner (Sonny Landham). The two fugitives cross paths with harden police inspector Jack Cates (Nick Nolte). After a bloody shoot out in a hotel lobby, Cates is desperate and will do anything to get the two. Whilst in the local precient, a learns that the two have a former crime partner Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) who's locked up in Folsom Prison. After pulling a few illegal strings, he uses Reggie to get back at his former running partners. Will Reggie follow suit or is Cates just wasting his time. He better hurry because he only has 48 hours.Highly entertaining film from Walter Hill. Eddie Murphy shows the world what a huge talent he is. Nick Nolte re-invents himself and his career ( something that a lot of middle or lower tier actors will do in the near future i.e. Gary Busey). Trust me you won't be wasting your time watching this movie. There are a lot worst you can do so why bother? Go out and rent 48 Hrs. and have yourself a very good time!Recommended.B+The cable T.V. version (i.e T.N.T. and T.B.S.) have several new scenes (to fill out the running time) and a couple of extended ones as well. Most notably is the aftermath of the shoot out at the B.A.R.T. station and a new scene with Jack Cates and his girlfriend "},{"Title":"Before there was Lethal Weapon there was...","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits A felon (James Remar) is busted out of jail and it falls on the head of a cranky cop (Nick Nolte) to catch him. Following a tense stand-off, his partner is shot by the convict and in order to find him he must team up with another convict (Eddie Murphy) to catch him. But right from the off, this is one partnership that ain't gonna flow like a boat.At just 21, Murphy took his stand-up comedy act and took to the big screen with veteran Nolte for this raucious cop thriller. The movie also introduced the likes of notable character actor Remar as well as David Patrick 'Sully' Kelly in a supporting role.It has (for it's time, anyway) an interesting angle of a good guy and a bad guy coming together and what would happen if they came to depend on each other. Murphy's character indeed isn't awfully likable and an unfortunate stereotype for some black characters in cinema, but Nolte gives a good turn as the hard-assed, cranky cop. The movie has it's 'buddy-buddy' angle down to a tee, but it seems to be too indulgent of this and seems to forget that it was actually meant to be an action movie and concentrate on the action (of which there's hardly any!) making it become rather boring after a while.If you're looking for a good 'buddy-buddy' cop movie, you've come to the right place. But if you want this and lots of exciting action, Lethal Weapon worked the formula much better five years later in 1987. *** "}{"Title":"They don't make movies like 48 Hrs. anymore.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 Hrs. had the right stuff in an action/comedy that worked perfectly. It's violent, foul mouthed, and there are laughs aplenty. It is hard to see these types of movies nowadays with the political correctness and Hollywood's main aim to attract wider audiences with toned down movies. Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy (in his feature film debut) created a great chemistry as the hard nosed cop and fast talking criminal who are made reluctant partners to bring down a common enemy. Director Walter Hill has done a fine job and his midas touch with bringing gritty action movies to the big screen is sorely missed.The movie starts with Billy Bear (Sonny Landham, Predator) breaking Albert Ganz (James Remar, The Warriors) out of prison by staging a fight and killing three prison guards. Two days later, SFPD Inspector Jack Cates (Nick Nolte, Cape Fear) and two other detectives track down Albert Ganz and Billy Bear hiding out at the Walden Hotel in downtown San Francisco which ends in a bloodbath and two of the police detectives accompanying Cates are killed.Jack Cates is determined to bring down Albert Ganz and Billy Bear but must also enlist the help of a fast talking hustler Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy, Trading Places) to help track down Ganz and Billy who was also previously associated with the crazed criminals. Ganz and Billy are also killing off their previous associates and have kidnapped the girlfriend of another associate Luther (David Patrick Kelly, Commando) to find $500,000 that has been mysteriously stashed away in a hiding spot. Tracking down the crazed criminals won't be easy given that Jack Cates and Reggie Hammond have already developed an antagonistic relationship.In Eddie Murphy's feature film debut, he explodes onto the scene in a huge way, and his comedic talents have not been wasted for one moment. Nick Nolte as Jack Cates plays it perfectly as the straight man who doesn't always see eye to eye with Reggie Hammond and many others. James Remar and Sonny Landham make a great duo as the crazed criminals creating a rampaging path through San Francisco.Keep an eye out for many other character actors in small roles including but not limited to Jack's boss Captain Haden (Frank McRae, Lock Up), Jack's girlfriend Elaine (Annette O'Toole, Superman III), Inspector Algren (Jonathan Banks, Breaking Bad), and in other small roles Chris Mulkey (First Blood) as a patrol officer and Denise Crosby (Star Trek The Next Generation) as Sally, the woman who attacks Reggie with a baseball bat.The movie has non stop foul mouthed, politically incorrect humour which counterbalances the strong violence, but there is no denying that 48 Hrs. is well worth the time. Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy are certainly are at their likable best.9/10. "},{"Title":"Average script carried by Nolte and Murphy","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If one was looking for a good example of how great acting can carry a so-so script, 48 hrs would be a good choice.Nick Nolte is perfectly cast as 'Jack Cates', a rumpled, gruff cop on the hunt for an escaped killer. He elicits the help of a smooth talking, jailed convict who is connected to the killer, 'Reggie Hammond', who again is perfectly played by Eddie Murphy. Over the next 48 hours, the two polar opposites not only fight their way to the killer, but fight each other as well, making for some very memorable scenes. Yet, by the end of the movie, the two learn to respect each other and become friends.While the script isn't all that special, the movie is dominated by the performances of Nolte and Murhpy. The chemistry between the two is off the charts, and it's a pleasure watching these two banter back and forth between each other scene after scene.48 Hrs is edgy, quickly paced and refreshingly politically incorrect. But most of all, it's fun. The plot of the movie may have Nolte and Murphy chasing Ganz, the escaped killer (played well by James Remar) and his accomplice, the real show is Nolte and Murphy. They alone are worth the price of admission and make this a must see comedy/thriller. "},{"Title":"Combustible Chemistry","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Violent criminal Ganz escapes from prison, and is looking for a money stash. He leaves a trail of dead people. Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) survives the shootout. He grabs Ganz acquaintance Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) from prison for 48 hours leave to help track down the killer.This is gritty rough movie from Walter Hill. The language is rough. It's not simply swearing. It is viciously vile. Nick Nolte calls Eddie Murphy a lot of racist language without batting an eye. The people are all good and proper low lifes. Even the gun shoots sound meaner. This movie runs on the combustible chemistry between Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy. Eddie Murphy has a bit of fun once in awhile, and Nolte is at his growling best. This is also notable for Eddie Murphy's movie debut. "},{"Title":"One of the best buddy movies ever made.","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Many have been made over the years, but few can match the hilarity that this movie provides. It's a sharp, witty, and incredibly energetic action comedy, and remains one of the highlights of the under-rated director Walter Hills' career. It introduced a then very young comedy star named Eddie Murphy to the big screen in a big way. Over three decades later, it remains fun to watch.A rock solid Nick Nolte stars as weary, cranky detective Jack Cates, who's after a psychotic prison escapee named Albert Ganz (an intense James Remar). In order to get the goods on Ganz, Cates decides he will enlist the services of Reggie Hammond (Murphy), a slick, smooth young criminal who was once in the same gang as Ganz. Cates springs Hammond out of jail for the title period of time, and the sparks fly as the two strong personalities butt heads (almost literally) with each other.Murphy exudes tons of confidence, and lights up the screen in what is rightly regarded as the films' best scene, when he intimidates the regulars at a redneck bar. He and Nolte get some amazing chemistry as their banter flies back and forth. The relationship between them is believable at every turn. In fact, it's so antagonistic that, not surprisingly, Cates and Hammond come to blows. Director Hill keeps the movie racing forward; there's no filler here, just a good and meaty story with some effective scenes of violence and some nicely done chases. It's all set to a catchy James Horner score.Annette O'Toole is unfortunately rather wasted in an under developed role as Cates's fed-up girlfriend, Frank McRae is amusing as the kind of Yelling Boss we're all familiar with from countless action films, and Remar and Sonny Landham are very enjoyable villains. (Remars' Ganz is such a nut job that a hooker surmises that he enjoys shooting cops more than getting laid.) The supporting cast features many appearances by familiar faces and great character actors David Patrick Kelly, Brion James, Jonathan Banks, James Keane, Denise Crosby, Olivia Brown, Jim Haynie, Jack Thibeau, Peter Jason, Chris Mulkey, R.D. Call, Gloria Gifford, John Dennis Johnston, and Ola Ray.The 97 minute run time of this classic pretty much flies by. With a thoroughly memorable pair of characters at the forefront, it keeps the audience watching. Along with, say, Riggs and Murtaugh from the Lethal Weapon franchise, Cates and Hammond pretty much *define* the buddy movie. Viewers hoping for a tough, hard hitting action film with entertaining roles and a good sense of humour won't be disappointed with what they see here.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Hilarious Landmark Action-Comedy Classic. Walter Hill,Nick Notle and Eddie Murphy At Their Best.","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walter Hill's 48 Hrs is an excellent,landmark classic that greatly mixes Action and Comedy. Filled with great direction,excellent performances from Nick Nolte,Eddie Murphy and the rest of the cast and a wonderful score,48 Hrs is Hill,Notle and Murphy at their best.Set in San Francisco,California,48 Hrs tells the story of tough cop Jack Cates(Nick Notle)who wants to bust two cops killers escaped convict Albert Ganz(James Remar)and his associate Billy Bear(Sonny Landham). With nowhere to turn,Jack wants help from Reggie Hammond(Eddie Murphy,in his film debut),a smooth talking,wisecracking prisoner who used to run with Ganz and Billy Bear. With Jack getting Reggie out for 48 Hrs,Jack and Reggie must team up and try to get Ganz and Billy,that is if they don't kill each other first.48 Hrs is a great film and is the movie that started it all and also set the standard for Action-Comedies that came later on. This film did for Action-Comedy like 2001A Space Odyseey did for Science Fiction and Halloween did for the Horror/Slasher genre after all Where would all of the Lethal Weapon films,Beverly Hills Cop films,Rush Hour films and others be without 48 Hrs' influence. One of the reasons 48 Hrs is excellent is because the film is a combination of violent 1970s early 80s Action films with edgy Comedy. Unlike most of the Action/Comedies that came which were light in comparison,the Action and tone in 48 Hrs is gritty and sometimes dark and very violent which in my opinion separates 48 Hrs from the other Action/Comedies because the film has a great balance between seriousness and laughter. The film was in between and a transitional period from the gritty Dirty Harry type film of the 70s to the Lethal Weapon/Beverly Hills Cop type films of the 80s and beyond. The Comedy and humor in the film is great because it's sometimes played straight and to the point with memorable dialog and characters which are aggressive and very profane. What I also love about the Comedy and humor is how politically incorrect it is because where most Comedies now play it safe and hold back,48 Hrs' Comedy is edgy,risky and uncompromising. It's the kind of Comedy that would offend most people and studio heads and that's one of the things I love about the film. The now classic Bar scene is a prime example of politically incorrect Comedy. The two main characters Jack Cates and Reggie Hammond are one of cinemas greatest tag team duos and it is a classic pairing that can be seen as a great precursor to Riggs and Murtaugh in the Lethal Weapon series except in this film Jack is a Cop and Reggie is the criminal. Like in any entertaining Buddy Action-Comedy,Jack and Reggie at first really hate each other and the back and forth dialog between the two memorable characters is hilarious and truly unforgettable with Jack being tough and gritty and Reggie using his wisecracks and sarcasm and the banter and back and forth between the two doesn't feel forced or fake but real and natural and you as a viewer are fascinated with Jack and Reggie and their natural back forth dialog is what makes the film and the two main characters classic and memorable. While the two hate and dislike each other in the very beginning,Jack and Reggie start to like each other as the film goes on and the two begin to really start to understand their own motivations and reasons for wanting to catch the bad guys and the two main characters are well developed and likable. Co-Writer and Director Walter Hill is a master at dealing with tough male characters and male bonding and 48 Hrs is no exception. The Action and shootouts in the film are amazing,intense and fast-paced like a lot of Walter Hill's films. The Action in the film also gives the film a great balance between Action and Comedy. The ending of the film is Action-packed as well as funny with the characters Jack and Reggie and is a great conclusion.The whole cast does a great job in their roles. Nick Nolte is excellent as cop Jack Cates,with Nolte bringing toughness,grit and humor to the role. Eddie Murphy(in one of the great film debuts of all time)is brilliant and hilarious as Reggie Hammond,with Murphy bringing great Comedy to the performance and having great chemistry with Nolte. Annette O'Toole is good and beautiful as Elaine,Jack's girlfriend. Frank McRae is wonderful as Haden,Cates' boss. James Remar and Sonny Landham are great and intense as Albert Ganz and Billy Bear. Brion James does a good job as Ben Kehoe,one of Jack's fellow officers. David Patrick Kelly does a great job as Luther,an associate of Reggie and Ganz. Margot Rose(Casey),Denise Crosby(Sally),Kerry Sherman(Rosalie),Olivia Brown(Candy)and Jonathan Banks(Algren)give good performances as well.The direction by Walter Hill is excellent,with Hill bringing an intensity,energy and great atmosphere to the film and Hill also does a great job with the Action scenes. Wonderful direction,Hill.The Score by James Horner is wonderful and intense and adds to the energy and greatness of the film. Great score. The film also includes the classic song The Boys Are Back in Town by The Bus Boys and Brian O'Neal.In Final Word,if you love Action films,Comedy films,Walter Hill,Nick Nolte,Eddie Murphy or films in general,I highly suggest you see 48 Hrs,a excellent,landmark classic that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie That Delivers Both Comedy And Thriller,And The Film Debut Of Comedy Legend Eddie Murphy,","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 Hours is a terrific movie with a great story,some very funny scenes,characters and a great cast.This movie is also the film debut of Eddie Murphy,a comedy legend who has starred in many movies with other great actors,they myth not have all been good movies,but when there good there really good.He was obviously not that well known at the time,but he is well famous today,back then Nick Nolte was better known than him,and many people wouldn't know who Nick Nolte is today.Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) a ruff cop needs help to catch a murderer and gets help from a sarcastic criminal named Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) who has just been released from prison. "},{"Title":"Great fun, with a heck of a debut from Eddie Murphy","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was not expecting to enjoy 48 Hours as much as I did. It is hugely enjoyable, and has fun chemistry and no wasted scene. In fact it is for me one of the best buddy cop thrillers ever made. Eddie Murphy gives a heck of a debut in this film, all smoothness, charm and wisecracks, and this is one of his best films and roles along with Beverly Hills Cop and Trading Places. He is perfectly paired with Nick Nolte, who is also every bit as good as the rough, gruff straight man. The story is fun and doesn't fall into the trap of being predictable, and has many great scenes especially Murphy's taming of a redneck bar. The script is witty and funny, while the direction is solid and the film has some very beautifully orchestrated action sequences, shoot-ups and chases.In conclusion, 48 Hours is great fun and worth watching for the two leads, especially Murphy who gives one of his best performances by far here. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The ultimate cop action flick!","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While I like cop flicks there are not many that get more than a 7 out of 10 for several reasons. The story may be too far fetched, the actors not really compatible, the plot to thin, inconsistencies, etc...None of that with this classic. It is the third time I watched it (I have only done a third view with about 20 flicks) and it keeps entertaining from start to finish. These guys were born to make this film together. The Hill Street Blues style cop with the Beverly Hills style cop combination really works when they play it. Nolte and Murphy are pure class.Even the location suits the film. You got to love San Francisco!! In fact the only other cop flick that entertained me this much is the excellent French film 36 Quai Des Orfevres with Auteuil and Depardieu.Great story, brilliant acting, old style no BS action scenes!! If you like this kind of film, 48Hrs should be on your top shelf!! "},{"Title":"Great cop movie.","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 Hours, a movie directed by Walter Hill (he will also direct the sequel Another 48 Hours hits the right notes with this cop movie. Nick Nolte (who plays Jack Cates) is forced to team up with a hardened criminal (Eddie Murphy as Reggie Hammond in his first film role, one that helped make him a movie star) for 48 hours in order to track down a murderer. And it is their character interaction that makes this action movie work - it's fun to watch them at each other's necks as they muddle through the streets trying to find their foe. On the music front, composer James Horner, in one of his first major films, creates a suitable theme (that will be further explored in the sequel). A 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent Buddy Cop Type film from the 80s","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 Hours was one of the reasons for Murphys fame. One of Murphys better films, its a story about a cop who wants to find a killer so bad that he temporarily releases a criminal (murphy) to help find him. NOlte is decent in this movie, although I thought he was trying a bit too hard to be like Clint Eastwood or Dirty Harry i should say. Eddie Murphy gave best performance as Reggie a fast-talking smooth criminal, Murphy steals most of his scenes, almost as good as he was in Beverly HIlls Cop (that was his absolute best). This movie had some decent action for 1982 times, but not great, and the suspense was a bit odd, but decent. I thought the direction could have been better but it was an interesting script, and Murphys improvisations helped the film a lot. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Sound!  Where's The Sound?","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies, even 23 years later it still holds up nicely - many current and recent offerings of the kind could learn from it. It does have the one traffic-based continuity goof that makes me laugh every time, and I wish I could find that crazy little cartoon Space Kid someplace. But what also makes this film so excellent is its atmospheric music, especially the hard-driving opening theme and its steel drum-flavored variations - particularly when Our Heroes follow Luther to the subway station (whence the traffic goof is revealed) - yet unlike the tiresome sequel, there ain't no soundtrack to this! Like Harold Faltermeyer's incidental music in Beverly Hills Cop what wasn't included on that movie's soundtrack, I feel cheated of Good Listening independent of the action here - and I loved Brand New Shoes or whatever that first performed song was called instead of that overrated yawner The Boys Are Back In Town. The artistes released a *cover* CD which really doesn't cover it. I just now found out about a Horner bootleg from 7 years ago!!! that has both the title track and the Following Luther theme, although in one case a reviewer found its sound quality to be less than perfect. But without any Official commercial releases, what other choices are there? Paramount really dropped the ball on this one. Maybe one day they'll pick it back up. "},{"Title":"Genre-buster","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Good action/comedy but not as refined as it's sequel. There is a lot of material in this film that should have been cut, and so it sort of drags on somewhere in the middle. However, that is my only complaint, and Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte are really good in this.This genre usually kind of stinks, but this, Red Heat, and Another 48 hours are definitely stand-outs and an excellent mix of action and drama.Richie is not as quick-witted as in the sequel, and a little less charismatic. Jack is not as grumpy and crusty as in the sequel either, but their characters are still there, and you can see the development they underwent after watching the superiour sequel. Also, the music is top-class, and I wonder if the soundtrack is available... Even More 48hours should be made... "},{"Title":"An Action Film, 80's Style","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  48 Hrs. is one of the first, and best, examples of the 80's action genre.  Walter Hill's style set up a structure a lot of films would borrow from for a long time.  It's also was the first time the buddy system was applied in such a way.  It had been seen before, but not with characters like this.  Not with the same banter and chemistry by Nolte and Murphy.  They are a great team, which is something a lot of recent buddie cop films have been missing.  Their performances together was the foundation for a lot of other buddie cop films, including anothe black & white pair, Mel Gibson and Danny Glover in Lethal Weapon.  The movie provides some good action scenes, but at the time they could only do so much.  It's better viewed with the frame of mind that this has a comedy foreground and action background.  There are some weak spots, like with any action film.  Some scenes drag a bit.  The thing with Nolte's girlfriend is underdeveloped and thus it's inclusion in the film at all is a waste of time.  And the film lacks a great villain.  Hey, I love James Remar as much as the next guy, but the entire second act goes without an appearnce by the main baddie.  Overall, it has flaws.  But the Nolte/Murphy combo combined with Walter Hill's directing makes this a worthwhile venture.7/10* * */**** "},{"Title":"One of the best buddy cop movies.","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  48 HRS. is a good combo of action and comedy. Edddie handles all the funny stuff very and Nick plays a good cop. The action sequences by the stylish Walter Hill were some of the best in 1982. The film is full of action and comedy and is a real crowd pleaser. I remember reading somewhere that the role of Reggie Hammond was oringally written for Gregory Hines or Richard Pryor and one wonders the tone the film would have taken if either played the role but thankfully the chose who Murphy who carried the film very will and became a star in the making. "},{"Title":"the best cop buddy movie","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie can satisfy you in two ways (1 its got plenty of gunfights and chases to satisfy action fans, (2 Its got Eddie Murphy in his first role, and it shows him as a great comedian, makin' fun of rednecks and Nick Nolte, this will satisfy comedy fans.  Nolte was good in this movie too, playing an alchoholic chain smoking cop with a girlfreind who cant stand his job.  But it was Murphy who stole the show as the slick convict who wanted both revenge against the bad guy's and some to go on a pussy hunt.  The pairing of Nolte and Murphy was a great idea.  They worked well together as an odd couple.  This is probably the best action-comedy ever made. 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Great cop flick and one of Eddie Murphy's best","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If only Eddie Murphy could find scripts like this today...A great script and terrific performances from Nolte and Murphy elevate this far above the classic find the bad guys flick. Murphy is excellent as wise-mouthed smooth operator Reggie Hammond. Nolte is equally good as a world-weary cop who takes him out of jail to help track down a pair of escaped cons. The give and take between these two is classic guy stuff that is still fun for women to watch.The two villains, played by James Remar and Sonny Landham, are superbly cast to play viciousness incarnate. I still rate movie villains by how they stack up against these two. Both give me chills down my spine to this day.  "},{"Title":"Good Walter Hill film....he excelled at these in the 1980's.","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is the buddy cop movie with a twist...the cop's buddy is a criminal. 48 hrs. combines the wesstern in the big city with a police drama about a cop who pursues a couple of fugitives through San Francisco. This was EDDIE MURPHY's first big screen movie and was a hit...then followed by the flop BEST DEFENSE which sucked. 48 hrs. was one of the first gritty cop dramas of the 1980's and came in the wake of SHARKY's MACHINE and THE HUNTER. This is a classic to say the least. The formula used in this one is the most imitated of all time, however it works well in this movie. This film was one of a series of blockbusters for paramount in the 1980's when brandon tartikoff was the head of the studio. This was one of the first films to use a faster paced plot. By mid 1980's films were moving at break neck speed...much to the delight of audiences. "},{"Title":"Armani here we come","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rarely, if ever has anybody watched a film because of a suit.I have to admit that my friends' recommendation to see this cool, funny black guy in an Armani suit was too good to miss to an impressionable 16 year old, having just bought my first item of Armani apparel.The film, as was the suit, and the cool, funny  black guy, were not a disappointment.Murphy was an instant hit in his big screen debut, playing a wise cracking convict used by Cates(Nick Nolte) to track down a cop murdering villain.The humour scenes, set up for Murphy's talents do not disappoint as our unlikely hero shows a professional law-man how to go under cover. "},{"Title":"Whoa!  Holy Racial Slurs Batman","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Besides being a nostalgic walk through the San Francisco of my childhood, 48 Hours apprised me of something else--it was incredibly racist. I'm not talking about the subtle innuendo type racism; but the brash, in-your-face, N-word using, unabashed racism. Now, I know that it was done all in the name of comedy but I was shocked. I saw this movie so many years ago, and really, I'm sure I never saw the whole film because no way my parents would have allowed it. I think the little bit I did see was by popping in the VHS when they weren't home and I know now that I understood very little of it.This movie absolutely wouldn't fly today. The closest thing I've seen to it is Rush Hour, and even as much as Chris Tucker pushed the envelope with the subtle digs at Jackie Chan's Chinese heritage, you definitely saw that a line was drawn. In 48 Hours, no line was set--which is maybe why it was such a hit.Eddie Murphy was funny, though not nearly as funny as in other movies. Nick Nolte was all too good as the raspy voiced, surly cop. And Oh how can I forget the loud Black police captain played by Frank McRae. Did 48 Hours start that trend? 48 Hours is a classic but not nearly what I remember now looking through the lenses of an adult. "},{"Title":"An action classic, best and the only original buddy cop flick from the 80's!","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 Hrs. (1982) is an action classic the only original best buddy cop flick from the 80's. Is an action cop flick that I love to death and it was honestly the first action film I saw as a kid. I grew up watching this film and in my opinion is still my favorite action buddy flick. This is first time we see Eddie Murphy in action before he went in making Beverly Hills Cop (1984), beside Beverly Hills Cop this is one if his best movies of the 80's. It is actually my favorite Walter Hill film. Like I said I grew up watching this film, I loved 48 Hrs. so much that I hardly convinced my mom to watch this movie with me and the sequel of this film. I read on Charles Bronson's Murphy's Law (1986) flick that the storyline of that film the pairing a cop with a convict was popular in Hollywood during the 1980s after the success of this film 48 Hrs. (1982). Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy are sensational in this film, the action is great and the plot about this film is well paced it goes fast and it is entertaining. I really enjoy watching this movie and honestly I love it more, than I would love the sequel, the sequel can't even hold a candle to this film.Yeah. Well, I'm real impressed with you too, man. It takes a real-skilled cop to kick in the bedroom door of a couple of dykes!Plot A hard-nosed cop reluctantly teams up with a wise-cracking criminal temporarily paroled to him, in order to track down a killer.The film is actually about a $500,000 stashed cash and two cop killers who are running around and killing cop,s while they want to get the hands of this cash. A tough cop who is a survivor in a shoot out in the hotel from those two killers, pairs with a convict from prison to help him to get and catch those two killers. They only have 48 Hrs. before the cop has to bring the convict back. They don't make films like this anymore, I really love action films from the 80's and this one was the first one I have saw as a kid. My favorite part in the film is the stake out scene Jack (Nick Nolte) and Reggie (Eddie Murphy) head out to the parking garage, and they park across the street from the parking garage, waiting till the parking garage opens which it does around 7.00 am in the mornings and they spend the night there. Next morning Jack (Nick Nolte) brings a café drink to Reggie (Eddie Murphy) and wakes him up. The similar thing happened to me when I was 12 years old. My mom drove me and my dad with the car in the city 4.00 am in the mornings it was night than and my dad went with his bike delivering news paper, me with my mom waited on him in the car till his shift ends. During the waiting I fall a sleep, when I woke it was past 7.00 am and my mom brought me food from the store in the car. That moment I remember this scene in this film. It is a beautiful child memories of mine on my mom and 48 Hrs. (1982) is my childhood movie and it is memories on my childhood. 48 Hrs. and Beverly Hills Cop 1 & 2 are my favorite Eddie Murphy films from my childhood that I love to death.This is Nick Nolte's best action flick that I love to death and only one that is worth to watch. I love Music theme by James Horner that I love so much including the opening scene that was awesome. Honestly James Horner made the same music theme for Commando (1985) Arnold Schwarzenegger's movie. I love the shout outs, the action scenes, the dialogues and I also love the main lead roles from Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy, Jack Cates and Reggie Hammond are my favorite characters. This is the only original action film, but I think it was unnecessary making a sequel (Another 48 Hrs.) that I honestly think Nick Nolte made a lousy awful job reprising his role and Eddie Murphy was even worst by shouting and punching Nick Nolte. Before I finish my review you have a few cast that are memorable here You have James Remar from Dexter playing the main villain, David Patrick Kelly from Commando and The Warriors, Sonny Landham from Predator, Annette O'Toole from Smallville, Jonathan Banks from Beverly Hills Cop and Olivia Brown from Miami Vice. I have this film on Blu-ray I used to own the DVD but I switch it for Blu-ray.Overall Is my favorite action flick from my childhood and I love it to death. This flick get's a solid 10 by me and it deserves it.48 Hrs. is a 1982 American action comedy film directed by Walter Hill, starring Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy (in his film debut and Golden Globe Award-nominated role) as a cop and convict, respectively, who team up to catch a cop-killer. The title refers to the amount of time they have to solve the crime.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Paramount Pictures Starring Nick Nolte, Eddie Murphy, James Remar, David Patrick Kelly, Sonny Landham, Brion James, Annette O'Toole, Frank McRae, Kerry Sherman, Olivia Brown Director Walter Hill Producers Lawrence Gordon, Joel Silver, D. Constantine Conte Screenplay Roger Spottiswoode, Walter Hill, Larry Gross, Steven E. de Souza Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 36 Mins. Budget $12.000.000 Box Office $78,868,508 "}{"Title":"The original buddy cop flick. Accept no substitutes.","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walter Hill's bawdy buddy cop classic 48 Hrs is for me the original and best entry in the sub genre. Countless films since have attempted to re create the aesthetic which was so purely and profanely distilled here. I think one of the reasons it worked so well is because one of the duo isn't even a cop at all, but a fast talking ex con played by Eddie Murphy with exquisite comic timing and bullet-time verbosity in what was one of his first roles. He's paired with a gruff, grunting Nick Nolte as Jack Cates, a spectacularly bad tempered Detective who is forced to bring along Murphy's gabber mouthed Reggie Hammond on a mad goose chase of a hunt for two staggeringly homicidal criminals. The entirety of the film is peppered with nostalgically anti-PC banter between the two, delightfully distasteful stuff that would never make it into a studio movie in this, the day and age of the offended millennial whiner. These two guys genuinely dislike each other for the majority of the film, and get so caught up in their petty feuds and arguing that they actually get distracted from their case, taking interludes to literally beat each other up in an alley. Nolte is perfect as the irresponsible hotshot with anger issues up the wazoo and a penchant for reckless behaviour. Murphy doesn't let up with the mile-a-minute yakking for one second of screen time, making damn sure his performance makes an impression. And it did, putting him on the map in a big way, and forging a career playing these types of dudes. James Remar has never been scarier, crafting a villain so psychopathic and dangerous he'd rather shoot cops and terrorize civilians that enjoy a hooker he picks up. The look of pure malice on his face as he coldly puts a bullet in a poor officer is chilling. He's Albert Ganz, heinous prison escapee on the run with equally nasty compadre Billy Bear (The legendary Sonny Landham). The two prove to be a raging juggernaut of violence for Jack and Reggie to contend with, providing some crackling action set pieces including a chase scene set on a speeding San Francisco cable car that will give your TV a good workout. There's supporting work from solid players including some Hill favourites. David Patrick Kelly plays an unsavoury associate of Ganz's, Annette O Toole is Jack's poor neglected love interest, and there's work from Chris Mulkey, Jonathan Banks, Frank McCrae and the late Brion James as well. When it comes to buddy cop flicks, this is the original and accept no substitutes. The two leads have never been funnier or more committed to such a heightened pair of performances. Hill drives the direction with snappy, ruthless precision where the laughs hit with the same stinging impact as the full throttle violence and wanton obscenities hurled across the screen. It holds up just as well today as it did back in the 80's, and is always ripe for a revisit. "},{"Title":"It hasn't aged well.","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Good music score, if a bit odd, steel drums and alto sax create a very unusual mood in this gritty look at early 1980s San Francisco. Plot is threadbare cop forced to temporarily spring a convict from prison, to help catch his escaped ex-partner in crime. Both characters are tolerable at best, racist and homophobic at worst, so it was difficult for me to care what happened to them. Also, the plot (with a screenplay begun by Roger Spottiswood, then fleshed out by Steven DeSouza, then adapted further during filming by Walter Hill & Larry Gross) almost completely falls apart if one thinks about it afterward. Some abrupt tone changes several times in the final scenes may be a result of the rewrites, and they don't help.I could now only recommend this for Eddie Murphy fans and/ or Nick Nolte fans (who have probably already seen it), or someone with an interest in San Francisco. "},{"Title":"A Lively Duo","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A murderous convict, Albert Ganz (James Remar), with the help of accomplice Indian Billy Bear (Sonny Landham), bursts out of chain gang after killing two guards. The convicts go to San Francisco and grab an old acquaintance, slimy Luther (David Patrick Kelly) and his girl. They want the money that he is supposedly holding, and as insurance hold the sleaze-ball's girlfriend hostage until the cash is delivered. The convicts hole up in a shady hotel and order prostitutes. Meanwhile our hero &#x96; cranky, gruff, and tough detective &#x96; Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) and two plainclothesmen surge into the hotel room. Nonetheless the situation goes badly for the lawmen as the two cops are killed and the hoodlums escape. At the police station, Cates is given grief by his immediate superior Haden (Frank McRae) who rants and raves (and overreacts in all of his scenes). One of the prostitutes, lovely Lisa (Greta Blackburn) &#x96; who earlier had exposed her beautiful breasts &#x96; says to a policewoman, I think he's going to give you guys a hard time. When asked why, she quips, I just think he likes shooting cops a lot more than getting laid.Determined to track down the two thugs, Cates is forced to turn to convicted thief and hustler Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) for help. Rather easily, he gets Hammond a two-day parole from jail (in his custody) to assist him. Hammond is also after Ganz. Seems these two stole money from a drug dealer several years earlier, and Ganz is determined to grab the whole stash. So the rest of the movie focuses on two mismatched guys &#x96; Cates and Hammond &#x96; who hate each other. Cates likes to utter racial epithets; Hammond hates cops. Hammond puts it plainly, We ain't brothers, we ain't partners, and we ain't friends. Over two days though, the two men gradually develop a mutual respect for each other as they traverse various places around town in a convertible Cadillac looking for information that leads to the two fugitives. Near the end there is a thrilling chase and shootout involving a public bus and convertible. The main gripe along the way is this scenario The fight between the two protagonists in the alley is long and Murphy comes out of it looking a little too good. His suit is hardly ruffled. The much larger Nolte looks worse. Nevertheless, Nolte and Murphy are sensational as a team, as there is great chemistry between them. By the way, this movie is Murphy's debut. On the other side, Remar and Landham play sufficiently psychotic and violent goons. The movie's non-stop sharp dialog and the music of the Busboys are pluses. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A poignant, gripping story that glues you to your seat from the start to the end. The movie itself is nothing that special, but it has some good stuff. The leads' combined talents and charisma have a lot to do with this movie's success. I found the acting to be sensational, the dialogue incredible and the director's abilities to be up to par and then some. It reminds me of some of those sombre Canadian films that were popular back in the 1980s. Actually, I don't know what to think of this little film made far from Hollywood. An awesome, good surprise for me this little movie was, so that I highly recommend it. Rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If There Ever Were","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A near perfect meld of comedy, action and drama, 48 Hrs. tops my list. The interplay between Nolte and Murphy is fantastic. James Remar is excellent...many others, too! Name any that exist in multiple genres so well... please...that way I'll know which movies to add to my watch list. What are the best lines...there are so many Reggie I gotta tell you he's having a ball with this car door, Luther...You'd better think of somethin' to tell him. Reggie But remember this, cowboy, there's a new sheriff in town, and his name is Reggie Hammond. Y'all be oool. Reggie Jack, tell me a story. Jack #@%! You! Reggie OOoohh, that's one of my favorites! "},{"Title":"Still holds up, thanks to the chemistry between the two actors, and the intro of Eddie Murphy","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Turns out Walter Hill pioneered the buddy movie craze when he paired Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy back in 1982. Nolte is well cast as the worn-out cop who's forced to give Eddie Murphy's slick convict a weekend pass in order to track down two cop-killers (James Remar and Sonny Landham). But cop and con couldn't get along worse, making the allotted 48 hours a grueling test for both of them. On its own, this is a pretty god cop movie. But it's the great chemistry between Nolte and Murphy that fuels 48 Hrs. The animosity between the two feels completely genuine, even though it's played for comedic effect. This is a gleefully non-politically correct movie, and the bristling undercurrent of ill-will charges the dialog between the two (even a few racial slurs, here and there). The tension ends up exploding in a fairly brutal fistfight between the two. Both men sell it, right down the line. But it's Murphy (making his auspicious film debut) that makes this film memorable. From the first time we see him (singing Roxanne off-key in his cell) to the infamous scene in which Murphy takes on a redneck bar (There's a new sheriff in town), he easily walks away with this thing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Simply Superb!","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walter Hill's '48 Hrs' is undoubtedly, one of the most entertaining films from the year 1982. Sharply Written, Supremely Acted & Nicely Directed, this action comedy, is worth your time! '48 Hrs' tells the story of a cop and a convict, who, team up to catch a cop-killer. The title refers to the amount of time they have to solve the crime.This 'Buddy-Buddy' flick is full of entertaining moments, as the writing is spot-on. In a running time of 96 minutes, this flick manages to hold your attention. Walter Hill has directed the film nicely. Cinematography & Editing are perfect. Music by James Horner, is good.Performance-Wise Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy are lovable in their respective parts. Murphy gets his timing right, while Nolte not only suits the part to the fullest, but also comes out highly energetic. Their Chemistry is something to watch! On the whole, A Simply Superb Film! Check it out. "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation Multiplex style","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You know what I am? I'm you're worst f**king nightmare, man. I'm a n****r with a badge. That means I have permission to kick your ass whenever I feel like it! &#x96; Eddie Murphy (48 Hours).Walter Hill's 48 Hours is primarily interesting for two reasons. Firstly, the film is explicitly about race. Released the same year as Michael Jackson's record breaking Thriller album, the film marks the point at which black artists began to be embraced by the conservative white mainstream. The days of black actors like Sidney Poitier or Bill Cosby strutting about like well spoken white men in black-face, or blaxploitation heroes like Shaft, Super Fly and Foxy Brown asserting their rage on underground cinema screens, was now long gone. Here we had Eddie Murphy as Reggie Hamond, less a fast talking convict than an angry authority throwing America's racism back in their face...and enjoying every minute of it.In one iconic scene, Murphy enters a bar of rednecks and cowboys and lays down the law. Having endured the jabs of a bigoted and racist partner for the first 30 minutes of the film (Nick Nolte), Murphy relishes the chance to line up, fight and verbally abuse a horde of racist white guys. It's like hundreds of years of racial oppression coming back and biting the white man in the ass.And so it is here that Murphy developed the on screen personality of a clever, fast-talking and self-confident urban black man. The very same personality he would spend the first half of his career milking (Beverly Hills Cop, Trading Places etc). Ironically, later in his career Murphy would express his distaste for being pigeonholed in such a fashion. Rather than a victory for African Americans, the fast talking urban Blackman has become just another Hollywood stereotype. Think Chris Tucker's sideshow performance in Rush Hour or Martin Lawrence in the Bad Boys movies (forever proving the whiteness of Will Smith), Hollywood rarely treating black characters with any sort of nuance, depth or reality.The other interesting thing about 48 Hours is the way it virtually invented the buddy cop action comedy genre. Three decades worth of buddy movies owe their templates to this flick. That template being this the main hero is a rogue, irreverent and macho cop who never goes by the book but whose success in taking out bad guys saves him from the wrath of his superiors, mostly embodied by a perpetually angry, loudmouth police captain. After a foot chase, car chase or gunfight at the start of the film, our hero sees his partner/colleague/friend/dog killed by the main bad guy, resulting in his job becoming personal. His one-man-show investigation is then strengthened by the presence of another cop/friend/helper, who must win his trust in a series of embarrassing/comical buddy buddy incidents. Their mutual quest almost always comes to a dead end, before they get their act together and manage to take out the bad guys in a final showdown. Throw in marital/woman problems, convertibles, car chases and you have a formula which has been overused to the point of annoyance.7/10 &#x96; Aside from a couple scenes in which we're riveted by Eddie Murphy's motor mouth, this film hasn't aged well, countless rip-offs lessening any impact it may have once had. On the plus side, director Walter Hill shoots violence with a brutality which most films lack. He would release a terrible sequel, Another 48 Hours, several years later.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A huge hit that inspired a lot of imitators","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy have 48 Hours to catch two bad guys in this 1982 film, directed and co-written by Walter Hill. Nolte is a renegade cop, Jack Cates, with a quick temper and a big mouth. He manages the release of a criminal, Reggie Hammond (Murphy) for 48 hours so that Hammond can help him arrest two loose canon escapees from a work gang, Albert Ganz and Billy Bear (James Remar and Sonny Landham). The two have left a trail of dead bodies on a quest for robbery money. Reggie promises that he knows his former associates well enough to track them down.48 Hours provides plenty of action in the form of gunfire and car chases as these two get to know one another and appreciate what the other brings to the table. There's plenty of comedy, too, including Nolte's introduction to Murphy in his prison cell.There have been many of these buddy movies since 48 Hours, which was a huge hit. While I admit to liking the Lethal Weapon series better, Nolte and Murphy are great together, both delivering strong, edgy performances.Though it's a formula film, the two actors and the good direction lift 48 Hours out of the formula to provide great characterizations and a high level of entertainment. "},{"Title":"We ain't partners, we ain't brothers, we ain't friends","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can understand why '48 Hours' worked during its time. However today, after 1000s of buddy movies, '48 Hours' feels dated. The story has been tried and tested numerous times thereafter. It doesn't have much to offer today and the execution isn't anything outstanding either but this is among the 'pioneer' buddy films. However the dialogues are proof of some fine writing. The highlight of '48 Hours' is obviously Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy who are terrific together. It is their scenes, whether action or comedy, that you leave with. Murphy already shows signs of a gifted comedian but he also seems to draw a comedic side from a more experienced actor like Nick Nolte (who is also excellent as the tough cop). Thanks to them '48 Hours' features a hilarious sequence at a rednecks bar and this is one of the funniest moments on film. Even though '48 Hours' may look outdated, it is worth the watch alone for Murphy and Nolte. I still give it a thumbs up over wannabes like 'Rush Hour'. "}{"Title":"A super buddy movie","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've been in prison for three years. My dick gets hard if the wind blows. That's Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy). Getting out of prison, even for a weekend, he has only one thing on his mind. It's a running joke throughout the entire movie and one of the things that makes it hilarious.Now, don't get me wrong. Jack (Nick Nolte) and Reggie weren't buddies at the beginning. It took a lot of foreplay before they came together, but it finally happens and it's a beautiful thing.This is Murphy at his funniest. James Horner's music is great, and Walter Hill kept this film moving along without a hitch. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"One of the better action flicks of the 80's","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Despite how predictable and unrealistic 48 Hrs. was, I ended up loving it! I wanted to get the famous movies of Eddie Murphy into my movie comment collection. But also on my own, I wanted to see Beverly Hills Cop and 48 Hrs., because Eddie Murphy always makes me laugh in one way or another. He's done it again with his classic cop movie, 48 Hrs., and there is no doubt that he stole the show.48 Hrs. is about two killers on the loose who are after some payback money, Nick Nolte wants to catch them to get a boost at work. So, he gets Eddie Murphy, a convict from prison, to help him catch these guys. But while Nick is a gun happy cop, Eddie is a street smart sass, you get where I'm going if you've seen these buddy cop movies. You know the saying, you see one of those films, you've seen them all.Thank God there isn't a sequel, I'm just saying that sometimes these movies get out of hand. But I loved 48 Hrs., it was hilarious and Nick and Eddie had great chemistry that will remain eternally classic. I loved Eddie's signature laugh in the film. He's just great and my opinion, can do no wrong.8/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte are timeless.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte are timeless, in this '80s Comedy-Action movie. The dialogue, Murphy and Nolte, are so good, that I can overlook the somewhat threadbare plot. The dialogue is, to me, the best dialogue ever written in any buddy-cop movie ever made. The scene in the Country Western bar, is one of the most memorable scenes in cinematic history. Overall, although a somewhat threadbare plot, Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte are pure magic. *** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Action and comedy at their best","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  48 HRS. is a good combo of action comedy. Ed handles all the funny stuff very and Nick plays a good cop. The action sequences by the stylish Walter Hill were some of the best in 1982. The film is full of action and comedy and is a real crowd pleaser. "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films, and writing about it now makes me want to go home and watch it again. I'll keep this short and sweet, but there are many reasons to like this film. The score is evocative and slinky, with the nice slidy bassline and carribean steel drums. The acting from Murphy and Nolte is fantastic, with both playing their parts effectively and believably. The sequence with Ganz in the hotel is nightmarish, a tour-de-force of movement vs. stillness and the power of editing. The scene in the redneck bar is just amazing. Watch it and see why Walter Hill was the natural successor to Sam Peckinpah.  "},{"Title":"One of the better buddy-buddy cop actioners","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, they may not be Steiger and Poitier, but as a mismatched, mixed race, mutual loathing duo forced to work together, Nolte and Murphy put in good performances. In fact, out of all the buddy-buddy movies I have ever seen, both dated before (Freebie and the Bean) and after (Lethal Weapon) this one, 48 Hours has to be one of the best. Nolte is his usual grizzly, growling self and Murphy (in his feature film debut) is great, although not yet achieving his comic peak as he did in Trading Places and Beverly Hills Cop. The chemistry between these two leads is also excellent. Hill, as always, maintains a deft mix of action and comedy throughout the film (with slightly more emphasis on the action), and never sacrifices one in favour of the other. All in all, a great film, shame about the sequel.  "},{"Title":"i like this movie","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i admit it, this movie's good. Eddie Murphy is a convict who wants money and some girls and has good parts like when he hits a country bar and when he's dancing in another bar. Nick Nolte is a cop who has Murphy for 48 Hours. The two don't like either at first, but after the country bar, they're at their finest. 3 1/2 Stars!  "},{"Title":"The first of many 'buddy cop-movies'","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At first sight, 48 hrs. may seem like your typical action movie in which two conflicting characters HAVE to work together in order to catch the bad guys ... and guess what?  That's exactly what it is.  The only difference here is that this film was the very first of its kind.  Its unique style has been copied over and over again, but no film nor series has ever done a better job.  Series such as Miami Vice and films such as Rising sun, Rush hour, Beverly Hills cop or Lethal weapon all contain the same obvious elements that this film came up with back in 1982.The most satisfying thing about 48 hrs. is without a doubt the chemistry between Nick Nolte and Eddy Murphy.  Nick Nolte is flawless as the rusty, tough-guy who's constantly smoking cigarettes in order to forget that he has a drinking problem.  Eddy Murphy, on the other hand, is a hyper, non-stop babbling, know-it-all convict and as expected from someone like Eddy Murphy before we even get a first glimpse of him, we already hear his voice loud and clear from a great distance.  Eventually, it would be this very character that he would get to play several times over and over again.  In Trading places, Beverly Hills cop, Metro and even as Buddy Love in The nutty professor or as the voice of Donkey in Shrek; all these characters share the same obvious characteristics.  Come to think of it Eddy Murphy is one of the very first Afro-American comedians; that is ... after Richard Pryor of course.Although the acting performances of both Nick Nolte and Eddy Murphy are top-notch, not everything about 48 hrs. is that good.  It's a pity that the film only has two interesting characters overshadowing the rest of the cast.  And that goes for the acting as well.  The storyline is pretty lame, but it's backed up by the great action scenes.  And the dialogues CAN be funny if you don't mind the bad language that lasts throughout the entire picture.All in all, this is an important action movie that has become a classic in its own right. "},{"Title":"The Black Man in 80's Hollywood","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At the age of 21, Eddie Murphy exploded onto our screens in this Hollywood feature film titled '48 Hours' with Nick Nolte. Having been bombarded with Blaxploitation films in the 70's where black American characters were pimps, drug addicts, gangsters and jailbirds, we were accustomed to Eddie Murphy being introduced to us as another jailbird. However, when he is released from prison for '48 Hours' to assist Nick Nolte in finding an antagonist, we begin the serious actor Eddie Murphy take the profile of the black man in Hollywood to another level. He is engaging, exciting, and as brave as the John Wayne of the John Ford American West. Every black member of the audience could identify with Murphy in his portrayal of this 21 year old character, and even though he looks older than his real age, he does display maturity and potential to push back the boundaries of the black man in 80's Hollywood. "},{"Title":"ROXXXXANNNNNNNEEEEE!!!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy makes a startling, fun film debut in this greataction flick with a comedic twist. Along with the gruff-butalways charming Nick Nolte, the two stars play crook and copnamed Jack and Reggie, who are forced to team up in order tosnare two dirtbag killers (big Sonny Landham and the sleazyJames Remar). While the road to friendship was hard and bitterat first, (these two can fight and bicker like a marriedcouple!!), Jack and Reggie finally buddy up and nail the baddudes. Filled with nasty, hilarious dialogue (esp. by thespeeches Reggie gave at the redneck bar!), and breakneckperformances, 48 Hrs. is a hands-down winner. Add this movieto your list of the best cop-thril "}{"Title":"Classic Cult Favorite","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I would consider this timeless classic a masterpiece, since other films would be modeled.  Eddie Murphy's debut performance set the pinnacle for young African American comedians, long before Def Comedy Jam, as well as other comedians like Martin Lawrence and Chris Tucker. Nick Nolte stars as a cop with a drinking problem, while driving a beat-up 1964 Cadillac ragtop.  He might have used a few harsh racist overtones towards Eddie Murphy in some parts of the film, and typical scenes (e.g. the fight scene in the alley, and being handcuffed to a steering wheel) became memorable scenes that would follow in modern-day hits like Money Talks and Rush Hour. Even the Ice-T/Suzy Amis flick Judgment Day followed a similar chemistry, but the later films that featured small referential scenes (e.g. handcuffed to a steering wheel, a bar brawl, or a macho showdown scene) are attributed to this timeless classic.  The Chris Tucker - Charlie Sheen flick Money Talks might be a slight remake of 48 HRS, but I would consider this film a cult favorite.   "},{"Title":"We ain't partners, we ain't brothers, and we ain't friends!!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before Lethal Weapon, before Rush Hour and before Rising Sun, here is the mother of all buddy-cop flicks 48 HRS!. This is the one that started it all. No great pyrotechniques, no Shakespeariean performances; just prime action and hard-as-nails portrayals, and SURPRISE! It's very funny, too. You got Nick Nolte as the tough, boozy, humorless cop bent on taking down the escaped cons (James Remar and Sonny Landham) who shot his buddies, and he's forced to seek the help of a slick jailbird, played by the always funny Eddie Murphy. Of course, these two don't get along real well at first, but soon they have to depend on each other for survival and they become friends.48 HRS is a great cop flick with the usual police-drama elements relentless shootouts, a bossy, loudmouth captain (Frank McRae), and the cop's stubborn girlfriend (Annette O'toole). This film is perfect to watch if you want a good laugh and an adrenaline rush at the same time. Watch for Murphy's bit in the redneck bar. It's one of Cinema's most hilarious roasts!  "},{"Title":"What's happenin luther?  sorry about the door thing!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the best action/comedy movies out there but I wanna comment on the characters.  In my humble opinion, the best one in the movie is neither Reggie nor Cates but the poor frizzy-haired unlucky little sap Luther.  Right from the beginning, his wife gets held hostage by the bad guys Ganz and (I always laugh when I think about this name) Billy Bear the indian.  Then, he's forced to all these errands for them or else and finally just when you think he's all done following Ganz's demands and is about to get his wife back, he gets bullets pumped into him on their getaway bus.  I was actually sad to see Luther get wasted because he made me laugh more then anybody else and the scene where Reggie opens the car door, knocking him arse-over-tincups to the pavement and then saying What's happenin Luther?! Sorry bout the door thing, did that hurt when I did that? is (pardon the pun) side-splittingly funny.  Rent 48 Hours....and don't let your kids grow up to be like Luther. "},{"Title":"I love this movie.  Nolte defines the world weary cop.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If Eddie Murphy had made 48 Hours in the mid eighties it would have been reviewed as a good, solid repeat performance of the Axel Foley character except Foley would be on the other side of the law and is slightly less humourous.  However this movie was possibly the first Buddy movie and even that distinction can only really be drawn in retrospect.  Murphy is Reggie Hammond a two-bit hustler who has stolen $500,000 but is now serving time. His accomplice Ganz has escaped from the Chain gang and Nolte is searching for him.  Ultimately the film stands or falls on success of Nolte's quite incredibly sustained brevity and gruffness and Murphy's wise-cracking and bright persona.  In this respect it succeeds dramatically and the two visibly yield to each other without ever being sentimental and there is always a drug dealer to catch to interrupt any gentle moments. "},{"Title":"Start of a Genre?","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Story of a run down rogue cop named Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) who is out to apprehend a pair of cop killers who also stole his gun. Along the way he enlists the aid of a convict Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) who just happens to be one of the pairs ex-partners, after arranging his temporary 48 hour release.Director Walter Hill whose obvious specialty is action films spins a fairly simple but still compelling story. There is a lot of action in the film and the language is very raw.The success of the film is often pinned on the effective pairing of Nolte and Murphy who both give strong performances as mismatched partners of necessity. This film is often cited as the beginning of the 1980's buddy cop genre which would spawn so many other films.In one of the most archetypal roles of this genre we have Bernie Casey playing the archetypal angry Police Captain, and he's quite good.Composer James Horner contributes a very effective and driving score for an action picture that grabs you from the opening scene You can easily forget how hot a prospect Eddie Murphy was early in his film career before either bad choices or other factors led to his extended career slump. Although he would recover from that slump his choices still seem erratic.On the downside though this film was made 25 years ago it seems today to be at best very male oriented and probably at least somewhat misogynistic. This may be a result of the time in which it was made and certainly reflects much of Director Hill's filmography. But as a result some may find this aspect difficult to ignore. Also reflective of Hill's repertoire is the fairly brutal violence, although this is far from the worst case for either its brutality or its presentation.48 Hours would be followed 8 years later by the oh so imaginatively title sequel Another 48 Hours. This film would re-team both Nolte and Murphy with Director Hill but would be neither as effective nor as successful. "},{"Title":"One of Eddie Murphy's best.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" MPAA RatingRated R for Strong Language,Violence and Some Nudity. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video RatingR(should be 18A)48 Hrs is a really good Eddie Murphy debut film.He was on Saturday Night Live before but it was 48 Hrs that got him big in the film industry.Nick Nolte fits his character really well and so does Eddie Murphy.The performances are pretty good.The plot is like a normal cop/buddy movie.Its about a cop who has to team up with a con-artist and catch a criminal in 48 Hrs while getting into misadventures and meeting people etc.There is not much to say about 48 Hrs.Its you're average cop/buddy movie.I found this film to be way better than the 1990 sequel another 48 hrs.Another 48 Hrs was more dramatic.This film was just you're average 80's cop/buddy action/comedy.Fans of Eddie Murphy will really enjoy this film.Runtime96min 9/10 "},{"Title":"* * * * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nick Nolte hunts a drug dealer to no avail until he hooks up with Eddie Murphy a prisoner who has 6 monthes left on his sentence, Nolte springs him for two days to hunt the drug dealers and tons of action ensues in this action classic which may seem like outdated but still packs a punch. Nolte and Murphy share excellent chemistry. "},{"Title":"48 HRS","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wisecracking convict (Murphy) on a two day furlough helps nab San Francisco cop killers when he teams up with a sullen detective (Nolte). Good vehicle for Murphy's comedic talents, plus well timed and paced action. Followed by a sequel in 1990.   "},{"Title":"The very definition of a mis-matched duo.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before 48 Hrs Eddie Murphy was that guy what were funny on the TV sometimes, with only a couple years on Saturday Night Live under his belt. Nick Nolte was actually the headliner for 48 Hrs with well over a decade of TV and films under his belt. Both are still acting, though Nolte has readily embraced his role playing status while Murphy has sullied his legend by steadfastly refusing to fade away, leading to a series of increasingly regrettable films with diminishing quality and box-office.I've said before there is a generation of kids who think Murphy is the voice of a donkey, who has parlayed Shrek into branching out into crap like Norbit, Meet Dave and Kid's stuff.The strength of 48 Hrs &#x96; make that both films &#x96; is that this is truly a mismatched duo. Nolte plays Jack Cates as a gruff, clumsy, violent man always with a smoke in one hand and a drink never far from the other.Cates is also not afraid to use physical and verbal bullying to get his way. He skirts the rules, ignores the reports and apparently is hellbent to get his man.Murphy on the other hand is Reggie Hammond, his mouth gets him into and out of trouble, he is slick, quick witted and resourceful and never short of an opinion.Cates is a cop on the hunt for a pair of convicts named Albert Ganz and a towering Native American named Billy Bear. The duo created a pile of bodies during their escape and are high priority targets. Cates logically thinks that it might help to quiz one of their still imprisoned ex-partners to plot where they might lie low&#x85; Reggie Hammond is that ex-partner, and he reluctantly agrees only on the proviso that he might be released temporarily so he can use his street contacts and nous to locate Ganz and Billy. It turns out that Reggie also has reason for wanting the pair back in jail.There is genuine animosity between Cates and Hammond, as mentioned above Cates will do anything to keep Hammond in line, continually referring to him as 'convict' and worse&#x85; in the 2000s this is rightfully abhorred but I guess even as recently as the early 1980s casual racism was still quite commonplace.Still with the friction well established the two move about San Fransisco trying to track down the violent escapees, with Reggie's rants and complaints getting constantly getting on Jack's nerves, often leading to predictable bouts of casual violence. (Somehow racism has become taboo but smacking guys around will always be funny.) There are more highlights than will usually be found in a 1980s movie &#x96; they mostly go 'Big intro&#x85; nothing much for 40 minutes&#x85; chase scene&#x85; nothing for 20 minutes&#x85; finale&#x85; credits' &#x96; but the crowing glory might well be when Reggie rousts a redneck titty bar in a search for information and&#x85; um&#x85; temporary female companionship.The finale is essentially a 40 minute chase scene through the backstreets of San Fransisco towards a predictable yet satisfying conclusion.The soundtrack is solid and the kettle drum theme quite memorable decades later, and Walter Hill movies always have some of the more satisfying loud and crisp gunshot sound effects, and the recipients of said bullets always seem to manage to defy gravity to fly dozens of feet backwards some feet from the ground, often through windows.48 Hrs is efficiency and entertainment through simplicity, the action is noticeable for its realism and lack of unnecessary flair, the numerous jokes come in the flow of the film and not at the expense of the story, and the very fact that Hammond and Cates are so different as individuals provides for consistent tension, often providing more violence and trash talking.Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. 48 Hrs might not spring to mind when thinking about the 'classics of the 80s', but it is worth noting that this was one of the pioneering mis-matched buddy action flicks, and it is worth a look even 3 decades on &#x96; especially when compared with the stuff Murphy has released in the last decade. "},{"Title":"Murphy at his best","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy stars as a recently released convict who is sprung by Nolte for 48 hours to find a drug lord..Murphy's first movie is arguably the best..he is smart, on his toes with an attitude..on a scale of one to ten...8 "}{"Title":"An unlikely duo that packs a punch for the bad guy; and each other.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Laugh out loud funny. A rough around the edges cop(Nick Nolte)arranges a temporary parole for a cocky convict(Eddie Murphy)in order to help in tracking down a couple of killers. Whiskey throated Nolte is perfect as the laid back, hard hitting cop. Murphy's big screen debut is a delight. The Nolte/Murphy team is like a match along side a twenty gallon drum of gasoline. Crude and absolutely believable. No big special effects needed to keep you satisfied. Rib cracking funny. Also featured areAnnette O'Toole, Frank McRae and James Remar. "},{"Title":"Big Hit In Its Day.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nick Nolte plays cop Jack Cates, who is the sole survivor of a massacre of policeman, committed by a crazed killer who is desperately trying to find a hidden stash of money. Eddie Murphy plays Reggie Hammond, a wise-cracking convict who is familiar with the killer, so is released to Jack's custody for 48 Hrs. to help track him down, which will look good for him when his parole hearing comes up. Of course, they hate each other, yet make a surprisingly good team...Not many surprises here, since it all unfolds exactly as you'd expect, though that wouldn't matter so much if you cared about the characters, which is difficult to do. Though this was a huge hit in its day, the famous new sheriff in town scene is utterly unbelievable, and film substitutes crude humor and language for interesting characters and believable dialogue and story. "},{"Title":"48 Hours","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had heard of this film a couple of times in the past, and when the opportunity came to watch it, I knew I couldn't miss it. Basically convicted robber Albert Ganz (James Remar) has escaped from a road gang with his partner Billy Bear (Sonny Landham), and immediately kill their partner, then check into the Walden Hotel in San Francisco under false names. Alcoholic and racist cop Detective Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) and his fellow cops Vanzant (James Keane) and Algren (Jonathan Banks) are obviously looking for him, and check out on a guy at the hotel named G.P. Polson, who turns out to be Ganz. They manage to get away though, and kill Jack's partners, now Jack wants revenge, so he convinces his boss, Captain Haden (Licence to Kill's Frank McRae), to let him work alone on this case. Jack goes to a prison where Ganz and Billy's former partner Reggie Hammond (a fantastic debut from Golden Globe nominated Eddie Murphy), and he springs him out for 48 hours so he can help him find the villains. It is not going to be easy, not just because of Ganz and Billy, but Jack and Reggie are not getting along with each other, the tension at one point starting beating each other up. Reggie remembers $500,000 stashed away in the trunk of his car, which has been parked ever since he was convicted (something like three years). Ganz and Billy are obviously after the money, and they have kidnapped Rosalie (Kerry Sherman), girlfriend of former partner Luther (David Patrick Kelly) so he can get the cash filled car. Jack and Reggie are now near to catching Ganz and Billy, but they need to hurry before Reggie has to go back to prison. Also starring Annette O'Toole as Elaine and Brion James as Ben Kehoe. Nolte is pretty rough with a pretty gravelly voice, Murphy is brilliant with his small impressions, swearing and even some serious moments, and some good chases and fights in between, a pretty good comedy thriller. Very good! "},{"Title":"one of the best cop movies ever","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this is truly a great movie. plus i love cop movies and this is truly an original.Murphy is one of my favorite comedians and the cool thing is that this is his first movie ever and it's great.i say go out and buy this movie because you will be entertained. "},{"Title":"48 Hrs Dating Badly","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember watching this movie as a child & loving the cursing & action but after watching it again 25 years later, It isn't anything more than a Bad Cop Show. Eddie Murphy is the only thing that kept me interested. Nick Nolte just grumbles throughout the movie, that is the character he is portraying but watching it now is cringe worthy. The Villain has nothing going for him in this movie, He isn't Scary or in anyway Menacing.Check Johnathan Banks aka Mike Ehrmantraut from Breaking Bad landing a Small Role at the Start & I also think I seen Terry Crews in The Busboy Band. Overall It's an O.k Watch for Nostalgia but that's it.I will Check out Another 48 Hrs just to see was there any improvement. "},{"Title":"Wild Ride","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walter Hill's 48 HRS is highly regarded as one of the best cop-buddy movies ever to grace the screen. Why? Well for starters you have a director who knows exactly how to turn his own tense yet hilarious screenplay (co-written with Roger Spottiswoode, Larry Gross and Steven E. De Souza) into a wild ride full of riotous comedy and abundant action, gunplay and violence.Art Director John Vallone has fashioned some foreboding sets in which several nervy scenes unfold, while D.P. Ric Waite captures all the goings on with style, giving 48 HRS a realistic edge. Then there's the editing team of Freeman Davies, Mark Warner and Billy Weber who maintain the pic's fast tempo without a problem.Of course the obvious reason for this movie's success is the matching up of newcomer Eddie Murphy with rough, tough Nick Nolte. The pair exchange no beg pardons as they attempt to join forces (cop and con) in order to apprehend two desperate crims who have shot prison guards and police officers in trying to avoid capture. A sublime teaming indeed! Watching Nolte and Murphy engage in verbal and physical tete-a-tetes is a real pleasure and provides both much of 48 HRS entertainment and almost all of its comedy.Nick Nolte is always at his best in the 'tough guy who just might be a person underneath role', while Eddie Murphy's film debut is a delight, his trademark performance still being one of his very best. Nobody does man with an attitude like Eddie.James Horner provides the score.Sunday, June 11, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Nostalgia Ain't What it Used to Be","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" We had simple tastes back in the 80's didn't we? This movie was a huge hit, which even spawned a sequel, but it looks lame now. There's not a genuine laugh-out-loud moment in the whole film, the combination of odd-couple and buddy genres may have been fresh back then but it's a cliché now. Nick Nolte's Slob Cop dates back to Columbo and Eddie Murphy's shtick is the same as every other movie he's been in. Nolte's boss is the standard irritable hard-nose police captain from central casting and his girlfriend is the standard annoyed, mistreated, but ultimately devoted cop girlfriend we've seen a hundred times.The duo's pursuit of the bad guys is about as dull as a butterfly hunting expedition. Their chemistry is as fizzing as tepid water mixed with ... well, some more tepid water. Of course by the end of the movie they love and respect each other, to the degree that Nolte's character decides to let Murphy's character keep his million dollars of stolen money (he'll keep it safe for him till he gets out of jail). Er, wouldn't that be criminal corruption? If I were the rightful owner of that money, I would've said so.If you're an uncritical fan of either of these actors you've already seen this movie anyway and you shouldn't revisit it - you'll be disappointed. If you haven't seen it, don't bother - it hasn't aged well. "},{"Title":"OK but doesn't hold up as well as I had expected - Lethal Weapon is better","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Two mismatched cops team up to bring down a bad guy. One's black, the other's white, and their cultural differences create comically awkward situations during their quest. Heard this one before? Of course you have. It's been done in just about any cop-buddy or buddy-buddy film ever made, ranging from Running Scared to Lethal Weapon and certain aspects even appear in Bringing Down the House.48 HRS. was one of the first, the big-screen debut of Saturday Night Live comic artist Eddie Murphy. This was a film made before Murphy started appearing in embarrassingly unfunny kiddie movies, before Nick Nolte went into rehab, and before the routine was becoming recylced. Heck, it was just getting started.In my own opinion Murphy is one of the funniest men to ever grace the screen -- when he's trying, but lately he just hasn't been. Daddy Day Care and The Haunted Mansion are both prime examples of a once-funny man becoming quite the opposite. The sad thing is, he's making a sequel to the former of the two films, and most lilkely we'll be seeing a Haunted Mansion 2 sometime in the future as well.During the '80s Murphy was world-famous for his wild and raw antics on-screen and during stand-up routines -- he had a foul mouth, and his constant crude behavior was something Americans had never really seen before, at least not quite so publicly. In 48 HRS. we witness a very young Murphy, constantly swearing, causing trouble for his co-partner. He's a convict released from jail for 48 hours to track down a criminal, but the plot does matter as much as the situations that result because of it.Detective Jack Cates (Nolte) is a cop on the trail of a murderer who killed some of his fellow partners in San Francisco. Unable to come up with any answers, Cates gambles everything on the ability of jailed gang member Reggie Hammond (Murphy) to help him track down the killer. As soon as Cates sees Hammond, he knows he's in for trouble.Reggie reluctantly agrees to cooperate and points out the killer, Ganz (James Remar), a former gang member. In addition to being the source of information, Reggie wants to join Cates' hunt for Ganz. Cates managers for a 48-hour parole pass for Reggie.Ah, the fun begins. The film has not stood the test of time as greatly as you might predict, although it has its fair share of humorous moments. Unfortunately the heavy '80s style of the movie becomes grating after a while -- I enjoy '80s films very much but 48 HRS. is often too specifically targeted at '80s pop culture for it to contain the same relevance today. It doesn't hold up as well as the far superior Lethal Weapon.However, for any fan of '80s flicks, Murphy (who upstages Nolte), or the genre itself, will find a fair amount of interest in this amiable cop-buddy picture. "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember seeing this when it first came out, and I thought it was a stupid plot-Cop needs help from convict to catch a cop killer- Cop drives prisoner around looking for bad guys--- well to this day in the real world,that has not happened-- if it did in the past - the prisoner was most likely restrained with hand cuffs,and guarded by 10 other cops-- Hollywood and reality just don't mix- the other things is how easy it was for Nick Nolte to get him out of prison, and how when he went into the jail cell un-escorted. everything from a county lock-up to a state prison don't allow cops to just go in there. very stupid movie "},{"Title":"Coarse, comic booky cop thriller with Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 HRS. (1982) is a crime thriller starring Nick Nolte as a tough guy/alcoholic cop in San Francisco who survives a fracas where two officers are killed. To apprehend the culprits (James Remar & Sonny Landham) he enlists the services of a convict (Eddie Murphy) for 48 hours. Annette O'Toole plays the cop's barely-seen babe and is therefore neglected.The film was directed by Walter Hill, the director and co-writer of 1979's The Warriors, and so it has some of the flair of that movie, as well as two of its main actors (Remar and David Patrick Kelly). It's easy to confuse it with Beverly Hills Cop, which came out two years later, since they're both cop thrillers starring Eddie Murphy, but Beverly Hills Cop is the superior film IMHO. Of course, it depends on what you're in the mood for. 48 HRS is more serious, brutal and edgy while BHC is lighter and more likable. The latter could be described as part comedy (although mostly serious) whereas the former is rough and nigh profane with amusing touches. BHC is just more palatable and has better themes in my opinion. The streetwise edginess of 48 HRS is too over-the-top comic booky and it's a turn-off. Nonetheless, it's a quality cop thriller and the character ark of the main characters is good, albeit predictable.The film runs 96 minutes and was shot in San Francisco and Los Angeles, California.GRADE B- "}{"Title":"I always liked country boys....","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Police officer Jack Cates is the only survivor of a cop shooting and to help hunt down the killers collects Reggie Hammond from jail for 48 hours. Hammond is oddly motivated to help as the killer is searching for his stash of cash. Cates and Hammond who have several differences of opinions to work out make surprisingly good partners as they navigate through the city looking for their suspect.....Sadly,this is another one of those movies that has Took me a very long time to see, and I think because of the advent of several movies relying on the buddy/cop sub-genre, this movie has lost a lot in translation to me.Its a simple premise given a little twist, grizzly cop paired up with a big mouthed, cocky prisoner, who has personal issues with the killers.And in found when watching this,just how uncomfortable Murphy looks in his debut, and the biggest problem? He's just not funny, and the humour consists of either derogatory jokes about women, or just downright racist abhorrence.It may have been just acceptable back in 1982, but now its tiresome stuff, and it just feels like a cheap shot for even cheaper laughs.Nolte is perfectly fine as the by the numbers cop, and as I've said before, Murphy looks uncomfortable, and doesn't have the swagger he has in his more successful films. And thanks to the score, if you close your eyes, you'd be forgiven if you think you were watching Commando, or vice versa.Hill is a competent director, and Silver an amazing producer, but it's just too bland, and honestly.........I prefer the sequel.... "},{"Title":"Tough-as-nails buddy comedy","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 HRS. is another feather in the cap for director Walter Hill, a man who directed some of the toughest films of the 1980s. It's an early action comedy that pairs Nick Nolte as a no-nonsense cop and Eddie Murphy as a jive-talking crim who have to team up to track down a couple of unpleasant killers.The film is straightforward, predictable and downright entertaining. Nolte supplies the cop stuff, Murphy's on board for the comedy, and the bad guys (James Remar and Sonny Landham) are truly fearsome. There's not an overload of action, but the violent scenes that punctuate the dialogue are near-knuckle and hard-hitting, with Hill refusing to shy away from the depiction of on-screen violence.I can't say I'm really a fan of Nick Nolte - as an actor, he seems to take taciturn to the next level, and he's a grumpy bugger here. Murphy is much better, brimming with vitality in the days before he became smug and over-indulgent. Remar and Landham are excellent as the criminals; a couple of guys you definitely wouldn't want to get stuck in a lift with.48 HRS. is no masterpiece; in addition, there have been so, so many similar films made in the years since that its appeal has been diluted somewhat. Nevertheless, it provides entertainment that keeps on coming, all handled by a sure hand who I'm slowly discovering to be one of Hollywood's finest. "},{"Title":"Good Waste of Time; Not Money.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  48 HRS. is truly one of the original cop movies.  Many of the elements of this film would soon be copied and duplicated over time.  Nolte plays his typical tough guy, while Eddie Murphy is, well, Eddie Murphy.  If you are looking for great special effects and big explosions, you WILL NOT find it here!  What you will find is a simple plot, solid character acting, and good gunshot wounds.  Final thought Good waste of time; not money. "},{"Title":"Look at you, you've got a $500 suit on & your still a lowlife. Good but not great.","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 48 Hrs. starts as vicious killer Billy Bear (Sonny Landham) helps his vicious killer mate Albert Ganz (James Remar) escape prison while on work detail fixing up a railroad, they head for San Francisco where they kidnap Rosalie (Kerry Sherman) the girlfriend of Luther (David Patrick Kelly) & say to him that if he ever wants to see her again to get the stolen $500,000 that has been stashed away by Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy). While following up a lead on a stolen credit card two cops are shot dead by Ganz & a third Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) has his gun stolen which Ganz continues to use for his own violent purposes, this is now personal for Jack & forges some papers to get Hammond out of jail to help him track his old gang member Ganz down...Co-written & directed by Walter Hill this was the first buddy buddy cop flick & re-watching it today it's alright but hasn't quite stood the test of time. The script by Hill, Steven E. de Souza, Roger Spottiswoode & Larry Gross lays down the basic rules all of it's many imitators would bide by, two mismatched guy's are thrown together by some crime they are both involved with & after lots of abuse they develop a mutual respect for each by the end, oh & one or both have to save the other's life at some point. It's a formula that's been done to death over the years & just because 48 Hrs. was the first doesn't automatically make it any good, to be fair to it it is good but not great. For a start there's not much action in it, a few dull shoot-outs, a short car chase & a couple of fistfights is about the sum total of it. Also one has to say the language is somewhat ripe with all sorts of profanity spoken, I just find constant streams of foul language to be a lazy way to write & it also gets old very quickly. It's a touch slow going in places & the story itself about stolen money isn't anything to excited about either, like I said good but not great.Director Hill does OK but there is one plot hole I can't figure out, so Ganz & Billy Bear kidnap Luther's girlfriend & tell him to get the money right? Well why didn't they kidnap Luther himself, keep him at gunpoint & just go with him to collect the money on Monday morning & then split? I mean shoot-outs in trains stations & stealing buses is not the way to keep a low profile especially since every cop in the city is looking for you. That just sounds a much better plan to me. Anyway there are some amusing foul mouthed one-liners here & the scene where Murphy intimidates a bar full of racist rednecks is hilarious but overall it's a bit light on action as far as I'm concerned.Technically the film is good with decent production values, set in San Francisco it was actually shot in Los Angeles. This was Eddie Murphy's first film, although it nearly wasn't as Gregory Hines was the first choice to play Reggie while Richard Pryor & Denzel Washington were also considered. Mickey Rourke was offered the role of Jack Cates but turned it down although Nolte does a good job regardless.48 Hrs. is a decent buddy buddy cop thriller that's a little short on action for my liking, it's still watchable with some funny profanity but it's not something I'd want to watch again anytime soon. I would say 48 Hrs. is so well remembered simply because it was the first rather than being the best. Followed by a sequel Another 48 Hrs. (1990) & literally 100's of imitators. "},{"Title":"Stars shine in dim movie","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The great performances by Nolte and Murphy are unfortunately wasted in this otherwise ordinary film.  Quite simply, the two stars do their best, but they are given nothing to work with here.  The action is routine, the laughs are rare, and the ending is very predictable.  That is not to say that this is a bad movie, but it isn't a good movie, either.  It's just...well...a movie.  "},{"Title":"Satisfying the masses...","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Walter Hill's hard, profane action-comedy, littered with as many dead bodies as it is wisecracks, redefined the 'buddy movie' for audiences of the 1980s, rocketing Saturday Night Live TV-comedian Eddie Murphy to stardom. Murphy plays a self-righteous, self-amused convict sprung from jail by beat-out cop Nick Nolte to help him catch two escaped psychopaths, who are busy mowing down various residents of San Francisco. Cocky set-pieces, such as Murphy's big scene impersonating a bitter, enraged cop in a redneck bar, sent viewers out on a high, but the recklessness of the verbal put-downs which form the basis of the screenplay aren't so very funny. Nolte and Murphy are quite a pair, and both get hammered pretty hard for the sake of some macho laughs, but the fast-pacing can only compensate for so much mindless violence, all of which is undermined by despicable behavior. Hill doesn't seem to understand the irony of turning irresponsible people into heroes--he just wants to satisfy the audience. For some, being pummeled and insulted may equal a good time. Followed by a belated sequel in 1990. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Mix black and white and what you get is ... the dullest gray!","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you are into harsh language, unmotivated violence and unconvincing plot lines, you might just be the perfect audience for Walter Hill's unlikely buddy movie 48 hours. Maybe I'm too pedantic or too much driven by logic, but I don't get the point of this film. Cop Nick Nolte desperately needs the convict Eddie Murphy's assistance to detain a sadistic gangster. Harry Callahan never would've needed help by a brazen, brash and hugely overrated ex-regular of Saturday Night Live. This whole film is a contrived vehicle to promote Murphy's career that lacks the slightest bit of internal logic, coherence and style. And unfortunately it inspired many follow-up movies like Last Boy Scout et al. that turned out to be even worse. "},{"Title":"Questions Rhetorical & Otherwise","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, let's see 1 - This is a Walter Hill film; 2 - Nick Nolte is one of the stars; 3 - the others are Eddie Murphy, Annette O'Toole and James Remar. Uhh, ya think you might hear the Lord's name in vain a few times in here? Answer yeah.Second question with the above director and cast, do you think the film might be a little crude or a little harsh in spots? (Same answer)Two more rhetorical questions Do you think either the critics or the public in this case cared about the above? Do you think they just looked at it as a great buddy film and another chance for a rising young black comedian to break out in stardom (which he did)? Yup, for indiscriminate viewers who like their action slanted and profane, this is a winner all the way! Well, at least it introduced us to Murhy who a string of hits in the '80s. Hill went on to make many other ultra-violent, ultra-profane films. Can't say much for the other careers. "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw this flick on TV last evening. They always show oldies like this, and seldom to my delight. Too bad, that also accounts for 48 hours - a quarter century old, give me a break! I really don't get what people see in this film. Never found it funny, anywhere - only very tiring. Nolte couldn't amuse me, he merely grumbled a lot but never hilariously. Murphy sure did much better in his Beverly Hills Cop series. Similar was the rudeness, regrettably. I honestly felt uneasy seeing the movie together with my 15 year old daughter. Besides that, the film is too old to appeal to the modern viewer. We've had it with this foregone formula, it can't please us anymore. Give us the real thing! "},{"Title":"Not a Comedy","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You see Eddie Murphy's name and you think comedy. But that not so. There is a bit of wisecracking, but this is far from a comedy. The key feature of the film is its aggressively in-your-face foul language. Every third word is p*ssy, m*therf*cker, d*ck, *ssh*le, trim(sex) or n*gger. It is a very violent film with many scenes of women being held hostage in gun battles, and people being gratuitously killed or beaten to a pulp.Most of the action takes place in sleazy night spots in San Francisco, with plenty of bumping and grinding female flesh.They have a great band who does The Boys Are Back in Town and other get up and dance songs. The band hop about with the intensity of cartoon characters, putting on a lively show. "}{"Title":"Thank Goodness for Clocks.","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Unspectacular cop buddy flick teams temporarily paroled convict Eddie Murphy with the deranged Nick Nolte. Two San Francisco cops have been gunned down and Nolte has two days with Murphy to bring the killers (James Remar and Sonny Landham) to justice. Formulaic and cheap-looking Dirty Harry-styled rip-off shows vibrant life early and then loses its way. Murphy's appearance is almost a total waste as the entire tone of the picture changes dramatically in the wrong direction. 48 Hrs. struggles with late-1960s/early-1970s clichés and then adds that demented 1980s cinematic style (strong language and a general lack of pace) to make a very ho-hum feature. Still surprisingly a box office hit and endeared by some critics, but did not do anything remarkable in my view. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Falls short!","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Directed by Walter HillWritten by Hill and Roger Spottiswoode (director of Bond flick Tomorrow Never Dies)Starring Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte48HRS. has a good plot, good direction, great chemistry between Murphy and Nolte but the pacing and lack of good action sequences hurt the movie a bit. Had potential but falls short.2 1/2(**1/2)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"An Average Cop/Buddy Flick","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There's nothing at all special about 48 HRS. Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte play their usual annoying selves. The comedy only works on a few rare occasions. The story itself is just another ridiculous crime yarn that goes nowhere interesting. 48 HRS. is nothing compared to the later Lethal Weapon series. "},{"Title":"I can't see what folks saw in this one....","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nick Nolte is a tough and out of control cop who springs a con (Eddie Murphy) to help him locate two serial killers who have already killed at least five guys. These two are mismatched buddies in a buddy film.Back in 1982, 48 Hours made a ton of money and was a surprise hit--and helped make Eddie Murphy a big star. However, when I see it today, I sure wonder what folks saw in it. It just comes off as a VERY nasty film--full of racial epithets, nudity, f-bombs (FYI--IMDB won't let me or anyone use this word in a review) and violence. And, to me, it seemed like most of this was put in the film just to offend--as if it somehow made the film edgy and hip. Well, to me it just seems nasty and unappealing. To make it worse, much of the film consists of really, really bad dialog, ridiculous police behaviors (with Nolte's character, the Bill of Rights simply don't exist), guns that NEVER need reloading and so much macho posturing that I felt like puking. "},{"Title":"Tiresome Buddy Movie","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In one of the most popular buddy-buddy movies of the 1980s, a cop and and a convict team up to bring down the con's ex-mates. There is plenty of action and violence, a staple of Director Hill, but the story is rather weak and preposterous and the characters are clichés. Nolte plays the maverick cop as gruff and world-weary, but the actor seems to sleepwalk through this one, turning in a tired performance. In a star-making turn, Murphy fares better as the wise-cracking con. The relationship between the two characters just doesn't make much sense. Remar makes a good villain. There is a pointless subplot regarding Nolte's romance with O'Toole. "},{"Title":"All the moral complexity of a playground game of cops and robbers","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The buddy movie, despite its name, does not always show us characters who are the best of friends. A much more common format is to have two individuals who are radically different in character, and whose relationship is based upon mutual suspicion, even mutual dislike, which gradually changes, if not to friendship, at least to mutual respect.48 Hours is a film of this kind. Albert Ganz, a violent criminal, is sprung from jail by an associate. Jack Cates is the police officer charged with tracking him down, and in order to do so he needs the assistance of another of Ganz's associates, Reggie Hammond. Unfortunately, Hammond is himself currently serving a jail term for theft, but Cates manages to get him released on parole for forty-eight hours. (Hence the title).This is sometimes regarded as the film which created the buddy genre and led to several similar films in the eighties and nineties, especially the Lethal Weapon series. It is not, however, as original as some of its defenders claim. The buddy movie was only a variation on the tough cop genre made popular in the late sixties and seventies by the likes of Bullitt and Dirty Harry (both of which, like 48 Hours, are set in San Francisco). The idea of teaming together police officers with different characters was not exactly new, either in the cinema or on television. Take for instance Cagney and Lacey, and even Dirty Harry was sometimes paired with partners who were more liberal and less gung-ho than himself. Neither was the idea of a policeman relying on one crook to catch another a new one.Even if 48 Hours is regarded as the first of the buddy cop movies, it is not a particularly good one. Its most original feature, and in my view the best thing about it, is Eddie Murphy's street-smart, wisecracking Hammond- I liked the scene set in the redneck bar, although I did find myself wondering exactly how typical such establishments are of liberal San Francisco. Nick Nolte's Cates, however, although cast in the same hard-line, ruthless mould as Clint Eastwood's Harry Callahan or Steve McQueen's Frank Bullitt, lacked their charisma, and the film lacked the depth of the better tough cop films, especially Dirty Harry itself, which raised some surprisingly complex issues about the nature of justice and the philosophy of law enforcement.Walter Hill prefers to ignore issues of this type and the moral lines in 48 Hours are clear-cut. Ganz and his associates are clearly defined as the bad guys, and Cates and Hammond as the good guys, which gives them a licence to shoot first and ask questions later. It also appears to give them a licence to swear like troopers; even today the film would be remarkable for its excessive use of bad language, and the interminable stream of cuss-words must have seemed even more shocking in the early eighties. The film-makers' intention was obviously to make a fast-moving, hard-hitting action thriller, but 48 Hours is a rather weak example of the genre, an ultra-violent cop movie with all the moral complexity of a playground game of cops and robbers. Its message seems to be nothing more than Bang! Bang! You're Dead! 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Young Denise Crosby? Wow! What More Can I Want?","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before picking up 48 Hours I knew nothing about this film didn't know the plot or the actors or anything else. Finding out it was Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy was bittersweet never been a fan of Murphy (and recent additions like Pluto Nash and Shrek have done nothing to improve my opinion). Nolte I expect some two-bit, hackneyed action hero (which is luckily exactly what I received). The film has these two in a series of unlikely events that make little sense and seem only to be set up as a means to show two guys drinking and shooting people (while trying not to get shot). Some actions films thrive on this (Lethal Weapon, Die Hard) but those films actually have a soul.A series of hanging plot threads leave a spectre hanging over this film (like communism over Europe in the 1800s). Maybe the sequel will resolve these concerns for me, but more than likely this film will leave me perpetually unfulfilled.I should say that I was entertained. While not one of the better films I've seen, any time you have a buddy cop movie with lots of drinking and shooting something fun is bound to happen (though, certainly, this film is not as good or as fun as Tango and Cash). And having now seen this film, I appreciate Last Action Hero ever so much more. (Now ,that's a film that's under-rated.) Murphy fan? Rent it. Not a Murphy fan, don't. That's all you need to know. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's first film, and the film that made him a star","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is an Eddie Murphy movie which means that it is going to immediately have a cult following. I don't mind Murphy that much because his fast-talking style amuses me, but in general I am not much of a fan. Having read a couple of write ups it is interesting to learn that this was his first movie and the scene that made this movie was the one in which he walks into a Redneck bar, pretends to be a cop, and has everybody under his control. This is classic Murphy fast talk, but when you have seen movies like Beverly Hills' Cop, then this scene doesn't mean much. When put into the context of his first movie then it shows us a star in the making. The movie stars Eddy Murphy and Nick Nolte but Eddie Murphy dominates the movie with his cool black man jive and his easy going attitude. Nolte slips out of favour quite often with his bad attitude. Nolte plays a lone cop who just seems to hate people. He refuses to work with people and when a dangerous criminal escapes from gaol, he takes it on alone. In reality there would be a city wide manhunt and every cop would be out looking for him, but hey, why let reality get in the way of a good cop movie. The director of this movie, Walter Hill, creates an interesting atmosphere. The film is set in San Fransisco which means that it is perpetually cold and wet. Most of the action of the movie takes place at night, the only real action scenes that happens during the day is a gun fight in a San Fransisco subway station and the initial escape. The dank and dirty nature of all of the locations also gives a feeling of the street. The fugitive is little more than a street criminal who is in gaol for armed robbery. When he escapes he has not real place to go and spends his time in cheap hotels. Reggie Hammond is of this crowd but he tries to lift himself out of it by putting on an expensive suit. He tries to look impressive but really just fits in with the dirty atmosphere. I wouldn't rate this movie as one of the greats. Eddie Murphy is cool but the movie is slow and the action scenes are not gripping. The fight scene between Murphy and Nolte drags on and in the end one tends to be glad that it is finished. Die hard Murphy fans might disagree but truth is that this is my opinion. "},{"Title":"Worth watching for an early piece of work from Murphy and its buddy familiarity but there is nothing spectacular here.","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Whilst not visually spectacular nor particularly original, I found 48 Hrs. to be a rather enjoyable and engrossing film that uses the obvious 'buddy' formula but also makes the ride a little more pleasurable thanks to its pace and its series of scenes that, although have been done to death, are executed in an entertaining and engaging manner. The only real upshot of a repeated viewing of this film, decades later, is to see Eddie Murphy in his first film as a criminal who is let out before becoming a cop for the narratives duration.I can see how Murphy went on to bigger and better things by watching this film. Whilst not a comedy by any stretch of the imagination, Murphy plays his character named Reggie Hammond to such a degree that by the end when it seems like he has to go back to prison, we have empathised with him and associated ourselves close enough to even like him; maybe more than the lead character Jack Cates (Nolte). But this is where the films apparent familiarity comes into play; Reggie may have been a criminal and may have served two thirds of his sentence but he is a human being and his time out on unconventional parole is sugar coated with the re-occurring joke that he wants to have sex; this combining with the looming fact that towards the end, despite whatever he does to aid the capture/demise of the baddie; he will have to serve his whole sentence.But there can be few complaints about 48 Hrs. For its day, I could probably estimate that the film was better than it looks and feels now what with the buddy genre so popular back then. Murphy has made his career on buddy films this, the Beverly Hills Cop film, Metro and hell; even the Shrek films are buddy flicks. But here, that old combination of white guy/black guy is not only utilised to compliment the material but also as an excuse to include some really quite racial issues. After an obligatory opening when its established Cates is a cop with absolutely everything to loose, he turns to Hammond who 'knows the street' despite being away from it for two and a half years. From here, the white cop, black accomplice combination is played out to an effect seen in later films such as the third Die Hard picture. But the material on offer here is very racial Hammond is referred to behind his back as a 'soul brother' and is called 'charcoal' by Cates. Not only this but native Americans seem to get a bit of stick also. However, the one scene which balances it all up is the scene in the redneck bar in which Murphy rules the show. Yes, I 'got' the The French Connection reference when he parades them in the bar; publicly humiliating them as they stand there and he poses as a police man in what could be one of the most famous scenes from an 80s film.But apart from delve into some racial archetypes, the film keeps on a long and straight road; never veering off to be something it knows it cannot. The antagonists consist of their own interracial buddy two-some with Albert Ganz (Remar) and Ben Kehoe (James) forming their group and they get across a menacing persona that certainly remains there both on and off screen throughout. Even though 48 Hrs. is entertaining, it is only so because there is a nagging feeling at the back of the head that it's too familiar. Some of the decisions and reactions certain characters take and react to are fishy to say the least. One such scene near the beginning sees a police man on the stairs, bloody and shot, attempting to gun down a bad guy he has no bullets despite being off screen for a clear few minutes; did he not bother to check the chamber? Also, that same character decides to merely stand there when certain death looms and he is defenceless despite having a certain amount of time to get out of the situation. These scenes, like in any film, are incidental to the build up of the evil and menace of the antagonist who is the one that eventually kills him.Despite being involving and occasionally funny, the action scenes are messy and feel heavy handed at times with too many character a little too trigger happy. One character would rather shoot at Cates as he enters the apartment without any mention of anything he knows he's a cop (not sure how) and would prefer to murder him there and then than talk or merely initially run away. But this character is Luther (Kelly) and it is he who remains a constant and entertaining focus for the films middle segment. Everything seems to revolve around him as the antagonists have kidnapped his girlfriend as insurance; immediately having the audience 'side' with him. Luther acts as the reason for the cops and the robbers to combine in action sequences; the train station being a good example as well as the fetching of the car from the garage.If there are major complaints, it's that Hammond's re-occurring joke about wanting to have sex just goes too far; before long becoming insulting to the women he is talking to. There is also the very obvious air of the film dipping once it seems all is lost and the good guys have lost but wait, the bus that they were in; wasn't it from a certain place the cops know of? Let's go there and check. Sure enough, it gets them back on track as the film enters its final act. 48 Hrs. is a lot of fun but do not expect to be blown away by action or really witty dialogue. Likewise; these days this film is very 'buddy-by-numbers'. "},{"Title":"Buddy Movie - maybe first, but not the best","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw this movie a couple of days ago on TV. I'd heard a lot about it and most people seemed to like it, so I thought it was worth a shot. But I must say I was disappointed. It was nothing like what I had anticipated.The plot was a bit confusing and the fist-fights looked real stupid (perhaps because the movie's pretty old by now...). Especially the one between Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte, although that was one of the funniest parts of the movie.Murphy and Nolte created the Buddy-genre with this flick, but most of the film they're just spending time insulting each other (especially Nolte) as much as possible. Too much rough macho-talk, in my opinion. But Murphy was great in his break-through role as smooth, sweet-talking convict Reggie Hammond. This was the time when Murphy was still actually funny. And I must admit that Nick Nolte did a pretty good job playing the grumpy, stubborned police-officer Jack Cates.Cates and Hammond are teamed up to catch an old business pal of Hammond's, who happens to have escaped from prison with the help of an Indian gangster called Billy Bear. He also has got the old of Cates' gun and is using it to shoot cops with.I really thought this movie would be a lot more entertaining, and I also anticipated more chemistry between the two lead actors. Sometimes they came out alright together - after about half of the movie or so - but it was mostly Murphy who got the punch-lines. Nolte seemed like he was trying a little too hard to be a tough guy.I don't know. Maybe my biggest problem is that I saw this movie AFTER I'd seen the Lethal Weapon series. I'd like to say that Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte CREATED this film genre, but it was Mel Gibson and Danny Glover who DEFINED it. Sorry, but that's the way it is.I'm not saying this movie is bad, but if you liked it and would like to see a REALLY good buddy movie, I recommend Lethal Weapon. That's where you'll find the real Magic. "}{"Title":"A Buddy Movie","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Buddy movies were very popular in the 1980s , less popular in the 1990s and non existent at the turn of the century . I think the reason they`re non existent these days is that it`s a genre that is very , very limited as anyone who has seen more than a very small handful of buddy movies can testify . It all comes down having a hard boiled cop matched up with a contrasting character and there you have it 48 HOURS is better than most simply down to the fact that it was a fairly original idea at the time and where the movie works best is with the violent thriller element . Some of the violence is quite shocking down to the fact that it`s so cold blooded . Take the  Nice gun  scene which is an uneasy scene to watch down to the cold calculating way the violence is dispensed . A murder scene doesn`t have to gory for it to be disturbing , something that I hope directors will take note of Where the film is less successful is when it`s trying to be amusing . I do confess I`ve always disliked Eddie Murphy down to the fact that he always seems to play the same wise cracking urbane black dude in every movie he`s appeared in and here he`s every bit as irritating as every movie he`s been in . Oh and did I spot a blunder where Murphy and Nolte`s characters are introduced at the prison cell block ? Nolte`s cop asks Murphy`s con to help him find a fugitive - Right in front of a crowded prison wing and Murphy agrees ! I was under the impression that if anyone did that in real life they`d get capped by the inmates before they left the gates . Failing that they`d be watching their back for the rest of their life on the outside , no one likes a prison stoolie How much you enjoy 48 HOURS comes down to how much you enjoy buddy movies . I enjoyed it in parts but as some people have already pointed out you can get too much of a good thing   "},{"Title":"Influential but sadly dated buddy-cop flick - 53%","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Incredible as it seems, I had never watched this film before. OK, so I was 18 months old at the time of release but still... This is, arguably, the film that kick-started the buddy-cop era. Indeed, it's influence can be seen far and wide from movies such as Red Heat (1988) to TV shows like Due South. Incidentally, whatever happened to that? I loved the music...48 Hrs lays down the template for those to follow thusly Nick Nolte plays a hard-drinking, chain-smoking, heavy swearing cop who's as popular with his superiors as he is with those he busts. After seeing two cops gunned down, he is forced to spring wise-cracking petty criminal Eddie Murphy from jail in order to catch the punk. Problem is, he has only forty-eight hours in which to crack the case before Murphy must go back inside. Nolte is as flea-bitten as they come - a sort of adult version of Columbo, right down to the rust-ridden car. Murphy, on the other hand, is just Eddie Murphy and if you've seen any of his films then you'll know what I mean. If Beverly Hills Cop makes you want to scream then try watching this first. He still does his wise-cracks, that stupid laugh of his that sounds like an asthmatic breathing through a traffic cone and occasional shouting but he does do dramatic as well, though not terribly well. Still, not bad for a stand-up.I had two big problems with this picture. Firstly, it hasn't dated well at all. Every gun seems to be a six-shooter (though they frequently fire more than six times in a round) and has the same sound effect. Same too with the fist fight scene, which sounded as convincing as Jon Voight's accent in Anaconda. The music had a horrible Eighties vibe to it but not in a good way - if Grand Theft Auto Vice City can do it, why can't the real thing? The steel drums just didn't fit at all. Second, and more disturbingly, this picture has a strong element of racism throughout. An awful lot is made about the colour of Murphy's skin with racist language, jokes and even a scene set in a southern redneck tavern. Was there any real need for this? Yes, Murphy's black and Nolte's white. So what? Can't honestly say it made me feel comfortable, even so long after the picture's release.I'm sure that at the time, 48 Hrs was an exciting and entertaining picture. The world had yet to see anything like it - though cop movies were nothing new, it took a brave film like this to show that not all cops are the clean-cut individuals we'd like them to be. It felt more realistic to audiences than, say, Bullitt and so was doubtless successful on the back of that. But now, twenty-two years later, Eddie Can I Say Dick One More Time? Murphy is lending his voice to animated kiddie's film Shrek 2 while Nolte himself fell foul of the law by driving under the influence. Actually, he looks the same in his mug-shot as he does in this film. Funny old world. As for 48 Hrs, it failed to stir my senses enough to give it a thumbs-up. If only other cop films hadn't imitated this one quite so closely. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  solid but showing its age","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed this film when it originally came out, but I believe comments should reflect the times and when I caught this on TV 20 years later, it had aged.This was Eddy Murphy's first movie. He's good. Nick Nolte is good. In 1982, this was quite the cop buddy film. Compared with modern standards in witty dialogue and action, the film still holds up but does not compete with Rush Hour, or even Beverly Hills Cop. The plot is solid and not goofy, but not especially compelling or clever either.Therefore, I would not recommend this movie as a straight comedy, nor to youngsters who have no reason to reminisce about the early 80's. Rent Trading Places instead, Eddy Murphy's 2nd film, which is still a classic, or see Showtime.Who should see this film-- Eddy Murphy fans who just have to see all his films-- Action lovers who have nothing better to do on a rainy day and would like to reminisce about the early 80s-- I can't think of anyone elseI rate 48 Hrs a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A pretty average film that sticks to a formula that has become more and more worn every year since it's release in 1982","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Working on a chain gang for another five years, killer Gantz escapes with the help of friend Billy Bear and heads to the city. Killing an old associate brings him to the attention of the police who dispatch three officers to catch him in his hotel. However when two of the officers are killed, the third (Jack Cates) makes it a personal matter. Looking for any lead he can get he agrees to get robber Reggie Hammond out of prison for 48 hours in exchange for information that brings Gantz in. However, although Reggie is a help to Cates he is also the biggest mouth that Jack has had to deal with &#150; will they find Gantz before they end up killing one another.I can't be sure but I'm pretty confident that this film was a bit dated and formulaic when it was released just over twenty years ago. Certainly watching it now it has dated very badly and it just about passes as a very basic 'mismatched partners' film that has been surpassed by many others down the years. In some respects maybe I am being unfair to this film because the formula has been repeated so often since 1982, but in other ways I can only go on what I see and on the whole this is a rather tired and unremarkable film that is enjoyable once but no more than that. The plot is rather daft and never really convinces as a thriller since it relies too heavily on coincidence, lazy plot devices and average writing. However, what it does do pretty well is create a few good set pieces; some of the comic set ups are quite enjoyable and some of the action scenes are a little exciting even if they are bit uninspired.This is less to do with the material and more to do with the delivery from the cast. Nolte and Murphy don't have that much chemistry together and they didn't do it for me in the way that buddy cop things usually need to &#150; but they did do OK on their own. Nolte is lumbered with a very clichéd role (gruff, trouble with the captain and the lil' woman etc) but he manages to mumble his way thought reasonably well and it is acceptable that he only did the very basics there were required of him and no more. Eddie Murphy is better but only does his usual stuff (and not as well as he has other places. The lack of chemistry causes Murphy to struggle a bit but he has several scenes where his energy carries it. Of some interest as well is a support cast who have become more familiar with time; McRae is OK, Remar has made a career out of playing bad guys in average movies and is always worth seeing while James and Banks will be recognisable faces if not names. However I want to give special mention to Sonny Landham, not for his performance but for the movie connections he sets up here. His character is called Billy Bear and, in his final scene he holds a big knife. Nothing special about that until you think that his character in Predator was called Billy and used a big hunting knife! The second amusing thing for me was that Landham starred in a rarely scene film in the mid-nineties called 'Billy Lone Bear'! Of course neither of these bits of trivia make up for the fact that here he is monosyllabic and given almost nothing to do but be a big Indian, but they made me laugh when I realized them!Overall this is a pretty average film that sticks to a formula that has become more and more worn every year since it was made. At the time it may have cut the mustard but now it just looks tired and uninspired. Some of the comedy works and some of the action works but too much of it is flat. The cast has a collection of well-known faces in small roles but the lead two never really generate any chemistry between themselves, with only Murphy providing the odd good moment when he is given some good material to do his usual big-mouthed stuff &#150; sadly this doesn't happen anywhere near enough, making this a film that is passable but has outlived its shelf life.  "}]