[{"Title":"As strong as a cup of my famous java...","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"66 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this in the theater with my dad, at the age of 13, when it was first released - he was a huge fan of classic movies and usually suffered through the stuff he took me to. Not this one - we were both in hysterics, and I'd have to say I owe my huge love of classic Hollywood (and global) cinema to this film. CITIZEN KANE it may not be but no matter - I dug the humor and the atmosphere at the time, and even then was aware of how much work this must have been. I still watch this one on occasion, and it is the rare comedy that has held up very well with the passage of time - critics at the time seemed to write it off as a stunt, but I've noted that at least a little reevaluation of DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID has occurred over the years. The performances - as both a spoof and a love-letter to film noir - are top notch, with Steve Martin at his best here. The dialog gets deep into Raymond Chandler/Dashiell Hammett hard-boiled private-eye stylishness, serving up gumshoe-with-dame clichés just juiced up enough to give Steve something to run with, while still offering an a solid story. The finale is magnificent, Martin and Carl Reiner jousting their way through an avalanche of every two-bit dime-store whodunnit game-over cliché to ever grace the big screen, cheap alibis falling like drunken angels across the naked city as the big heat descends... Or - ahem -something like that... "},{"Title":"Steve Martin's Affectionate Parody of 1940's Thrillers","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"50 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Rigby Reardon, private eye, runs the gauntlet of hoods, femmes fatales and crazed Nazis as he investigates the death of beautiful Juliet Forrest's father.  Who are the mysterious Friends of Carlotta?  And why does Rigby keep dressing in women's clothes?  And where did Juliet learn to do that trick with her lips? This celebration of the black and white movies of the 1940's and 50's is a very clever and very amusing film.  Extracts from celluloid classics are skilfully spliced into the action (check out the architectural detail on the doorframe in the Alan Ladd sequence). The film is a vehicle for Martin's comic talent and he carries it off beautifully.  Rachel Ward as Juliet is terrific she can hold her own with the screen goddesses who so liberally populate the film (Bergman, Davis, Turner and Crawford all make inserted appearances). A project like this could easily have come a cropper, but thanks to the brisk direction of Carl Reiner (who has a great cameo) and Steve Martin's ability to dominate the screen, the movie is a resounding success.  It's also very funny. "},{"Title":"So they don't","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"50 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  An incredible achievement. My mind boggles at the amount of thought, time and effort that must have gone into this superb film. The plot is brilliantly and hilariously convoluted, with screen legends from the 1940s making appearances in amazingly edited scenes, and Steve Martin's trademark absurd humour is present almost all the way. Steve and Rachel Ward have remarkable chemistry, and each of their performances are highly impressive. If it weren't for the bundles of humour employed, one would almost think at times that this actually is a film noir from the 1940s, so legitimate and believable is the 'feel' or the atmosphere of the film.I cannot believe that some people who commented on this film have said that the plot is merely an excuse to hang old movie clips onto, and not much use at all; and the person who claims that Steve Martin overacts in this movie mustn't realise that this is regarded as one of Steve's more restrained, deadpan comedic performances (the 'cleaning woman!' device turns out to be an important part of the plot and also seems to be a way of using the strangling scene that is taken from the Bette Davis movie - it is also a chance for Steve to get in a very tiny element of his 'wild and crazy guy' persona, which he substituted with a more suitable for parody 'straight' performance).A rousing and side-splittingly funny success - they don't make 'em like this anymore!  "},{"Title":"Along with The Jerk, one of Steve Martin's top two finest films","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I remember reading reviews in The New York Times and elsewhere in 1983 fawning over Woody Allen's brilliant and wholly original idea of inserting himself into old film footage in Zelig. They'd not noted, of course, that everyone from Ernie Kovacs to John Zacherle had already done that brilliant and wholly original idea on television -- and, most notably, Steve Martin did it in a feature film, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, one year prior to Zelig. While Zelig has its moments, it is ultimately tedious, running about twice as long as it's one-note gag treatment can sustain. In sharp contrast is the far more clever, inspired, fully developed, insightful and witty DMDWP, which, as noted. came out one year earlier. As often happens with groundbreakers set somewhere outside the norm, DMDWP was not exactly a box office hit -- a key reason why no sequels were ever made. That's unfortunate, as Martin's character was one of his finest creations and could have sustained more installments in the series. (Steve was never better on film than he is here.) It's good that the people behind Police Squad did not give up on it after it failed to fit within the confines of standard TV concepts around the same time. Reborn as The Naked Gun series of feature films, the Police Squad concept turned into three of the greatest comedy motion pictures of all time. DMDWP deserved a lot better than it got in 1982 as well, and I'm glad to see that it has finally found respect and its audience through television exposure (much like a previous box office bomb, It's A Wonderful Life). The kind of creativity Martin, Carl Reiner and the rest of the DMDWP crew put into their project needs to be strongly encouraged -- as it represents excellent comic film-making, as opposed to the witless parade of routine crudities that Hollywood ordinarily churns out. "},{"Title":"A quirky but funny movie","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Its the sort of idea that inevitably gets tried out as soon as it becomes technically possible. Inter-cutting classic film noir with contemporary work to produce a comedy film. Usually such ideas come a serious cropper - as was proved (as others have stated) by Zelig. However, this film hits it right on the mark. The design and editing allow for seamless cutting between the old and the new footage. The script is good and has the right level of absurd humour to make the film work. I'm not a fan of Steve Martin but its impossible to imagine anyone else matching this performance. Rachel Ward is beautiful and sassy. Its a film of its time - just made in time to catch the costume and musical talent of the past before they departed from the scene but made before the sort of hi-tech morphing and cgi which would have ruined its feel.If you haven't seen it then watch it - if you have seen it then watch it again. This definitely rewards repeated viewings. Its no Citizen Kane but it is darned good entertainment if you share my sense of humour... "},{"Title":"Film noir was never this funny!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Carl Reiner, the multi-talented director of this film, is the only one that could have pulled it off. Working with George Gipe, and Steve Martin in the screen play that serves as the basis of the movie, Mr. Reiner has done the impossible with Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid.Of course, this film is blessed with the magnificent editing by Bud Malin, who meshed the present images against those film noir masterpieces we see, blending the characters of this movie with the stars of the past, in what seems to be a seamless product. It also helps that Miklos Rozsa was the man composing the music, as everything shows a cohesiveness that is hard to distinguished in what was shot in 1982 and the old movies.This spoof to the film noir genre is a pure delight. The main character, Rigby Reardon is the P.I. from hell, but thanks to the creators of this movie, he is perfect as the man at the center of the action.Not being a Steve Martin fan, one has to recognize that when this actor is inspired, he can do excellent work. It would appear that with a director like Carl Reiner, he would have gone off the top, but instead, Mr. Martin gives a good reading of Rigby. Rachel Ward, as the typical woman of those films, is charming. Reni Santoni, Georege Gaynes and the rest of the supporting cast do wonders under Carl Reiner's orders.The film brought back memories of those timeless masterpieces of the past and the stars that shone in them. We get to see Humphrey Bogart, Ava Gardner, Ingrid Bergman, Vincent Price, Alan Ladd, Veronica Lake, Barbara Stanwyck, Fred McMurray, Edward G. Robinson, and the others at the height of their fame playing against the present cast and making the viewer happy watching all the antics which Mr. Reiner and his team have created for our amusement.This is a funny look at the old movies! "},{"Title":"A serious laugh at the moody films of the 40's.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I had to watch this a second time to appreciate it. The story is not the most impressive; but the concept is. Steve Martin plays a detective in a parody of classic film noir. The movie features actual scenes cut from several films and blended with precision. These skillful splices feature some of the great names from old time Hollywood. Names like Cagney, Douglas, Davis, Crawford and Bergman. Martin really shows his talent and ability to make a scene imitate reality. His comedic wit is sharp as a switchblade. His co-star is Rachel Ward, who can vamp or play coy with the best of them. Along with directing, Carl Reiner has a cameo part.Swift directing, with superb lighting and shading made this black and white crime comedy shine. "},{"Title":"Mostly fun, but loses its way a bit","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" DMDWP is a black and white film noir comedy that uses footage from real film noirs from the 40s and 50s and inter cuts them with the plot to make it appears that Steve Martin is really talking to/acting with the likes of Humphrey Bogart, Bette Davis, James Cagney etc. The effect is almost seamless but for a movie made in 1982 it's quite impressive.Martin plays the wonderfully named Rigby Reardon, a typical, gritty private eye who narrates the story with sarcastic observation and gets involved in the usual femme fatal plot and a conspiracy surround the death of a cheese maker. Yes, it's nonsense, and towards the end it becomes a bit hard to follow and the silliness gets out of control. But it's all played straight and for most of the film you could believe you were actually watching a classic film noir.Steve Martin should have done more of these movies. Rigby Reardon was a great character and could have lasted for a few more movies. The humor is frequently hilarious and he certainly retains a lot of the integrity he has lost in recent years since he went the way of Eddie Murphy and sold himself out to family audiences. Either way, I say you should give this movie a go if you're a fan of his older work.The DVD is sadly in non-anamorphic 1.851 widescreen with Dolby 2.0 surround. It still looks quite good for a black and white film and the sound has that limited sound space effect to it to make it fit in with the older footage. A Dolby 5.1 remix would have been totally unnecessary. Some boring extras (trailer, cast bios) are included. "},{"Title":"Fun For Film Noir Buffs; Otherwise Convoluting","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was a modern-day version of a 1940s narrative gangster film, also known as film noir, but with a different twist. Steve Martin, Rachel Ward and a few others actors are seen talking to many classic stars of the past as director Carl Reiner used clips of those films to fake conversations with the up-to-date real actors of this film . They made it appear that Alan Ladd, Barbara Stanwyck, Humphrey Bogart et al were actually talking to Martin. Obviously, the more acquainted you are with those film noirs, the more fun this movie will be as you try to recognize what movie those clips came from. (The answers are shown in the ending credits.) That's the fun part of this movie.The not-so-fun part is simply trying to figure how what is happening in the first place. The plot is not always easy to discern, and it's doubly difficult because of the constant interruptions with the classic film scene inserted in the story. You get so captivated watching those old stars that you lose track of the storyline.That's a big reason I don't think this film ever caught on that much - the story is too convoluted, just too hard to follow.Ward was great to watch and Martin was annoying after awhile. If Ward doesn't look like the embodiment of a 1940s film goddess, I don't know who does. That, and the razor sharp black-and-white picture with the real actors, is nice to see. But, Martin, who dominates the film, overdoes the stupid comments. I would like to have seen this film played a little straighter, like a real noir. It's a clever film but sometimes too clever for its own good. "},{"Title":"Carl Reiner's Masterpiece","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Simply brilliant. This gem of a movie slipped under the radar screen of the movie goer's consciousness when it was first released, but it will live on forever in the DVD collections of those who truly cherish good film-making. (And good parody. And good detective films. Film tributes, comedy, well, you get the picture I think.) As much an homage to the classic suspense/detective films as was Blade Runner, Chinatown, and Mullholland Falls. I have found myself, over the years, stealing lines from this movie at cocktail parties, and generally all I get is blank stares. But every now and then I will meet a kindred spirit, and their eyes will light up, and they'll join right it! You don't smoke, do you? No, I have tuberculosis. Oh, thank heaven for that. Ha ha ha ha ha HAA!! Two thumbs way up!! "}{"Title":"Neo-classicism at its best","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Dead Men.. maintains a delicate equilibrum between a re-enactment and an original script. On one hand, Carl Reiner offers a comedy which compilates several film noir classics (the strongest influence seems to come from the Maltese Falcon)and makes fun of their profound grim atmosphere, but without ever loosing its self-esteem. On the other hand, it combines at least a dozen scenes from those movies with stand-ins in order to establish a believable (physical) interaction between actors who differ 40 years in age.Steve Martin would play the same kind of unwilling comedian in Plains, Trains & Automoblies. His voice-over definitely was an inspiration to Leslie Nielsen in the Naked Gun series. Along with Dragnet (1987), both owe, of course, a lot to the police serials from the 50's.This movie is mostly suited for classic film buffs such as me "},{"Title":"I live near Sun City, AZ and, unfortunately, it's the alive men that wear plaid.","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Ooh deary me. Either I forgot or didn't realize Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid took basically three main actors and spliced them into decades old films. (I did eventually, roughly one third of the way in, but I'll get to that later.) This Steve Martin feature escaped me for years until a close friend recommended it to me. I'm not the biggest Martin fan &#x96; I can only name three I especially liked, Roxanne, All of Me and (guilty pleasure) Housesitter &#x96; so I was in no hurry to watch this. And as much as my friend and I agree on 90% of movies, some we don't. So, it was no 100% guarantee I would like this.Well, just to sum it all up, that 90% statistic turned to 95% of our movie compatibility. I was laughing throughout this movie, way after and when I woke the next morning, more scenes floated in my head and I found myself laughing some more.Private detective Rigby Reardon (Martin) is so stereotypically almost flat broke and down on his luck when doll face Julie Forrest (Ward) shows up at his office door with an assignment for Rigby to investigate her father's murder. (Yeah, I say stereotypically but not in a bad way as that's the premise/spoof of this movie &#x96; either mocking or playing homage to film noir of half a century earlier.) Slapstick immediate surfaces and he takes the case on, meeting dozens of individuals (from a grand multitude of black & white features) who advance the case/story so he can get to the bottom of the murder.Seriously, as a joy this was to watch &#x96; my first time of many guaranteed viewings &#x96; I don't want to give away any more. Each scene opened up more laughs for me. And it's one of those rare, VERY RARE films that starts off slow, mediocre even, and gets progressively BETTER.One of the biggest complaints I have with a lot of films is the fact the director and/or writer is so incredibly preoccupied on making a movie based solely on one HUGE SECRET or TWIST that they simply forget to make a movie that happens to have a twist. M. Night Shyamalan films fit perfectly into my argument &#x96; but more recently, A Perfect Getaway. The worst part of those films is if you happen to figure out the secret twisted climax in the first few minutes (or someone spoiled it for you), you're literally sitting there for two hours where they try and confuse you and throw obvious clues your way. And you never actually get a well made movie &#x96; just a bunch of misdirection so you'll be so-called blown away at the end.Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid didn't do this. They played homage to anyone who is in LOVE with those 1930-1940s classics and grand stars (my personal favorite of the group was Grant and Davis) and used wonderful splicing new and old techniques. This is obviously a gimmick yet, when other lesser directors/writers would rely on this, this was only part of the equation. There was really a story here and it really was built as a film noir mystery, albeit slapstick 1980s humor.As I stated, I didn't catch this device of using old and new until about 1/3 in, with Cary Grant. I didn't read anything about this movie, so since it was black & white (and Martin actually had dark hair) I figured they filmed this when Bogart, Grant and Davis were all still alive and dyed their own hair to appear younger. Yeah, I'm a dope. Seriously, I should've known better.Obviously, I won't make that mistake again (i.e. in my definite repeat viewings) and when I realized what was happening, the movie opened up to me, making it all the more hilarious and especially when Martin dresses as some of the characters they're mimicking.I would highly recommend this movie, especially to those movie buffs of decades past. Though I am only rating it 9 out of 10 stars now, that might change, even with viewing #2. And I can't wait to see this again. There's severe comic genius here &#x96; the finale's battle of words between Reiner and Martin is just one of many examples. SEE IT! Side Note If you have the DVD &#x96; make sure you watch the hilarious trailer, namely the last 2-3 seconds had me rolling. "},{"Title":"Quilted Noir Parody","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I feel like I'm committing sacrilege to admit I enjoy this film especially since I'm a huge Film Noir aficionado. Purists might be shocked to see classics cannibalized for a comedy of all things but I feel there is also a reverence angle that can be introduced to the argument. It also can intensify exposure to a larger mass audience and thus promoting growth. The issue for me however is that Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is one very funny film.With the best faux authenticity (another sterling effort by Michael Chapman) blending of its day Steve Martin in on spot comic dead pan mixes with the greats of American cinema in a cleverly devised parody on film noir . As private eye Rigby Reardon he crosses paths with an hysterical Barbara Stanwyck and a homicidal Alan Ladd among a dozen other stars of bygone era. The plot has a Big Sleep similarity and is just as confusing which allows Martin and director Alan Reiner to create a steady jigsaw puzzle of laughs with a fresh original approach. It slows at times with the present day cast but when the stars are out the film becomes capable of inducing parody and awe at the same time. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Mystery Comedy","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of the best Steve Martin films - A brilliant movie that combines crime, mystery and comedy. It's a very funny comedy almost in the category of a dark or black comedy. Is it Film Noir? Yes I do believe it is...This film is a bit underrated and deserves to be in the top 10% of dark comedy films - just my opinion. If you like older films, comedies, mystery and trying to help solve a crime in a movie then you may enjoy Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid.If you want a double feature I would watch this movie along with movies like Clue (1985), Murder by Death (1976) or  Deathtrap (1982).9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Confessions of a smitten bloke","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've never been a huge fan of Steve Martin's, so I often find myself watching his movies for his leading ladies; and while Peters, Danes and Turner are undoubtedly eye-candy, none of them quite match up to Rachel Ward at her finest &#x96; and here she is possibly even lovelier than she was in 'The Thornbirds'. She's also a surprisingly good foil for Martin; able to deliver some wonderfully outrageous lines absolutely deadpan, and without breaking character.Inter-cutting new film with old wasn't new even when this piece came out, and I suspect the idea may have come from Martin's 'Pennies from Heaven' of the previous year (itself a copy of a BBC series from 1978); but the premise of using film noir was a stroke of genius and it's very slickly done. Unfortunately, a plot which starts out very well degenerates somewhat towards the end, perhaps hamstrung by the one-note comic style; but for the first hour it's an absolute joy to watch, and very funny indeed.However, it has to be admitted that I watch it for Rachel - my dream woman of the early eighties and, in my opinion, one of the most beautiful ever to grace the silver screen. Bryan Brown, you're a lucky fella. "},{"Title":"Clever and affectionate homage to film noir","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I was really interested in seeing this movie, because I like film noir and I like Steve Martin. And you know what, this is a very clever and affectionate homage. My complaints are that the story is disappointingly convoluted so it is sometimes very hard to keep up with what is going on and one or two of the jokes don't quite work. But overall it is very funny, and seems to have held up well over the years. The script is clever and sophisticated enough, and Carl Reiner directs with precision and acts his part of Field Marshall VonKluck very well. The cinematography is smooth and crisp, and I thought the performances were excellent. Steve Martin is great here, not only do I think Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is underrated but this is one of his roles where Martin deserves a lot more credit. Rachel Ward looks lovely as Juliet Forrest and is terrific acting wise. The real joy is watching the archive footage of all those wonderful actors and actresses in those timeless masterpieces. Spotting stars such as Humphrey Bogart, Cary Grant, Bette Davis, Ray Milland, Vincent Price and Ingrid Bergman all but to name a few was a delight in itself. Also the finale while silly is great fun. All in all, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is well worth the look. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I never really cared for the film noir type movie, but when you mix them all together it works rather well.","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie while not perfect is just another one of Steve Martin's good comedies of the 1980's where he was on fire in my opinion. He had so many comedies that I enjoyed that it is rather surprising. This is mainly considering the fact that the comedy movie is something now I virtually never go to the movies to see unless it is like a comedy/something other than comedy movie like Zombieland. This film also is one of the reasons I had issues with the movie Forrest Gump winning an Oscar for special effects. Look at this film and a later comedy Kung Pow and the things they made such a big deal of the fact they placed Tom Hanks with dead people is just not that big a deal. They did it here quite well, granted a lot of the time the person had their back to Steve, I still rather thought it was well done. The comedy is good, mainly consisting of Steve Martin's various looks and responses to the sometimes long dead actor's scenes from previous movies. Though the funniest part was the scene involving the dog poop which I will admit was rather childish compared to the rest of the comedy in this film, but it still got me laughing the hardest. "},{"Title":"Reiner & Martin's Laugh-In","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film couldn't miss for me as I love Steve Martin's irresistibly funny early films and rank film noir as probably my favourite movie genre.Right from the start, we're comfortingly deposited back into the noir era, with the classic Universal revolving black and white logo presaging Miklos Rosza's sweeping score and the equally welcome news, in the title credits, that the great (sadly soon to be late) Edith Head is costume designer. From there, it's a short journey into beautifully shot monochromatic cinematography and Martin's deliberately clichéd voice-over, setting the scene for a roller-coaster plot, as deliberately convoluted, as anything this side of The Maltese Falcon or The Big Sleep.The humour is typical early-Martin which you either love or hate (I'm in the former camp) and as ever Steve's not above a little vulgarity to drive out the bigger laughs - for instance his hilarious re-organising of passed-out leading lady Rachel Ward's out of whack breasts or his answer to Lana Turner's What are we going to do now question as she enters his bedroom - Kinsey, cover-to-cover.The vintage film-clips are cleverly inserted into the plot, so that we get a dream cast, their lines and actions woven even if tenuously into the narrative, although ironically the poorer film-quality of some of their scenes work against the glossier quality of the modern camera-work.Martin's by turns quirky and laconic delivery works well in context although Rachel Ward, pretty as she is, seems too lightweight in her part, although she does have some considerable footprints to step into (Bette or Lana she isn't). A Kathleen Turner (later brilliant in Martin's sci-fi spoof The Man With Two Brains) or Jessica Lange (not long out of a noir remake The Postman Always Rings Twice) would I think have worked better. Even director Reiner gets a No show without Punch role as the scheming want the world Nazi dictator behind the shenanigans.The jokes come thick and fast and there are plenty of running gags to keep you entertained throughout. I myself will try to look up one or two of the vintage prototypes which I hadn't even heard of, never-mind seen, - I Walked Alone starring Kirk Douglas and especially The Bribe with a stellar cast of Ava Gardner, Charles Laughton and Vincent Price, with what looks like literally a crackerjack of a finale.The combination of old film and new was later taken up by Woody Allen in Zelig and was further elaborated on in subsequent Hollywood films like Who Framed Roger Rabbit and the overrated Forrest Gump, but I'll take Messrs Martin & Reiner's stylish rib-tickling homage any day of the week. Just don't mention the cleaning lady! "},{"Title":"Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I had heard quite a bit about this comedy film noir, I wasn't expecting it to be the funniest film ever, I was just looking to seeing how many classic stars would be sliced into the film. Basically private eye detective Rigby Reardon (Steve Martin), who has a dangerous phobia of cleaning women, is hired by Juliet Forrest (Rachel Ward) who believes the death of her cheese scientist father, with a secret recipe, was no accident. So begins his investigation, finding a list of The Friends and Enemies of Carlotta, and he is now trying to find this Carlotta. In his search he encounters assorted low-lifes, and a few people on the good side, all of which are famous actors in some of their most famous roles of 30's and 40's films. Of course during his investigation he is slowly falling for Juliet, and in the end he finds out the villain is Field Marshall VonKluck (Carl Reiner), who wanted the cheese recipe for himself. To be honest, the story isn't the most important thing about this film, it is all the classic film clips placed in with the great array of classic stars. Stars placed in the film include Ingrid Bergman (Notorious), Humphrey Bogart (The Big Sleep, In a Lonely Place and Dark Passage), James Cagney (White Heat), Joan Crawford (Humoresque), Bette Davis (Deception), Kirk Douglas (I Walk Alone), Ava Gardner (The Killers and The Bribe), Cary Grant (Suspicion), Veronica Lake (The Glass Key), Fred MacMurray (Double Indemnity), Ray Milland (The Lost Weekend), Burt Lancaster (The Killers), Charles Laughton (The Bribe), Vincent Price (The Bribe), Barbara Stanwyck (Sorry, Wrong Number) and Lana Turner (Johnny Eager and The Postman Always Rings Twice). There is some funny dialogue and tiny moments of slapstick, even if you haven't seen the films placed in, this spoof is still one for the film buffs. Very good! "},{"Title":"A nifty and ingenious parody of 40's film noir thrillers","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Rugged private detective Rigby Reardon (a splendidly deadpan performance by Steve Martin) is hired by the enticing Juliet Forrest (marvelously essayed to sultry perfection by Rachel Ward) to investigate the murder of her scientist father. Of course, Reardon soon finds himself neck deep in all kinds of trouble as he tries to find out what really happened to Julie's dad. Director Carl Reiner tells the delightfully off the wall story at a constant fast pace, delivers a meticulous recreation of the 40's era (special kudos are in order for the sets and costumes), and shows a genuine affection for vintage 40's noir. It's a real treat to watch Martin interact with such past stars as Humphrey Bogart, James Cagney (in an especially hilarious scene in which Martin dresses up in drag as Cagney's mother so he can talk to Cagney in jail!), Ingrid Bergman, Veronica Lake, Ava Gardner, Charles Laughton, Ray Milland, Alan Ladd, Cary Grant, Barbara Stanwyck, Joan Crawford, and even Vincent Price; the editing is seamless and the jokes are bright and witty. Martin plays his role with great aplomb; he receives fine support from Ward, Reni Santoni as zealous police chief Carlos Rodriguez, and Reiner as nefarious Nazi villain Field Marshall Von Kluck. Martin's hard-boiled narration crackles with a lot of choice sharp one-liners and the movie boasts a nice sense of the ridiculous (I love the way Ward keeps removing bullets from Martin's hide with her teeth!). Michael Chapman's gorgeous, moody black and white cinematography perfectly captures that distinctive smoky film noir style. Miklos Rozsa's sweeping, melodramatic score likewise does the trick. A very funny and enjoyable one-of-a-kind comedy hoot. "}{"Title":"It shifted all outta whack","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Likable detective comedy with Steve Martin that is built around film noir clips. Steve Martin is great once again, Rachel Ward is a real dame and director Carl Reiner gives a memorable performance as evil Nazi mastermind von Kluck. The film starts off slow and gets better, but it's not as hilarious as I had hoped. While it's commendable how the authors managed to construct a plot around a fairly erratic selection of old movie clips, it also makes the story about as complex and confusing as The Big Sleep. I also have to admit that I am simply not knowledgeable enough about film noir to appreciate most of the clips; although I consider myself a movie buff and regularly watch classic movies, out of the movies used by DMDWP I had only seen, well, The Big Sleep.So still a good Steve Martin comedy. "},{"Title":"Overlooked by Myopic Awards","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" From the first time I saw this in the first-run theaters, I thought this movie would garner at the very LEAST some editing awards.But as we always see in these affairs, the really great contributions to cinema are woefully ignored, intentionally overlooked or baked over by the interests groups of the powers that be (payolas...).This is a masterpiece of construction in visuals, script, set decoration and so many other technical awards. As with Zelig...it is only NOW that people are lauding its true worth.I feel that something should be done to elevate this movie to its rightful place in the annals of creative wizardry. "},{"Title":"Still Uproarious Film Noir Pastiche Thanks to Clever Editing","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Carl Reiner's 1982 pastiche on 1940's film noir has never received its due as a genuinely clever, often hilarious salute to a genre that is ripe for satirical treatment. Filmed in a rich black-and-white by Michael Chapman, the film unique intercuts footage from actual films of the period to make it seem like the then-current actors are interacting with the stars of those movies. Consequently, Steve Martin looks convincingly like he's talking to the likes of Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep, James Cagney in White Heat, Ingrid Bergman in Notorious, Alan Ladd in This Gun for Hire, Burt Lancaster in The Killers, Kirk Douglas in I Walk Alone, Fred MacMurray in Double Indemnity, and several others. The result means there are some contrived plot turns and certainly variations in the graininess of the film stock (since 1982 was still well before the enhanced computer graphics we see today), but the film is still quite a kick after a quarter-century.The basic plot is straightforward. Rigby Reardon is a classic, world-weary gumshoe in the Philip Marlowe mold, who is hired by the beautiful and mysterious Juliet Forrest to find out who killed her father, a renowned cheese scientist. The story gets complicated because a number of random characters are introduced through the creative editing of the classic film clips. Reardon meets up with some familiar faces, and just to watch their non-reaction to Reardon's antics is worthwhile in itself. Credit needs to go to the smart screenplay co-written by Reiner, Martin and George Gipe. Most of the scenes, originally intended as straight melodrama in their original context, have been turned into uproarious slapstick comedy routines (including Martin in drag as Barbara Stanwyck's blonde femme fatale from Double Indemnity), wicked double-entendres and shrewdly off-kilter dialogue scenes.The film's climax lifts a long dramatic sequence from 1949's The Bribe in which Ava Gardner, Charles Laughton and Vincent Price actually appear to be playing more substantial roles in this movie. In what is probably my favorite of his early screen performances, Martin has a good time as Bogie wannabe Reardon, gratefully harnessing the manic energy he displayed in his previous collaboration with Reiner, The Jerk. Just before she broke out big in The Thorn Birds, the stunning Rachel Ward lends a hint of welcome sarcasm to the sexy, Bacall-like languor she provides as Juliet, tapping into a genuine comedy talent rarely used since. Reni Santoni has the only other role of significance as the grinning Captain Rodriguez, who gets entirely too preoccupied with Reardon's pajamas. Legendary costume designer Edith Head did her final work on this film, which is fitting since she did many of the costumes on the earlier films. The 1999 DVD unfortunately has no extras. "},{"Title":"Work of genius","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This has been one of my top five favorite movies since the first time I saw it. Steve Martin and Carl Reiner are a pair... nothing less than genius from two of the best. It is hard to imagine what the editors must have been thinking when splicing together all of the scenes in this movie. The writing fits perfectly and melds Steve Martin's Rigby Reardon character with scenes from some of my favorite film noir. Favorite scenes include Rigby inviting himself to a party hosted by Ingrid Bergman, the scenes with Humphrey Bogart (talking about Bogey's tie... too funny), Rachel Ward's Juliet removing the bullet from Rigby's arm, and it goes on and on. This is a must see for fans of Steve Martin, Carl Reiner, and all of those wonderful old movies. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this anymore","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film comfortably sits in my top 10 movies of all time - pure Steve Martin comedy genius. Filled with dry jokes and witty narrative, hilariously spoofing film noir - but still managing to contain that characteristic Martin craziness. The splicing of scenes including Gregory Peck, Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman is written so well (by Martin and Reiner) that it is sometimes not noticeable, due to a state of distress rolling on the floor in hilarity requires. The ending is a playful example of the downright silly comedy styles of Martin and Reiner - with Alan Ladd credited as 'Gunman at cheese factory', which pretty much sums up that slight change of tact. The voice-over is, equally a source of humour - parodying noir through slight twists of typical narration. I hope his (Martin's) adaption of hit play Picasso is a throw back to his movies like this - timeless comic masterpieces. Sir Martin, I salute you. "},{"Title":"A Word Of Advice - Never Fall In Love With Your Client","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Favorite Movie Quote - I'm re-adjusting your breasts. When you fainted they shifted out of whack. And, so, I was just re-aligning them for you. I'd easily say that this picture has got to be one of the best and most entertaining parodies of the 1940s Film Noir/Detective genre that I've ever seen.This film really delivers some great laughs.Filmed in glossy black and white, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid ingeniously weaves its plot and production design around numerous movies clips from such golden-oldie classics as This Gun For Hire, Double Indemnity, Notorious, The Big Sleep - To name but a few.Steve Martin plays Rigby Reardon, a $10-a-day gumshoe (working in Los Angeles) who is hired to solve a truly incomprehensible mystery that involves the apparent death of brilliant scientist, Dr. Forest.Reardon immediately smells a rat as he sets out to follow a complex maze of clues that eventually lead him to the Carlotta Lists of friends and enemies.Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid was directed by Carl Reiner and stars the gorgeous screen-siren, Rachel Ward. (Whatever became of the husky-voiced beauty, anyways?) "},{"Title":"The Greatest Homage to the Classics Film-Noir I Have Ever Seen","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The private eye Rigby Reardon (Steve Martin) receives the visit of Juliet Forrest (Rachel Ward), a client requesting his service for investigation of the death of her father in a car accident. Juliet believes he was murdered. While conducting the investigation, Rigby makes contact with Edward Arnold, Ingrid Bergman, Humphrey Bogart, James Cagney, Joan Crawford, Bette Davis, Kirk Douglas, Ava Gardner, Cary Grant, Alan Ladd, Veronica Lake, Burt Lancaster, Charles Laughton, Fred MacMurray, Ray Milland, Vincent Price, Barbara Stanwyck and Lana Turner, in a wonderful work of edition. I do not know how many times I have watched this movie. It is the greatest homage to the classics film-noir I have ever seen. The fantastic screenplay was certainly written by an expert in film-noir. The edition and the photography are outstanding. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) 'Cliente Morto Não Paga' ('Dead Client Doe Not Pay') "},{"Title":"Great Work From Martin and Reiner","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Film noir parody with a detective (Steve Martin) uncovering a sinister plot. Characters from real noirs appear as scenes from various films are intercut.This film seems to be best enjoyed by those who love film noir. I do not necessarily think that is a prerequisite, but if you are familiar with the older actors and the films that are mixed in here, you will probably get a little more out of it. (And, heck, if you have not seen these, I strongly recommend you rectify that.) I have a love-hate relationship with Steve Martin. Some of his stuff I think is genius and others I am left unfulfilled. Many people think The Jerk is among the greatest comedies of all time. I liked it, but have no desire to push it on others. This one I liked much more. "},{"Title":"Mostly carried by the old clips themslves, the idea, and by Martin, who is sharp--but where's the plot?","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid (1982)I'm a film noir buff. Fanatic. Devotee. So I really loved how this movie was made--not what happens in it, but the main trick of inserting real film noir clips with new footage starring Steve Martin. When it first happens (with Alan Ladd) it's like, what? Is this for real? And then it keeps happening, usually with easy cuts where the original noir shows someone on the phone and it can cut to Martin talking on the phone, or with two people on each side of a room or a door, the camera changing positions and allowing the cuts from one world to the other. In a few special cases they get fancier, like the Cary Grant insert--you'll have to see about that. (I just corrected the wikipedia page on this note.)I also think the director (and co-writer) Rob Reiner makes the new footage (which is 90 percent of the movie) take on an authentic black and white feel--heavy shadows, moving camera, and so on. Martin of course is a somewhat comic version of a film noir hero or anti-hero (this movie is a spoof overall) but he's got more presence than you might expect. It's smart and respectful and well done.What it lacks is a genuine plot. The many various clips require such somersaulting to work them into the script, any hope of an overarching drama is dashed. I found myself watching just to watch, and to wonder who would get included next. Martin's sidekick played by Rachel Ward is a bit drab, too, if pretty (she was a model) and is for some reason very English, a big monkeywrench in the film noir universe. Steve Martin deserves some admiration for pulling this off. There is not only a filming continuity needed but one of acting and delivery, which he masters. Now if only he and Reiner had a plot to carry the thing through as a movie, and not just a big, sophisticated, beautiful gag. "},{"Title":"The Genius of Steve Martin","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This may have been Steve Martin's funniest film. He had the idea of clipping segments of old B&W Film Noir flicks from the 40's and inserting himself and other actors in them by filming at various angles. It was a total riot! Very imaginative and subtle dialogue. Steve Martin keeps a straight face as the hard boiled detective who has his way with all the women. Hilarious to see the likes of Kirk Douglas, Humphrey Bogart, Fred MacMurray, Robert Mitchum, James Cagney, Lana Turner, Veronica Lake, Bette Davis, and all the rest...dealing with Steve Martin. The plot was ridiculous and Carl Reiner as a Nazi was too much. Then, there's that South American cop with the pajama fetish. Only Steve Martin could think up this crazy stuff. A film to enjoy over and over. "}{"Title":"Gum Shoes R Us","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" As a fully paid up film buff the main attraction for me was the inserts and the fact that they didn't consist merely of 'classics' but threw in stuff like 'The Bribe' and 'Deception'. The problem is, of course, that this is such an original idea that you can only do it once because any attempt to replicate it would inevitably be a parody of a parody. The three writers have opted for an ultra typical plot of the genre - 'professor/inventor/researcher/scientist', the type of man least likely to be married at all has a beautiful daughter who enlists the help of private heat to find his kidnappers/killers thus saving the time, trouble and expense of writing and finding a 'love-interest' figure. Steve Martin and Rachel Ward handle these chores competently and for good measure the writers throw in a wacky finale. Highly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Reiner and Martin Could Really COOK!","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In the autumn of 1983 I was visiting Minnesota, and rented this tape. My mother and I watched it (I was 33 then) together. She had obviously seen many of the films used as comic counterpoint to the Martin/Ward side and seen them in THEATRES! Anyway, there was laughter throughout the playback. The scenes that stand out are like the one where Ward's character reads the back of a newspaper that Rigby is reading... and faints. THEN Rigby muses a bit before 'massaging' her breasts... which wakes Ward up What are you doing? Uhhh, when you fell, your breasts were knocked out of whack. I'm trying to re-align them. Or words to that effect. Then at some point Rigby has to think up a name for a saint... and he hesitates for a few beats and then says Saint Betty. OK, I admit, my mother's name was Betty, so it had more comic impact.The other comments about razor edged inter-cutting of scenes (for comic effect) are very accurate. This was a very good movie to watch straight through, without interruptions.About the Zelig film. While that film didn't make as deft use of stock footage, Woody and his technical people were VERY good at inserting the Zelig character into the stock footage itself. So while there are similarities to the two films, to my recollection, there were no Martin scenes inside the film noir excerpts. I think that there was a later Allen film that pretty much sucked where he tried to do large scale image alterations, but Zelig - with the first class narrative done BY a documentary/news personality - made it's points, both as comedy and social commentary.I'll probably check out Zelig and this one on the near future. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Homage to the Film Noir","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I confess not to be a big fan of Steve Martin, an actor whose comedies I find to be too often on the exaggeration side of the joke, playing all the time almost in the same register. Yet, Carl Reiner's Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is in many instances a charm, and it also succeeds to be funny and respectful in its reverence to the film noir movies of the 40s and 50s.Even the much younger Steve Martin, with black hair and sparkling eyes looks here completely fresh as private eye Rigby Reardon, hired to solve a Californian mystery which combines all the 1940s detective novels that you may have read and the films inspired by them all together. The trick used by director Reiner is to take full scenes from original film noir movies, mix, edit and insert them into his own story line. Martin gets the privilege to talk and interact with the greater idols of the genre, from Humphrey Bogart to Cary Grant, while the feminine interest is being triggered by such divine silhouettes as Ingrid Bergman or Ava Gardner. Borrowed scenes come from famous movies like Notorious, Suspicion, or The Big Sleep, but you need not worry, there is no real scary stuff, it is all fun.I do not know if Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid received any award, but the cinematography, editing and make-up are all amazing. The look with the original scenes filmed in black-and-white strongly reminds The Artist, but only a fraction of the scenes are original, the majority are cut from various sources, and combined, so that the heroes of the film talk and interact with the original film characters. It's a smart idea and it is almost flawlessly executed, so that the film runs smoothly. I said the film, not the story, which is a parody, and there is no mandatory minimal dose of logic in a parody. Best for future viewers is to take this film for what it is &#x96; a big joke, but an elaborated one, combined with an homage for a literary and cinematographic genre that thrilled many generations. "},{"Title":"Carlotta was the kind of town where they spell trouble T-R-U-B-I-L, and if you try to correct them, they kill you","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Carl Reiner's collage film homage and/or parody to 1940s film noirs and thrillers is unusually funny and a clever example of placing movie scenes in a new context as a means for comedy. I'm not sure if you actually need to be familiar with the noirs that the film borrows from, but having only seen one (the excellent Notorious) of the nineteen films from which scenes are lifted, I didn't get much enjoyment through recognition.I used to think that the film would have been successful even without the recycling of old material, but it struck me this time that that would wipe out the entire movie. Nevertheless, the funniest part is Steve Martin's deadpan narration that helps framing the clips. The only thing that I don't think is very funny is the recurring cleaning woman gag, but that still makes for a very high success rate. "},{"Title":"Smart, in more ways than several","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" To explain, should it be necessary, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is a black and white crime thriller set in the 40s, starring Steve Martin and a host of the top noir actors and actresses of the 40s, created by taking assorted scenes from those classic movies of the past and hanging them on a framework of a newly written story centred on Martin's character.The idea is smart. The screenplay is smart in the way that it cleverly integrates the old and the new. The film is technically smart in the way it seamlessly joins footage shot in the 1980s with footage from various films shot 40 years earlier. And the performances are particularly smart in the way that they play to the knowing humour underlying the whole project which remaining true to the spirit of the originals.Oh, did I mention that it's very funny? "},{"Title":"The people that brought you The Jerk(1979), try to make it up to you.","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The funny teaming of Carl Reiner and Steve Martin after The Jerk(1979), brought you a funny send up of private eye films of the 1940's, but instead of it being just a simple spoof, the filmmakers went further, on having old film footage of great actors like Bette Davis, Barbara Stanwyck, Alan Ladd, and Humphrey Bogart for Steve Martin to play off of. The results is a funny mystery, I like the way it was in black and white, it blends in well with the old footage. It begins with detective Rigby Reardon(The always funny Steve Martin), is hired by Juliet Forrest(The gorgeous and talented Rachel Ward) to solve the mysterious death of her father, Reardon starts to investigate, but will he get into deep? A classic comedy for years to enjoy, Steve Martin and the old film footage blends in well together, it almost looks real. Steve Martin is funny, even when moments he's not trying to hard to be funny, he's even funnier. So is Rachel Ward, she's enjoyable to watch, even when she plays off Martin So We'll. If you are in the mood for a comedy classic with Steve Martin, then go out and rent Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid. "},{"Title":"Clever Movie Making, In Many Ways","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When you think of it, this is a very inexpensive way to produce a movie. Imagine what it would have cost to hire **real** actors for all those scenes lifted from the old detective pictures. This movie actually has a quite small cast, with one of the parts played by writer/director Carl Reiner--more money saved! The marvelously talented Reni Santoni, who portrays a South American policeman to hilarious effect, is a Reiner favorite. Santoni actually played a character based on the young Carl Reiner in the semi-autobiographical Enter Laughing fifteen years earlier.There is much clever writing here and Steve Martin's deadpan style of comedy is right on the money. As this is satire, not drama, the virtual absence of plot isn't a major flaw. Likewise the limited acting skills of Rachel Ward who only has to do sexy. "},{"Title":"You need a cup of my java","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There are two key ingredients to producing a good spoof. Not only should the film satirise a specific work or genre, but it must serve just as well as a homage. Were 'Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid (1982)' to have been made by filmmakers with no interest in film noir, it most certainly would not have been such an enjoyable comedy. Director Carl Reiner and lead actor Steve Martin instead actively embrace the clichés and conventions of the noir style, adding their own jokes, of course, but primarily drawing humour from the characters' deadpan reactions to ridiculous scenarios. Accusations that the film is a mere gimmick comedy are well-founded but misguided - Rigby Reardon's interactions with cinema's classic hard-boiled characters including Humphrey Bogart, Ray Milland and James Cagney, via archival footage, are an inspired opportunity for storytelling creativity, and the writers' ability to meld these disjointed episodes into a coherent and entertaining narrative deserves to be applauded. Why this hilarious film isn't ranked alongside classics like 'Young Frankenstein (1974)' is beyond me.Private detective Reardon (Martin) opens the picture like most of his predecessors did. As he sits in his office, considering closing down for a few days, he is unexpectedly interrupted by a beautiful woman at the door. The intelligent and sophisticated Juliet Forrest (Rachel Ward) begins to speak, but, upon noticing the newspaper headline of her father's death, suddenly faints into Rigby's arms. So far, we've stayed pretty true to the source material. But then, noticing the breathtaking prettiness of his (unconscious) female visitor, Rigby confirms her existence by kissing her and fondling her breasts. When Juliet awakens and dazedly asks Rigby what he's doing, the detective offers the logical answer, with a straight face that only Steve Martin could have delivered. Rachel Ward has a bit of Lauren Bacall about her, quietly seductive without being openly so. In a nod to Bacall's famous put your lips together and blow line from 'To Have and Have Not (1944),' the film features Juliet's similar instructions on how to use a telephone. The remainder of the cast is derived almost exclusively from 1940s cinema.What makes 'Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid' unique among spoof comedies is its use of archive footage from classic film noir thrillers. The film's most deserving geniuses are those who worked on the editing, costumes and set decoration. Notably, this was the last contribution of legendary costume designer Edith Head, who, ironically, was asked to precisely replicate some of her own previous work from the 1940s. Editor Bud Molin did absolute wonders with the footage he was given - not only are we duped into believing that Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray from 'Double Indemnity (1944)') might conceivably have fallen for Steve Martin in a blonde wig, but he even somehow manages to transform Ingrid Bergman (in'Notorious (1946)') into a sinister, scheming seductress. While the jokes very occasionally skirt the borders of credulity (the bullet sucking medical treatment) and good taste (the adjustments), Carl Reiner's comedy is largely a mature and affectionate love-letter to a style of film that they just don't make like they used to. "},{"Title":"Silly but FUN!","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I watched this twice this day and then hollered for my husband to see this. He actually laughed aloud during scenes where I rolled my eyes. HOWEVER, I must add that I too had a fun time. I DID enjoy the premise meaning the interaction/interjection of the '40's film noir characters slipped into this.I also admit that going in I knew that the combo of Steve Martin with Carl Reiner's direction it was going to be somewhat silly but wow, it was done wonderfully..AND again I had a fun time. Being that gorgeous Rachel Ward agreed to costar in this was a plus...shows she had a tremendous sense of humor let alone shedding any ego.Oh see it...it's in the caliber of something Mel Brooks would pull-off. I DVR'd it and I may watch it another 20 times! "},{"Title":"I hadn't seen a body put together like that since I solved the case of the Murdered Girl with the Big Tits!","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Rigby Reardon is a private dick in every sense of the word. A black and white throwback to the 1940's and 50's who lives in a world of tough guys and femme fatales, where everyone and everything is covering up for something ...Or someone. That is till the beautiful Juliet Forrest shows up with a case that may just be worth dying for as she tries to find her missing father and discover just who or what are the friends of Carlotta and the enemies of Carlotta. In order to do that Rigby enlists the help from the greatest detective of all time, Philip Marlowe, and nods his hat to every great star of the era in this brilliant and largely forgotten Steve Martin film from a time when he was heading back to the top and working damn hard to do so.This is the second great collaboration he did with the writer/director Carl Reiner, and while the man with two brains may be more laugh out loud funny, there have been few films more clever inventive and downright audacious in their attempt to recreate a bygone era by basically, well, stealing it! The script is extremely clever and the scene when he is being warned off using a former girlfriend for an assignment is hilarious with Kirk Douglas as a particular nasty henchman. The merging of past and present stars is very effective and like Roger Rabbit which came after it's a job in itself to spot whose in it and what film that were originally in.Add to this a great score which perfectly encapsulate the feel of the era and you have a great fun film that's as timeless as the classics it rips off.Good stuff! "}{"Title":"Quite possibly Steve Martin's most underrated hour","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is one of Steve Martin's lesser known films. It was the second of four Martin made with director Carl Reiner. But its never achieved the classic status of The Jerk or The Man With Two Brains. And that's a shame. Because its one of the most ambitious and conceptually audacious films Martin has ever starred in.I get the impression not just any actor could have pulled this off, but Martin does. Very successfully too if I do say so. And I don't envy his task. He's starring in a film made up of many different clips from films of the 1940s and 50s. DMDWP is a film more smooth than it has a right to be. Thanks to Martin's perfect comic timing.The film is designed as an affectionate spoof of hard-boiled detective stories. And Martin is right at the centre of it as gumshoe Rigby Reardon. I won't bother going into detail about the plot. Probably because its best not to think about it too much while watching DMDWP. The amusement comes from Martin's deadpan Rigby, and how he plugs into the vast assortment of clips Reiner has put together.DMDWP is right out of a Raymond Chandler novel. Where detectives are hard-boiled burn outs and women are impeccably dressed and dripping with attitude. And makes it the springboard for one of the wackiest film-noirs you'll ever see.Just about every actor from the Golden Age of Cinema appears in DMDWP. Although Lauren Bacall is a conspicuous absentee. But its the way the film incorporates footage from more films than I can count that makes what you're seeing so special. We're talking about different classics, all with vastly different plots. And Reiner combines them in a way that verges on the inspired.Its all typical film-noir. Complete with dark alleys, femme fatales and exotic locales. Shot in beautifully crisp B&W. And right in the middle of it is a hair-dyed Steve Martin.His latest case is the murder of cheese-maker(!) Dr John Forrest. His daughter Juliet Forrest (Rachel Ward) brings Rigby in to do some investigating. I can't really say anymore, because its such a wacky investigation. But it includes everything from sucking bullets out of chest wounds, Rigby's custom-made Java to wearing a blonde wig and a dress.What a brilliant film this is! I have no idea when Reiner and Martin dreamt this up. And its a film that shouldn't even begin to work. But oddly enough it does. The filmmakers have set themselves a real arduous task. But somehow they take these wildly different plots from all over the place and turn it into an almost cohesive film. Remember, I said almost!OK, I'll be honest with you. DMDWP doesn't always make a lot of sense. But then film-noir usually doesn't. Even Raymond Chandler had trouble keeping up with The Big Sleep while he was writing it! But the fact that the film makes any kind of coherent sense at all is down to Steve Martin.He has seldom been better in anything else. Martin was still in his crazed, manic man phase, so the role of Rigby Reardon was something of a pleasant diversion. Martin was a real trooper. Going far above and beyond the call of duty. Most of the time he has to talk to thin air. While the footage is incorporated at a later date. I suppose you can tell where the reality ends and the footage begins. It is noticeably grainier, but Martin makes sure every scene hits it's mark.There are so many great little gags. Particularly inspired is the way DMDWP takes scenes from these films that are meant to be deadly serious and reworks them through clever editing and Martin's reactions so they become comedic instead. I especially loved Rigby's conversations with Humphrey Bogart's Philip Marlowe. And the scene where he throttles Bette Davis is unnerving.Martin gets a lot of droll dialogue that he delivers to perfection. I had no idea that he had such a talent for deadpan humour. And he gets to show off his talent for physical comedy too. The scene where he makes coffee has to be seen to be believed. I don't want to spoil it for you, but it provides one of the greatest sight gags you'll ever see.Aside from Martin, the only other person who provides a human element is Rachel Ward. She certainly looks enticing, but she is occasionally a little bland. She never quite sizzles the way you expect her to.But that doesn't matter. Because this is Martin's show. DMDWP was also one of the rare occasions where he had the opportunity to flex his considerable skills as a writer. I'm sure he's tailored a few situations to match his talents. But whether it calls for him to be deadpan or (occasionally) manic, Martin does brilliantly.Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid does admittedly run out of steam about 10 minutes before the end. As soon as it runs out of clips to use, the film loses some momentum. But even still, its a very, very good film indeed. One of Steve Martin's best. A tightly plotted, gag-packed laugh-a-thon that doesn't deserve obscurity. And getting to see Martin with dark hair is worth the price of admission alone! "},{"Title":"Payamas!","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Who cares about the plot in this wonderful comedy! It's about as important as the search for the greatest egg salad recipe in Woody Allen's What's Up Tiger Lily. In fact, a sensible plot would have detracted from the comedy and wonderful editing of old film clips. I watched this twice recently on cable (it's one of those movies, like Airplane, that once you start watching, you can't turn it off. This time around I found Reni Santoni's obsession with Rigby's pajamas hilarious. How did I miss it last time? I'm still laughing about it a few days later and am picking up a DVD tonight. Martin was great -- I love his sleight-of-hand tricks, the coffee, lighting both ends of the cigarette, tearing it in half and offering one half to Rachel Ward (spoof of Paul Henreid in Now, Voyageur.) Sweinhundt! (sp) Jerk! and so many other great moments. As for Terre Haute -- why not Terre Haute? It could have been any of a million other towns, DeKalb, Ill., where I live, for example. "},{"Title":"Don't worry about your Payamas!","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I saw this when it came out in the theaters and it didn't work for me at all.... Over the years I would catch a bit on T.V. here and there and it would seem funnier than I remembered...I took the tape out of the library and thought I would give it another try, having been on a bit of a film noir jag. I think I am going to rank it as a small classic; perhaps as good as Carl's old partner's best film Young Frankenstein. Admittedly, you have to get on the frequency of extreme silliness that Martin and Reiner ask you accept without forcing things. Some of the gag's meander a bit, like Bogart's Marlowe; yet I somehow feel Bogie's odd, bemused non reaction to the mayhem is perfect. He may fit into this movie better than Beat The Devil.Martin get's a chance to do some of his best ever physical comedy. And hat's off to Rachel Ward, who looks great and finds just the right tone for this somewhat odd acting assignment. She can adjust my willie anytime. "},{"Title":"Don't watch it if you hate Film Noir","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A one joke movie- but its a great joke.1940s gumshoe Rigby ReardonSteve Martin gets a visit by sultry client Rachel Ward whose father has gone missing. Then the fun begins.Set in and around 40s LA, this film combines Martin interacting with clips of characters and scenes from classic 40s noir.He gets advice from Marlowe- the actual clip of Bogart is shown and flawlessly inserted into the film. Along the way, he gets to interact with Alan LaddThis Gun For Hire, Barbara Stanwick and Fred Mac Murrayfrom Double Indemnity, Burt Lancasterfrom The Killers, Cagney The prison scene from White Heat Cary Grant from Suspicion Edward Arnold, Bette Davis, Charles Laughton, etc. This film works like a charm because it parodies the noir that it spoofs in a lovable and respectable way. It is never held up to ridicule. The beautiful black and white photography and costume designs by the late great Edith Head all work as one.The ending is a riot! If director Reiner playing a Nazi with a bogus German accent doesn't make you laugh, hothing will. Its all there- the seedy office, the rainy nights, the 40s cars, and the typical noir jargon that made these films great. Ir will probably appeal more to film buffs than the average viewer, but thats OK. Martin has never been better- and Rachel Ward is a knockout too.Great fun! "},{"Title":"Dead Men Don't  Wear  Plaid","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Gumshoe dick Steve Martin is called on by lovely Rachel Ward to find her missing father, a cheese manufacturer. When he finds a list containing names, people put a licking on him to keep those names from turning up in the wrong hands.An exhilarating, amazing, and rewarding film experience for Classic Movie fans, most of the key characters in this plot are played, through astonishing editing by Bud Molin, terrific cinematography by Michael Chapman, marvelous period costumes from Edith Head(her final film for which this is dedicated), by classic film stars such as Ava Gardner, Bette Davis, Barbara Stanwyck, Ray Milland, Humphrey Bogart, Cary Grant, Ingrid Bergman, among others as they are confronted through meetings and conversations from detective Martin.The flawless, seamless ability to place Martin in scenarios with so many stars of the great films from the 40's and 50's is such a pleasure to behold. Sure, many might feel some of the comedy falls flat, but I think Martin(..and Ward & Carl Reiner who also directed)is perfectly cast. His scenes dressed as a woman are hilarious especially when he kisses Ward and confronts James Cagney(..from his role in White Heat portraying his mother). "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie.","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is very funny and well written, it is another classic comedy by the great Steve martin and excellent Carl reiner.The night i first watched this movie, my dad had told me he thought it was very funny and said id like it.Well because i have a good sense of humor, i just loved this movie for all the comedy it had in it.I think it is great how they take the old detective type movies and make it into this comedy, what a excellent idea to have Steve martin in it.I love movies and comedy is one of my favorite type of movies to watch, dead men don't wear plaid is one of the best out there.If you want to watch a good comedy or wanna watch a pretty well done movie, then i say watch dead men don't wear plaid and have a good time. "},{"Title":"a class in advanced editing for future filmakers","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutely adored this film.It is by far Carl Reiner's best work.The way he put together the old films from the fourties,together with Steve,was brilliant.Some of the lines were a bit corny,but you expect that with Steve and with Carl.He truly captured and satirized the film noir genre.no one could have played such a cool character in such an uncool way as Martin.if you have ever even had an inkling you wanted to be a filmaker,then this is more of a must see than Citizen Kane.rp "},{"Title":"Private detective Martin","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Rachel Ward plays femme fatale called Juliet Forrest who comes to private detective Rigby Reardon (Steve Martin) to ask for help.And how could Rigby say no to a beautiful woman who keeps collapsing.Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid from 1982 is a brilliant crime comedy from Carl Reiner.Reiner himself plays Field Marshal Von Kluck.The movie is black and white and you can see a punch of old film noir stars from the 40's and the 50's in the movie.Humphrey Bogart is Rigby's assistant.Then there are stars such as Bette Davis, Kirk Douglas, Cary Grant with lots of others.Your job is to recognize them.Steve Martin is an excellent comedian and he does brilliant work in this cult classic.And Rachel's not bad either.This movie offers you lots of laughs.It's impossible to get bored with Martin and the gang.I guarantee it.I recommend Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid for everyone who is a fan of good comedy. "},{"Title":"More hits than misses","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  OK, the plot is ridiculously weak, and the film loses it's way a little at the end. But Steve Martin was rarely better, Rachel Ward was NEVER better (funny how someone with nothing else worthwhile to her name can be quite so good in this), and the rest of the cast is phenomenal. The inter-cutting is cleverly and convincingly done, the gags hit more times than they miss and the whole is a worthwhile watch for anyone with a penchant for 40s film noir and enjoys a game of name-that-star.Probably the saddest thing is that it's unlikely that Steve Martin will ever make me laugh this much again. Despite its failings well worth the 8 I've given it. "},{"Title":"Unjustly neglected, even by Steve Martin","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  In several interviews over the years, Steve Martin has only once even obliquely mentions this film.  He is almost as mum on the subject of Pennies From Heaven (which I do not care for) and The Man With Two Brains which has a brilliant running joke about names).  His apparent refusal to acknowledge this film is curious, as its deadpan humor is right on target, and the level of technical achievement in writing, editing, and set and costume design is extraordinary.Perhaps the gimmickry of the film's premise and construction puts people off.  Seeing past the fact that the film even exists can be a bit of a task. I first saw it on cable, and got over the Gee, whiz hurdle by watching it several times.  But the narration and dialogue got my attention as well, and viewing it repeatedly was not a chore.Martin's constrained physical humor is an extension, however illogical, of action one might see in the original films-- turning the usual business with coins and cigarettes into coin and cigarette tricks.  And the whole procedure of making some of his famous java for Kirk Douglas is beautifully done.Several years ago, I saw this film broadcast on regular television, and that broadcast included about fifteen minutes of material involving a Marlowe's girlfriend subplot.  This material clarifies some issues in the plot of the theatrical release, and probably should have been included in it.  The last time I saw the film on television, this additional material was not included.I'm still waiting for the sequel; never mind the possible nude scene by Juliet. "}{"Title":"a wacky, brilliant technical achievement","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a must for any fan of Hollywood film-noir of the 40s. This movie seemlessly blends scenes from great films like Hitchcock's Notorious and Billy Wilder's Double Indemnity with a very funny story that has Steve Martin and Rachel Ward actually interacting with the likes of Bette Davis, Cary Grant, Alan Ladd, and Jimmy Cagney.  No Forrest Gump-like morphing or other compter generated tricks, just clever writing and perfect wardrobe and lighting that constantly amazes.  This plays well even if you haven't seen the classic films that the clips were borrowed from, but the more familiar you are with the material, the more amazed and amused you will be.  This is Carl Reiner's best, most inventive work and Steve Martin is perfect.   "},{"Title":"Strange text","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" While watching DMDWP for the 13th time I noticed something I hadn't noticed before. When Steve Martin is about to chase Vincent Price through the streets of Carlotta, there appears the letters PEDR, all caps, on the upper right side of my screen. It's only there for a split second but it's definitely there. It actually flashes twice. The first appearance is when Carlos says Don't worry about your pajamas, señor When he says about, there it is. The second appearance coincides with the word, señor. This thing has really got me baffled. Does anyone know what this means? Funny thing is, I've seen the movie over a dozen times but I never noticed until now. "},{"Title":"Classically Classy","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Being an old movie freak (I may be the only high schooler who can quote Breakfast at Tiffany's word for word), this picture was a joy to watch! The film clips substituted into the film is a brilliant way to tell the story, although the cleaning lady was a little odd.... Very nice performance by Steve Martin! Recommended to all old movie fans, and lovers of great comedy!! "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Dead Men don't Wear Plaid is a great idea that stands up as a very good execution of film noir, probably because it borrowed from some fantastic movies.  The plot takes bits and pieces of some great film noir movies of the 30's and 40's and splices them into a new plot featuring Steve Martin as a detective who tries to solve the mystery surrounding the name Carlotta.  The plot is excellent and could also have been done to great effect without the comedy.  Steve Martin makes a nice detective and most of the spliced scenes work well.  The movie drags in the middle as Martin recruits ex-girlfriends and a few other scenes seem to be added for padding.  The music is fantastic and sets the mood perfectly as being thick and depressing, especially in scenes at the end. You really get the feeling that Martin is a down and nearly out personality and that the world is dark and sad.  Great entertainment. 6.5/10                  "},{"Title":"A truly unique comedy","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The interwoven footage from 1940s films noires are masterful. One of the few comedies I can watch over and over. Anticipating the gags just makes it funnier. Steve Martin and Rachel Ward are great in this movie "},{"Title":"one of my favorite comedies","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite comedies of all time.  The one-liners are great, Steve Martin is at his best, and Rachel Ward is beautiful.  You should be a fan of silly humor, otherwise you may not like it.  I have seen this one many times and still enjoy it. "},{"Title":"a feast of recognition...","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent movie. The makers have put a lot of time in research, gathering short fragments of a number of black and white so-called films noir, and adapting the main story so it fits perfectly with all these shots. Thus you see bit parts by famous actors of the past, like Humphrey Bogart, Burt Lancaster and Alan Ladd and by actresses like Barbara Stanwyck, Veronica Lake and Ava Gardner.The reason why I think this movie, although still very good, is not quite as brilliant as it might have been, is that Steve Martin is terribly overacting. He is playing a tough guy private detective, in the Mickey Spillane tradition. And some comic things he does (like with the cigarette) really only enhance his performance, but there are other moments, like with the 'cleaning woman', that are totally ridiculous.Rachel Ward plays his paying client, and does this excellently. Apart from being an extremely beautiful woman and a very capable drama actress, she proves to be a fine comedienne as well, at least a fine straight (wo-)man.For film freaks this movie is a feast of recognition. "},{"Title":"dead men live on in plaid","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I found the movie an enjoyable viewing i am a great fan of the earlier movies like white heat, dial m for murder, the killers and how these were implanted into the plot was very clever. Mr Martin played a very convincing role in the unfolding of the movie his script blended  well. I loved the scene in the prison where martin was  the prisoners mother and how he was really getting to like  dressing up. In all the movie ran very smooth and every scene linked to the next.Dead men don't wear plaid is a one of a kind. "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Steve Martin's portraying of Rigby Reardon was fabulous.  Martin, who never ceases to amaze me, put on another fabulous show of talent.  I loved how the film was interwoven with clips from vintage movies like Sorry Wrong Number, which was a classic radio show.  I had a teacher who played a tape of the radio show for my 8th grade English class 3 yrs ago, and it was one of my fave parts in the film.  The thing I thought was twisted is that if anyone said Cleaning lady. in front of Reardon, he flipped out and attempted to strangle them.  This film was cool because it's as old as I am, and looks about 50 years older.  Martin looked much younger with dark hair.  The screenplay was outstanding, and snaps to Carl Reiner, who did a great job of directing Steve Martin in another great film, just like the Jerk, and All of Me, which I loved!  Be sure to read that review.  Anyways, I highly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys detective films.  Oh, and Steve, stay out of drag!!!   "},{"Title":"Very original, very enjoyable","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is really an original. It filmed in black and white and tries to capture the mood of the crime movies of the 40's and 50's and succeeds in it. Blended into the story are loads of scenes with Hollywood greats (from their movies from the 40's and 50's) that sometimes don't blend in too well, but I can forgive that because the idea is so good.There's also plenty of room for funny scenes with steve martin. If you like him, you should watch this. It takes a bit of effort to go watch a b/w movie, but it's worth it.I give it a 9. "}{"Title":"Well worth of a couple of laughs","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you have to say something about Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid that would be it's brilliant at places, but mostly okay. It's not the greatest comedy ever made, but it does give couple of laughs.DMDWP is a parody of film noir type of detective films, ala The Maltese Falocn. It actually takes the parody as far, as it's fully black and white and it even uses some old footage from the noir movies of 40's and 50's, so we have a change of seeing stars like Ava Gardner, Cary Grant and Humphrey Bogart in scenes whit Steve Martin.I suppose no one is surprised with the plot, as it's constructed from every cliché in the book. Some jokes work well, some don't, just like with the movie cuts. Some fit in very well and are quite hilarious, but some of them feel just a bit of Hey, we need to have him/her on the film. Let's ad this kind of scene. kind of a solution.There are couple of sex jokes in it, but mostly they are quite tame, when compared in jokes on the teen comedies of today. The jokes are probably tamer than in Bowfinger, but more gross than in, say, The Father of The Bride, but it's not as good as the Bowfinger. "},{"Title":"For classic film buffs","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Steve Martin is a Sam Spade-type detective who takes a case for a beautiful woman (Rachel Ward) in Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid. Like the 1983 Zelig, the film deftly mixes actual old clips in with the storyline very cleverly. In this case, the clips are all from old black and white movies featuring some of our biggest and most beloved stars Ava Gardner, Barbara Stanwyck, Joan Crawford, Ingrid Bergman, Bette Davis, Alan Ladd, Burt Lancaster, Humphrey Bogart, Ray Milland, and others, all of whom have roles opposite Martin with the help of intercuts and some great editing.Besides these costars, Martin has one from the '80s, Rachel Ward, who fits in beautifully with the past goddesses. Martin is hilarious as PI Rigby Reardon. Of course, in order for some of these clips to work, his dialogue had to make sense as well, which makes it even more fun. I think the scene visiting Jimmy Cagney in prison is still my favorite, along with his impersonation of a beautiful blond in a grocery store (the scene from Double Indemnity). We always see Martin from the back and then it cuts to his costar. Edith Head's recreation of the costumes is mind-boggling, and there is a lovely tribute to her at the end of the film, as this was her last.This film is very entertaining, though it has no real story and the gimmick wears thin toward the end. It's still a lot of fun and frankly better than Martin's latest recreations of light '60s movies - though you can see he had remakes in mind even back then. "},{"Title":"My favourite Steve Martin film...","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've always been a fan of film noir, and this particular spoof of the genre is one of my favourite films of all time.The ingenious method of mixing Martin in with film clips of older characters is ingenious. And if you consider that they managed to make the story work somehow, as silly as it is, then you have to give Reiner, Martin and the rest of the filmmakers quite a bit of credit.Also, Martin somehow manages to bring the right combination of playing it straight, along with elements of the aforementioned silliness, to perfection. He somehow imbues his character with the right degree of sardonic hardboiled style that was more prevalent in characters like Philip Marlowe than one would think...and I'm also saying this as fan of Chandler's! Couple all this with the lovely Rachel Ward, Reni Santoni with a payamas obsession, and Carl Reiner as Von Cluck, then you have a great slice of comedy for anyone who was a fan of 40's noir, and of a time when Steve Martin was still making good movies. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable!","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you love black and white classics with an upbeat of today, This movie is for you. Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is a movie that combines ambiance with retrospection of all the classics with a few change of characters. You got a private investigator Rigby Reardon(Steve Martin) who's the only character who interacts with all the classic scenes with the stars of yesteryear. If I was a fiction character like that, I would do the same thing myself. The real funny parts I like is when the P.I. is a complete sucker for a drink. Always being slipped a Mickey, has the was of getting shot and Juliet(Rachel Ward) would suck out the bullet. I like the cigarette scene where he does the magic trick with it before he smokes it. That scene is SMOOTH! Another funny scene I like is when he shaves his tongue. My Question is what is he, a cat? Everyone at the end gets an adjustment which think is a big question mark to me. Other than that, If it's that good, why not? Rating 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Deadpan hilarity that might've been even better without the tricks","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" True, the surrounding script could have been even funnier. But I've no reason to complain. Very nicely put together indeed. Most of the clips from the old films work wonderfully in the context, some are a bit more off editing- and humour-wise - not too much, though. The resulting exchanges between Martin and the bogarts are often very amusing, but some of the clip-free moments are so good one can't help but wonder what would've happened if they had done it without the extracts. That question remains, as does another one Did I just contradict myself?Everything from the title sequences to the choreography is done in homage to noir. I know nothing of music, I'll tell you that, but the score here by Miklós Rózsa plays amusingly on its predecessors and is otherwise one of the best I've paid attention to - which would elsewhere be noted as a bad thing; here, it's part of the joke and thus allowed to distract. The film looks fantastic, too.The dialogue is easily described it's hilarious, the ultimate highpoint to me, perhaps, being the I hadn't seen a body put together like that since... voice-over. Great straight-faced delivery from the cast adds to the mix. It's not just the dialogue, though; there's more sucking, sliding, silhouettes, shaving (which reminds me, even the trailer is very funny)... Martin's here at the top of his game - or at one of them, at least.I shall watch this one again many a time, I presume. Highly recommended this is by me. I very rarely laugh out loud when watching movies. Here has been such an occasion. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly entertaining","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this in the theatre when it came out, and really enjoyed it. I've always been a fan of Steve Martin's, but they out-did themselves with this one. I've watched it probably 10 times, and still enjoyed it on the 10th as much as I did on the first. That's the best recommendation I can give for a movie; the more watchings it bears up under, then the better it must be. "},{"Title":"Cool dick solves bizarre case","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Way too cool private detective takes on a case for a gorgeous Brit and meets all kinds of strange and kooky characters. I loved this one; funny, sharp dialogue, and the way the writers melded the old with the new.... too much! Ward was her usual tantalizing self and Martin deftly handled the ins and outs with all the old films with ease and immense charm. This is one you don't want to miss.  "},{"Title":"Funny. Good clean entertainment.  It paved the way for the brillent Holsten adverts.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid.  I just love it.  I must have seen it 50 times. I originally saw it when it was first released on video, and thought it was just amazing.  I laughed the whole way through.  We now own it on DVD and it is just brilliant they way they mixed the old and new movies together, even with the quality of a DVD it is still difficult to see where they have mixed the old and the new.  Steve Martin is very soave, but ridiculous at the same time, and Rachel Ward is stunning and her looks fit the era perfectly.  I am surprised we haven't seen a sequel.  When I watch it now, I find myself sadly reciting the actors' lines and laughing before the comic scenes, how sad is that?  But hey I don't care.  It's a brilliant piece of art, and good family entertainment too boot.  What and inspiring film for up and coming film makers. "},{"Title":"Clever and entertaining","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Steve Martin has created many memorable films over the years. With Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid he pays a loving tribute to the great film noire classics of the 40's and early 50's. But, of course, being Steve Martin, the end result is a witty and entertaining spoof.Martin plays Rigby Reardon, a typical hard-boiled detective in the Phillip Marlowe/Sam Spade mold, Rachel Ward (who, by the way, has never looked lovlier,) is Julia Forest, the slinky dame who collapses in his office (the scene of what Martin does, and his explanation, when she passes out in his arms is hilarious.)The real hook of this film, however, is Martin's co-stars such names as Humphrey Bogart, Joan Crawford, Lana Turner, Kirk Douglas, Ava Gardner, James Cagney, Bette Davis, Burt Lancaster, to name but a few. Martin and director Carl Reiner have worked wonders with their film Cuisinart, splicing these legends from various classics so that they neatly dovetail into the new plot.Something should also be said for the electricity between Martin and Ward. They will remind any great film afficianado of Bogey and Bacall! (There's even a reference to the famous You know how to whistle, don't you? line.)All in all, a very entertaining movie, and I'm sure they didn't have to really pay out for a cast, either!  "},{"Title":"Genius!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  For me, it is a thrill to see so many classic suspense movies used, creatively, and in such a way that they are parodied as well as embraced. Steve Martin is at his goofy best as Rigby Reardon, a slapstick gumshoe who has a talent for adjusting women's breasts.  He takes on a case to find the father of Juliet Forrest (Rachel Ward), whose expertise in cheese mold is being used to terrorize the world. Dead Men ... is a side-splitting, laughfest.  Don't miss it.  "}{"Title":"absolute genius","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I don't think anyone who didn't live in the movies of the thirties and forties can fully appreciate the absolute genius of this movie. Carl Reiner combined with Steve Martin have woven scenes from the great old black and white movies into similar new scenes to make a coherent great new movie that is really funny. I liked the scenes where Rachel Ward dug the bullets out of Rigby with her teeth, mumbly peg style. And Rigby cleaning his gun in a sink full of soapy water. Plus a hundred quickies like when Rigby was adjusting Rachel Wards breasts because when she fainted, they shifted all out of whack. I have seen this movie several times and it just keeps getting better. "},{"Title":"Witty and funny - One of the best movies I've seen in my lifetime.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great movie and a lot of good laughs. I love the characters and sassyness and the thrilling story. First I really believed it was from the 1940s - it's that real even though done in 1982. Very well shot and witty dialogues. Rachel Ward (as Juliet Forrest) is such a wonderful and beautiful woman - I really adore her. This movie can be viewed many times and never gets boring.  "},{"Title":"Steve Martin keeps one-joke movie fresh","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Business is slow at Rigby Reardon (Steve Martin)'s private eye agency. Juliet Forrest (Rachel Ward) wants him to investigate the accidental death of her cheese scientist father. She suspects a giant conspiracy. He gets shot and his clue is stolen. Juliet sucks out the bullet. Rigby goes berserk at the mention of cleaning woman.The addition of old film strips is lots of fun. The conflicting sense from the old clips and Steve Martin is a goldmine. It's mostly an one joke movie but Steve Martin keeps it fresh. It also helps to have a love for these old movies. The story does a feeling of randomness. The disconnected old clips serve mostly to have some fun with. In between, Martin deadpans some great gags. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin as Robert Taylor","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" No one has noted that Steve Martin is parodying the character of Rigby in The Bribe. A number of scenes are taken directly from the earlier film such as Reardon being slipped a mickey. The final scenes are actual footage from the bribe with Martin instead of Robert Taylor. Martin, however, is a poor substitute for Taylor.Some of the old film footage is also from The Bribe, scenes including Ava Gardner and Charles Laughton. Martin is also standing in for Taylor in the scenes from Johnny Eager. Rachel Ward's hair also seems to me to be an eighties take on Ava Gardner in The Bribe. The strangling scene derives from another Taylor movie, High Wall.The film isn't to my taste but it is well done. The editing in of stars of the past is seamless. Just give Robert Taylor a thought when you're watching it. "},{"Title":"That's never gonna heal!","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This demented one-of-a-kind comedy works best if you've seen 4 or 5 noir/hard boiled detective movies. Because at that point you begin to notice the plots become conflated and entangled. The gag is that with a bit of thought you can splice 20 of them together and get something pretty similar. The resulting mystery and detection results in a story that doesn't make a whole lot of sense, but then lots of noirs don't make much sense (The Big Sleep, Somewhere in the Night, Dark Passage). For noir, the tone, the striking compositions and the moral code are much more important.Whoever pieced this together had a lot of fun with it. There's quite a range of different comedy to enjoy. Some of the funniest bits just involve the new footage (Martin's bleeding knees). Some of them are absurd/revisionist (Rachel Ward can hear Martin's voice-over narration) A whole lot of them involve the absurd plot lines introduced by the old footage, that then have to be integrated. Some running jokes are duds (adjusting your breasts Bogart and his ties). Others are awfully funny (That's never gonna heal!) It also has some hysterical visuals (Martin's balletic dodge of Alan Ladd's bullet). Some of the patches are funny; Martin is constantly correcting people when they get his name wrong (because they're talking to other characters in other films) The two best comic moments involve a unique way to make coffee, and Martin's hopeless, post-rejection assessment of women. All of this is ten floors above the usual Adam Sandler dross.If an academic ever gave this its due as the first instance of meta, or at least an example of intertextuality, it would have more respect. If you've seen it more than once, it's interesting to see why - not just plot points - but visuals have to be introduced, sometimes quite smoothly. i.e. Martin gets drugged and offers to put on his pajama top (over his suit) because it's needed to match the schmo he's doubling in the next vintage clip. Too funny. You don't need to think hard at all to enjoy this, but if you like thoughtful movies, this offers a bonus level to consider.On the minus side, Reni Santoni is irritating and certifiably untalented. He doesn't deliver a single laugh. "},{"Title":"Watch purely for the Cameos of long dead stars..... ***1/2 out of  *****","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" As the storyline is neither here nor there, just your typical Raymond Chandler type plot.It's effectively a one man band, Steve Martin carries the entire film, with his usual schtick. The cameos include such stars as Barbara Stanwyck, Alan Ladd, Welshnan Ray Milland, Humphrey Boghart,Cary Grant,Burt Lancaster & many more, Top marks for the editing it's quite seamless.This was a great idea for a movie - just don't expect a lot from the thoroughly B Movie storyline, this was made purely for the Cameos and as such is pretty good***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Pleasant, but not the best example of this kind of humor","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Even though this movie is not that great, I have watched it several times because it represents one of my favorite kinds of humor, that of taking existing film or sound clips and piecing them together to make something new. I have loved this sort of thing ever since I watched Fractured Flickers as a kid. Unfortunately, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid isn't nearly as funny as Fractured Flickers. That's because it doesn't set out to fracture the clips by completely changing their meaning, but uses them with more or less the same connotation that they had originally, only with Steve Martin added. A more typically outrageous comedy exercise would have used these film noir clips to tell a story that had nothing to do with film noir, like making all the characters businesspeople or something equally unglamorous. This film is more subtle, in particular making great use of the actors' facial expressions and reactions to make them seem to interact with Martin in a very realistic way. The use of the verbal component is less inspired. (A clip of James Cagney saying No, no, Ma, listen to me, is preceded by Martin saying, Say something like, 'No, no, Ma, listen to me.' Not exactly brilliant.) It is all technically adept, but the result is more clever than funny.I think my favorite scene is the one where Martin offers the cantankerous Edward Arnold a puppy and then takes it away (You don't deserve a puppy).Of the 25 old-time movie stars listed in the end credits (including seven minor credits), 16 were still alive at the time this film was made, counting Ingrid Bergman, who died the year of release. Today, only one is still alive (Kirk Douglas). "},{"Title":"Dead Actors Don't Get Paid","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID is like being served a plain hot dog at an expensive gourmet restaurant; the joke is in the incongruity between what you are willing to settle for compared to what you have a right to expect. But while that sort of joke can be funny in its silliness, it wears thin; even more so if you're hungry for something special.DEAD MEN is a one-joke film, but it is an exquisite joke. Steve Martin plays Rigby Reardon, the sort of 40s hard-boiled movie detective who is prone to dry, sardonic voiceovers. Model turned actress-of-the-moment, Rachel Ward, plays the ritzy dame who brings him a case that is so convoluted that it isn't worth explaining. But as Rigby investigates he comes in contact with a variety of suspects, witnesses and miscellaneous secondary characters, mostly portrayed by film stars of the past (Cary Grant, Barbara Stanwyck, Ingrid Bergman, Burt Lancaster, etc.), who appear via film clips from their old movies (SUSPICION; SORRY, WRONG NUMBER; NOTORIOUS; THE KILLERS; etc.). Through editing tricks and special effects, Martin and the old timers share the screen for a few minutes, exchanging inane dialogue. It's a great gimmick and on first and second viewing the slickly done cinema tricks carry the film. How the jokes are told is funny, even if the jokes themselves aren't.Unfortunately, this type of shtick wears out its welcome sooner or later. The film is extremely well made -- the blending of the celebrity cameos with the new footage is barely detectable and the filmmakers even enlisted the aid of dress designer Edith Head and composer Miklós Rózsa, both working on their last film, to augment and complement their contributions to their previous films. Obviously, everyone worked very hard to make the film as visually true as possible to the films that inspired it. But the hot dog at this gourmet restaurant is the lame script by Martin, George Gipe and director Carl Reiner. I guess what they were going for was a MAD Magazine type of satire that knowingly mocks the genre with self-satire. And like YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, as long as it stays close to its original template, the movie is pretty good.But there is too much wild and crazy guy influence in the film. Instead of letting Martin play a funny character in a reasonable facsimile of a film noir, albeit a goofy parody, the film tries to build the story around contemporary low brow humor. The film has too many breast fondling jokes, profane words, references to dog poop and such, each a cheap gag that conflicts with the serious -- but easily mocked -- spirit of tough guy film noir. Too often the film sells out to bad taste, often at the expense of the film's guest stars. Also, there is no sense of reverence for the legendary stars; for instance, Humphrey Bogart, the man who defined the genre, appears via several of his old movies, as basically Reardon's flunky. In most cases, the old stars are just used as straight men for Martin's jokes -- their old movie dialogue being a set up for Martin's awkward punchlines. As such, they are often also the butt of the jokes; and though I am sure it wasn't the filmmakers' intent, it is condescending how the stars are used as unwitting pawns of the humor.Tone and intent aside, the film also suffers from having been constructed in the wrong way. The filmmakers watched the old movies, looking for scenes that would be easy to recycle (a lot of close ups and over the shoulder shots, etc.), and then they built their story around that material. As a result, the story doesn't make much sense. For instance, a subplot involves Rigby going psychotic whenever he hears the phrase cleaning woman, but it is in the film because in her cameo, Bette Davis mentions her cleaning woman. So the joke is forced and just stupid. No doubt, it would have been much harder, but the results would have been profoundly more rewarding, if they had written a solid screenplay and then found clips that would fit.DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID just begs to be remade, so that it could take advantage of the advances in CGI technology. If it could be Forrest Gump-ed, the interaction between the old and new footage could be more inventive and new dialogue that actually advanced the story could be written and delivered by manipulating the sound and image of the old stars. Of course, that might be ethically dubious and maybe even sacrilege, but if it were a sincere homage, that would beat this clumsy burlesque any day. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept - poor taste at times","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is based on an interesting concept. You have scenes involving Steve Martin as a Private Eye inter-cut with scenes from classics like Double Indemnity, The Big Sleep, The Killers and loads of other 40's classics with people like Bogie, Ava Gardner, Cary Grant, Ray Milland, Burt Lancaster (still playing the Swede) and a bunch of other stars. The photography is faithful to the era it tries to re-create and Steve Martin has a 40's look about him. For me, the off-putting thing was the toilet humour in several scenes. They could have remained sober and created a better movie, Instead there is completely immature scenes which mar the sober atmosphere that the camera-work creates. Having said that, it's still interesting to see bygone legends in a completely new movie. By the way, all the scenes are from the movies. There is lost footage or anything that was edited out of the original movies. Interesting just for the visual look. "},{"Title":"A stylishly entertaining and vastly underrated salute to 1940's film noir","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" After their triumph with ALL OF ME, Steve Martin and Carl Reiner decided to try something very different with this clever detective movie spoof called DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID, where Martin plays a 40's private eye named Rigby Reardon who is hired by a cool brunette to solve her father's murder. The clever linchpin upon which this film hangs is that, through the magic of tricky editing and complicated photography, Steve Martin interacts with film clips from movies of the period with the actual stars of these films spliced into the scenes with Martin. Martin does scenes with Jimmy Cagney, Humphrey Bogart, Lana Turner, Bette Davis, Kirk Douglas, Vincent Price, Burt Lancaster, Ava Gardner, Edward Arnold, Veronica Lake, Ray Milland, Charles Laughton, Joan Crawford, Barbara Stanwyck and other great stars from Hollywood's golden era. This film is a must for true film buffs who will immediately start scratching their heads trying to remember what movies these clips are from. In the case of some like Bogart, Turner, and Gardner, clips from two or three different films are used (Lana Turner is seen in THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE and JOHNNY EAGER, for instance). This film is a lot of fun and Martin plays it straight for big laughs and gets solid support from Rachel Ward as his beautiful client, Juliet Forrest and from Reiner as the villain of the piece. Obviously, because of the clips utilized, it is filmed in glorious black and white but the inter-splicing of Martin with the clips is virtually seamless. A must see for true film buffs as well as Martin fans. It should also be mentioned that this film was the final project for Hollywood's greatest costumer designer, Edith Head. The film is dedicated to her. "}{"Title":"Hugely clever and loving homage to the serials of the 1940s and '50s","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This forgotten gem from 1982 was made by Steve Martin and Carl Reiner after the success of The Jerk. In my opinion, The Jerk is superior if only due to its oddball silliness, but technically speaking Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is probably better. And I do think it's still a very good comedy, sadly forgotten over the years. It is hugely original and one of the only films I know of to do such a thing.Essentially it places Steve Martin into B-movie serials of the '40s and '50s, so he can talk to Humphrey Bogart and James Cagney. When I first heard of this, I thought maybe they used advanced techniques to literally place Steve Martin IN the previous movies. They don't. Instead, they painstakingly recreate sets from the older films, and shoot footage of Martin. Then, they cut away to shots from the older films, and then back to Martin. Reiner often uses substitutes from behind when Martin is interacting with them in the scene, in one frame.I do believe now with the advent of CGI and so on and so forth this could be done even better, technically speaking, and we could literally place Steve Martin in pre-existing films, rather than watching him interact around them.In my opinion it's cleverer and harder to do what they did here. For the times, this must have been incredibly modern and unseen. Since Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid we've seen animation combined with actors (Who Framed Roger Rabbit) and a few other such projects, but Plaid remains one of a kind due to its sheer love of the material it is spoofing.The jokes are sometimes a bit too silly and over-the-top, but it's still a great little comedy. Steve Martin is at his best here before he started making stuff like Cheaper by the Dozen. Martin and Reiner's trio of slapstick comedy -- The Jerk, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid and The Man with Two Brains -- offer plenty of laughs and I'd highly recommend Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid to any film buff who's searching for something unique and different. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Cutting up several classic movies and putting them in a newly filmed framework works brilliantly.Steve Martin actually gives a really good acting performance - not his typical 1980's role. "},{"Title":"Funny and clever movie with some excellent one-liners","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Steve Martin's Phillip Marlowe/Sam Spade inane and somewhat inept character was unbelievably funny.  Cuts from early classics were cleverly dove-tailed into the story and made for good entertainment.  Altogether a film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good Idea, Flawed Execution","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The premise to this is pretty simple parody film noir movies by inserting old movie clips and have Steve Martin say things that turn serious lines from those movies into jokes. While we're at it, throw in sexy Rachel Ward. It sounds like it could have been a really great comedy. For a fan of film noir and older movies in general like myself, it has an added bonus of getting to revisit all of these great old films through clips. It's fun to see this clip or that and see if you can remember where it comes from. Unfortunately, however, the movie ultimately doesn't work. The reasons for this are twofold. First, the gimmick tires quickly. I think I was over it after about a half hour or so. Second, it's just not that funny. There are a few funny bits, like the cup of java gag that goes on forever. But mostly it's kind of juvenile. Often the movie seems to lose itself in its clips and forgets to turn those clips into something humorous. Martin and Ward are fine in their roles. Maybe Carl Reiner would have been better off trying to do a straight parody film with these two instead of using the clips, which ultimately proved to be a distraction. "},{"Title":"Clever but Lame","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Detective investigates the disappearance of a cheese scientist. It's a gimmick but this is perhaps the most stellar cast ever assembled Bogart, Bergman, Cagney, Crawford, Davis, Douglas, Grant, Gardner, Ladd, Lancaster, MacMurray, Stanwyck, etc. It's an amusing gimmick, but unfortunately there is little else here to hold one's interest. The writers labored so hard to cleverly incorporate the vintage clips that they forgot to write a story that has any kind of sustained narrative or wit. The jokes are so lame that most of them are not even worthy of groans. Mostly, one is left longing to watch the films from which clips are teasingly utilized here. "},{"Title":"Gimmicky film best appreciated by old-time film buffs...","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The only trouble with DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID is that Carl Reiner's script is so convoluted that you stop paying attention to the storyline after awhile and get hooked on waiting for the next film clip to pair STEVE MARTIN with a classic star. He plays detective Rigby Rearden who gets mixed up with a femme fatale (RACHEL WARD) from the Lauren Bacall school of femmes. She shows up at his apartment needing help and from then on it's a matter of following a Raymond Chandler type of detective story.Martin's scenes with stars like ALAN LADD, BETTE DAVIS, HUMPHREY BOGART, AVA GARDNER, etc., are seamlessly matched with his newly written material thanks to the clever cinematography, costuming and sets that are made to order for just such a gimmick to work. Plenty of over the shoulder shots match him perfectly with whomever he's speaking to so that the illusion is near perfect.Most of the time it works pretty well and all of the guest appearances are welcome enough, but there are times when the silliness is almost over the top and attention is drawn away from the story itself.Still, a very original attempt at something different.Summing up Well done, but more likely to appeal to film buffs familiar with the old clips rather than anyone who has only a casual acquaintance with the film noir of the '40s. "},{"Title":"My Dad worked on this film and I never saw it until recently!  GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" My father worked on this film (Special Effects)and received tons of gifts from Steve Martin and I can't believe I never watched it until recently, as is the case with a lot of the movies my Dad worked on! What an unbelievable great film! For years and years I wore the T-shirts and crew jackets without ever realizing what a great movie it is! It's great and if you haven't seen it yet, put it on your list! It's amazing!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I remember being around the set and Steve Martin was hysterical on and off the set and what an incredibly down to earth guy he was with everyone! My father also worked with him on Pennies from Heaven and Steve Martin was amazing to the entire crew! What a great guy who makes great movies! "},{"Title":"This thing is never going to heal.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" - Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is a spoof of the film noirs popular in the 40s and 50s. While the plot doesn't matter, here it is in a nutshell - Rigby Reardon (Steve Martin) is hired by Juliet Forrest (Rachel Ward) to find out what happened to her father, a noted scientist and cheese maker. Along the way, Reardon gets shot in the arm (three times), gets slipped a mickey, makes coffee, dresses like a woman, talks on the phone with Phillip Marlowe, loses his pajamas, shaves his tongue, adjusts Juliet's breasts, picks up dog poo, battles Nazis, and falls in love. All in a normal day for a private eye.- The gimmick to Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is mixing the old film clips with the actions of Steve Martin. Carl Reiner does a fabulous job of seamlessly matching not only the look, but the atmosphere of clips from movies like The Bribe and The Killers with the new footage of Martin and Rachel Ward. It's often difficult to tell where one ends and the other begins. Much of the credit must surely go to costume designer extraordinaire Edith Head. Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid was the last of the 426 films she credited as costume designer. Her clothing designs for the new footage perfectly fit the clips from the old movies - many of which she did the original costume design.- Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid may be my favorite movie with Steve Martin. He plays Reardon perfectly. He doesn't play it as a comedy, but straight instead. This makes it all the more funny. Rachel Ward is adequate as the female lead.- The only negative thing I can say about the movie is that the big finale gets a little off-track. Carl Reiner's character is a little too over-the-top and doesn't fit with the straight tone the movie had presented up to this point. A little more realism on his part might have made for a much better ending. "},{"Title":"PULP(Y) FICTION","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID (1982) **** Steve Martin, Rachel Ward, Reni Santoni, Carl Reiner. (Guest starring Humphrey Bogart, Cary Grant, James Cagney, Barbara Stanwyck, Alan Ladd, Burt Lancaster, Ray Milland, Bette Davis, Joan Crawford, Charles Laughton, Vincent Price, Edward Arnold, Ava Gardner, Kirk Douglas, Ingrid Bergman, Fred MacMurray, Veronica Lake, Lana Turner).  Cheeky comic homage to classic film noir of the 30s and 40s with Martin as private eye Rigby Reardon investigating some mysterious lists that leads him into interaction with film stars culled from famous genre flicks often flawlessly.  Fine detailed production design and vintage evoked cinematography by Michael Chapman create a gimmick that rises above the possible one note idea.  Last film costume genius Edith Head, who painfully recreated the exactness of the looks of the cinematic past, worked on is in fact a fine tribute.  Reiner also co-wrote and directed. "},{"Title":"Immature Rubbish- Classic Film Fans beware!","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A simply moronic film that I doubt can even be loosely described as a comedy (unless jokes repetitive jokes about boobs make you guffaw with laughter). It wastes no time in befouling the grave of classic Noir with Steve Martin's usual brand of dim-witted, inane, unfunny claptrap. A real endurance test to sit through it in its entirety. Conversely, in its concept the film is 'one of a kind', and some of the splices are done very well, some are very clumsy. It is an interesting concept to use clips from old movies as part of the plot, but one more befitting of a film student's experiment than a mainstream feature film, and was certainly not enough to redeem the film of its blistering asinine ineptitude. "}{"Title":"Gimmicky homage to film noir","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'm wondering what was the point in actually making this movie. I'm sure it was a lot of fun for the filmmakers to blend Steve Martin into classic film noirs especially in terms of matching the sets, the stand-ins and the musical score. But such cleverness doesn't extend to the actual script which didn't have much of a story. Many of the scenes seemed completely extraneous to the plot, designed merely to show off the great actors of yesteryear. At best, Steve Martin's goofy humor is only mildly amusing at times. The best jokes are trotted out more than once (e.g. Rigby's 'cleaning woman' tantrum and Rachel Ward sucking out the bullet from Rigby's arm). But for the most part DMWNP is not funny at all. The main problem is that no real dramatic interplay develops in this story. Because the story is basically a gimmick, Steve Martin merely interacts with a bunch of film clips and is not pitted against any significantly developed antagonists. The B Story, the love story between Steven Martin and Rachel Ward is simply a collection of juvenile sexual innuendos (for example, when Martin grabs Ward's breasts in the opening scene). If you take away all of Steve Martin's silly asides, you're pretty much left with a standard by-the-numbers film noir, thoroughly mediocre and uninspired. "},{"Title":"An OK film that is amusing and has good editing to maintain the novelty value of the clips","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Rigby Reardon is a private dick, by which I mean that he gets himself into tight spaces and works his case until he gets to a resolution. Work is slow and he is just rereading an old newspaper when a client arrives at his door. Juliet Forrest is stunning and vulnerable since the death of her father &#150; a death that she believes was murder on account of something her father was developing in his lab. He remembers the words of his partner Marlowe and stops himself falling for her, but takes her case for the money. Before long he is shot for the first time and starts to realise that this case may be more complicated than he first thought.The concept behind this film means it is worth a look for film fans simply because it has clips from loads of old films. The idea itself is interesting and amusing but it really doesn't do much beyond that, meaning that for the majority it is only OK and nothing more. The plot is quite silly stuff of course and it didn't really engage me because, although the overall sweep of the tale was reasonable, the specifics of each scene is driven by what clips they have to work with. That said, it still works well enough thanks to clever editing and some nice writing. The clips are mostly well used so that the novelty value doesn't wear out before the film ends and generally their inclusion is worked well with gags.The delivery of Martin is a big help to this because he really noirs it up and delivers the amusing Police Squad voiceovers with style while also being funny. He is as good with real people as he is with the clips and, although he has been funnier many other times, this is still a good film for him. His active support is pretty nondescript and it was only the rather sexy turn from Rachel Ward that stuck in my mind. The clips are a nice mix and provide a range of famous actors and actresses from the period &#150; they are not the whole show but the novelty value doesn't wear out as quickly as you would expect.Overall this is nothing more than an OK film. The concept is both a strength and a weakness because for all the novelty value it adds, it also puts constraints on the plot and dialogue. Steve Martin is good in it even if the material isn't as good as he enjoyed in other films around the same period. Worth a look for an amusing curio but don't expect too much as it is all based on one idea, even if it does manage to get over it to some degree. "},{"Title":"Fooling with Film Noir","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" DMDWP is a clever (albeit often silly ) parody of the 30's and 40's detective/whodunit/thrillers that so enthralled audiences of that era.Filmed in black and white, this is pure Carl Reiner ( All of Me ), and the director has a ball as he intercuts scenes from golden oldies like Sorry Wrong Number and The Bribe with the fresh scenes of his new film. The success and tongue-in-cheek flavour of this pic owes a lot to scripters Reiner, Steve Martin and George Gipe. It's nothing but tom foolery, but it's at times a real hoot.Steve Martin's private eye Rigby Reardon gets advice from Humphrey Bogart ( as Phillip Marlowe ), enlists the help of such beauties as Ingrid Bergman, Bette Davis and Joan Crawford and runs across tough guys Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas to name a few.The cast of today have a great time, with Rachel Ward enjoyable as the doll face client who is looking for the killer or killers of her professor father ( George Gaynes ), and Carl Reiner himself cameoing as a Nazi spy. Reni Santoni plays a rather eager Peruvian lawman.Edith Head's costumes are quite dapper and Art Director John De Cuir has helped make the film all the more convincing with his handy work. The dramatic music is from Miklos Rozsa.Highly recommended for old movie buffs, also guest stars Edward Arnold, Alan Ladd, Lana Turner, Vincent Price, Charles Laughton, Veronica Lake, Ray Milland and Barbara Stanwyck.Sunday, December 1, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"They Don't Make 'Em Like They Used To","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Rigby Reardon, a private detective, is hired by the glamorous Juliet Forrest to investigate the tragic death of her father. Piecing together the clues from a myriad of desperate characters, the trail leads to the mysterious South American island of Carlotta, where a dastardly scheme for world domination is about to be launched.This is a peach of an idea for a comedy; take a bunch of unrelated scenes from some great old forties movies, and weave them together using a harebrained plot and some new material. Thus we have Martin mixing it up with a veritable who's-who of hardboiled black-and-white crime pictures; Edward Arnold, Ingrid Bergman, Humphrey Bogart, James Cagney, Joan Crawford, Bette Davis, Kirk Douglas, Ava Gardner, Cary Grant, Alan Ladd, Veronica Lake (my personal favourite forties dame), Burt Lancaster, Charles Laughton, Fred McMurray, Ray Milland, Vincent Price, Barbara Stanwyck and Lana Turner. Whilst there is the occasional composite shot (Martin shares a train-compartment with Grant from Suspicion), the trick is mostly done with doubles, careful matching of sets and wardrobe and clever use of props (a teacup from The Lost Weekend, the key Bergman steals in Notorious, etc). The effect is charming and if you allow yourself to be seduced by the goofy story - which involves Nazis using cheese to melt America - you do genuinely start to forget that the magic of editing is at work. It cheats a little towards the end by pretty much substituting Martin for Robert Taylor in the 1949 flick The Bribe, but the contemporary scenes are beautifully stylised (rich black-and-white, lots of hats, poor-man's-process driving shots, etc) and the script comes up with some pretty good film noir dialogue of its own (I planned to kiss her with every lip on my body.). Just for extra credibility, it has terrific music by the veteran composer Miklos Rozsa, who scored at least three of the old movies featured. Written by Reiner, Martin (who does some great sleight-of-hand tricks) and George Gipe, and dedicated to the legendary costume designer Edith Head, whose last film this was. And remember - cleaning woman !! "},{"Title":"Clever but goes no where....","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It was great to see all those classic movie stars on the big screen again. My problem with the movie and why I can't sit through it after my first viewing is the story. The movie seems to be meandering excuses to fit the classic movie clips in. You don't know who is supposed to be who as far as the clips go and a clip comes up, you smile because you recognize it but that's about it. Woody Allen's movie Zelig was similar in that he used old newsreels also in Forrest Gump the character related with an old clip of JFK but in both of these other movies, the clip served the story and not vice versa. I would recommend this ONCE to a fan of classic detective and film noir movies, just to see as a curiousity piece, nothing more.  "},{"Title":"Curiosity.","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is one that every fan of films noir has to see. It's a parody of the genre, in which Steve Martin plays a private eye and Rachel Ward his sexy client. Ward wants Martin to find out who killed her father. To do so, Martin must track down the list of names that is the only clue. So he meanders through an impossibly complicated plot and runs into numerous odd and dangerous people, just as in one of the originals.The people he meets and the situations in which Martin finds himself are represented by clips taken from noirs and semi-noirs, well known and some less well known. In his first encounter, for instance, there is a knock on his office door. It's open, calls Martin. And it's Allan Ladd from This Gun For Hire, in fedora and trench coat. Martin invites him to sit down. We see Ladd take a seat. Have a cookie, suggests Martin, and Ladd picks up a cookie from the end table and munches it wordlessly. Then Ladd suddenly draws his automatic from a briefcase, Martin dashes into the next room and slams the door behind him, and Ladd shoots a hole through the door, then leaves.The other faux encounters are a little more complicated and require skillful integration into the nonsensical plot because the rest of the original actors have lines. Martin's behavior and dialog have to be suited to theirs. Thus, when Edward Arnold, out of Johnny Eager, angrily orders Martin to Pick that up!, Martin must have brought Arnold a puppy which has done it's business on the carpet. But, Martin protests, it's all wet and steamy. PICK THAT UP! It's like one of those all-star movies that were popular some years ago, rather on the order of Around the World in Eighty Days, in which you wait for the next appearance of a genuine, historical noir figure and thrill quietly when it comes.The problem is that integrating clips from old noirs with a superimposed parody is that it's tough work making them funny in and of themselves. And so the encounters between Martin and Kirk Douglas and the rest aren't really very funny. The thrills are effective and short, and that's about it. The framing story has its moments but it's a long wait between funny lines and silly Three Stooges assaults.It's fine, seeing it once, but after that -- well, the thrill is gone. "},{"Title":"Clever ideas to start but wears thin as it goes","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There is a lot to admire about Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid in which Steve Martin and director Carl Reiner collaborated for the second of four films. Reiner has weaved together an original script with the plots of many classic noir/gangster/mystery films of the 40's and 50's. To add to the atmosphere Reiner wisely shot this movie in black and white and it retains that noirish feeling. What Reiner didn't count on was the paper thin plot running out of steam before the third act. By that time we have long given up on the present mystery and sit back to watch and enjoy seeing the great stars of the 40's on the big screen one more time.I can only imagine the hours and hours it must have taken Reiner, Martin et al to find the right moments from other films to add to this film. For the most part Reiner matches perfectly between his film and the old ones save for the obvious age in the older prints which can't be helped. By the end I had the reverse effect of what I think Reiner intended. I was becoming nostalgic for the great actors of the past and wishing I could see those movies while not keeping up with the story for Plaid. Of course had the story been a stronger one or if the film on the whole were funnier I would have cared more about Plaid then I do.I don't mean to sound so negative because there are things to enjoy besides the old classic clips. Martin does a good job as the private eye and Rachel Ward is perfectly cast as the femme fatale. I wish they had done more with her character. The mystery, at first, is interesting but it quickly loses track thus, loses the audience. And by the time Reiner appears as a Nazi all hope is thrown out the window.This is a mixed review for Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid. It's not one of Martin's best or worst but falls right in between. It has its moments but ten minutes after it's over the only thing you'll remember is the clips from the classics. I don't think Reiner intended that. "},{"Title":"Experiment that didn't work","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" You have to give Carl Reiner and Steve Martin some credit They tried to make a film noir that would be funny and incorporate film clips from famous movies as though they were part of the story. Despite their best effort, this doesn't come off. The film quality is never duplicated, the doubles in the Martin scenes are unconvincing, and the hopelessly complex story is obviously designed to include names used in the old movies. Worst of all, the movie just isn't funny. Oh, there are a few good lines, but most of the humor is junior high sexual banter about feeling up and grabbing breasts and the like. The Nazi villains are so tediously predictable and trite that the film's conclusion just comes apart of itself. Rachel Ward is gorgeous. Martin does a competent job. But this is not a good film, in large part because it is not amusing. "},{"Title":"Sucks bullets","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I enjoy classic film noir AND classic Steve Martin, so I was really looking forward to seeing Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid. Boy was I disappointed.First of all, the storyline is truly contrived. You can tell they chose the film clips first, and then wrote their story around them. Bad idea. Should've come up with a great story first, and then hunted for appropriate classic clips to augment it. Of course that would've been tougher, but I think it would've paid off, if done well.Secondly, why do so many people find this movie clever and hilarious? I found it painfully unfunny. And since when are jokes about boobs and dog poop, considered CLEVER? Was this film written by 13 year old boys? Or was it just written *for* them? Major miscalculation, 'cause, would horny adolescent boys be aware of/interested in a spoof of old film noir movies? Would they be able to identify the clips (which is, in theory, half the fun)? I don't think so. So who's the audience for this thing anyway?! Not me, that's for damn sure. "},{"Title":"Not Funny","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid (1982) ** (out of 4) Disappointing comedy from Carl Reiner has Steve Martin playing a detective spoofing older detective and gangster films. There were a few nice one-liners here but the gimmick used grew very tiresome rather quickly. The gimmick of having Martin play along side clips from older movies never really worked for me and several of the gimmicks turned out pretty embarrassing especially the one dealing with White Heat. The cinematography was great but the rest was mostly blah. While seeing clips from these older films it just reminded me that I could be watching something better. "}{"Title":"Harmless fun for Film Noir fans","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid is, at best, good fun for a classic film buff. At worst, it lasts too long, and is it at times a little stupid. Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid stars Steve Martin, with dyed dark hair, as a detective who lives by the word of Phillip Marlowe. He is approached by Rachel Ward as a young woman who wants him to solve her important scientist/cheesmaker father's murder. Along the way, Martin interacts with the likes of Ava Gardner, Barbara Stanwyck, Joan Crawford, Bette Davis, Lana Turner, Humphrey Bogart, Charles Laughton, Cary Grant, and much more. The effects are at times hilarious (Martin interacting with a hysterical Stanwyck) and viewers will have fun spotting references to other movies. However, this concept is difficult to sustain through out the whole film, and by the end the movie has somewhat lost it's way and is a little bit tiresome. The humor is at times pretty broad and less than intelligent. Still, I would recommend this movie to film buffs perhaps as a curiosity and an enjoyable homage. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, totally sunk by dumb humor","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What an intriguing idea this must have seemed on paper! In reality it comes across not as clever and inspired (which it should be) but one that is sunk to the depths by unnecessarily tasteless and dumb jokes and lines.This is technically quite an achievement for its time, too, integrating the clips from old films using only the analog sound and picture editing techniques of the time.Also, the picture hasn't aged well. This was made before the time of home video, when these clips were not as well known as they are now. As it is now, we know these movies so well that when they are integrated into the storyline, I for one can instantly recognize them and remember the characters' original names in the movies. I get the inside jokes, in a way that may not have been possible in 1982, but that's not the point.Someone should try this again, using digital editing and carefully restored clips (these are not) and leaving the stupid humor behind. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea doesn't work","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I am a big fan of both Steve Martin and Carl Reiner, but can't say too many positive things for this one. It was interesting to see how they meshed the old scenes with new ones and a couple times it actually didn't seem too forced. That's about the best I can say for them. Contrary to what I've read here, it was totally obvious when the old clips came in and went out. Yes, there were a few chuckles here and there and Rachel Ward is beautiful. Unfortunately what it accomplished was that it made me long to see one of those old classics with Bogart or Cagney again or one I hadn't seen such as the one with Vincent Price. I think as a college project it would be called creative and fun, but coming from these 2 comedy greats it was really less than what I was expecting.  "}]