[{"Title":"A Dream","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"67 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is like an odd, but wonderful dream.  It takes place in a fantasy world, created by the talented duo, Frank Oz and Jim Henson.  Everything in this film is so meticulously done, that it still lives on to this day.  Computer effects be damned.  This film has texture, and it is pleasing to watch.   This movie, as you will see, was made for kids.  But really, it is a masterpiece in film-making.  True, good, story-telling.  Sure, kids will love it, but the film isn't really aimed at them like most kid movies are.  It is complicated, eerie, beautiful, and intelligent... most of all, mystical. I reccomend this to anyone seriously interested in film, especially fantasy... not to be missed! "},{"Title":"The beginning of the new and improved Muppets; one of Henson-and-company's best","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"61 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This sprawling, part-homage-part-totally original fantasy brings us Jen, the last of a group of near extinct creatures who is the only one who can save all existence by bringing a crystal shard back into the balance of the dark crystal, in order to save the world from the evil Skekses. This is quite an enthralling film, and like with the other full-on Muppet films this works on different levels for kids and for adults. Kids may be both scared and enthralled by the scope and details, not to mention the graphic nature of the darker elements portrayed (as a kid I cringed a bit when the 'vital essence' scenes came up). And for adults there's a lot of great craftsmanship that goes into the story, which is with all of the effects and over-the-top creations very well told by directors Henson and Oz. Without the massive usage of CGI or the more controlled visuals from the past fifteen or so years, the mix of the production design (maybe some of the best ever in any fantasy film) and the inventiveness put into the set-pieces and character-creations, is a knockout even by today's standards. It's almost a shame looking back on how a film like this that employs so many people and such time is now spent clicking away on a computer to get it all done. As it is, the Dark Crystal is one of those few examples in post-modern cinema that it does seem something like a sci-fi novel come to life. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie for many ages....","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Though I love the Muppets and other works of Jim Henson, I still say for years since my birth in 1982, The Dark Crystal has always grown on me. From interesting characters to surreal environments, this movie will capture the eyes of the imaginative and Sci-Fi/Fantasy fans. Though it may move slow at times, but it does not bother me. It gets me more into the world of the Dark Crystal, named Thyra.It was also good for it's symbolism as well. The Dark Crystal like many classic children's shows and movies of its time did not talk down to kids nor underestimate their intelligence for that matter. In fact, the morals and symbolism appeals to non-discriminating adults as well.P.S. I think the Skeksis are awesome! Especially the General, Chamberlain and the Mad Scientist Skeksis! "},{"Title":"Still a great fantasy tale","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal holds well against the test of time.  It has been only recently that movies that take place in a completely different fantasy world (The Lord of the Rings Fellowship of the Ring) have become more feasible. Still, the Dark Crystal stands as an excellent tale of good versus evil.Jim Henson and crew spent much to much time creating this movie, and the depth of their effort shows.  However, some adults might find the story simplistic, and it is in the same manner that Labyrinth is.  However, like Labyrinth, Dark Crystal succeeds in taking you to another place and immersing you in another world.If you are a viewer interested in fantasy worlds, Dark Crystal will please you well.  If you haven't seen it in years, get the DVD.  It has a wonderful making of section, deleted funeral scenes, and isolated musical score. "},{"Title":"What a fun movie!!!","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"51 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm so sick and tired of people bad-mouthing this movie.This is the best of one of Jim Henson's creations (besides Jim Henson's Hour The Storyteller and Mythology)!It isn't so preachy or cheesy like a lot of the works before or after Henson's demise!This would be a good movie for little kids.You can really tell the good from the bad in this movie.The Skeksis are really evil and frightening villains,unlike a lot of villains in most family-fantasy films,where they are often more moronic than vile.The characters have personalities,not so talkative and there's no human to be seen!All 100% animatronics,no actors in the suits!!!Now how amazing is that? "},{"Title":"A major accomplishment!","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"41 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It took an infinity of imagination to make The Dark Crystal, a film so overflowing with invention that you literally have to watch it about 100 times just to take it all in. Everyone involved, from the director to the best boy gave the film such loving affection and made it the best it could possibly be. Kid's movies (if you want to call it that) these days simply are not what they used to be and probably never will be again. This is yet another thing that makes The Dark Crystal so damn precious.The film is set in another world, in another time in an age of wonder. It has been 999 years and 1 year since the powerful, life-giving crystal cracked and stopping shining. Since then the land has become barren and the Urskeks (a race of God-like beings) have split into two separate races, the peaceful Uru 'Mystics' and the evil Skeksis-a horrific cross between bird and reptile. The three suns that shine upon the land are about to line up in a great conjunction that only happens once every 1000 years. If the crystal is not repaired before then the cruel Skeksis will rule the land forever.Jen is a Gelfling (a sort of fairy creature), believed to be the last of his race. A prophecy tells of a single Gelfling defeating the Skeksis and restoring peace to the land. Raised by the Uru, Jen begins a journey to repair the crystal when the Skeksis Emperor dies (in a truly disturbing scene). On his way he meets Aughra, a sort of witch creature and Kira, another Gelfling and her race of Podling people (sort of like Fraggles). Though there is no specific love scene between them, there is a very nice romance developing through-out the story.Filmed in gorgeous locations across England and Scotland (with the use of a lot of matte paintings of course) the film really, really does take you to another world. There's not a single human in sight (a perfect world or what) and, with exception to the awful Skeksis, almost every creature is cute and fluffy (such as Kira's Fizzgig). The production design, in particular the genius contributions by Brian Froud, is so immense and impressive that you wish you could jump through the screen and actually be there in order to appreciate it more.Trevor Jones' breathtaking, beautiful score is among his best work (tying with Merlin in 1998) and is surely some of the best film music you are ever likely to hear. Ever! There was a limited edition of the score put on CD a few years ago but only 5000 were ever printed. It's sure to be quite expensive now but it's so goddamn worth it! Henson, Oz and Froud teamed up again a few years later to make Labyrinth which seems to be more fondly remembered as it's not as sinister as The Dark Crystal and has human actors in it to make it more accessible to those with narrower minds. I prefer this one though (no fruity songs, no David Bowie!) as it has a certain edge to it that Labyrinth lacks.An epic. A masterpiece. An unforgettable classic. The Dark Crystal is magical, mystical timeless classic. I can't recommend it enough. If only we still had movies like this. I'll take risk-taking The Dark Crystal over PC drek like The Shaggy Dog any day. "},{"Title":"A very imaginative tale that's easy to love.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Another world. Another time. In the Age of Wonder. So begins the classic fantasy story that is The Dark Crystal, Henson's best and, to date, only all-creature film. My father bought this movie for me the day I was born, so I quite literally grew up watching it. It's a story that never gets old. The characters are unforgettable, with a wonderful musical score that sticks in the head. Jen, the main character, finds that he is ordained to fulfill a prophecy finally revealed to him by his master, the wisest of the Mystics. A single crystal shard was lost long ago, and must be recovered before the three suns align in the sky. But Jen must first find the shard, and then figure out what to do with it once he has it, all the while trying to stay one step ahead of the cruel Skeksis. And time is running out. The thing that I think makes this movie so memorable is the fact that it is so unlike other fantasy films. It exists in a world all its own, with new creatures and characters you don't find in other films. If looking for a companion to the film, I recommend the book of the same name. It goes into more detail about the world of Thra, and I feel it greatly enhances the immersion into the film. I recommend this film to any fantasy fan who has not seen it, and if you have seen it, I find it worth seeing again. "},{"Title":"TOLKIEN would love this movie !","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This must be, along with KRULL, one of the most forgotten fantasy movies ever ! I´ve been searching for a VHS copy of DARK CRYSTAL, for years now ! Nobody seems to have ever released this on tape !WHY, is this movie so hard to find ?!! I´m fortunate enough to have a copy of it, but it isn´t a very good copy at all, because it was taped about 10 years ago, from a movie channel, and it´s got tons and tons of satelite interferences and rain in the image. At  least i get to own the movie.  I guess...The first time i´ve seen anything about DARK CRYSTAL, was back in 1982 when i was 12 years old. I wento to see Spielberg´s - ET, and before it,  the presentation movie trailer for DARK CRYSTAL came on the screen. I remember that i was much more impressed by it, than by ET. By the end, all i wanted to know was when DARK CRYSTAL would be on the theater. I was so impressed by it, that those 2 minutes from the presentation stayed in my mind ever since, and all that i remember from the day i went to see ET, was that i watched 2 minutes of something that i never thought it existed or would be possible. Remember it was 1982, and in those days, children´s programs on tv didn´t included the amount of fantasy stuff that it is showned today, so watching that was somehow a revelation for me.Anyway 6 year later i got to finaly see it, on a forgotten childrens matinee, and i loved every minute of it, altough i felt even then that it had some dull parts in it. Somehow there is something diferent  with the pace this story is told. Even now i feel this, each time i watch DARK CRYSTAL.But this is just a minor thing. Maybe i´m being just picky. Because DARK CRYSTAL is a masterpiece, it might have its flaws, but that doesn´t prevent it from being one of the greatest fantasy movies ever. Even though is so forgotten by everyone. Even i forget i have it. In a way, this is an Historical movie, because to my knowledge this was the first time that the atmosphere from the now common fantasy novels was portraited in a movie. And what a begining !!! Jim Henson got it right, right at the first try !Every time i watch this i only wished he had lived enough time to adapt TOLKIEN´s - LORD OF THE RINGS to the movies. He would make a fantastic job for sure.With DARK CRYSTAL ,Jim Henson achieved a perfect balance between a kids movie and a fantasy movie for adult viewers. This only added credibility to the world he created for this story. Just for this alone he should be praised.  He showed the way, a fantasy movie should be made, but nobody in Hollywood seem to have learned anything from it.I have read that DARK CRYSTAL, was a comercial flop, because it was released during the ET days, and not many people went to see it. Wich is a sad thing, because a masterpiece like this deserved to have filled the theaters. Maybe adults thought it was just for kids and the kids wanted to see ET, so it flopped. I read that even american reviews attacked DARK CRYSTAL. Maybe it was the usual in america, when a movie can´t be put in a category, nobody makes many efforts to publicize it. And i bet this was a nightmare to some people who had to publicize it. How would they present it ?So if, you can find it, you have to see this movie ! I f you like fantasy, you´ll go nuts with it. Only the landscapes are enough to make anyone drool. The story is very,very good and much more adult oriented than it might seem at first, the pecial effects are pefect for it, the soundtrack is excelent, and the characters are very lifelike and believable. I only don´t like very much of the hero, it feels to much like a pupet. Compared to the others is a bit strange.It´s time DARK CRYSTAL gets the atention it desrerves, this is a brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"If only Jim were still with us...what magic he'd make!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"30 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When this movie first came out (1982) I was 13 years old, and remember seeing it in the theatre with friends. I loved it then and love it now. It remains one of the best fantasy films of all time, but only because of the sheer effort given to it by the Henson company; only he could have made this all work. His genius is timeless. If only he were still alive now to make more films like this (and better!)Our world is a dimmer place without Jim Henson. "},{"Title":"Its FANTAStic","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"28 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Wow whenever I see a fantasy movie I feel visually stunned. Whenever I see one I have to feel happy and scared at the same time. Granted Fantasy films haven't received great merit, but there are few that do. Lord of The Rings, Harry Potter,.... these all contain elements conjured up brilliantly. In the 80s it became relevant that Fantasy films became a craze with Labyrinth, NeverEnding Story, Legend, etc. And all of these were great.Whenever I associate Jim Henson I associate him with innovation to the genre he did direct two great Fantasy films in the decade. I say they were both great. Labyrinth wasn't as visually stunning as Dark Crystal had been.The first I gazed on this movie I was awed the next time I saw it I said Dang. This movie continued to be good in motion picture artistry.Jim Henson was successful in conjuring up good movie magic with characters that were designed greatly. I liked this movie because at the end I screamed, This is Fantasy!!!!! Made me feel like I was in another mystical world. I give it a 10!  "}{"Title":"Only for us.","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's difficult to see how a film like this could ever have mass popularity. It's melodramatic, poorly scripted, mechanically plotted and hasn't got any people in it.But I *love* it.This is a dark, ponderous, elegant, film. The emotional tones are murky, sometimes quiet, sometimes startlingly loud, always alien and dreamlike and only ever vaguely comprehensible. The design is just drop-dead gorgeous, and entire alien WORLD brought to life. It's mesmerising, and more details can be found buried deep within it on every viewing. Thick layers of meaning were woven into this movie, revealed only when reading the accompanying coffee-table book, which records in a painstaking watchmaker's manner every tiny bit of iceberg under the surface of this story.There ought to be a word for the feelings aroused by this film, a word that means alien yet hauntingly familiar. I still get the same dreamy mood as I did when I first saw this film many years ago when this movie begins, the first crash of the cymbal and the first recital of the theme of the Skekses sounding as if from terribly far away, a high, yearning phrase on a single horn, lonely and beautiful, calling from another time. The Age of Wonder.It's what this film's all about, Wonder. There's no explaining it to people who don't like that sort of right-brain thing, they just won't like it.Why does it make sense that staring into the reflection of a cracked crystal from deep within the bowels of a tortured castle will, with the aid of some ugly machinery, suck out your very soul? That the Trial Stone glows when it's cleaved completely in two by the General? That the shard responds to the notes of Jen's pipe? It doesn't, of course, but it DOES.I also love the pace and the mechanical plot. This is the one film whose mechanical plot I must forgive, and even love, as it's supposed to be mechanical. The sand painting diagram at the beginning of the movie is a representation of the history of the entire world, including the events to come. The whole world is one huge piece of metaphysical clockwork, and so the film is as well, the tension building clearly and slowly towards the extraordinary climax, which still gives me the shivers... Prophecies are stupid things to have in films, except this film, in which the prophecy is the entire point of the movie instead of an unnecessary condiment. The slow machinery of this movie lends a great weight to it, the feeling that vast, invisible forces are at work intensifies pace by implacable Mystic pace...I also approve of the ending's inherent mysticism, taken straight from Jung, the key to transcendence being the joining of the Ego with the Shadow, the Skekses and Mystics representing these structures respectively. It's true, and this film says so, pretty much in so many words.It's not at all surprising that it's not very popular with people who don't particularly buy into the things I've outlined above. It's geologically slow. It's inhuman. It's VERY weird. But it does all these things *deliberately* with an artistry rarely seen these days.And I just love the music... "},{"Title":"If you are not frightened by this, then you must be dead.","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have to begin this review with a warning to anyone planning to watch this film 'The Dark Crystal' is one of the scariest films you will ever see. It is only equalled by 'The Ring' and possibly 'The Grudge'. The entire film has a dark, unsettling atmosphere about it; there's not one character that you won't be terrified of. The benign beings that have raised our Gelfling hero, the mystics, are frightening enough, but once you get to see the evil skeksis, you won't be able to sleep for a week. These hideous creatures are the most accurate portrayal of humanity's vision of evil ever brought to life on the screen. Their twisted and creepily humanoid bodies are reminiscent of vultures, their eyes cruel and black. Their dwelling is a castle that appears to be as dark and rotten as the skeksis themselves. Any scenes involving these terrible beasts strike a deep primal fear into the viewer, those featuring their carnivorous and possibly cannibalistic eating habits more than any.I would like to comment more on the plot, but I was too busy waiting in terror for the next horrific creature to take much notice. From what I could gather, it was a fairly typical fantasy story of good and evil. What makes the film stand out from the norm is the fact that both the skeksis and the mystics were once as one, all powerful beings of great wisdom and benevolence. This is an obvious yet stunningly powerful metaphor for the eternal battle between good and evil in the human conscience. The immense evil of the skeksis is so brilliantly portrayed that it affects the viewer in an unforgettable way.The film deserves a high score just for the fear it strikes into the heart of its audience. It is one of the most effectively scary films ever made, and the shadows of those horrific skeksis will haunt you for many dark nights to follow. I give 'The Dark Crystal' a 9. "},{"Title":"The Dark Crystal Tremendous fantasy","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" So what is this old stuff about? What's the hype? Jim Henson's project lasted for years. Together with the help of Frank Oz and Gary Kurtz, this magnificent film was created.This is one of the very best fantasy films ever.I cannot think of another film with more interesting effects than this one. This is not just working, it is a pleasure to see it work. You have all this living creatures, that wonderful nature, that realistic but yet fantastic mood.The writing seem to be minimalistic, and is heavily compensated with all the beautiful elements in the picture. Fantastic landscapes, mystic creatures and a great mix of colors all over the screen, though the film remains minimalistic.Terry Jones music contributes with a lot of emotions and mood, maybe one of my favorite-soundtracks.Much more can be said about the film. Most of it should be good things. It is a pity that some seems to unlike with, whatever the reasons are. I highly recommend it for any lover of the cinema.Rating 10 of 10. "},{"Title":"Not at all impressed","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm really not fond of this movie. I watched it as a ten year old and i didn't like it then. Now I'm 24 and tonight i've watched it again and I still don't like it, except now I know why. Believe me, I am not the kinda guy that goes, *blergh* puppets, it's for children, or who does not appreciate visual artwork or a good fantasy story. I am a big fan of Labyrinth, which (obviously) shares visual components to The Dark Crystal. But unlike this one Labyrinth was witty, full of funny and interesting characters and plenty of good dialogue. Something that (imho) The Dark Crystal lacks completely. For a good part of the movie the dialogue seems made up on the spot, often you just hear grunts, howls or something similar. I understand that the movie is mainly about its visuals, but that does not justify the obvious lack of story and dialogue, which, when happening, is often very very flat and boring. A script suitable for minors (I'm thinking primary school) turned into a film for age 12+, for there are some scary characters in it i wouldn't want my (little) kid to watch. Oh, one other thing I thought the Gelfling looked and sounded incredibly moronic. On the good side The music by Trevor Jones is pretty awesome. "},{"Title":"meh ... muppet mania","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Reading all the comments here I have only seen very few who dared to criticise this brilliant masterpiece and epic story about the battle of good against evil.So I'll try to point out the positive side of this movie first. It's the puppetry that makes this movie worth a look. Jim Henson created a whole world here, and everything from the actors and the animals down to the smallest critters and plants are fluffy animated puppets. My favourite was the dog creature, although or maybe just because it was a rip off of Animal from the Muppet Show. Oh, and the Mystics are cute, too.Now on the flip side, the story was just shallow. The evil is truly evil and repugnant in every way and the good Mystics are a dying race of indigenous shamans. Very new agey. The black and white moral here made me angry actually. A main character who lacks any depth gets sent on a mission to repair the dark crystal and **SPOILERS** succeeds in doing so. No character development or twist whatsoever. Hey, a film can have levels and still be understood by children.The simpleness of the story and the beauty of animation makes it in fact ideal for small children to watch BUT I can see how some of the scenes are very scary. Getting your life energy sucked out? Stabbing? A horse-bunny eaten by gargantuan roaches? I wouldn't recommend Dark Crystal for children under 5. Children older than 14 might find it boring again. (Obviously some don't as the rave reviews here on the board suggest)  "},{"Title":"An awesome fantasy film from Jim Henson","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is an awesome fantasy film from The Muppets' very own Jim Henson. The film has an essence of J.R.R. Tolkien, the author of the ever popular Lord of the Rings Trilogy. An amazing planet/world with such fascinating creatures and places too. My favorite Dark Crystal creature is the Gelfling like Jen & Kira, who are also my favorite characters from the film - they are so adorable.I must comment on Brian Froud for his conceptual art that was put into the film - for each race in the film. And Trevor Jones' excellent music score too. Very good job, guys, you are AWESOME! My favorite scenes are when Jen visits Aughra to retrieve the crystal shard,and when Jen meet Kira (his main squeeze *giggles*). I also love the scene when Jen & Kira are at the old Gelfling ruins. "},{"Title":"Different viewing it now, but still appreciate the sheer mastery of the puppet creatures that inhabit the world of 'The Dark Crystal'","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" (MINOR SPOILERS) I have probably seen 'The Dark Crystal' four or five times, and I recently saw it less than a week ago. I do have some discrepancies with the film as an adult, but I'll get to that later! Since last week, I probably hadn't seen 'The Dark Crystal' since I was ten, but I remember that it was a childhood favourite of mine! I always dug The Chamberlain, with his whimper, as the main nemesis (if you could call him that). He was the real antagonist of the film. Forget about The General- he was just a bloated drooling mess, The Chamberlain was cooler! 'The Dark Crystal' was a lot more magical and enchanting when I was younger, and it really drew me into its world.If you haven't seen 'The Dark Crystal', then basically the story is set on an alternate universe where peace was shattered one thousand years ago by the fragmentation of a white crystal. It created two races from a pure one; the good gentle Mystics, and the evil reptile-like Skeksis! Only ten of each race exists presently, and each one has a corresponding other in the opposing race! This world has a prophecy, where a small elf human-like creature called the Gelf-ling will mend the now Dark Crystal! The Skeksis wipe out all the Gelf-ling, except one called Jen, who is protected by the Mystics. Anyway, Jen is our hero, and he must go on a quest to find the lost shard, and repair the crystals before the three sons eclipse. Along the way there is a few surprises, as Jen find out more about his race and himself, as well as the Skeksis's attempts to thwart him.You get the general idea.When I was younger, I guess I was so wowed by the world that was created; I really didn't pay attention to how simplistic the story really is. In my recent viewing, I was very aware of the contrived nature of the story and script. Jen was really going through the motions, and everything does seem to fall easily into place (i.e. Kira's wings, the calling of the Land Striders), and it seems to go to too fast. 'The Dark Crystal' really doesn't seem epic enough, and you'd think Jen would have been better prepared for the endeavour, from day one by his Master. But no, his Master tells at the very last minute before he bites the big one. Jen's thoughts are used as the narrative, and for the most part, that works, especially during a clever sequence that displays Jen's and Kira's histories through mind melding! Convenient but cleverly done, and even now, I liked that moment a lot. However, to me, 'The Dark Crystal' seems to really lack a good nemesis, as The Chamberlain's motives are simply to get into the Skeksis's favour, and The General is more concerned about eating than doing any major evil acts! I remember The Slave Master draining the Podling of its essence, and finding that scene quite scary when I was younger. Now, I was more aware of how the Podlings closely resembled Jim Henson's Muppets (especially during their first appearance). Also, now, I noticed the stilts for the Land Striders! I don't know if I noticed the technical presence of the Land Strider in earlier viewings, but it seemed obvious now how they did it (and that was before I watched the making-of too!). Still, I did think the incest bug creatures were awesomely effective even by today's standards, and they certainly sent shivers down my spine on my first viewing! Regardless, of the issues I have with the story now, or with being able to see some of the techniques in how it was done easier, I still can't get past the sheer genius of Jim Henson and Frank Oz. The puppets are simply superb creations for its time and the art direction brings the viewer into another world. While a film like 'Lord of the Rings' uses its world as a backdrop to the complexities of the story and characters, 'The Dark Crystal' draws you into its universe by showing you what its world is made up of- a perfect example of this, is the dissolves shots of the very alive jungle before Jen meets Kira! Things are happening in that Jungle that gives the viewer an idea of the creatures that inhabit that world- even if they aren't relevant to the story! 'The Dark Crystal' works as simple fantasy and escapist fare, and while the story and characters may not be as complex as 'Star Wars' or 'Lord of the Rings', it must be noted that this entirely puppet orientated film is smaller in narrative scope and not as epic considering its only one film, and not three films. 'The Dark Crystal's' scope belongs in the world we see on screen, and the creatures that inhabit it! For a stand-alone film, I think 'The Dark Crystal' holds up even now, if not for the sheer effort into creating these puppets and bringing them into life convincingly.Personally, 'The Dark Crystal' will always hold a special place for me, considering I thought highly of it when I was younger. Don't get me wrong, I still preferred 'Star Wars' as the pinnacle back then, but 'The Dark Crystal' was always unique in my mind, both visually, and in its creature f/x! One thing is certain, Jim Henson and Frank Oz had created a memorable film with a sense of aura about it. As well as 'Labyrinth' and many of the famous Muppets that have become icons, 'The Dark Crystal' will always be one of the unique and treasured film contributions from Jim Henson's legacy! And for my two cents, 'The Dark Crystal' is a great film for the kids and adults alike! **** out of *****! "},{"Title":"I beg to differ with you hotoil","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" As Far as the dark crystal is concerned i'm not sure if u actually watched the same movie or not, First of all as far as Character development the entire world of the dark crystal was to be the main character not just jen... jen was a small part in the entire journey... represented by the premise that everything in the dark crystal was inner connected. I watched this movie as child when it first came out and i watch it still today, by no means at either time did i find it to be boring or scary or too dark.... as far as spectacular special effects , i dunno if u realize this or not but it was all done without cgi which in and of itself is a small miracle.So in closeing i would recommend this movie to any family lookin for a fun ride and a great story. "},{"Title":"The fate of a world is in the balance as good & evil battle.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The fate of a world hangs in the balance as good and evil struggle to gain supremacy.  A millennium ago, the Dark Crystal was damaged, a fragment lost, and the world was sundered.  Evil has ruled for a thousand years and now the time of a great conjunction of three suns draws near.  The forces of good and evil are once again contesting to see which of them will gain supremacy over the other.  If the crystal is not healed before the three suns align, evil will dominate forever.  Both forces are so equally matched that the balance will be decided by the actions of Jen, the last of the gentle Gelfings.  Jen must journey across his world to find the missing shard of crystal.  Can he find the key to healing the crystal?  This is storytelling at its best, with a world created by Jim Henson that is so astonishing in its depth and complexity you will want to watch it again and again to revel in the glorious details.  A great movie for the whole family. "},{"Title":"The best,wierdest Muppet I have ever seen!!!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw The Dark Crystal on TV when I was 5 years old on TV, that cool flick by the late Jim Henson came out in 1982 when I was a baby. I saw this movie again two years ago when at the age of 15 on video,  I like about The Dark Crystal because it is dark, weird, and very scary (including the evil characters) this movie shouldn't be recommended for little kiddies who like the Muppets. And for the first time in the Muppet movie they show the lead character Kira cut the ugly monster's finger and it was bleeding and a old woman's eyeball falls out, etc. THIS MOVIE IS COOL TO WATCH! and how Jim Henson have this good idea to make this fantasy movie. Dark Crystal is like a cult favorite to me since the first time I watched it when I was a kid and should be recommended to watch if people who want to see a wierd fantastic Muppet movie and this movie is made from England like the other Muppet movies that the Jim Henson Workshop did.  Anyway this movie rules and the Muppets! "}{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Brilliant, woefully under-appreciated masterpiece. Even hardcore Henson fans seem to prefer the chaotic, tone-deaf disaster Labyrinth to this, and I've never understood why. The Dark Crystal would seem to be the perfect fantasy film &#150; it's often criticized for being inaccessible and remote from humanity (many writers seem simply baffled by it), but to me, the otherworldiness, so carefully wrought and sustained (the film never breaks character, even in its Muppetier moments), is a huge part of the appeal. Henson and his production team have created a unique, self-contained, utterly believable new world, and most surprisingly they have the artistic backbone to take it seriously. (Considering that much of today's entertainment for children consists of sitcom stars playing animated versions of themselves, this is very important.) The distinct subcultures are painted in broad strokes &#150; though not a work of science fiction, the film shares a perhaps simplistic sensibility with many sci-fi works of the time, sending up the western model of life and praising the eastern &#150; but they have to be, considering how much territory it sets out to cover in just 93 minutes. It's amazing how fully the various races come to life before our eyes, from the quasi-Buddhist Mystics, who are not characterized individually (which may be the point), but who are instead defined by marvelous touches like the booming nine-tone chord they sing, to the Podlings, with their Celtic/medieval folk culture like something out of a Brueghel painting. Most detailed of all, of course, are the Skeksis, conceived to satirize the worst excesses of western civilization, with individual characters lovingly (or maybe hatefully) realized as incarnations of politics, war, science, organized religion, and even fashion, with a couple of Deadly Sins thrown in for good measure. (Some question whether a handful of Skeksis in a board room could actually lay waste to an entire planet, but, again, that's probably the point.) In the midst of this explosion of creativity, the Gelflings are often criticized as bland and lifeless; it's a legitimate complaint, but it should be remembered that we are meant to see this fantastic world through their eyes, and so their blankness actually helps bring the other races into clearer focus. All this arty symbolism wouldn't amount to much, of course, if The Dark Crystal didn't also work aesthetically, and while the cinematic technique is actually surprisingly conservative, happily the film is well plotted and paced (for a film that lingers so much on the details of a fantasy world, there are few scenes that don't move the story along), often quite scary (the Garthim, organic tanks that can come into your house, are a terrifying concept), at times hilariously odd (the eye! my god, the eye!), extremely clever in its use of sound (from the aforementioned Mystic singing, to the Chamberlain's whining and shrieking, to the telltale clicking of the Garthim), and as an example of how to capture puppets believably on film, completely unparalleled. Ultimately, it may be too challenging in some ways to ever find more than a narrow cult following (in the U.S., anyway &#150; apparently the French and Japanese ate it up), which is too bad, and it's even sadder that its commercial failure sent Henson into a deep depression from which he never fully recovered. It's a magnificently original film; there should be more like it. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Beautifully made but sometimes overwhelmingly disturbing","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is a fantastic film made by Jim Henson. It truly is one of those movies that prove what a genius he was, and that his genius stretched past Kermit and Big Bird. However&#x85;I always have mixed feelings about this movie.The Dark Crystal takes place in a fantasy land that has fallen out of balance and turned evil because the dark crystal has lost a shard. Then comes Jen, a gelfling, a small creature with a sweet face and long hair. Jen has has been raised by the mystics large, peaceful creatures that tell him he is the last of his kind. He is the last of his kind because the skeksies have killed all the gelflings due to a prophesy that a gelfling will overthrow their reign. The skeksies are evil, bird/reptile like creatures that are the complete opposite of the mystics. Simultaneously, the leader of the skeksies and leader of the mystics die, and Jen goes on a quest to find the missing shard in the Dark Crystal. On his journey Jen finds Kira, a female gelfling raised by podlings, who also believed she was the last of her kind. Together, Kira and Jen must find a way to restore the shard to the dark crystal, therefore creating balance in their world once more.This movie is a visual feast. It is absolutely amazing what Henson managed to do with the muppets and the worlds he created. As many have said it is even more amazing to see it in comparison to today's CGI and advanced special effects, and appear superior. The plot is also solid, with lots of meaning and spirit. However&#x85;I personally always found the film difficult to enjoy. As a child this movie gave me horrible nightmares, as it did for many other people. This is probably high on the list of traumatizing children's movies! So parents be forewarned, this shouldn't be shown to children under age 8, or even those a bit older who scare easily. In fact, adults can still find many aspects of this film disturbing, including scary characters, music, voices, and actions. One of the most disturbing aspects is how the skeksies would suck the essence (soul) out of podlings, drink it to prolong their own youth, and then make the podlings into slaves. As an adult I can look past the scary parts to recognize how well the film is made and written, but I still find it difficult to enjoy. That aside, it's definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Really odd.","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Starring The Muppet performers (Jim Henson, Frank Oz, Kathryn Mullen and Dave Goelz) with the voices of Jerry Nelson and Steve Whittemire.There is no other way to describe this film other than those two words. It's about a fictional land where these weird vulture creatures called the Skekses rule the land and do as they please. There is an almost extinct race of creatures called the Gelflings that can stop the Skekses. The film follows our main character Jen as he travels to stop these horrible creatures. The movie is done with puppets and it looks amazing especially for the time. I highly recommend this mixture of fantasy with black humor.My rating *** 1/2 out of ****. 92 mins. PG for some violence. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I don't understand why it don't have a better quote. Sure it's not for adults but it is not it's target and you can't judge it for that. And yes, it's almost 20 years old by now but I found the effects still good and many times awesome. There is such a lot of work in this movie, it's amazing. It's well made and the story is somewhat original. If you want a very good movie for your kids or even a light fantastic movie for you, give it a try. "},{"Title":"A wonderful tale...","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie has everything going for it. Besides the stirring musical score and fascinating characters, the story has a truly remarkable magic to it that I can't explain. If you haven't seen 'The Dark Crystal', add it to your rental cart. You're family will love it!  "},{"Title":"A great film that scared the crap out of me the first time.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was around 4 or 5 years old. Jim Henson was by far the best puppeteer in history, the way he handled the evil lizard guys (I forgot their names) was terrifying to a four year old. The strange thing was that I couldn't get enough of it. I was drawn into this film by the sheer beauty of it. The sets were amazing and made me want to live in the world expanding before my eyes. I love it. "},{"Title":"Absolute Heaven","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can't tell you how I long for movies like this. I'd love to see it at the movies. It's effortlessly lovable and wonderfully paced and shot I simply drool at the puppetry in this film. The nostalgic punch to my heart it gives me is something I'll cherish forever...in other words I'm proud to own the DVD. This is rare classic.And judging by other people who have given it a 10/10 along with me, some haven't taken to it as much. But that's there loss Jim Henson once stated that something he wanted to do in life was leave it a little better than it once was.I hope he feels he did...because this film does. Even if it was all he did...but he did so much more. And I heard he was a nice bloke...with a beard "},{"Title":"Five hearts and one star","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Wow. I love fantasy and I love Jim Henson, but I was really disappointed by this movie.It's an architypical Joseph Campbell myth of the fight between Good and Evil involving two of the last of the race of Gelflings as they try to return a broken shard to the Dark Crystal to repair it before darkness takes over the world. The movie has a lot of heart, but at times it comes too close to Star Wars for comfort. Of course both of them are built upon the same rubric, but this film even has images, sounds, and characters almost exactly like Star Wars. It doesn't really make it feel special.Also, the voice acting in the puppets didn't really come out as roundly as I feel other Jim Henson movies have been. This movie, if done with real actors with the same style of acting in motion as in voice, would probably be major camp.However, despite my qualms, I just can't help enjoying it. Henson and Oz's visualness is at full form here, especially in the forest, full of thousands of different and colorful set pieces, creatures, and things breathing, moving, and living. Many things in this movie are creepy, majestic, magical, weird, gross, and funny all where they're supposed to be. The world itself seems to follow its own natural laws, which is always appreciated in a work of fantasy.It gets points for heart and imagination, but otherwise Henson has done a lot better.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"One whacked out movie","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What a warped movie this is.  I do like it but it has such a weird tone to it.  It is definately one of the stranger movies I've seen.  I can remember seeing this movie when I was a child and being so fascinated by all the puppets.  Jim Henson definately put a lot of imagination and feeling into this movie.  One of my favorites.      "},{"Title":"Bland but beautiful","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've seen The Dark Crystal twice now. Once when I was a kid and now as an adult. I remember being frightened by the essence draining scene as a kid but except for that not much to do with the film ever stuck in my mind.With a more critical adult eye, the problems with this film are sadly obvious. Start right off the bat with about three minutes of exposition droning on and on about the crystal, the Skeksis and the Mystics. This is a movie, not a book. Show me, don't tell me.The color palette seems borrowed from Star Trek The Motion Picture bland pastels and khakis as far as the eye can see except for the bad guys who are all black from top to bottom so as to be indistinct and muddy looking. That being said, a lot of effort went into making the landscape seem alien and in that area the film makers succeeded greatly.The story is strictly by the numbers. Small but doughty innocent must take the ring to Mount Doom to get rid of Sauron, no wait, I mean he must take the crystal shard to the evil castle to get rid of the Skeksis. Along the way he meets strange and wonderful, sometimes dangerous creatures and also picks up a sidekick. Been there. Done that.Character development is non-existent, although that is fairly common in this genre. The main characters are particularly dull and without nuance. The bad guys are all bad and nearly indistinguishable. The counterpart good guys have zero personality. With little to no information about character backgrounds, there's no real motivations here and as such it's just plain hard to care about anybody. Again this isn't a fatal flaw, it's just too bad that the guy who created Kermit, Miss Piggy and Big Bird couldn't be bothered with injecting some actual character traits into his characters.I must say that the puppetry in this movie is simply amazing - the best I've ever seen. That's both the movie's saving grace and its fatal flaw. While the puppeteers certainly push the envelope, it's painfully obvious that the envelope is ultimately too constricting. Simply put the limitations on what one can do with puppets get in the way making the movie work in a believable fashion. The classic problem with any puppet is its hands. Puppet hands can't pick up, grasp or manipulate anything in a realistic way. And that's too bad because it detracts from what actions are possible for the characters. The screen writer and director must always work around this limitation. The most obvious example of this is the big evil insect creatures. Their pincers seem clumsy and fake, not menacing like they should. Still, I must admit that great strides were made to overcome these problems, but in the end I don't think the film makers succeeded in overcoming enough.And that leads to my last issue. Seeing the movie again, it's obvious that The Dark Crystal didn't age too well. What may have been pretty neat special effects and cool puppet tricks back in 1982 are decidedly ho-hum now in this age of CGI wonders. I'm left wondering why one would bother to expend so much effort to make a puppet world look real. It's akin to trying to breed the fastest horse for transportation in an age when even the cheapest automobile will always be faster. I admire the effort spent, I just question the wisdom of it. "}{"Title":"Dark Night of the Soul","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is a film about the dark person we carry inside us and how it appears when imbalance occurs. It has particularly powerful impact when one knows that its box office failure triggered a chronic depression in Henson which continued until his death. That death was preventable, and might be considered the result of depressive behavior. (It occurred the week he was to unload his company on Disney.)Henson poured his entire, huge store of creativity into the Dark Crystal for five years of his prime, and it failed. Why?I think the problems were two, tied together. Instead of trusting his own imagination, Henson went to a `conceptual artist' to get the primary vision for the film. That artist was strong on the character end but had nothing so far as environments. Puppet shows can get by with objects. Fantasy films need an environmental vision. One can see the difference with `Alien' where the conceptual artist understood environment first, creature second.The second problem grows out of the first. The story grew from the characters. Henson's (and Oz's too if it matters) intuition is to give meaning to their characters independent of context. Then the story was overlain. The story has some rather deep origins, mostly Kabbalistic, but the expression is thin. No one apparently had the skills to build a compelling narrative.Missing story and environment, a tragic film. "},{"Title":"Crystal of Power","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Part of why the fantasy genre great is just the imaginative and creative freedom you can have and that you can make your own rule in whatever you create. This film is one of my favorite fantasy films of all time, their really hasn't been another film like it, nor to I feel they make films like this anymore. The late great Jim Henson whom is one of my favorite effects masters, this was his first movie and I feel still one of his best, it's a real shame he didn't direct more movies because I would of loved to of seen what more he could of done with his puppet specialty.The production value is great like the use of the locales. This film it's all puppets which is amazing, this was a gutsy move but it works because this film after all takes place in another world so it makes sense there wouldn't be anything human. But they really pushed the puppetering designs and effects to the limit and broke it, it I felt demonstrated that you can do more with puppetering, tell other stories with it not just comedy.The story I think is great, it's the simple fantasy motif of freeing the land from an evil that has ruled. But what makes the work is where it takes place and that is the fact it's in another world. This was a brilliant idea which I don't really see done much in most fantasies or RPG's. What intrigues me about this otherworld and story is this broad sense of mystic and depth that revolves throughout the film. As it progresses we begin to discover hidden aspects in culture, enviorment,animals and characters. There is just so much to see and discover, it's something where words can't do it justice you just have to see for yourself to believe it. Some questions are answered but others still to this day (unless a sequel is made) are still a mystery, I still at times can't help but wonder, What are all of those other planets on Augra's mobile star chart model is our planet there also? or even What more was there to this Gelfling civilization? Usually unanswered questions can hurt a story but I feel if executed right it can believe it or not give the fantasy world a greater sense of depth because you feel that there can be anything in this world and anything can be possible.And I really love the score from one of my favorite composers Trevor Jones. The score is just fantastic it really has a broad epic and mysterious tone to it and in some places really conveys emotion.The characters are also very good; the Skekis are very good villains. I really like the design of them they all look almost like giant grotesque birds. Which perfectly reflect the rotten nature of them. I like that each of them have a slight unique persona but are equally corrupt, pathetic, deceitful, power addicted, just almost all the above on bad. But I also like how their kinda funny sometimes. My favorite moment with them was the Trial by Stone scene. I thought that test was cool because it was basically the Sword and the Stone principle in the reverse, this test was one of will power.Augra is a fun supporting character, she looks almost like a lost sister to Patty and Selma from The Simpsons. She's a wise but grouchy and eccentric scientist that probably doesn't get out much.But to me the characters I really like are Jen and Kira whom are solid and sympathetic protagonists since their the last of their kind. I like how both are drawn out where you actually do care about them and what their doing matters. I like how different both are, Jen is sort of an intellectual since his specialties are in music, reading/writing, and open to new and old wisdom; he's also sort of the passive aggressive type. Kira is my favorite, she's almost like the mythological goddess of spring since she is intuned with nature with her ability to communicate, but like that she's a warm, strong, feisty, and aggressive female. I really like the chemistry between both Jen and Kira both play off each other well, you do sense there is growth. It is a friendship but you can see as they spend more time together, it becomes love. Sure there no love scene between then, but you know both are meant for each other and will become more in the future. The dynamic between both of them you can say is almost biblical allegory. Both are Adam and Eve and depending on if they succeed on their mission the planet will be their Eden.The Dark Crystal shows the light.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"An epic classic that everyone still remembered in it's 30th anniversary","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I didn't see this movie when I was a kid because I was more of a 90s kid. A few years, I stumbled upon this on a DVD copy and since I was interested since Jim Henson and Frank Oz directed this. After my first viewing, I was totally blown away by how it looked and it's puppet designs and it made me watch it over and over again. Then, I looked up the information at what time this movie was released after that, I personally agree to those who still love it that this is indeed a classic.The story is original with a nice concept which is certainly much darker with several moments that would frighten young kids and some nice moments especially the chemistry between Jen and Kira. In fact, the main characters are likable and the villains the Skesis are frightening and menacing. The acting and puppeteers for the characters themselves are actually pretty good. The direction from both of the directors is focused and the pacing moves along very nicely, but the strongest aspects goes to the visuals and Trevor Jones' music score. The sets are amazing and very imaginative and are some of the best I've ever seen in a movie like this and Trevor Jones' score is memorable with a well-done orchestra which makes it one of his best.No wonder this got a cult following over the years because this should always be watched more than once to fans of Jim Henson of the Muppets. Thank you Jim and Frank for doing such a wonderful job and for what you had done to make this classic, this deserves a re-cognitional thumbs up from me! "},{"Title":" In the time of the great Conjunction, all will be revealed ","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" From the beginning, America became fascinated with Jim Henson and his Muppet's. I and many others first beheld his creations with an introduction to Rowlf the dog on the Jimmy Dean show. By the time this movie came out called  The Dark Crystal  fans were all in for a fabulous treat. The fantastic story is set on another world where a great white crystal was accidentally broken allowing the inhabitants to be split into two distinct groups. One group was the evil Skeksis, a strange monstrous sect bent on keeping their dominant world going, while the other group were a peaceful race called the Mystics. In their charge was a young creature called Jen, a Gelfling whom they hoped would fulfill the prophecy of healing the Dark Crystal with a missing shard. Jim Henson, Kathryn Mullen and Frank Oz give these wondrous creatures their voices. Throughout the story audiences follow young Jen as he searches for the special shard and meets other characters who give this film it's mythic grandeur. Everything in the movie is entertaining, exciting and wondrous as Henson had envisioned. More than just a movie this film has become a Classic for all audiences around the world and a great legacy bequeathed to us by Jim Henson the creator of the Muppets. Easily recommended to all. **** "},{"Title":"It's ALMOST perfect (almost being the key word here)","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched the Dark Crystal again. It's still my favorite children's movie, but it is anything but perfect. Beautiful character designs, deep world and an interesting plot (NOTE You have to read books and interviews to really understand the plot and world) Well, it's almost perfect if it wern't for one thingThe gelflings are flawless and perfect. And that is what's wrong with them. Am I the only one sick of perfect and flawless heroes and heroines in children's films, while the villains seem more human? I would like the Gelfling more if they had actual human flaws and personalities.You know what the gelfings remind me of when it comes to storytelling? Two words sum it up MARY SUE. That's right, the perfect flawless character that plagues books and fanfics (and to an extent, RPG video games). I'm sick of the supporting heroes (eg. Aughra) and the villains (skeksis) being more likable than the poster children heroes. There is character development in the DC novel and official books, and it clearly stated that Skeksis did once have some good in them. Let's see, SkekUng is brave, SkekTek is intelligent, SkekEkt is usually cheerful, and SkekZok is devoted to his duties. Are those consitered evil traits? I don't think so. And the UrRu have a few bad traits themselves like being lazy, procrastinating, giving in to depression and being weak willed. So the Skeksis and the UrRu seem pretty human to me.So why must the hero and heroine be boring and have nearly no personality nor have too many emotions. If advanced civilzations are a race of beings with miniscule emotions and no personality, then they are doomed and that world won't have much going for it.But I think that's about to change with the main heroine of the sequel(if it doesn't get cancelled). In fact, when I read the summary, Thurma sounds more like an anti-heroine. We need more of these type of heroes.Overall, if it wern't for the Mary Sue like poster children, the Dark Crystal would have been a perfect film. Still say though, the Skeksis are my favorite movie villains of all time.Rating 4 1/2 out of five. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember reading a book of this movie when i was in primary school, Year 2. I must've been around 6 years old. several years later i picked up the film at a second hand video store and i must say i was simply blown away.The puppets are beautiful, the sets are breath-taking and the storyline is incredibly gripping. I'm now 17 and still obsessed with this movie. It's definitely worth watching for fantasy fans of all ages.On the one hand, I'd love to see a remake of this film, however on the other hand i don't think it could live up to the beauty of the original.Best thing to come out of the 80's. "},{"Title":"A truly fantastic film, that is rich in detail, and is Jim Henson's masterpiece!","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Jim Henson had brought us the immortal Muppets and films like Labryrinth, but The Dark Crystal is a wonderful film, that was part of my childhood, as well as my brother's. A lot of effort clearly went into this, and it really does show, with the rich details of the characters. It tells the story of Jen, a Geffling who must return the Crystal shard to the dark Crystal, before the conjunction of the three suns, or the skeksies will rule forever. The film is recognised as fantastic by people, because of its clear symbolism and themes such as the personifications of good (the mysties) and the evil (the skeksies). The film is directed by the immensely talented duo Jim Henson and Frank Oz. The film looks dazzling,with fabulous visuals and very well staged sequences, and Jen and Kira are very engaging as title characters. The mysties are very mysterious, and the Skeksies are very, very scary. There is a well-above average script, and a sweeping music score that is phenomenal. The characters are well voiced by some Muppet regulars such as Oz himself, and they are tone-perfect. The story may be a little simplistic and some elements a little too frightening for youngsters, but visually and audibly, it is an absolute treat, and should be recognised as a truly wonderful film. 10/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Fanastic movie!!!!  Why CGI just doesn't have that magic...","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the world of CGI special effects, along comes this movie from the early 1980's, which completely makes me fall in love with old-school visual effects and that certain magic of fantastical puppet creatures. I won't get too much into the plot, because is it is a fairly simple straightforward adventure movie. What I will focus on, however, is why this movie still has a place among today's finest visual movies and why this movie belongs in everyone's movie collection.The world that Jim Henson and Frank Oz creates in this movie is completely original, from the landscapes down to the mystical creatures that inhabit it. The movie asks us to throw away everything you've come to know about standard fantasy, and to enter a make-believe world that is simply a magic feast to the imagination as well as to the eyes. I totally loved all the puppet creatures. They are so original and beautifully constructed, they almost look life-like. They are simply astounding.The world is so rich that it lends itself to other adventures. I would've really liked to have come back into this world in a sequel, or trilogy. There is honestly enough richness to this world that it begs to be visited perhaps by other characters with other stories of their own.It is something of a children's movie, but it's also a good viewing for adults. There are elements in this movie that strike a fundamental cord in all of us, bring out the fantastical curious little child in all of us, and make us believe in other worlds with wonderful creatures. I will cherish the movie and watch it time and again when I want to feel like a kid again, when the world was worth exploring and when it contained beauty and mystery, love and heroism. Thank you Jim Henson for this extremely organic and tangible world - I LOVE IT!!! "},{"Title":"A Visually Stunning Fantasy Adventure","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I first heard about this film, and heard that Jim Henson directed it, I thought, okay, Jim Henson, Muppets, Sesame Street. But when I received a copy on DVD this Christmas and viewed it, I was absolutely blown away.The film follows the story of Jen, the last of the Gelflings, who must return a shard to the Dark Crystal and heal it, restoring peace to the land. A thousand years before, the superior Urskeks shattered the crystal, dividing themselves into the gentle ur-Ru and the cruel Skeksis. The two races are now dying and the already bleak and forbidding world is on the brink of destruction as the three suns draw close to conjoining.Considering that this film was made entirely with puppets and contains no CGI whatsoever, it's a pretty astounding feat. The set design is extravagant yet surprisingly believable, and the numerous mythical creatures brought to the screen feel like living and breathing beings instead of just pieces of fabric. Much like the first Harry Potter film, this film unravels its storyline through revealing the world in which it takes place instead of just using its environment as a backdrop.Although this film is directed by the creator of Sesame Street, the film contains some serious scares and is not recommended for children under seven. The scenes with the Skeksis, particularly the essence-draining scene, made this seventeen-year-old's skin crawl.That being said, this film's storyline is quite derivative, and elements of Lord of the Rings and Star Wars are evident. The plot is also quite simplistic, and the acting leaves something to be desired, but the stunning visuals and imaginative design make up for much of this.Overall, this is an imaginative film that stimulates the senses and leaves a lasting impression on the viewer. "},{"Title":"A Film Like No Other","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is a unique film. The reason being is that not a single one of the characters is human. This factor is good in my opinion for the simple reason that it makes the movie all the more enthralling due to the imagination.Right from the off we are given impression that the Skekses are evil due to their twisted bodies and evil appearance. We are also given an impression of gentleness from the mystics due to the slightly aged appearance.I also love the characters of Jen and Kira for their emotion and their appearance of innocence, concealing their potential courage.The sets on the whole are good. On a few occasions they did look a little flimsy but I think that can be overlooked due to their brilliance and beauty.As for the soundtrack it really added to the mysticism and emotion of the entire film.Overall a fantastic film of magic, love and courage. "}{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Another planet, another time. 1000 years ago the mysterious Dark Crystal was damaged by one of the Urskeks and an age of chaos has began! The evil race of grotesque birdlike lizards the Skeksis, gnomish dragons who rule their fantastic planet with an iron claw. Meanwhile the orphan Jen, raised in solitude by a race of the peace-loving wizards called the Mystics, embarks on a quest to find the missing shard of the Dark Crystal which gives the Skesis their power and restore the balance of the universe.Creepy and odd Jim Henson film features actors of the yesteryear and the script is fantastic. The Frank Oz actor is so good at acting too. Good effects as well.Rated PG for Violence. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is a Generation-X cult classic, along with movies like Labyrinth, Star Wars, E.T., Back to the Future, etc. It is a classic good-vs.-evil adventure story, with a lovable hero and heroine. It has a happy ending, and begs for a sequel (coming soon to a theater near you!) This movie is also unique in that it is the only full-length live-action movie without any human characters in it at all. Only its own sequel will challenge that status. I was 14 when this movie came out, and I fell in love with it. When I heard that they were making a sequel for it next year, that love was reawakened. I can hardly wait! I've been waiting 25 years for this. Now I can bring my own daughter to enjoy it. I love Jen and Kira - they're such a cute couple. I hope they got married and had lots of babies. (Being that they were the last male and female of their species, it seems only logical.) "},{"Title":"Parents watch it before your kids do","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" If you are getting this movie for family movie night, parents, please take the time to see it first and decide if each of your children can handle it. I do not believe that children under 6 should watch it. Although it is all puppets, it is very realistic and the scariness is on different levels, from just plain scary looking things to (Spoiler) to a scene where a character's essance is drained from them and drank by another character. The essance thing could be disturbing to older children. Having said that, however, I do not hesitate to say that everyone should see this movie some time in their life. It would be an excellent date movie, if you want her (or him) to hold your hand. ) "},{"Title":"The Dark Crystal","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Another world. Another time. In the age of wonder. So starts Jim Henson's puppet masterpiece The Dark Crystal, co-directed by Frank Oz, and it never fails to deliver.It is the story of Jen, a Gelfling, who is told by his dying master, the Wisest of the Mystics, that he must save the world. A thousand years ago, the crystal cracked and the gentle Mystics and cruel Skeksis appeared. Upon hearing the prophecy that a Gelfling would heal the crystal and hence they would cease to exist, the Skeksis eliminated the entire Gelfling race. Or so they thought. Though Jen has never left the valley inhabited by the Mystics before, he must now embark on his journey alone, find the crystal shard, and restore order to his world. But he must hurry because if his mission isn't complete before the three suns eclipse, the Skeksis will rule forever.Character design and costumes go a long way in a fantasy film such as this. Graphic designer Brian Froud, known for the imaginative book Faeries which he co-illustrated, was tapped as conceptual designer and proved to be an excellent choice. Evil oozes from the Skeksis, bird like creatures with sharp features--beaks, teeth and long bony fingers. The Lords of the Crystal are self-involved, walk around with scepters, and dress in gaudy, colorful and ornamental garb. Those under their control are also horrific creatures--giant beetle soldiers, spy bats, and zombie slaves.On the other hand, the Mystics come across as majestic and serene. Their real-life counterpart is hard to place, perhaps somewhere between a pony and sloth, except with an extra pair of arms. Their features are rounded, they wear simple, naturally-colored clothes, and live off the earth. The Gelfling are a child-sized, humanistic race (making it easier for the audience to identify with them) and they also don simple, earth-tone attire.The puppets in this movie are more believable than many live actors. They have intricate movements in their face that supplementary convey the emotion in their speech and body language. It certainly doesn't hurt to have mimes among the performers.The sets are beautifully constructed and no detail is spared. Whether it's one of the many rooms in the castle, out in the valley, the wilderness, or exploring ruins, you believe that you have been transported to a real world in another realm.Trevor Jones' score, performed by the London Symphony Orchestra, compliments the film perfectly. Wind and string instruments are predominant in the themes for the Mystics and other assorted good guys, a seeming overture of awe when Jen discovers something new. The Skeksis and their henchmen are horn heavy with creepy additives. The music completes the fantasy.Originally released in 1982, The Dark Crystal stands the test of time. Twenty-four years later, it is still as imaginative and entertaining as ever. And that's why it remains my all-time favorite film. "},{"Title":"Really mystical & unique!","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I think this movie is really unique & different, it's really neat. Jim Henson did all sorts of movies with the fun-loving Muppets, but this one was out of this world. Jim from time to time makes these really different movies, other than the Muppets, He did this movie & the Labyrinth & (even though it wasn't done by him but his studio) Mirrormask, but I think this one is my favorite. For a time, when I was younger, I couldn't see this film because it was rather scary, but I got it out again & I was like, whoa... this is really something. I mean seriously this film stands out among many of my other movies.The story is about an ancient crystal; long ago it was tampered by one of the Urskeks, a race of godly beings and by doing this the Urskeks was divided into the 2 sub races, the good Uhru & the evil Skekses. The Skekses took hold of the now dark crystal & used its powers to find immortality&#133; a 1000 years later a problem was that they found out another race, the Gelfing were the source of their bane they would put an end to the Skekses power, so the skekses got rid of all the Gelfing only 2 made it out alive. One was taken in by the Uhru, he was named Jen & the other by the Pod people, she was named Kira. One fateful day when both the Uhru chief & the Skekses emperor were close to death Jen learned of his destiny to cure the dark crystal & restore the unbalanced world to peace, he starts his journey by looking for the Keeper of Secrets, Aughra. I think I'd better stop there before I tell the whole plot; I know the story sounds stereo-type, but don't overlook it its really cool.I love the world it's based in, its wonderfully different world with totally different landscape, it's sort of a prehistoric, neo-earthy sort of place; definitely not modern. The plants have an ancient under-water look about them; they are so bizarre but cool like a cross between plants & animal. The wild creatures are just as unique, like a bush-baby part mushroom, some very scary gigantic glowing-eyed beetles ,an over-sized red-eyed toad or a rabbit combined with a catfish on stilts, really cool. The Characters are very memorable themselves, Jen is very pleasant, sensitive, and modest, I don't really know how to describe his character but he's very nice. Gelfings almost look human & yet they don't, they look shorter with long ears & long noses. Kira is also very pleasant but she's almost bolder, people who will like this movie will like Kira. The Uhru are these beings who almost look like an elderly herbivore-dinosaur part horse, none of them look young they are very ancient, their personality it celestial, meditative & almost monk-like. The Skekses are these prehistoric, reptilian vulture creatures, under their robes their bodies are disturbingly mangled & twisted just like their personalities & yet they are rather regal & pompous, one of the Skekses, Chamberlain, is very odd & sly. Aughra is quite a character she is quite sort of an impatient hermit, although she is almost womanly, a person on the DVD said she was so ugly she's beautiful.All the voice-acting was great, Stephen Garlick, Lisa Maxwell, Billie Whitelaw did very well. But the puppet-performing was done very good; well they did have Jim Henson! So many things I wonder how they did on this movie. It's very creative & unique.If you like epic creative almost mystical movie or Jim Henson films, I recommend you rent this one- be warned, it's a little scary (  "},{"Title":"Excellent  Adventure Movie","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Just bought the DVD for my daughter, 6 years old. She's seen Shrek, Finding Nemo, Ice Age, also she's seen Batman, Spiderman, Starwars and Harry Potter, but she's never been as impressed as with this movie. I had to reassure her that it's all pretend, with all other mentioned movies, she knows... it's a timeless movie, I love it, and I'm glad, that with my daughter I had a reason to go out and buy it...On the DVD I was especially impressed with the additional features, on how the move was done, is that even possible today, with all the technology? It's an excellent movie for all ages. The movie is great, the sound efffects, the special effects the characters are beautiful. "},{"Title":"A Muppet Masterpiece","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is unique in that it features no human actors whatsoever. All of the characters and creatures are brought to life by Jim Henson & Company's famous puppetry and marionettes. Unlike the Muppets, the Dark Crystal is populated by a host of fantasy creatures, designed by the brilliantly talented Brian Froud, ranging from the gruesome Skeksis to the downright bizarre Land Striders. And because of this the film has aged very well, and I think will get better with age. Its a real classic.Since puppetry seems to be a dying art form in the west the Dark Crystal is truly one of a kind. With the advent of computer animation, movies like this one have become rare indeed. Few will ever attain the degree of mastery on display here. For this alone it will always be cherished, along with its close cousin, Labyrinth.Luscious settings filled with whole ecosystems of flora and fauna, and the breath-taking Solar Observatory aren't highlights, they're the norm. The story is the stuff of fairy tales, but will probably frighten children due to the many scary sequences which place the heroes in peril.As a fan of videogames, its hard not to notice the obvious impact this film has had on some of the most popular ones, such as Zelda and Final Fantasy. If you like those, you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"The Dark Crystal  Legend In Itself","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is one of the greatest I have ever seen. It was my absolute favorite as a child and still to this day gives me chills every time I see it. It is truly breathtaking. Jim Henson brought forth a new mythology in this piece and has created a legend. The characters are so life like and detailed, that when watching the film it's easy to forget that they are not real. Like unicorns or dragons, this film makes you want to believe that in some way the beings were once truly here. The Skeksis are cruel and twisted but not so much to be frightening, The Mystics are wise and spiritual, and the Gelflings are courageous and kind. Each of them play their own part to unfold destiny thus bringing peace and harmony to their world. I have treasured this movie my whole life and I recommend anyone who indulges fantasy to see it! It's perfect for children as well as parents to open the imagination and let the magic begin! "},{"Title":"I love this movie and I finally found the DVD.","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I love this movie! I had searched every where for it and stumbled upon the DVD at Walmart! It has tons of awesome feature too. I thought that I was the only one who liked the movie. I am so happy to learn that I am not alone! Now I can watch it with my young daughter, she loves it as much as I do. For a movie made before all the special effects were around, I think that Henson did a terrific job bringing this story to life! I think that the pod people are my favorite characters. They are so adorable! The whole movie just rocks! I don't understand how so many people have not even heard of it. I carried the metal lunch box for the movie all the way thru high school. "},{"Title":"Why doesn't have a better position","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is one of the Top Ten fantasy stories of all times. Sadly, movies as LOTR and StarWars keep the attention of this genre and many masterpieces are so forgotten. Jim Henson created the best evil creatures ever made in movie history the Skeksis WITHOUT computer technologies and only with the hands of the best puppeters of that times. I still don't understand why the Oscars ignore this movie in the cathegories of Costume, Art direction, makeup, visual effects. The Dark Crystal in 1982 has better visual effects than star Wars and many more movies winners of this price. I grow up with this phenomenal story and i 'll defend it all my life cause i have the reason. The best fantasy story before the LOTR. Look that the difference of years are 19!!!!! So, i'm a lover of the LOTR story and the Mexico's No. 1 Fan. But i always down my head to this story. "}{"Title":"This is one of my favorites. . .","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this movie when it came out and at the time I was only 3. I think that although this movie is entertaining to adults, it is for children too. Sure there are some dark scenes and scary characters, but over all it is about the balance of good and evil. I think even young children can relate to that. My 3 year old and 4 year old have seen it and are not scared. I love the things Jim Henson has done in movies or movies that he has been involved in. I hope his workshop can put out some more of these gems. Labrynth was excellent, and his workshop also was involved in the movie Buddy, which my children adore. I love this film. I would recommend it for the whole family. By no means should this movie be kept from children, even the younger ones, unless they are highly sensitive. My generation had bad guys and scary creatures and themes that dealt with good and bad, I think our children will be just fine. This is a beloved family feature. Watch and Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A wonderful experience, however...","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" ... the film is too damn short! In all honesty it could have gone on for at least another half hour, but I am sure that would have blown out the costs. Despite this minor drawback it will likely enthrall children and adults alike with the simple but very effective storyline. The muppets look fantastic, easily better than most computer generated characters (Jar Jar comes to mind) as they are made of substance rather than just plonked onto the screen. Another great feature of this film, is that it takes itself very seriously, despite abounding in cute creatures, they are all just accepted as being like our cats and dogs, which adds the realism and therefore enjoyment of the film.Lets hope the anime prequel comes to fruition, if it hasn't already ) "},{"Title":"Deceptively dark","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Some may find my summary quite funny but this film had a major effect on me as a child. I believe this to be the finest film of its kind, easily better than any Disney animation. This is the Lord of The Rings for the younger audience. This may be the saddest film I have seen, particularly when I was 4 or 5 years old. There is aspects which represent many of the depressing issues in society betrayal, demoralization and the death of loved ones.Many children would find this a bit heavy. Seeing it again after 15 years reminded me of its bleakness. I reflection of the society we live in.The protagonist, Jen (voiced by Henson) and his only accompaniment in its whole world, Kira are cute and all other characters are sinister portrayals of evil.A melancholic masterpiece with morals to be learned for all. People of all ages will be mesmerized by this film for many more generations. Truly timeless and majestic. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing can be compared to the dark C","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie i'm 25years of age so the premiere i din't see. But people buy it...its one of the most magical movies you've ever see. The man from the Muppet's did a great job, Henson made afterward labyrinth (for the real fans out there) one of his best works to. I have them both on DVD (labyrinth even on super bit hard to get movies) and WILL NEVER SELL THEM AT ANY PRICE.About the movie. I watch is several times a year,it never bores me never. Those kind of movies are true collector items these days even in DVD very hard to get dark Chrystal is still in some stores,labyrinth nowhere outside USA that is. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A shockingly beautiful movie. Jim Henson and Frank Oz honestly loved this project, and it shows in all aspects of the film, including the breathtaking craftsmanship of the puppets, the complicated backgrounds, the complex script,the fascinating characters, and the delightful soundtrack. No corners were cut when making The Dark Crystal, making it an absolute masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"A gorgeous, purely unique masterpiece","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A masterpiece of vision, imagination, detail, and heart. Breathtaking and completely unique production design, and both uplifting and in parts genuinely disturbing. Suffers a little bit from slow pacing and heavy exposition (and dated, slightly too heavy orchestration), but if you give over to the world it wraps itself around you. If nothing else, it is that rarest of all things a truly and completely unique, one-of-a-kind film.  "},{"Title":"A Timeless display of dark artistry for children of all ages!!","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie will always be dear to me. It was my first real taste of absolute eccentricity and I've been to the far left ever since. I would recommend this movie for children of all ages to see. Jim Henson has entranced me with his work and ideas throughout my entire life and this movie is what made me really recognize how much of an awesome artist he really was. Long Live JH! "},{"Title":"Excellent... will capture the minds of your children","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it first came out over here - I was 6 (I am now 26). It captured my imagination so much that its been one of my favourite movies ever since.Parents - stop feeding your children with commercialised crap like Pokemon etc, rent them a movie that will spark their imagination - the Dark Crystal.My vote 10/10My advice Also rent Labyrinth "},{"Title":"A Classic in my Book","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie OVER and OVER again when I was 11. I can't recall how many times I saw this at the theater, but for me, the fantasy world that Jim Henson created along with the wonderful characters took my breath away and transported me to their world if only for a short time. The story is magical and full of adventure about one gelfling's journey to venture outside of his world made safe by the Mystics and to heal the Dark Crystal and the separation of good and evil caused by it.I know that there are probably things still unexplained in this movie that don't neatly tie together, but that is what I love about this movie. Some things are better left unknown. I can watch this over and over again and never tire of it. I just enjoy this movie and now my kids do too. It's too bad that there aren't as many Dark Crystal devotees to appreciate all of the time and effort that went into making this fantasy a reality on screen.  "},{"Title":"A Great example of the fantasy genre","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I love this film. The scenario is evocative, the soundtrack by Trevor jones involving. I recommend this film to all lovers of the fantasy genre. I played D&D as a teenager and this films plot was very influential in my games. great film 10/10. "}{"Title":"I love this film.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There is something special about movies that starts off with a narrative voice. Dont know what it is, but it just rips you out of reality and transports you to a whole new place. I a manner of seconds.This is one of those films. Set in another world in an ancient time in the age of the Three Suns it tells the tale of a little Gelfling, a humanoid creature with big pointy ears, and his struggle to find the Dark Crystal.  Relying purely on Puppets the animators manages to make us believe what we see with the help of beautiful landscapes and the strangest sets and creatures ever created. The look of the film is just mindblowing.  This is fantasy at 100%. This is great. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie!  Unlike anything Henson has ever done!","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is Henson at his best.  Mind you, this is not the light and fuzzy Muppets you see on TV - this is puppetry done better and more lifelike than EVER before.  Don't see Jim Henson and expect Kermit the Frog.  He's a puppeteer, not a children's entertainer.  This is an excellent story about the Skesis, who hope to hold on to their power despite a prophesy about a Gelfling who will shut them out forever.  The Skeksis thought they had killed all of the Gelfling, but they missed 2.  The movie took 5 years to make, and it the workmanship is absolutely INCREDIBLE.  Only 1 human, a stunt double for one of the Gelfling characters, appears in the movie - the rest is all amazing hand, radio, or costume puppets.  An absolute triumph for art. "},{"Title":"One of the all time greatest and most detailed fantasy films next to LOTR...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Growing up, this was one of my all time favorate films.. I had a copy recorded on beta, heh, still have it I think.. This film, in it's very conception, is inspired.. I'd readily sacrifice most of the crap in Hollywood for just one more classic like this from good ol' Jim Henson before he died.. Not only that, but this guy created the Muppet Show, Fraggle Rock, and Labrynth!There are moments in it that are magical, and all the elements click together to create a wonderful fantasy world that looks huge, it looks like there was so much more than what we saw (and, in this case, there actually is, as witnessed in the documentary on the SE dvd).. It's one of those films you have to see to believe, with moments of pureness, of sadness, of adventure... to say I love this film is an understatement..The ONLY fantasy world brought to life on screen that even compares in detail and depth of what was there in the world (regardless of what we saw or not) is 2001's Lord of the Rings Fellowship of the Rings.. and to think, there's been almost 20 years between the release of one and the other.. and yet, few stories manage to enchant with as much power as The Dark Crystal emotes, with as much care and breath of life in it's characters, regardless of the fact that they are mere puppetry, mechanical or otherwise.. There's more thought and feeling in ten minutes of this film than the entire lengths of others..Jim Henson will be missed, by all who have loved his work and ambition... Insperation, for any and all who seek to create.. Most never get that chance at all, which is a sad fact of life of this day and age.. I hope I do, in fact, I plan to make it happen. As long as Henson's spirit of creativity and love for his art lives on in our hearts, then his vision and what he accomplished wasn't wasted, wasn't just some far off dream that never occured. His art endures, and that's enough to make me smile, to inspire me to achieve great things so that I can honor his memory, and every other great artistic mind that has come and gone and left their mark on the world..The dvd has a making of documentary almost an hour long, and what saddens me, is all the stuff you get to see inside of it that I would have liked to have been on the dvd, even if it's good with all it does manage to get.. like the storyboards, many of them axed due to puppet limitations and wil l never see the light of day again.. or the map they created of the land, or all the parts of the scenary that was created but never seen.. all of it, I wanted.. but alas, still a great dvd.. trailers, the cut out funeral scene (music of which I first heard from the soundtrack I'd just bought about a month prior).. I can see why they cut it, the film flows much better without.. but the music during it was great.. Ok, they also had some scenes from the original studio print.. which shows how they wanted to do more alien languages.. but, I'm actually glad they chose against that, as the voice cast was excellent.. also glad they redid the old hag's voice, because Frank Oz, albeit talented, made her sound like a female Yoda.. ) I can not state how highly I recommend this dvd, even if I took awhile myself to get it (had it on VHS, so this was an extra buy for me).The movie is a one of a kind, probably never repeated classic.. loved the music, the characters, every single element.. excellent! "},{"Title":"This is one of the best epic fantasy movies ever!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is one of the best epic fantasy movies I have seen since The Fellowship of the Ring... Storytelling, scenario, actors, voices are fabulous. If You are fantasy-lover, movie-lover this movie is A-MUST-HAVE-MOVIE in You collection! "},{"Title":"An Exciting Adventure on an Alien World","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Long before CGI, the late Jim Henson, along with Frank Oz, spent five years creating a remarkably detailed alien planet, endearing and bizarre creatures, and an adventurous story for the film The Dark Crystal using the power of puppetry.The film begins with a brief narration providing an introduction to the alien world where the lives of its inhabitants are linked to the power of a massive crystal.  Those most influenced by the crystal are the gentle Mystics and the evil Skeksies.  Over the past 1000 years, the Skeksies harnessed the power of the crystal to enslave others, mostly the Gelflings (whom they fear) and the Podlings.  The Skeksies systematically hunted down and destroyed nearly all of the Gelflings because an ancient prophecy foretells that a Gelfling will destroy them.  One Gelfling, Jen, whose family was destroyed by the Skeksies, survives and is found and raised by the Mystics.  The Mystics send him forth on an odyssey to find the crystal shard--a piece of the venerated, powerful crystal.  Jen must find the shard and put it back into the crystal before the world's three suns eclipse one another in a great conjunction.  If the crystal is incomplete at the great conjunction, their world will forever be plunged into darkness; but if the crystal is restored, their world will be reborn.  Jen does not initially fully understand the significance of his quest, but he proceeds and discovers many great and terrible things along the way.  Will Jen succeed?  Let the story of The Dark Crystal unfold before you and find out!Jim Henson's vision of the The Dark Crystal is a masterpiece capturing the imaginations of children and adults alike. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is utterly amazing. This is what you call an ORIGINAL fantasy film. In the world of rubbery looking CGI, it's intresting to see how much better a live action fantasy world can be created with Puppets. Both myself and the kids can sit down and enjoy this master piece together.  "},{"Title":"Plain and Simple Henson's Masterpiece","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Like I just said, plain and simple, The Dark Crystal is Jim Henson's masterpiece.  Frank Oz also deserves a lot of credit as well.  The overall ambition and idea of this film is just extraordinary.  For those who don't know, the project took five years to complete as Henson and Oz, along with an extremely talented crew of nearly every type of craftsmen and performer, pour their hearts and souls into this film.  Henson represented a rare breed A film maker who wanted to do things different and didn't really care what others thought.  Sure, The Dark Crystal wasn't a financial success, but for Henson, it was an artistic and creative success(something Labyrinth didn't achieve).  All in all, if you respect the art of film making and the concept of creativity, watch this film.  Also, if you can get the DVD, watch the documentary on how the film was made.  You will have a new found respect for the process. "},{"Title":"Brilliant film watch this film now","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I grew up watching this film, And still now after twenty years I still find it far superior to many of the films shown today, If you have not seen this film see it now. Jim Henson is a genius and is sadly missed "},{"Title":"Excellent Fantasy Classic.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Definitely one of my all time favorite movies as well as Favorite movies since i was a kid. This Unique, entertaining and brilliant Fantasy movie is about a Gelfling ( Elf-like creature) that must return a Crystal shard to the castle of the Dark Crystal ( all powerful force of life) that is guarded by the terrible Lizard Creatures  The Skeckis. If you are a fan of Fantasy, rent or buy this movie for your DVD collection.Other similar movies Recommended Labyrinth, The Last Unicorn, The Fifth Element, Star Wars, The Matrix, The Princess Bride. "},{"Title":"I can never get enough of this!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Finally,I was looking to write a review on one of my favourite Non-Asian Fantasy movies of all time and here I found it!The Dark Crystal is definitely that!Hmmmmmmm,where to start?Well,we have heard a similar story of good vs. evil from J.R.R Tolkien,but not one so realistic though!But probably the high point is the very deep character development.Probably have to agree with Riza about the skeksis here.They do seem like the most intresting of all the characters (save for Augra). I would not want to run up into them in the dark,or the light for that matter.Jen and Kira are very cute,but I think Kira is a little more interesting than Jen (no,I'm not sexist,I just think that Jen seemed rather emotionless most of the time,but then again,that's what you get by being raised by emotionless creatures).Not too many flaws in the film.The story is great,the characters are fantastic,the soundtrack is uplifting,the SFX are more real that anything in The Phantom Menace and the ending.....well,it needed to be a little realistic,and the lengh needed to be a little bit longer,but other than that,we have a near-flawless masterpiece right up here! "}{"Title":"Watch Out Tolkien","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this in 82 with my old man, since I wasn't more than 8 or 9 or so at the time. I saw it about a year ago or so, and as I had remembered the film lived up to the magic that I remembered it had. Although it's a little dark and grim for a Henson-Film, it's still great. I'd be so bold as to declare this film the only scifi/fantasy film, with the exception of a few others, who can hold a candle next to Star Wars. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Lovingly crafted","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This isn't like the CGI laden films we have today.  Everything in this film was created by the human hand with utmost care and concern.  The human element really comes through in the viewing, as one realizes this isn't some schlock turned out to make millions of dollars, it is a great movie that was made because Jim Henson and Co. wanted it to be made.  I imagine that the production meetings were more concerned with how well the film was turning out than how much it was projected to earn.God bless Jim Henson, he did good. "},{"Title":"Puppetry so real you'd think they'd hired aliens","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie represents, to me, the best in a short list of great films using true puppetry to achieve cinema magic.  There are no humans in this movie, and yet not a single shot was achieved through stop-motion photography or pre-programmed animatronics.  Obviously, it also uses no CGI.  I do wish more filmmakers would realize the inherent strengths of puppetry over CGI; it's really no more expensive when you consider that you won't have to spend time worrying about lighting your virtual actor and your real actors the same way, nor will you have the lengthy post-production a CGI character requires.The Dark Crystal is a story about a gelfling (a small, elfin humanoid) named Jen.  He has been raised by the large, ponderous Mystics who adopted him when his clan was destroyed by the Garthim (giant beetles who work for the cruel Skeksis).  He believes that he is the only gelfling left alive, although he later meets a female named Kira who also believed she was the last, having been adopted and raised by Podlings (fun-loving potato-like people).  The two embark on a quest to save their world from the cruel Skeksis, who will become all powerful if they are allowed to take the power of the Great Conjunction (this world has three suns) as focused through the Dark Crystal.You see, a thousand years ago, this world was green and good, until the wise and powerful urSkeks who ruled the world decided to use the coming Great Conjunction (whose power would be focused through the Crystal) to burn all the evil out of themselves.  It worked better than they had expected, and split them into two selves the gentle Mystics and the cruel Skeksis. The Skeksis immediately threw the Mystics out of their castle, then, in a rage, one of them took a swing at the Crystal, hitting it so hard a shard flew out of it, darkening the Crystal.  A gelfling prophet then had a vision which said that the next time a Great Conjunction came around, a gelfling would return the shard to the Dark Crystal, healing it and preventing the Skeksis from getting the power needed to make themselves immortal, which would presumably destroy the Mystics as well.  (They're long-lived, but definitely not immortal.)  To prevent this, the Skeksis embarked on a campaign to eradicate all the gelflings.  They missed two Jen and Kira. It is their job now to make sure the Prophecy comes true -- at any cost.There are no humans in this movie, although occasionally midgets and dwarves wore gelfling or Aughra costumes to portray the characters doing things a puppet could not do (like jumping through a window or falling down a hill). By far the most expressive of all the characters is the Chamberlain (Skek Sil) played by the one-and-only Frank Oz.  He sneers, he smiles, he simpers, he whimpers, his eyes go wild with terror, he hisses, he shrieks...and it's all completely believeable.  The Mystics, portrayed by dancers and mimes, do their parts in incredibly difficult postures (squatting with one arm outstretched to operate the head) and yet manage to move with a ponderous grace that clearly communicates great age and great wisdom.  Fizgig is perfect -- a little doglike furball with a truly enormous mouth for his size.  Frank Oz once described one of his characters, Aughra, as spectacularily ugly, and such she is -- and it's beautiful.  She's a unique character, and seems to be the only one of her species on this planet.  She also provides a nice counterpoint to the Scientist (a Skeksis) -- he represents the dark, exploitative side of science, while she represents the pure thirst for knowledge.  Interestingly, she ends up imprisioned by the Scientist at one point, which I see as symbolic of how the quest for knowledge becomes so often imprisoned to favor the quick return of producing a nice commercial product (in the Scientist's case, he turns the Podlings into mindless slave workers and also produces Essence, a liquid which is extracted from living creatures and which is a powerful -- if temporary -- restorative).All these creatures are beautiful.  There are the occasional bluescreen problems, but for the most part the characters were clearly meant to live without the aid of additional special effects.  Thousands of unique creatures flit about the dense forest where Kira lives.  Rat-like creatures eat the table scraps tossed by the Skeksis.  Strange organisms cross the line between plant and animal, with moving plants and stationary animals. And above all this are the rich cultural worlds of the Mystics, the Skeksis, the Podlings, Aughra, and even the virtually extinct Gelflings, who have left behind extensive ruins near the Podling village.  This is a world that sucks you in, living and breathing all around you.  And now that it's available on DVD, I have seen it on widescreen for the first time -- and it's even more spectacular than I ever knew.  It's not mere special effects. To borrow a line from another film, it's a kind of magic.  Really.  As Jim Henson once said of puppetry, it's as close to real magic as you ever get. "},{"Title":"A dark and visual film by puppeteering great Jim Henson.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was Jim Henson's attempt to make a darker, more serious Muppet movie.  The atmosphere is amazing, and the attention to detail shows incredible workmanship.  (Just watch the little mouse-like creatures running around everywhere.)The story is among the best, and most grown up, of all children's movies, and is well acted by both puppeteers and voice actors.  With a stark good versus evil plot, the viewer is drawn in with the main characters.The DVD contains many special features, including a full one-hour documentary, as well as both deleted scenes and original cuts.  This is a must-have for anyone who is a fan of any form of animation.  This is Henson's best work.  Unfortunately, it's lackluster box office performance contributed to Jim Henson's chronic depression of the early '80s. "},{"Title":"As good as I remember...","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember seeing this film in the theaters when it first came out and being blown away.  Unfortunately I haven't seen the movie in a number of years. Yesterday, I purchased the tape and was able to enjoy the movie yet again. Jim Henson is an artist that will truly be missed.  Unfortunately, they do not make movies like this anymore.  Today it would merely be one of the computer generated nightmares. "},{"Title":"A Must-See for fantasy fans!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember this movie from when I was very little. I wasn't even born when it first came out but for some reason my dad had a copy of it and I watched it endlessly. I would've given my right arm to be Kira. I thought she was so cool. I always wanted to talk to animals, so naturally Kira was my hero. And my cat always reminded me of Fizgig; small, round, furry and loud. The Skeksis kind of scared me, but that's all part of the movie's charm! I think every child should see this at one point or another. It's just an overall good movie.  "},{"Title":"A forgotten genre","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Fantasy is one element that we, as filmgoers, are lacking. The 80's were blessed with movies like Legend and Labyrinth. Movies that went beyond normal thinking and delighted not only younger audiences but older ones as well. The Dark Crystal was another such masterpiece that not only enchanted me when I was a child but still does as I move on into adulthood (not a word but hey it works). To see a movie of complete puppets that move and seem so real is a marvel in itself. Jim Henson and Frank Oz were a wonderful pair of filmmakers and this film not only pays tribute to the legend that was (and always will be) Jim Henson, but to Frank Oz and his incredible talents. I can't wait to see how beautiful the DVD version will be when it is released.  "},{"Title":"More proof of Jim Henson's Genius.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is movie is so good. It is very inspiring. It lets you know that good always wins, and evil always fails. I loved it as a kid, and I love it now. It has a very timeless quality, that most people never outgrow. I just LOVE it. "},{"Title":"Henson at his best.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Looks a bit dated now, but at the time it broke new ground in several areas.There are some who criticise it for being too fantastic, too ethereal - it's a fantasy! How fantastic should it be?Jim Henson was still alive when this movie was made. There isn't much more one can say. This was a serious attempt at a non-muppet fantasy film, and it worked.My only problem is that I can't find a VHS copy anywhere! "},{"Title":"One of my very favorite movies...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is probably my favorite movie from my childhood, if not of all time.  I've always been a big Jim Henson fan, and of all the creatures he's created for films, I'd have to say that the creatures in this movie are his best.  This movie was inspirational for me. I love how the skeksis, while looking quite scary, are dressed in frilly lace and so on, like fops in the 1700's.  And they're funny as well, like when some of them act like frazzled old women. It's also really fun to watch the movie and find where the people are in the costumes working the puppets.  "}{"Title":"Here is another prime example....","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Here is another prime example of incredible storytelling through fantasy, this time by the mastermind Jim Henson himself who also created the absorbing and wonderful Labyrinth.  This film is incredible, sweeping tales of wonder, albeit the animation is a bit jerky.  This kind of movie could go VERY far, if people would let it... "},{"Title":"Marvelous tale in which  to be showed a fabulous sense of wonder  , being  stunningly directed by early deceased  Jim Henson","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This wonderful movie filled with fantasy and color was compellingly directed by Jim Henson and Frank Oz . An incredible as well as elaborate flick about a young Gelflin , a mythic and valiant hero fighting heinous forces of evil . A world light-years beyond your imagination . This is a tale of magic , death , blood and fights ; set in a mythical primitive world and wild age . A good necromancy/witchery/sorcery story dealing with another planet, another time . Many creatures and races inhabit the planet but the dominant race is the UrSkeks who are the guardians of the Crystal of Truth . But 1000 years ago the Dark Crystal was damaged by one of the Urskeks and an age of chaos began . Now the time of the great conjunction of the three suns is near . If the crystal is not healed now the control of the evil Skekses will last forever . Jen the last of the Gelflings nearly exterminated by monsters controlled by the grotesque Skekses starts his dangerous journey to find a missing piece of the powerful dark crystal and so restore order to his world . Jen enacts classic quest and he wanders the ancient lands, seeking out his beloved Kira , and pitting his intelligence against various tyrant monsters . As he embarks on a quest to find the missing shard of a magical crystal that must be found or evil will take over the world.This lavish fantasy picture in the style of JRR Tolkien packs thrills , imagination , impressive frames , a love story , fantastic creatures and special effects galore . As the picture results a be a crossover between Tolkien , Brothers Grimm tales and Jim Henson's Muppets . This amusing movie packs witchery , wizardly , necromancy , fairy tale , magnificent production values and lots of adventures and action . The visual beauty of the breathtaking scenarios give the movie a real sense of wonder and surprise . Thrills, action , imaginative roles , and adventures are brilliantly presented , using the film magic that brought ¨Yoda¨ of ¨Empire strikes again¨ to life and edited to offer the maximum impact . Conceptual designer Brian Froud was behind the look and feel of virtually every aspect of the film's production, from creatures and landscapes right down to the font of the opening title. In total, it took up five years of his life . Brian Froud's fascination with lobsters led to many crustacean touches in the design of the film, particularly in the design of the Garthim, the henchmen of the Skeksis. From a budget of $15 million, the film made slightly over $40 million, a rather disappointing figure , this was put down to the fact that many parents felt the film was too scary for their children and also because it opened against the box office juggernaut that was E.T. In spite of, the movie achieved world success and it was the highest-grossing box office release of 1983 in France and Japan. Colorful and brilliant cinematography by Oswald Morris . Rousing and sensitive musical score by Trevor Jones . This entertaining film was well directed by Jim Henson , appointing the accent on the fantastic adventures and weird world . Henson early deceased at 53 years old , though his final feature film and ¨Swang Sing¨ was the excellent , ¨labyrinth¨ , however, being continued his work by his son Brian Henson . Jim established the Creature Shop, a puppet studio and as he directed the successful The Muppet Show (1976) , it became a smash hit and would eventually become the most widely watched series in television history. Hungry for a new challenge, Henson made The Muppets movie(1979), defying the popular industry opinion that his characters would never work in a movie . The film became a hit and spawned a series of features which included the moody fantasy Dark Crystal (1982), which was a drastic and bold departure from the amiable tone of his previous work . And , of course , ¨labyrinth¨ (1986) with Jennifer Connolly and David Bowie . The most successful TV work in the 1980s was Fraggle Rock (1983), that became renowned for being as brilliant with puppetry as ILM was at special effects . When he died all too soon in 1990, he was indisputably one of the geniuses of puppetry. More importantly, he was a man who achieved his phenomenal success while still retaining his social conscience and artistic integrity as his work in promoting environmentalism and his brilliant The story teller (1988) series respectively attest to and , especially , this ¨Dark crystal¨ . It's a delight for children of all ages . "},{"Title":"Classic for the records","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A movie made on 1982, By Jim Henson and Frank Oz. A fantasy adventure movie about a Dark Crystal. The Crystal Broke and a shard was lost due to a great conjunction of the three suns. This breaking apart gave rise to two races, The evil Skarkses and the gentle Mystics. Only ten of each appeared. In this time, The emperor of the Skarkses, with the Master of the Mystics die at the same time. A Gelfling, Jen, Who live with the Mystics, was instructed by the master to find the lost shard of the crystal. For THE PROPHESIE (Oh what do we do without them?) Tells a Gelfling , The smallest, most kind and innocent intelligent creatures in that world ( What a surprise!?! Duh!) will join the crystals together and return the world to its previous grand and beautiful state. The story tells the adventures of Jen on fulfilling THE PROPHESIE.What struck me as the most wonderful thing is how much attention to detail Jim Henson has paid in creating this masterpiece. Of course the whole movie seems like a big episode from sesame street. But the Level of sophistication compared with the technology of the time is astounding. This movie must have been for the eighties as AVATAR is for today. Must have spent a huge budget on this one. There is almost no CGI Visual FX used, well there weren't any at the time, so. Every single thing was specially made physically. What specially caught my attention was the planetary contraption in the dorm of Aughra.Overall, really impressed by the art works, But not so much with the movie. "},{"Title":"A underrated film that deserves more appreciation","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dark Crystal is something you will never see these days; a fantasy film with all of the characters played by puppets. Every kid knows Jim Henson and Frank Oz from the Muppets, but they did some pretty radically different stuff like this. It's pretty strange, with an odd tone that lasts through the whole thing, but I came off enjoying it. It took me some time to really grasp what was happening, maybe because I might have missed part of the opening narration. There's a group of ten elders and another of ten evil looking things, and each elder is directly connected to one of the evil guys in some way. The evil guys want to use the dark crystal to gain immortality or something, but the hero, a small guy who's obviously body doubled by a real child whenever he needs to move rapidly, can stop this by returning a missing shard of the crystal to its source. Anyway, he goes on a journey to do just that and sees some strange things.It's kind of hard to describe what makes the movie enjoyable. It's fairly slowly paced despite the short running time and it's a bit hard to care about what happens to puppets. But it was pretty funny at times, especially the bickering and infighting among the bad guys. The noises they make, the awkward feats of strength. There are some pretty visually interesting moments, lots of unique creatures and architecture. The two main characters are likable enough, and there's really nothing in the movie that would bother anyone too much. Definitely see it if you're in the mood for something a bit more genuine than the latest CGI-fest. "},{"Title":"A wondrous and impressive fantasy adventure marvel","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" In an alternate world there exists two races the evil, black-hearted, reptilian Skeksis and the wise, gentle, wizened Mystics. Naive, yet brave lone Gelfling Jen has to find the missing shard of the magical dark crystal and restore it prior to three suns converging. He's assisted on his quest by feisty female Gelfling Kira. If he fails, the vile Skeksis will take over the planet. Directors Jim Henson and Frank Oz relate the simple, yet gripping story with a tremendous sense of awe and splendor while maintaining a generally serious tone that's further spiced up with a fine line in morbidly amusing black humor. Moreover, the elaborately designed fantasy world presented herein is downright staggering in its massive scope and sweep of pure imagination. Better still, the incredibly lifelike and engaging creatures that populate this world possess remarkable conviction and personality Among the colorful beings to be savored are the vicious crab-like soldiers the Garthim, cranky one-eyed hag oracle Aughra (marvelously voiced with testy brio by Billie Whitelaw), the sweet and hearty Podlings, the tall, lanky, super-fast Landstriders, and cuddly fuzzball Fizzgig. The Skeksis are a gloriously grotesque bunch of cruel and hateful villains; the sequence with these foul fiends ravenously devouring their diner with disgusting relish rates as a definite revolting highlight. Both Oswald Morris' breathtaking, expansive cinematography and Trevor Jones' soaring, stirring, majestic score are on the money terrific. But what really makes this picture so special and resonant is how at heart it's essentially a timeless and touching tale of great courage and heroic sacrifice. A real delight. "},{"Title":"Muppet Renaissance","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is one of the coolest fantasy movies I have ever seen! When I saw this, it had been awhile since I last saw a Muppet movie. I was reminded of Fraggle Rock, and I looked forward to the Lord of the Rings. Although it is classified as a kid movie, I would think twice about showing this to toddlers. The Skeksies would have scared me to death, as would have the beetle guys and Mystics. Great movie, great score. Epic. Epic. Epic. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Creative!!!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie after I caught an interest in Labyrinth (Jim Henson's other fantasy masterpiece).  The Dark Crystal was just as incredible and as impressing as Labyrinth!  The scenery and the imagination that Jim puts into this film is breath-taking and turns it into a beautiful piece of work. Although I loved Labyrinth better, I loved The Dark Crystal, and I'm sure that all fantasy/movie fans will too!!! o) "},{"Title":"The genius of Jim Henson!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is what Jim Henson always wanted to create. A movie with puppets that replace actors and tells a story that is not truly meant for just children. It has a darker theme and became a huge step for Mr. Henson to make this project especially for being known to be the creator of the cute Muppets. This movie I beleive is truly underrated and was actually way ahead of it's time. The reason I say this is because this is the only film that is based on pure creation from Brian Froud and Jim Henson. Meaning not one thing in this film can be related to our own world. There are no humans in this movie. All of the lush forests and sets and creatures are made up. I can honestly say this movie is the most original and beautifully conceived movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"Such beauty..........","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have always thought that Jim Henson and such did such cutesie Muppet gigs, but boy did this movie and others from the 1980's prove me wrong,big time. This might have not sold well in the U.S,but here,in Hong Kong,it is very popular.Just too bad Disney over in the U.S has censored the movie and gave it a childish appearance(luckily,where I live,it's released by a diffrent distributor).Oh well,that's Disney,ALWAYS sugar-coating things here and there.   "},{"Title":"Masterly Wonderful","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This Jim Henson film was and still is to me one of his best.  Not only is the story line interesting, along with the mysterious characters, it creeped the sh** out of me.  I truly loved this underestimated movie.  8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"great movie.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was great.  It had excellent puppet work, it is heart-warming, and is decently plotted. It is a very creative film, and has some highly imaginitive creatures. Worth owning. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Possibly my favorite film as a kid, I still like it today. It features masterful storytelling, great fantasy, and is marvelous all the way through. I recommend it to anyone who needs an escape. A gelfling is sent on a mission to heal the cracked crystal to restore good and harmony to his world. It was, quite simply, a wonderful movie!**** out of **** "},{"Title":"It Flopped...and Not Without Cause.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Honestly, this movie has a good heart.  The puppetry is amazing.   The underlying message is nice.  But not even inventive special effects and good themes can save this movie from being ...bland.  Yes, I dare say the Dark Crystal, now a cult favorite and a work of the deservedly legendary Jim Henson - kind of failed for a reason.  First, it's far too scary for most children.  Too dark to be a kids movie.  And for older audiences...it's likely to be a bore.  Despite boasting it's share of top-rate eye candy (the puppetry and special effects are way ahead of their time, showing a remarkable amount of ingenuity and restraint!) - theres not much in the way of story and character development.  The plot is rather conventional in form and clear from the beginning, offering absolutely no twists or turns along the way.  The main character has absolutely no personality - this hurts it even more.  A predictable story is bad enough, but a bland star makes it difficult to sit through.  The best scenes take place with him out of the picture.It's not a total washout though.  The visuals alone are enough to make many people sit through it without any problems, they are that good.  And there are some choice sequences that hit all the right notes (mostly near the beginning).  The overall theme has many parallels with our own world, and some good insight into the relationship between good and evil.  There are also quite a few laughs, some of which are intentional. But damn, if they had done a little more work on making the story more original and rewarding to follow - and made the lead character more than an empty shell with which to stitch together the plot - it could have been the masterpiece it sometimes appears to be. "},{"Title":"Some old things just don't really hold up.","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was hoping that this movie was going to be a lot better than it was. To myself, I thought it would be great as this was one of Jim Henson's more notable films. However, the story didn't really grip me all that much. That could be because today we have a ton of these movies. The one where the is the hero who must overcome an orphan story to become the hero that they are today. However today, that has been all, but played. There could be the argument that it wasn't done at the time all that well, and that is why this movie is good. However, I'm not a fan of that argument. As older movies can still hold up even though they have the same overarching story as the movies in the genre that succeed them. This one, I didn't feel like had any real differences except it was done with puppets. The fact that you have puppets in a movie should not be the selling point. The selling point should be that you can use those puppets to tell a better story.In summation. It wasn't bad, but it wasn't all that good. It was right in the middle of the road for a movie. "},{"Title":"Great fantasy film with visuals for adults","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" To save Thra the last Gelflings, Jen and Kira, go on a quest to find a shard of the UrSkek Crystal which will fulfil a prophesy that links the fate of two races, the cruel Skeksis and the gentle Mystics. Jim Henson with his talented artists and performers create an unparalleled, eerie, oppressive atmosphere. The Dark Crystal is a technological and artistic achievement and still holds up pretty well today. As well featuring real locations there's great set and creature design, puppetry, miniatures, matte paintings, optical composite work and some blue screen. Trevor Jones' score is powerful and Joseph O'Conor's Orson Welles-like narration sets the scene. The voice tones of the leads are sombre, whispery and slow, adding to its hazy dreamlike quality in contrast to the harshness of Aughra and the various Skeksis characters. As a fantasy film Henson creates a compelling world with its array of creatures. As the Gelflings go on their quest they encounter friendly monsters, Landstriders, Nebrie and (Fraggle Rock-esque) Podlings to name a few. But over all its dark in nature from ceremonial imagery, right down to the Garthim a crustacean-like creatures employed by the Skeksis to capture the Gelflings. Memorable is the exiled SkekSil the Chamberlain notably performed by Frank Oz and voiced by Barry Dennen.Refreshingly pre-CGI, Dark Crystal is impressive, but the pace is questionable and there is little of the Henson-Oz trademark a sense of fun which he injected into his Muppet works and later Labyrinth. That's not to take anything away from his 1982 offering. As story it can teach a lesson in morality to children but the visuals and tone appear for the most part geared for entertaining adults.Overall, its infectious, mysterious, romantic Gothic atmosphere can leave you in a groggy dream-like state. Whether that's a good thing or not is debatable, but not many fantasy films can boast such an affect or lasting visual impact. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece And A Cornerstone Of My Heart","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Let me start off by proclaiming my love for this movie, my favourite of all time. My love of the movie mostly stems from its characters, most notably the Skeksis. The Skeksis include Emperor SkekSo, Chamberlain SkekSil, General SkekUng, High Priest SkekZok, Scientist SkekTek, Slave Driver SkekNa, Treasurer ShekShod, Gourmand SkekAyuk, Ornamentalist SkekEkt, and Historian SkekOk. The Skeksis also have a group of counterparts known as the Mystics or UrRu, which include Master UrSu, Chanter UrSol, Healer UrIm, Ritual Guardian UrZah, Alchemist UrTih, Herbalist UrNol, Numerologist UrYod, Cook UrAmaj, Weaver UrUtt, and Scribe UrAc. In addition to the Skeksis and Mystics we meet the Podlings, a group of potato-like peasants, the one-eyed astronomer Aughra (a feminization of the word ogre), and protagonists in the form of Gelflings Jen and Kira and their fluffy pet Fizzgig. Jen has been sent on a mission by the dying UrSu, who raised him, and along the way he meets Kira and Fizzgig, Aughra, and the Podlings. But for me, the most fascinating aspect of the movie was the Skeksis and their relationship with the Mystics. While the Mystics are unconcerned with material possessions, the Skeksis are extreme materialists who's very clothes are status symbols. After SkeSil's failed bid for leadership, he's stripped and revealed to be scrawny and bony with bad posture. Just goes to show that the clothes make the man (or monster). The most potent scene for me has got to be the death of the Skeksis Emperor. I actually find myself feeling sorry for SkekSo. The other Skeksis are only interested in power, to the point where SkekSil attempts to take his cane while he's still alive, albeit just barely. Like a 2-year- old, SkekSo grabs his staff and insists I&#x85;am&#x85;still&#x85;Emperor! The Skeksis are vulture capitalists that are actually vultures. This film is so magical that it's hard to believe it was actually made rather than being an item composed of frozen stardust. The Dark Crystal is all at once a fond childhood memory, a rare and beautiful cinematic achievement, an enduring tale of love, trust, and courage, and a masterpiece and a cornerstone of my heart. "},{"Title":"the Dark Crystal","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a movie for the entire family its full of amazing cinematography and artwork great family values it's certainly a film that will capture every child's imagination there is mild violence in this film so parents some parents start to use our judgment as to whether you want your kids to see violence at all I first saw this movie when I was 7 years old and I absolutely fell in love with it it is a 30 + year old film it is not just visually stunning but are totally stunning and it's an imagination grabber for sure please settle these children down and enjoy an evening watching an amazing Jim Henson film "},{"Title":"Best fantasy movie ever","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'll present my reasons for why The Dark Crystal may be the best fantasy movie everIt used the marvelous medium of muppets. CG has come a long way, but it still can't quite convey the tactile, palpable quality that muppets can for portraying fantasy characters. (With a nod to Aughra.)The sets were amazing. Not only were they wonderfully otherworldly, but they complemented the muppets perfectly, oftimes including muppetish, living creatures themselves (e.g. the giant cave that was actually a mouth that swallowed up a little creature.)Some fantasy stories start off in the real world and then you follow the protagonist into the fantasy world. Examples include Harry Potter, Alice in Wonderland, and The Neverending Story. Dark Crystal simply starts off with the narrative Another time, another world, in the age of wonder. and that's all you get. I gotta admire the not-spoonfeeding-the-viewer chutzpah of that move.I really liked the theme of overcoming dualism, personified by the split between the mild Mystics and the brutish Skeksis, and brought to fruition when they merge at the end. You have to pick between either seeing a) good effects or b) a good story, with Dark Crystal you get both.It's a film that grows with you. I enjoyed it as a kid, I still enjoy it as an adult. My hat's off to you, Jim Henson, for this accomplishment. "},{"Title":"Lovable fantasy epic","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is one of the more personal fantasy films made in the 80s. It's also one of the biggest triumphs practical special effects have had in the history of cinema. Because, if you didn't know already, every single character in this film is a puppet. They're animatronics, designed by fantasy illustrator Brian Froud, and they're all fantastic, ground-breaking even. They're all visually distinct, evocative designs that are sure to stick with you after you've seen this film. On a technical level this film is a marvel and it's a shame it was so hard to make because I'd love to see more films done this way.The story is also pretty good, following the quest of a gelfling named Jen as he sets out to find the missing piece of the eponymous Dark Crystal in order to restore balance and to stop the villainous skeksis from taking over the world. Basic stuff, but the execution really makes an impact here. The whole story plays out in front of you like something larger than life, like an epic from the ancient times. The themes appear clear and easy to understand, yet the deeper you dig, the more you find to analyze.Though there are some problems as well. Like the character of Kira, who's pretty superfluous to the plot and mainly there to give Jen a love interest and someone to save in the third act. She's an interesting personality, so she's not as bad as some damsels in distress, but a damsel in distress she still remains. The final third as a whole is overall somewhat disappointing because it's so predictable. I don't really mind it being classic because the whole story heavily leans on literary traditions, but it could have been a little more innovative.Nevertheless, The Dark Crystal is a brilliant experience for all fans of fantasy and for those that appreciate practical effects and knowing that what's in the screen was actually there during the filming as well. "},{"Title":"Looks Beautiful, but that's not enough,","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is a very mediocre movie with a well structured storyline, despite not putting in enough time for heart, and a terrific voice cast. It's certainly a visually dazzling film, every moment looks absolutely beautiful, Jim Henson really went above and beyond for this project (which he made simultaneously with the Great Muppet Caper), building puppets and sets that can easily distract it's audience from the pure mediocrity of the story. I felt like the film didn't put in enough time to really develop this story beyond the complexity, trying to restore order to the world and the pure imagination of this universe is great and it's right that they put in the time to develop it, but they didn't give enough time for heart and emotional scenes, it's stuff like that that could have made this a really great film, and it's what Henson has done so well in the past with the likes of Sesame Street and the Muppets. I also didn't find myself really caring for these characters journey, Jen and Kira have very poor dialogue and I simple didn't find them likable, and when the two main characters aren't doing anything for you, then you're going to have a hard time being intrigued by the story. It's certainly a beautiful and very well made production that is worth the watch for the sake of the legend that is Jim Henson and his dedication to this art form, but when it comes to story and characters, the Dark Crystal didn't take my breath away, it really wasn't for me, other people may like it, die hard puppet and fantasy fans should love it, but I couldn't recommend it. The Grellings now face a bleak future under the control of the Skeksis, unless they manage to find and replace the missing shard of a powerful crystal. "}{"Title":"Henson's masterpiece","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" You know, I'm not a fan of the majority of Jim Henson's work. I despise THE MUPPETS and generally all related things, finding them twee and unfunny; I was the same when I was a kid. Call me a curmudgeon, or old before my time, but this shouty, over the top type of humour just isn't my cup of tea at all. What a surprise, then, that Henson should make THE DARK CRYSTAL, one of the finest dark fantasy films of the 1980s!I had this film on video as a child and it's a memorable film when you watch it as a kid - and for all the wrong reasons! That's because THE DARK CRYSTAL is a completely HORRIFIC film for a child to watch. I remember being scared out of my wits by the stuff on show here - the crumbling corpse, the enforced stripping sequence, the striders dying, and of course the essence-stealing scene, which is still disturbing even when I watch this back as an adult.The level of cruelty and violence on display makes THE DARK CRYSTAL stand out from other, more twee stuff like LEGEND and LABYRINTH, and indeed I think this gives it an edge to the competition. Otherwise, the production values are strong, the characters memorable and the quest-style storyline fits with the material just right. THE DARK CRYSTAL is an underrated children's movie and one which beats every other animation or puppet film I can think of from the 1980s. "},{"Title":"Technically brilliant but also shallow","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal (1982) has built up an impressive cult following over the past three decades since its release and it's not hard to see why. Jim Henson and his team created a marvelous, mystical world, beautifully rendered. The puppets and animatronics are convincing a great deal of the time, truly a landmark in special effects. To CG these character-- it just would not have the same impact. The story evokes the darkness of a Grimm's fairy tale and channels a wondrous sense of mysticism.It's such a shame the characters themselves are uninteresting.I understand this is supposed to be like a fairy tale and in fairy tales, characters are not developed. They are one-dimensional. Still, when making a fairy tale that is an hour and a half long, you need characters who are compelling and able to connect with the audience. While the villainous Chamberlain is entertaining, everyone else is a bit on the dull side, especially our heroes, Jen and Kira. While Kira gets some funny lines in (I don't have wings. Of course not! You're a boy.), neither of the protagonists are much fun to watch or even that interesting. I suppose they are stand-ins for the child viewer, but their lack of charm makes them hard for anyone else to get invested in.With more fleshed out characters, this could have been a fantasy classic. As is, it is still worth watching, just not as memorable as it should have been. "},{"Title":"Great for its time","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is an imaginative film, and it was very ambitious for its time but The Dark Crystal is uninvolved and distant in its storytelling. The filmmakers' attention seems to be more concerned with the puppets and the technical mastery of the film than the actual story. The themes are not developed and it tends to be a little indulgent in its mythology. The hero role is really just a placeholder, the political intrigue that is laid out in the film is overall pretty empty, and the final confrontation is pretty slow and hampered. The sound effects of the characters are more interesting than anything that actually happens on screen. "},{"Title":"Amazing and imaginative visuals, but very poor story","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Jim Henson at his very best. I thought that the imaginative vision and the awe-inspiring execution surpassed even Labyrinth, which says a lot, and for this reason alone the film is recommended viewing. Sadly all this marvelous work is compromised by a story which is so bad, that not only will viewers (adults and children alike) might find it uninteresting and senseless, but also entirely lacking in humor, a sense of adventure, camaraderie, values or morals etc. In fact, if anything I believe it transmits messages such as fatalism, xenophobia, conformity and finally, amusingly enough- that the embodiment of Good is a nice British accent.The only entertaining value derived from the film is by appreciation of Hensons puppeteering craftsmanship, which is not entirely a bad thing in and of itself. "},{"Title":"A forgotten classic","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is the brainchild of Muppets-creator Jim Henson. Yes, he's best known for creating Kermit and Miss Piggy, but, judging by his impressive body of other work, there's more to him than just chasing chickens with meat cleavers.The Dark Crystal is an amazing film that's never really achieved mainstream status. It wasn't helped when it was released in the cinema up against ET, so it could never compete with such hype. It's set on a far away planet where a pair of 'gelflings' (think innocent fairy-type creatures) must repair the titular Dark Crystal and send an evil race of creatures to their doom.The Dark Crystal is often compared to Labyrinth (and you can also buy the pair on a double-disc set), but, apart from both of them being fantasy films starring Jim Henson's puppets, I really think they're very different films. Labyrinth is more cheesy, with its dance numbers and comic relief. The Dark Crystal has none of that. It's played straight all the way. Don't expect any laughs here. In fact, there are some downright disturbing and creepy moments (drinking people's 'essence' comes to mind).I would say that the film is perfect in every way, but, despite its brilliant (and incredibly lifelike) puppets and sets, in my opinion it has one major drawback - the two central characters - the gelflings themselves. Every secondary creature is brilliantly created and comes across as real beings. We either love or hate them accordingly, able to forget that they aren't real. But not the gelflings. Not only do they look and move like Thunderbirds without any knee or elbow joints, but the vocal artists don't seem to be able to inject much life into them.However, that's just my personal small gripe. I still think it's a classic. It's possibly best viewed by those who saw and loved it during its release in the eighties. I expect there are a fair amount of children who only want to watch CGI films and may see this as outdated. But, as a parent, I'd still put it on for them anyway - show them how 'proper' films were made in our day! "},{"Title":"stiff acting from puppets","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Another planet, another time. 1000 years before, the mysterious Dark Crystal was cracked and a shard is lost. It begins an age of chaos and war. Two new races appeared. The evil Skeksis use the power of the Dark Crystal to replenish themselves and ravage the land. The kindly Mystics live in peace. Time is coming as both races are dying. Jen is a Gelfling living with the Mystics after the Skeksis killed his parents. Jen is tasked to find the shard and return it to the Dark Crystal.The idea of a dark Muppets movie is fine. I like the Skeksis. With all the movements, they can project a lot of sleazy evil. On the other hand, Jen is as stiff as a board. He's like a doll that barely moves his mouth. It is probably one of the most obvious problems. Projecting emotions and acting is always going to be tough. I wonder if they should just use human actors for the Gelfling roles. I think acting still matters in this movie but I doubt it's too high on the agenda. The story is a good thrilling and rather basic quest fantasy. "},{"Title":"How could I have sat through this back in 1982...oh, wait,...now I remember.","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" My wife and I went to go see The Dark Crystal back when we first started dating. Now, decades later, I have almost no recollection of the film so I decided to see it again today. And, after slogging through about half of it, I remember exactly WHY I didn't remember-- we got so bored with the film that we mostly made out during the thing! After all, there really isn't a lot to like about this film. Despite a large budget and a real other=worldly look, the film is a mess. The voice characterizations are truly annoying (especially the Skeksis and their blurting out 'MMMMMMMMMMMmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm' all the time), the characters completely flat and seriously unappealing and the story amazingly uninvolving and dull. While a lot of folks took kids to see it, I cannot see adults sitting through this film let alone kids. Definitely NOT a Muppets-style film--just a bad fantasy film that is hard to love. How it currently has a score of 7.2 and folks giving it a 10, I simply do not understand. "},{"Title":"An Extraordinary Film","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was 10 when this came out in theaters - I loved it! And watched it several times on the TV movie stations because it was so good. Jim Henson and Frank Oz are quite amazing puppeteers and directors - this film shows the extraordinary works of both men.The over all look and feel to this film is as dark and mysterious as the story itself. While watching this movie there is a tendency to forget the characters are puppets because your focus will fall more on the story and sets instead of thinking I'm watching puppets during the entire film.This is definitely a film for the entire family. It is a timeless masterpiece.10/10 "},{"Title":"Henson's unique approach to world-building dresses up a familiar plot","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Jim Henson and a very large group of designers set out to make a film in which no humans would appear on screen. They accomplished more than that they made a film in which hardly any recognizably Earth-ish being can be detected. They did this by making creature creation a priority; story, dialogue, and the rest of the necessaries came later. The team's obsessive work to get the characters, the supporting animals, and even the background plants to look and move in a way that was feasible and consistent with the world paid off with a collection of the best and most diverse puppets ever to populate a motion picture. The large, bulky costumes with speaking roles, such as the bird-like baddies, the sloth-like goodies, and the beetle-like enforcers, are tapestries of fur, feathers, hair, leathery skin, and movement moving arms (sometimes four to a character), moving antennae, moving heads and mouths and beaks. It's quite a feat, and knowing that there is a person or persons crouching inside making all of that movement happen by contorting their bodies makes it all the more impressive.But this was always Henson's stock-in-trade as a puppet-maker and designer of elaborate costumes. The real breakthrough with Dark Crystal is in the extension of his passion for creature creation to the world at large. Kermit sat in a normal Earth swamp when he sang It's Not Easy Being Green, but the characters here trudge through undergrowth that is as alien and sentient as they are. A large trunk standing in water suddenly uproots itself and skitters up a hill. Nearby, an innocuous-seeming boulder claps shut, revealing that it was no boulder, but a rock-like creature with a huge mouth for catching unsuspecting prey. The adjacent fungus pods twitter in excitement. Later, creatures with four stilt-like legs run at speed on their way to a battle with the beetles in the most exciting action sequence of the movie.Speed, though, is something of a rarity within this approach to filmmaking. People wearing heavy and complicated costumes can only move so fast, and there is a lot of lumbering and sluggishness in the presentation of Dark Cyrstal that causes the mind to wander. The story does not do much to keep our attention; it was never Henson's priority, and it is as pat, predictable, and derivative as his creatures are fresh and innovative. The bland lead characters, called Gelfings, have a wooden feel in more ways than one. A power of theirs called dreamfasting adds a creative dimension, but their overall lack of depth makes it is easy to understand why a real human star was chosen for Henson's later, similar project, Labyrinth (1986). That film, though, is ultimately less ambitious than this one, which remains unique in its approach to world- building through puppetry. "},{"Title":"a marvel of its time!","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Puppetry master Jim Henson's sui generis puppet movie of a Sci-Fi conquest in a remote planet, spell-bindingly grotesque and darkly cultish. The bizarre figures of the creatures can be fairly startling as a family treat to meet children's eyes, as an adult, watching this 32-year-old film for the first time is a true eye-opener. In an otherworldly planet Thra, a magic crystal is cracked and the order is sabotaged, hence Thra is ruled by the sinister Skekses, a vulture-like species controls the dark crystal and their benevolent half is the tortoise-shaped wizards called Mystics, when the Skeksis emperor dies, the equivalent senior Mystic master vanishes in the thin air simultaneously, presently there are 9 Skekses and 9 Mystics left. There is a also the prophecy, a Gelfing (a species looks like a minuscule elf) will end the reign of Skekses before the time when 3 suns meet (aka. the conjunction) by acquiring the crystal shard, otherwise Skekses will acquire immortality. Jen, is a young Gelfing raised by the Mystic master, believed he is the only Gelfing left, he is on a predestined conquest to retrieve the shard from Aughra, a one-eyed female seer of an unidentified species and reinstate the order before the conjunction. En route to the Skekses' castle, he meets a female Gelfing Kira and her pet dog Fizzgig, in tandem they fearlessly fights their way through the siege from Garthim, Skekeses' crab-like minions. In parallel, the nine Mystics are edging to the castle as well to partake in an in-time emergence, coalescing with Skekses and putting an end to the dualistic instability. The film is a marvel of its time, which cannot be imitated, although it is a banal adventure with predictable and toe-curling plot twist, nevertheless, it is the pure artistry that we do admire and revel in (thinking of the dining sequence of Skekses, , Jim Henson and co-director Frank Oz create the fantastical kingdom based on illustrator Brian Froud's concept, an offbeat exploration into the invention of the weirdest creatures in puppetry, and it works on an intricate level of scale which is a hallmark of its own genre, although puppetry movie is an ebbing breed in the cutting-edge digital era, no one would ever try to cook up such an elaborate piece of craftsmanship any longer. "}{"Title":"A fantastic fantasy film","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I was a little kid, this was one of my favorite films that I loved to watch, and I am still amazed by how much it holds up today. I love everything about it, especially the world it creates and the puppets used as characters. In fact I think the characters have more emotion than some actual real life actors (I'm looking at you Kristen Stewart). The designs of the Skeksis are probably the best, seeing how cruel and vulture like they are. Sure, it's probably Jim Henson's darkest film, but I never thought it went too far. I'm glad it's getting a growing fanbase because I don't think it was a big hit when it came out. But if you want to see awesome puppets, a creative world, and a unique story, this is the film for you. I've see it a million times before and I am bound to see it a million times more. "},{"Title":"beautiful  fairy tale, admirable craft","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" the fairy tale. the inspiration of Frank Oz. the delicate seduction. and old fashion atmosphere. a film who can be splendid alternative to each blockbuster or explosion of special effects. because it is seductive and dark, romantic and touching, a form of lesson in wise nuances and admirable exercise of imagination and right work. more than a film, it is a piece of memory. more than a nice animation, it is vehicle for generous idea. so, it remains fresh and a new discover of it represents almost magic meeting. far to be perfect, it is really fascinating. that is its virtue. a couple and a mission. and the end as useful revelation. a film for every season/age/expectation. "},{"Title":"An enchanting '80s children's classic","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Set a long time ago on a distant planet; the narrator tells us how a thousand years previously the eponymous dark crystal cracked. At the same time two new races appeared; the brutal Skeksis and the gentle Mystics. As time passed the planet started to die and only a few of each race are left. Now, as the conjunction of the planet's three suns approaches the Skeksis are fearful as an ancient prophecy tells how the shard that cracked from the crystal will be returned and when the crystal is whole again they will be no more. It is said that the one to return the shard will be a Gelfling so the Skeksis attempted to wipe them all out... inevitably they failed. Jen is a Gelfling whose Mystic master tells him of the prophecy shortly before dying. This sets Jen on a quest that will take him to find the shard, meet another Gelfling, named Kira, and after many dangers confront the Skeksis in their castle where the dark crystal is.I first watched this on Betamax as a child in the eighties and recalled enjoying it so when I saw it on sale for a mere three pounds I bought it; more for nostalgia than anything else. I'm glad I did though as it is a real delight; the protagonists are likable; the villains are suitably creepy and the puppetry is as good as one would expect from Jim Henson and Frank Oz. Given that this is a film featuring puppets that is aimed at children it is surprisingly dark in places so some younger viewers might find it a bit frightening; I suspect most will love it though... as will many adults. "},{"Title":"Truly remarkable","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a true work of art. The puppets move more gracefully than Thunderbird puppets and convincingly fool you into thinking that they're people in costumes or designed using CGI. It's only in some scenes that you can just about see the strings that you're reminded that they are puppets, not people or computer generated.The villains really do play their role well. They are truly frightening and behave like proper selfish evil villains with an intention to mercilessly eradicate an entire species in order to preserve their own.This is a really good family fantasy film with a really good story line. "},{"Title":"A dark fantasy world is about to change forever.","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film was done by Jim Henson for the most part as it has his style and signature all over it. I prefer the film Labyrinth to this one, but this one is rather good too as it is a fantasy film and there are still so few good ones even with the addition of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. This one has its own mythos, its own creatures and its own story. One could say it may have been influenced a bit by J.R. Tolkien's books, but this one most certainly does not borrow heavily from them, unlike other stories in the fantasy realm.This world is at a state of unrest. Seems some sort of event took place 1000 years previous that brought two new species to this world. One species is the Mystics. A peace loving tribe of creatures that keep to themselves. Then there are the Skeksis, evil creatures that have all but taken over the world and have laid waste to a species known as the Gelfings because it has been foretold that the Gelfings will end the reign of the Skeksis and bring about a major change to the world. Jen is one of the last of the Gelfings, raised by the peace loving Mystics. He is charged with the task of restoring order to this world.The puppetry in this film is great, but I prefer Labyrinth because while most of the characters are puppets, the addition of real actors amidst the puppets works better for me. However, that is not to say this film is bad, it is a good film. It looks set in a real world, while Labyrinth looks more like one set piece after another. So while overall I like Labyrinth better, this film trumps that one in this regard. The Skeksis look really good as do their horrible bug like tracking creatures, but like I said nearly everything looks grand. It is amazing how good this looks, better than a lot of the CGI monsters and such of today.The story is a bit inspired by lord of the rings, in that a young small creature known as the Gelfing must make his way into the enemies territory with an object. However, all the monsters and such are unique. As a child, though, I must admit I had no idea what was going on. Now everything is rather easy to understand and I feel rather foolish for having a hard time understanding it.So in conclusion, while old, this fantasy film from 1982 still looks rather impressive. That is the thing about a fantasy film, do it right and set it in the right place and it never gets outdated. "},{"Title":"Jim Henson With a Darker Storyline","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Do you enjoy the puppets used in the classic Muppet films but wish they had a darker story line? Well look no further that The Dark Crystal. KIDS FIRST! Film Critic Julianna No one shares her review of the film below Video Review here http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=RVjf8ZrGepEThis is a Jim Henson film that stars Jim Henson as Jen, Kathryn Mullen as Kira and David Goelz as Fizzgig. This movie is about an elf-like gelfling who is sent by his dying master to find a shard from a broken lamp that will help restore the balance in his universe. This gelfling's name is Jen, and Jen has some troubles along the way. First off, he has the shard but doesn't know what to do with it. Also the skeksis are trying to kill him so that the prophecy can't be fulfilled and the skeksis can live forever. However, Jen gets some help from Kira, the only other gelfling alive, and the animals from the forest, where the witch Kira lives. I think that the puppets they use are very well designed and detailed so much so that they have anthropomorphic qualities. The cinematography is considered to be cutting edge for this movie, but could have been better, as some scenes in the movie you can see the wires on the puppets. My favorite characters are Kira and Fizzgig, Kira's pet. I like Kira because she is brave and determined to protect Jen. I like Fizzgig because he is loyal to Kira and protective of her. Also even when Fizzgig does not want to do something he still does it when Kira asks him to. My favorite scene is when Kira and Jen touch hands and share their memory with one another. I like these scenes because it is kind of the podlings to share their village with a stranger and because I dislike the scenes that are rude and/or cruel. The puppeteering is phenomenal as expected from Jim Henson. I hope you guys out there enjoy this movie. I think that this film is for ages 8 to 14, because these aren't your normal Jim Henson puppets, and the dark story line may be too much for young children. Overall, I rate this film 3 out of 5 stars because while it was well done, the darker storyline just isn't for me. "},{"Title":"CompleteSoundtrack is available","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Here is the track list for the entire movie score CD from the limited edition release1 Opening Titles And Main Theme / The Mystics' Sandpainting 454 2 Jen Plays His Pipes 056 3 Jen Goes To His Dying Master 039 4 The Death Of The Emperor / Death Of The Mystic Master / Mystics Memorial Ceremony / Jen's Journey Through The New World 318 5 Skeksis Debate Leadership /Skeksis Duel (Film Version) 310 6 Chamberlain Is Attacked 120 7 Skeksis Summoned By Alarm 050 8 Garthim Are Dispatched / Jen On Aghra's Mountain 229 9 Jen Enters Aughra's Observatory 121 10 Jen Discovers Shard 022 11 Observatory Destroyed / Mystics Set Out 228 12 Gelflings Meet / Dreamfast 211 13 Skeksis Feast - Part One 227 14 Skeksis Feast - Part Two 030 15 Crystalbatbirds Dispatched / Environmental Musical Sounds / Gelfling Song / Batbird Brought Down / Mystics Travelling #1 225 16 Pod Party / Destruction Of The Pod Village 410 17 Jen And Kira Love Theme 136 18 The Prophecy In The Ruins 209 19 Escape From The Chamberlain / Kira Summons The Landstriders 147 20 Jen And Kira Set Off On The Landstriders / Pod Person Drained 237 21 The Battle / Mystics Travelling #2 420 22 Jen And Kira In The Sewer 143 23 Kira Brought Before The Skeksis 057 24 Kira Drained In The Chamber Of Life 112 25 Kira Freed / Jen Goes In Search / Mystic Disintegrates / Mystics Travelling #3 108 26 Jen Trapped In Lair / Jen Reaches Chamber Of Life 026 27 Jen Discovers Crystal Chamber 340 28 Gelfling Frightens The Skeksis / The Crystal Made Whole / Mystics And Skeksis Fuse / Finale / End Credits 1610 "},{"Title":"Crystal is a gem","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A bold, experimental movie, The Dark Crystal (1982) is a spectacular treat for Jim Henson fans, as well as evidence that Henson had ambitions for his craft far beyond The Muppet Show and Sesame Street.I first learned of this movie when I was about thirteen years old. My mother gave me a Marvel Comic adaptation of it. I was the perfect age to appreciate it. The comic book (the official adaptation of the movie) also included photographs of the movie and sketches by the designer, Brian Froud. When I was finally able to see the movie at age fifteen, I was not disappointed.Set in Another world. Another time, as the narrator informs the viewer, this movie tells the story of Jen, a Gelfling, apparently the last member of his race, and the only one in his world who can save it from the cruel and oppressive rule of the evil Skeksis by healing the Dark Crystal. As Jen's master and father figure, a member of the race of Mystics, lies dying, he sends Jen on a quest to find a missing piece of the Dark Crystal, which must be reunited with it before the three suns of the world form a great conjunction, which occurs only once every thousand years.The story is simple in the extreme, yet there is so much to take in visually that it does not really matter. Spectacular scenery is abetted by richly detailed sets, and the puppetry that brings the story to life is a tour-de-force.It is hard to think of another movie, even another fantasy movie, with a more grotesque and varied cast of characters and creatures the elf-like Gelflings; the Mystics, with their huge heads, long tails, and four arms; the Skeksis, both birdlike and reptilian; the crablike Garthim; and the landstriders, which are virtually impossible to describe&#x97;you will have to see them for yourself.Without computer graphics, Henson and his team were able to create all these characters using only hand-held puppets, puppeteers in suits, etc. One can almost believe that these characters live on their own without being dependent on human manipulation. I have watched the movie several times over the years, and I have never seen the wires. There are certainly moments during the movie when one can see how a particular effect is being achieved, but you will probably have to watch the movie more than once to notice them. The movie is like a magic trick that has to be watched several times before it surrenders its mystery.For me, the highlight of the movie is the scene in which the Skeksis eat dinner. Only Henson and his team could make puppets eat so convincingly, and make it entertaining.As much as I admire Henson, it was Brian Froud, a British fantasy illustrator, who was responsible for designing these characters. Henson's contribution was to bring these characters to life with no apparent compromise. When you see Froud's sketches, there is no difference between what he sketched on the page and what appears in the movie. The movie is pure imagination, come alive.The characters and story are somewhat underdeveloped, but the movie is also surprisingly adult and dark in tone for a children's story, as it involves duels for power, genocide, slavery, torture, and, ultimately, sacrifice. But I suppose all the best children's stories are dark in tone. No one who has ever seen Bambi has forgotten how dark it is.I like the moment in the movie when Jen thinks to himself, as he sets out on his quest, I can't do this alone&#x85;all right, alone, then! Unlike the heroes of many fantasy stories, Jen does not have a large group of allies to help him in his quest. Ultimately he does find another like himself (Kira, a female Gelfling), but even with her company, there is an air of loneliness about this movie, as they are the last two of their kind&#x97;pretty tough stuff.It is tempting to think that Henson might have created more movies along these lines; but in my opinion, at least, with this movie Henson and his team pushed their craft to its limit.The one flaw in this movie, which I think is worth mentioning, is that the Gelfling characters do not express emotion as well as one might like. They are, after all, puppets, and puppets can only do so much to involve a human audience in a story. I think it is significant that although there are many close-up shots of the two Gelfling characters in the movie, there are few long, lingering close-ups, as though Henson understood that the longer people saw the Gelflings up close, the more they looked like puppets, and not living characters.When Henson made Labyrinth (1986) four years later, there was a human actress (Jennifer Connelly) in the lead, to get the audience emotionally involved. Never again would Henson and his team attempt the pure puppetry and unrelenting otherworldliness of The Dark Crystal.This movie makes spectacular use of widescreen, so if you do watch it, make sure you watch it in a widescreen format, preferably on DVD or in high definition. If you are looking for a movie with memorable dialogue or creative acting (there is no acting in the movie, of course, as it is all done with puppetry), you may not be interested. But if you are looking for a movie that looks and feels like nothing you have ever seen before, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Henson's first attempt at serious","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Didn't work out so well. A few of the creatures looked pretty interesting, but some of them were so obviously muppets that it was distracting. The worst offenders were the Gelfling characters, whose faces simply did not have the animation needed for main characters.The plot line is that the dark Crystal was split, causing the Mystics and Skekses to turn into two separate races, or something. Except each Mystic is linked to a Skekses, so they die together. Seriously, they telegraph this plot point and its no surprise when that's the conclusion of the movie.Eventually, Henson did go on to create things like Farscape where his muppets were more interesting than human actors. This was an early first draft and it shows. "},{"Title":"Very impressive.","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The incredible success of 'The Muppet Show' opened up opportunities for mastermind Jim Henson, this being one of them, a film hailed in its time for exclusively featuring puppet characters. It allows him to fashion a story not just aimed at the little kids, but kids of all ages, telling an intelligent and absorbing story, featuring amazingly elaborate characters, often with strikingly, creatively ugly designs, and taking place in a magical world that it's created. It's a traditional fantasy quest involving species such as Gelflings, Skeksis, Mystics, Podlings, and others. A young Gelfling named Jen sets out to retrieve a missing portion of a crystal, and for him the clock is ticking as the time is at hand for the evil Skeksis to assume total control. Featuring the voice and puppeteering talents of Henson and his collaborators such as Frank Oz (who co-directed the movie with Henson), Dave Goelz, Kathryn Mullen, Steve Whitmire, and Brian Muehl, the movie is visually a marvel, from its costumes for its creatures to its scenic photography to its production design. Beautiful music by Trevor Jones is another heavy asset. The characters are all captivating, whether they be good or evil; the buzzard like Skeksis and Garthim (armor plated crab like henchmen) are truly scary, and others such as Jen, his new female Gelfling acquaintance Kira, her dog like friendly companion Fizzwig, and the cantankerous keeper of secrets, Aughra. The special effects are also quite well done. Overall, this is something one can easily watch with the whole family, although the younger children might find some elements a little too intimidating for their tastes. It's understandable that nowadays so many films of this kind are now animated by computer, but it's really quite a shame that this kind of puppetry is becoming a thing of the past.Rest in peace, Mr. Henson, and here's to all the wonderful ideas you gave us and which you could have given us.Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"Trial BY Stone!","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ah, one of the most incredible fantasy films, and if you ask me Jim Henson's best film ever. It's definitely his darkest and also most complex. Also kudos to Frank Oz who helped to set up this amazing world. It's incredible how much effort went into this movie, all starting with Brian Froud's stunning creature designs. The sets are all mesmerizing, each one with a different tone to it. The land of the Mystic's has an earthy feel to it, while the Skeksis' castle has a distinct Gothic yet aristocratic presence. Also the effects are quite noteworthy, with an amazing use of animatronics.The film is eternally impressive on a number of levels, including the excellent camera work that captures this thrilling world. Need I remind you it was one of the first of its kind, the type of fantasy film that takes you o a whole nother world? On top of that the effects are so well carried out that it is one of the few movies in FILM HISTORY, (I can literally think of no others at the moment) that is live action yet has not a single human actor on-screen. Really makes me debate what I love more; this film or The NeverEnding Story.Though this one does have some compelling undertones and mythology, mainly focusing on the nature of good and evil. It also has an epic sense of destiny, helped along by composer Trevor Jones. Like the move itself, the music is dark, epic and timeless. We're talking the London Symphony Orchestra here, come on. A film both the young and old can enjoy without a doubt, if you haven't seen The Dark Crystal I highly urge you do so "},{"Title":"The Dark Crystal Secondary World Fantasy and the Authority of Material Effects","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" In this film Jim Henson has imagined an entirely new world. Not only does he create new races of beings&#x97;the evil Skeksis, the calm Mystics, the persevering Gelflings--he creates in this film a new planet, an entirely new ecosystem, Thra its the flora, its fauna, its lifeforms.There's something about the materiality of these effects that imbue the film with a kind of authenticity, a kind of authenticity the best CGI couldn't garner.Jim Henson's new creations&#x97;his novums, if you will--are related through artistic puppets and amazing set designs. I want to talk about them all, but I'm going to limit myself to a few highlights.The villains of the film, the Skeksis, made such an impression on me as a young kid, and still do. Half-buzzard, half insect, beady eyes, decadent clothing they suggest dark sorcery and decaying empires.The main villain, the Chamberlain of the dead emperor (his name is skekSil), was my favorite Skeksi. He was one of those villains you loved to hate. He has this strange little verbal tick. In a high pitched voice he moans, Mmmmmmm,&#x85; which suggests he thinking. He does this throughout the film, and you come to both love and hate it.There's another character, Aughra, a kind of Yoda-ish oracle lady who helps the main character understand his fate. She is of some indeterminate race; but she has these buggy eyes and this crazy hair that always stirred me. And her gravely voice and lyrical dialog gives her a genuine authority.There's a scene in the film, in Aughra's astrological laboratory, where she's explaining the Great Conjunction to the protagonist; and there's this huge model of the many planets and their courses. It's an amazing sculpture! And you have to remind yourself&#x97;that's not CGI! Someone built that.Other parts of the film showcase the artistic power of Jim Henson's studios. There's one scene when the protagonist stumbles upon an ancient ruin of his race, the Gelflings, and there are bas-relief sculptures on a ruined wall depicting their fraught history (spoiler all the Gelflings, aside from the two main characters, have had their souls sucked out by the Skeksis). The detail here is astounding. All the vegetation, the water running down the stone, the weeds all of it is artificial, the artistic creation of a studio.That's why I think this film is a masterpiece you immerse yourself in this world and begin to believe in it, and forget that all of those things, those creatures, all of those trees, living plants, natural vistas&#x97;they are all artificial creations. Sculptures. Puppets.In this fantasy film, Jim Henson and company have--as much as anyone can hope to do--created a secondary world. "},{"Title":"Visually wonderful, otherwise disappointingly shallow","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" For pure fantasy eye-candy this film is a 10. For plot and character development it's about a 3. The story is simple and transparent. There is very little in the way of surprises. The biggest disappointment is the lack of character development. There is only one character in the film that has any notable character at all - Aughra. Credit to Billie Whitelaw, the voice actor, for bringing an entertaining personality to Aughra despite the bland script.This film is good for kids. The story is basic, and the visuals are exciting.It's not good for adults with any need for intellectual stimulation. The plot is thin, the characters are dull, and the script is weak and awkward.It's really a shame that a film which was such an amazing achievement in one way is such a let-down in every other way. "},{"Title":"The Dark Crystal (1982)","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" An absolutely gorgeous film. This is a film that should be enjoyed more today than ever. In a world of needless CGI, here we have a world that was actually created. Characters that could be touched and felt. They add texture, shadows, and life to their environments. The work of the puppeteers and designers on this film is just amazing. The Dark Crystal tells a fairly generic story of chosen ones, evil vs. good, etc. But does it in a fearless and terrifying way. One of my favorite things about this film is that not all of the good guys are cute or pleasant to look at. Some are downright ugly. It always irked me that good guys could never be ugly. We're always taught to not judge by appearances, but here we get to see that mentality. The film has death, bodies crumbling away, and creatures being stripped and banished. The Skesis' fear of death is wonderfully played out. Their hard, skeletal bodies a thing of many children's nightmares. The way they steal essences from other living creatures is also disturbing. The Dark Crystal is an unforgettable piece of cinema, and imagination. "},{"Title":"Wonderful fantasy","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Jim Henson moves away from your typical Muppets and instead creates a world unique in all moviedom. This is the story of two gelfling who travel across their world in an effort to heal the title object and restore the balance of power is a magical tale. It's the sort of thing that no one had ever tried before, namely creating a world where no humans appear and you believe it. It's an amazing thing to look at, I mean the level of detail is truly amazing. I really love this film a great deal, it get my imagination going and shows what is truly possible. If there are any flaws it would be as wonderful as the film is it can get a bit slow at times, some of the sequences go on too long. Its nothing dire but it is annoying. The other problem is the design of our hero's isn't very good. They look much too stiff. Where the Ur and the Skeksis are so amazing that you believe them instantly (I had to shushed when the original trailer played because I was blown out of the water at seeing a Brian Froud creature actually alive) the gelfling look like what they are, puppets. You get used to it, but it keeps the film from being truly perfect. A must see for anyone who loves fantasy or grand adventure. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Amazing!","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I really enjoyed the two Jim Henson movies, The Dark Crystal and Labyrinth. The creativity level is very high in both films. Of the two, Dark Crystal has the weaker story, only because its theme is so formulaic. Good vs. Evil, who will win? Still, the journey is a wonder to behold. Jim Henson was truly a genius and he is the main source of the Muppet creativity. Such beautifully strange creatures and characters he has developed over his too brief, but amazing career. The story has elements of Lord of the Rings, E.T. and Fantasia. A damaged Crystal must be repaired by finding and replacing a single, missing shard. The quest befalls a young Gelfling, the last of his race who was raised by the Mystics. The evil Skeksis are out to stop him using the Crustacean-like Garthim to locate him. He receive help along the way from Kira, another Gelfling who was saved by the Mystics, and Augrah, a one-eyed stargazer, who has the missing shard. The visuals are stunning and the film is enchanting but tends to move slowly at times. "},{"Title":"Odd, but strangely captivating","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Somewhat offbeat, but this production certainly has its place in the pre-CGI era of fantasy adventure stories. It looks to be an experimental film done by Jim Henson and his fellow Muppets creators. They develop an entire legend, its history, its current state, and the prophecies surrounding it.The film, like the mystics, moves fairly slow in places, but eventually relates the story it wants to tell pretty well. The heroes, two children of a heretofore unknown species, interact with the evil, malevolent lords and their equally benevolent counterparts, are likable enough to identify with, and help involve you with the action. It's a tad too sinister for smaller kids to watch, and there are some dark, violent moments. However, it's very imaginative, and has a well-intentioned message.Not a perfect film, there are some minor flaws (such as pacing), but interesting and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Wonderful work from Jim Henson. A cult sci-fi fantasy that's memorable and watchable!","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Back in 1982 I was just a small kid and at the time when I saw the previews and promos for this film the puppets and creatures it showed frightened me! Anyway after all these years finally viewing the film I must say that The Dark Crystal is a fine film with an interesting tale even though it's so fairy tale and in my opinion classified as sci-fi and fantasy the film was well made you could see. And give big thanks to Jim Henson a fine creator and film director as Henson is most famously known for the Muppets(exKermit the Frog and Miss Piggy)here he's at it again only this time these Muppets are not friendly with laughs and smiles these are scary and odd looking creature puppets! This is a timeless and adventure journey that captivates the imagination. The showcase is the old theme of good against evil. Set in another time in a different universe the truth and balance of life has been shattered into two different types that's the wicked Skeksis and the peaceful Mystics. As with any fairy tale or fable a missing link holds the key to happiness and peace here that happens to be a crystal which will be useful when regained into the good hands of the Mystics.Overall this is a wonderful film for a family to watch, or even many adults may like it. The story is interesting with good against evil and it was made in a day before CGI, big computer special effects and other crafts, as the master entertainer Jim Henson can be thanked for his crazy and odd scary puppet creations and the set and backgrounds were top notch for a fantasy film. Clearly The Dark Crystal is a cult sci-fi fantasy classic. "},{"Title":"Pure Jim Henson","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" In another world, another time there was a planet inhabited by strange creatures that was slowly getting closer to it's doom. A race of evil, vulture-like creatures known as the Skeksis were in possession of a large, magic crystal that was broken apart 1000 years ago. One tiny little piece of it is missing, it's hidingplace unknown. The time is coming closer to something known as The great conjunction, something that, in the hands of the skeksis could destroy the world or in the hands of the good give it new life and save it. It's up to Jen, a gelfling who's race was killed many years ago by the skeksis, to find the missing piece an heal the Dark crystal in time for the great conjunction to save the world from being overtaken by the skeksis. This movie is a fantasy movie, but what really makes it stand out is that there are no humans in sight, it's all done with puppets. When I say that this is pure Jim Henson I mean it both in a good and a bad way. It has all his brilliance and all his flaws. As an example one of the skeksis is a little hard to find threatening as he repeatedly makes a highpitched mmm sound, and most of the other skeksis are afraid of, and run away from a gelfling when they see one. Jim Henson is mostly concerned with the visual aspect, making sure that the angles are good, the performance makes the puppet come alive and that the puppeteer is invisible. The character doesn't change much during his journey and it's subplot doesn't develop much. But enough criticism, on to the good stuff. I mentioned that Henson is mostly visual and the visual stuff is far from bad, there are moments when I wonder Wow, how did they do that? How did they get that creature to move that way? How did they get an actor to move around in that?. There are scenes when the gelflings lack of facial movement makes them look like just puppets and there are scenes when what little facial expression they have make them seem very much alive. Like I mentioned earlier there are things that aren't threatening about some of the antagonists (like the mmm-ing skeksi) but most of it turn into unexpected humour that makes it stand out and be memorable. It doesn't have the tone one would usually expect from a puppet movie (then again, they don't make many puppet movies so what WOULD one expect?). All in all, the good outweighs the bad. This is a good and interesting movie. Jim Henson dared to make something new, rare and original and you gotta respect all the work he put in it. His job was to bring puppets to life, and he was really good at it. "},{"Title":"Well placed and stunningly shot","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of those films that you can never forget. When The Muppet's creative duo of Jim Henson and Frank Oz decided to stretch their puppetry into the reaches of feature films, they proved more than merely zany puppet masters. Here was a pair of hugely imaginative purveyors of quirky fantasy mythos. The Dark Crystal has an ethereal alien quality to its startling visions, far removed from the Earth-bound contours of traditional fairy tales. It is a hippyish dreamlike movie that entirely succeeds as a children's adventure. A feat they would continue, with marginally less wonder, in Labyrinth. The choice of removing all humans from the structure of the film &#151; a first for Henson and Oz &#151; was inspired. It liberated the film from attesting to its structural limitations (i.e. revealing the strings), in this quaint realm of innocent Gelflings, gentle, sorrow-burdened Mystics and the squawking, detestably brilliant birdlike Skekses. Of course, the imprimatur of Professor Tolkien is fully evident diminutive saviours facing impossible odds, with the Gelfling Jen, a simpering do-gooder, out to trace the origins of the missing shard of the fabled all-powerful crystal, and so save his world in process, but it is less the straightforward plot than the extraordinary execution which dazzles. The design concepts are a marvel, utilising the talents of celebrated fantasy illustrator Brian Froud, the film has a life and feel all its own, the puppets given vital energy by Henson's brilliant workshop, their movements while not exactly human are free of the jerky obvious motions of a puppet. This is most delightful and energetic with the Skekses, this world's ripe villains, who come loosely based on the seven deadly sins. These memorably vile entities, creating a cacophony of rueful bleats like rabid dinner ladies, prevent the film from ever drifting into sappy moralism by inviting an enquiry on the avaricious nature of evil. Top notch stuff. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Heart-warming triumph of good over evil","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is an entirely puppet-based film from the Jim Henson Studios. A tale of good versus evil, the underdog triumphing over adversity. Heart-warming and un-mawkishly sentimental, this is a story of an evil tyranny (the Skeksis) who gain essential life-essence by stealing the souls of their victims for their own distorted vanity. They have blighted the world for eons in their quest for eternal youth but there is a portentous planetary alignment that prophesises their doom. Our hero is a mild-mannered, unassuming orphan-child who assumes the mantle of his manifest destiny. Only he can save the world. The characters are clearly defined and Muppet-style simplistic but this film has a darker feel and ambiance than most Jim Henson creations, and therefore appeals more to the jaded but secretly sentimental. This film will bring tears to the eyes of serial killers. "},{"Title":"Understanding the genius of Henson","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is revolutionary in many ways,first it has to be one of the BEST examples of preCGI puppetry,and along with The Labyrinth,is one of several concept ideas Jim Henson had before his death.....The artistry of Dark Crystal is greatly under-appreciated,especially the humanlike Gelflings,who in some moments of the film,will make you swear you're watching actors....The voices,lighting,sounds and attention to details is breathtaking,and really the only drawback is the length,instead of too long,this one is much too short...It could have been a several part series like Star Wars and was in fact originally conceived that way "},{"Title":"Gorgeous","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is one of the most beautiful films ever made.  The film is acted entirely by puppets, and persons in costumes so elaborate that the viewer is hardly aware that the characters they portray are not puppets.I first saw this movie as a child and was absolutely enthralled.  When I saw it again as an adult I was pleasantly surprised to discover that I enjoyed it even more, and appreciated it in more ways.The sets, costumes, and puppets are universally impressive, and make this one of the most visually appealing films ever to have been made.  The imaginary world in which the film is set is one of the best realized I've seen.  The score complements the film throughout, and is often haunting in its ability to evoke emotions.The story itself is simple, but inventive nonetheless.  While the movie depicts a contest between good and evil beings, it does not fall into the usual depictions of some beings (and persons by implication) as innately evil and others as innately good.  In the end, even the most wicked villains are redeemed.  Good and evil appear as tendencies within individuals. Giving in to evil is condemned, and it's consequences shown, but even those who do evil are not wholly defined by such actions.  There is an internal struggle between right and wrong within every being, but even those who succumb to their most vicious tendencies are capable of good.  This final message is especially appealing to me when I contrast it with the message of most Hollywood movies.  The usual message I get from these is that there are good people and monsters.  Of course, each one of us is a good person and those we do not like are the monsters.  The Dark Crystal provides a refreshing, compassionate, and hopeful alternative.The action of the film is well paced.  Moments of excitement alternate with quieter scenes.  In some of these the daily lives of the beings of the movie's imaginary world are depicted.  Even the smallest details have been thought out by the film makers and brought to the screen.  Despite this, the film never lags.  It is engaging and exciting throughout.The film is not without it's faults, however.  Some of the characters are a little too adorable, and some of the mysticism seems vacuous and forced. But taken as a whole the film is gorgeous and enchanting.  It is a shame that puppets have so rarely been seriously used in Western drama.  Films like The Dark Crystal demonstrate the effectiveness with which they can be employed.  I watched the film with wonder, and was left with a sense of awe. "},{"Title":"Damn...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Absolutly TERRIFIED me as a kid.  I remember my dad and mom loving it,and insisting that I see it. So when it came on video they rented it for me to watch,and I was outta that room screaming so fast you couldn't even blink.I watch it now, however,and admire it for not only being quite advanced without using CGI, but just being REALLY original.8/10 for me..^^ "},{"Title":"Good movie, not for little ones","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I am a Henson junkie, partly because of this film. I saw only 3 movies in the theater as a child, Snow White at 6 (I was unimpressed according to my mother), E.T. (wow!), and this one (I was only 10 and it made me look away quite a few times). Afterwards, I started watching Seasame Street again with my little brother and saw every Muppet Show and adored Fraggle Rock. I was hooked. I was (and still am) a bookworm and this was the first person to make stuff for kids that I felt wasn't for babies. Henson didn't insult my intelligence, my parents would actually watch it with us, and he still created worlds of fancy beyond anything my own wild imagination could dream of. I am letting my own kids get a bit older before I will show this one to them though. If you want standard Hollywood sci-fi fantasy, watch something else. Looking for original and entertaining fantasy suitable for young and old, this is one of the best. Afterthought for parents, while this IS a children's movie, I wouldn't recommend it for kids under 10. "},{"Title":"A true story of good verses evil.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is a great movie not only for children but for adults as well, but hey that's how all great movies were in those times. This movie is one of those that grabs your attention right from the beginning and has yourself right into it asking right away alot of questions. This movie had mostly everything a fantasy could ask for. It has great realistic scenery and images, the film has unforgetable characters and great special effects for its time. The film itself had a wonderful story and some good life messages; The loss of innocence happens to be one of them. Even though this movie is not as good as the wonderful, enchanted Labyrinth, we must remember that this was more of an experiment by Henson just to get us ready, introduce us to his worlds, and actually see if it will do good and people will like it. It must have achieved all these considering he continued. The characters almost seem much a mystery but that is a good thing in this film. This film is too involved in the story and telling the viewers what its all about and what must be done. It seems more magical and mysterious on how you don't really know these characters very well. This can ruin films however but in this one it doesn't, just how this film is all set up and everything. This was the start of many great movies. If it wasn't for this great film we would of never seen the legendary Labyrinth, or even  90's shows such as Groundling Marsh. The characters in this film do remind me of the ones in that show, I think this is where many ideas have came from. I hope you can have an open mind and give this treasure a chance, if you look and watch closely you may even discover things about yourself as well. For this is truly a great classic tale of good conquering evil!!!!! "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Woven Tale","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is a wonderfully woven tale. Created by some of the most talented creative minds of the day, including Jim Henson, it follows the lives of two dying peoples and a gelfling's quest to find the secrets of the dark crystal, which connects them all. The sets and scenery are truly imaginative and the characters are strange, yet somehow familiar. The puppeteers did a marvelous job sequencing events and the cinematography is spectacular. The soundtrack has a simple, mellow, beauty. Whether you are two or ninety-two, this film has a message to give you. "},{"Title":"Innocence Lost","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I first saw The Dark Crystal, I was 14 years old and became obsessed over that world, just as I was obsessed over Middle-Earth in Lord Of The Rings or Shannara or the fantasy world of the Thomas Covenant series.Having just seen it for the first time in over fifteen years, although I know the film by heart, I couldn't help feeling sad over it.Jim Henson and Frank Oz definitely created a vision out of love--the details in this world created by hand-crafted sets and puppetry have more soul than any computer-generated dinosaurs or spaceships of today.  But at the same time, they show an ideal world far better than anything we could ever realistically live in.Maybe that's why this film never sold very well to its audience; too idealistic for its own time, even for our own time.  Would it get made today?  Doubtful.  Saturday Night Fever wouldn't get made today.As it is, though, The Dark Crystal is a visual masterpiece of puppetry. See it for Jim Henson's vision, if you never have seen true artwork, done for its own sake without really thinking about how much money it would make. If you've seen it before, though, I can only describe it as a kind of innocence lost. "},{"Title":"It's official...","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I miss Jim Henson. When he passed away in 1990, I was only 11, but I can still remember feeling sad at the news. Here was a man who effectively shaped much of the pop culture of my childhood through the wonder of his Muppets and their various forms. Kermit and Co. Big Bird and the gang at Sesame Street. Even Emmett Otter and his jug band were a highlight of many a family Christmas. But as I got older, I found the Muppets to be too childish, and the enormity of his technical achievements was completely lost on me. That is, until I bought The Dark Crystal on DVD three weeks ago. While all the regular Muppet films were staples of my youth, I'd only seen Dark Crystal once or twice, and not for at least ten years. But as it was an extras-loaded DVD, and only $15 used, I picked it up. I'm glad to say I'm very satisfied with the purchase. I won't go too much into the story, since you can read about it in other opinions. Jen is the last of his race, the Gelflings, and to save his world, he must heal the Dark Crystal before the evil Skeksis can eliminate him. To be honest, the story isn't too original, but the joy in anything with the Henson name on it lies in the visuals. Here, it's no different. The five years of work put into the creation of the planet of Thra (never mentioned in the film, but referred by name in the novel) is shown on every inch of the letterbox image. The only other problem I can see with the film itself is that it is simply too dark for young children, presumably one of the reasons it was not successful at the box office. The intended audience stayed away because they figured it was a kids movie, while parents mistakenly took their young ones to see what they figured was going to be a typical Muppet movie. I give Henson and Co. credit for trying something different, but unfortunately, the public didn't respond. Still, the film has attained cult status, and as such, is now available on DVD.This Special Edition DVD is worthy of the name. Not only do you have the film in anamorphic widescreen (the print is fine for a 1982 release), Trevor Jones' underappreciated score booms through in Dolby Digital 5.1 glory. While the score has never been released on CD (although if you really, really want it, there are bootlegs available), here it's also on an isolated track. Jones wants it released, the fans want it released, but for some reason, the Henson Company is stingy with the rights. Too bad, because it's a great fantasy score and deserves to see a proper CD release (maybe for next year's 20th anniversary?). The other extras are also top notch. There's some fascinating workprint footage (the film was originally two hours) including the highly-regarded funeral scenes and Frank Oz voicing Aughra. The high point, however, is the hour-long documentary originally broadcast on PBS back in 1982. The World of the Dark Crystal is an amazing look at the making of the film. If you don't appreciate Jim Henson, you will after seeing this. Trailers (three for Dark Crystal, one for Labyrinth and a commercial for The Storyteller) and talent files round out the package. It's an absolutely necessary DVD if you consider yourself a Muppet fan at all... go get it.   "},{"Title":"Henson in his fantasy world best","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is simply the coolest fantasy world I've seen created in a movie.  Everything about this movie is magical and leaves you wanting more. The amount of work that went into a simple puppet facial expression will never cease to amaze me.  The story isn't quite as good as it could have been with the characters it had, but all things considered it's easily forgivable.  Not a single human appears in this movie, giving it even more of a feeling of being a world that only a wonderful imagination could create.  Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Cool film,the Skeksis are the best baddies that anyone can hope for!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  All right, a not-so-Disneyesque film for all.The Dark Crystal has everything, plot, characters, sound, fun-factor and actually decent and REALISTIC FX!My favorite thing about the movies (or at least character wise) were the Skeksis,the wicked characters of the movie that look like a strage hybrid between dragons and gryphons.They each have their own personalities,own looks,weird shell robe-armour outfits,and have many diffrent facial expressions that some of the other characters don't have.Even though Chamberlain got annoying at times,at least he is better than some other baddies I have ever ran into.Other characters include Jen and Kira (Kira kinda reminds me of myself alot at times, or whatever), the weird hag-geinius Augura (who isn't that bad), the cute Podlings, the annoying Fizzgig and whom I think are the worst characters are the boring and depressing Ur-Ru.The Ur-Ru barely do anything, all sound alike, so slow and are so emotionless, unlike their dark-spirited counterparts that I think are interesting!Oh,my rating.Cool Movie.My #1 Jim Henson film.The equally brilliant Storyteller is now in 2nd.  "},{"Title":"Good fantasy","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's a shame movies like this don't get made anymore. I've always been a muppets fan, but this movie surpasses the muppets.  The movie is rich in detail (especially the swamp scene/introduction of Kira).  You can see great care went into the making of the film. The film has an involving story, and doesn't tip it's hand. In other words, it's not dumbed down for little children. It is a bit on the short side, and I wished it was longer.  I'm planning on buying the DVD.   "},{"Title":"Through a child's eyes","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a lovely, lovely movie.  If you first saw it when you were eight, let your inner eight-year-old watch it again.  If you are seeing it for the first time as an adult, watch it through the eyes of an eight-year-old.  The strings show, but ignore them and see only the magic. "},{"Title":"If only it were longer...","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is one of the first DVDs I bought, and one of my proudest purchases.  I saw this movie as a kid when it came out, and was in awe. Although a little concerned about the change in perspective in seeing it as an adult, I was even more amazed now than then.  Although the plot is not incredibly deep and complex, the world that Henson created certainly is. The characters each have real personalities, even if only seen for a second in passing.  I wish The Dark Crystal was four hours longer- I could watch and be enthralled by the world contained within it for a very long time without growing tired.  The DVD special edition also has a wonderful making of the movie, that makes me love the characters and setting even more.  It is unbelievable considering when this movie was made.  I love it! "},{"Title":"Mmmm-MMMMMM!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was the first movie I ever saw.  It was, I think, also about the second through hundredth movie I saw.  I was five at the time and had rather an infinite patience to watch a movie over and over again.  It was also that good.  From the effects (blue-screens are impressive to a five year old) to the lovable characters to the happy ending, I was enraptured.But I must disagree with another reviewer Chamberlain ROCKS!!  I would go around using his mmmmmm-MMMMM all the time, plus he's the least ugly of the skeksis.  Maybe it was the fact that he sounds like furry little Grover.  I'm always dissapointed when he loses the trial by stone.  If he were the Emporer, the Skeksis would have won. "},{"Title":"A fun-filled albeit sometimes violent fantasy from the creative mind of muppet master Jim Henson.","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's a lavish fantasy tale much like those written by J. R. R. Tolkien. (The Lord of the Rings) The late Jim Henson and company pull out all the stops and use the same type movie magic that brought E.T. and Yoda to life. Well worth a look for all ages, though younger viewers may find it a bit scary. A story of two very different cultures and an ancient prophesy that brings them together. Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Fantasy at its best!","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I first saw this as a kid and loved it! It's a bit weird to be honest but if you can get your head around it then it's actually a stunning motion picture.The work which must have gone into making this film must have been unbelievable. The puppets are very detailed and some of them scary which adds to the film.I wouldn't recommend it for very small children but 6 and over should be OK.It really is a classic which everyone should at least see once.A solid 10 from me. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film Since Childhood & Still Now D","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is a Fantasy film in which I watched it and grew up with it as a little kid. I even still watch the film today and it remains my favorite film of all time. There is honestly nothing wrong with the film and I still don't know why they gave this a 7.The Dark Crystal Sets out into a very mystical, wicked, fantasizing environment where two young Gelflings called Jen & Kira have to go a dangerous quest to heel the Dark Crystal with a broken, lost piece of it which is called the shard. Throughout the film, these two small Gelflings encounter Garflim, Crystal Bats and other moving creatures of exotic nature.The Gelflings must heel this crystal so that the vulture, nasty like Skesis and Gentle, wise like Urus are one once again.I think this is a fantastic film and for many reasons. The music tracks and themes are great. The set designs and environments are just excellent, the additional voices for all the creatures are potentially good and then there are many favorite scenes that I enjoy watching. You just can't get it any better.I think this film should be looked at carefully and with good reason because this film is worth watching. Drop everything else and consider this film a try because i think everything about this film is just excellent. There is nothing wrong with it and it is just the best.I grew up with this film watching it millions of times on Video Tape and sometimes I still watch it on DVD. It is truly the best film out there. Jim Henson, Frank Oz and the rest of their crew (Pupputeers, Voices etc) worked on this film, filming this into detailed production, working on it for 5 years almost. This film will leave you stunned, surprised, happy, shivering, excited and scared. it is truly an amazing film.Enough Said from me - 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Rich Fantasy Story That'll Keep You Glued to the Screen","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Jim Henson's The Dark Crystal is close to perfect, an astonishing fantasy tale that's still impressive even after 25 years.The film contains a massive cast of the best creatures Henson and his crew ever designed. There's also a fantastic storyline in which a naive youth named Jen must return a missing shard to the Dark Crystal, the mystical object that once brought balance to the world. Along the way, he faces astounding dangers and makes new friends.Visually, Crystal is among the most amazing achievements ever. The film only falls short in the delivery of genuine drama (it comes across with too much cheese).However, the other aspects of the film-- music, special effects, etc.-- more than make up for it. Watch The Dark Crystal-- it's one of the most inventive fantasies ever created. "},{"Title":"In the Age of Wonder","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is one of Jim Henson's greatest. Set entirely on another word, a thousand years ago, where the entire cast is made up of the wonderful puppet creations from Jim's studio and the imagination of Brian Froud. The story follows a Gelfling, Jen, as he attempts to save his word from destruction at the hands of the cruel Skeksies by replacing a shard of the Dark Crystal.This movie was a major part of my Childhood. I loved it as a kid and now that I'm older, it has inspired me to write fantasy stories of my own. As a movie, it is entirely original. We had not seen a story of its kind before nor after in the movie industry. Even though Star Wars had its moments of glory, it still can not hold a candle to The Dark Crystal because Lucas's work has that sprawling saga and never ending story quality to it but the Dark Crystal tells a more intimate story without having to result to large battles and chases halfway across the galaxy to give you that feeling of epic scale. Centering on one or two characters gives it that feeling of a Fairy Tale in which everything will turn into magic in the end. Undouptively, this will be a story for the ages, one that endures long after all of its creators are gone. "}{"Title":"A really good fantasy movie","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I brought this movie on DVD and I didn't know what to expect. But as soon as I started watching I became engrossed in it, and I watched it over and over again.The story is of Jen, a Gelfling, who learns from his dying master urSu that he is the Chosen One, he must embark on a great quest to save his world from the evil Skeksis. He needs to find the Shard of the Dark Crystal and restore it before the Great Conjunction, or else the Skeksis will rule forever.The puppetry is amazing, and looks so real. For long shots real people are used, but that adds to the effect. The creatures like the urRu (they're called the Mystics in the film), the Skeksis and the Pod-People are very well thought up, thanks to Brian Froud.This film got me into fantasy films like MirrorMask and The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, so I have a lot to thank it for. "},{"Title":"The Dark Crystal","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" There should have been at least one more movie! would be very good movie to teach morals with. I Loved it!! shows innocents verses evil and how Good wins over Bad.crystal that binds their destinies together. in the end they came together for all good. It won my Award. it was very meaningful. I would want all kids to see it.The world would be a better place.1982 why did they wait so long to make another one.. 15 years that is a very long time.evil Skekses did not win,The girl was saved there people were saved from the Skekses which was extracting the liquid which made their souls.a few drops from everyone filled a bottle the Skekses called it their essence , which made them zombies. no one can live with out a soul I have seen people with no soul it is very very scary.wishing I could give them back their essence.that part was very very sad.but it was overwhelming happiness when the girl was rescued and the shard put in place for PEACE to rain once again over the land.And that made the evil Skekses disappeared. they no longer existed.Only Good rained over the land.Can not wait to see  The World of The Dark Crystal  comes out. "},{"Title":"Magical puppetry","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A simple, classic story of good versus evil - essentially the two sides of every sentient being - is only strengthened by the skilled puppetry of Jim Henson's creature team.The world of the Dark Crystal is very immersive, though it may be a case of style over substance for those seeking a really meaty story. Despite some plot flaws (mainly just simplicity), the puppet characters seem more real than ordinary actors would have been. There's a distinct flavor to a world that is populated entirely by puppets, with no humans in sight (unlike the similar Labyrinth). Although, it could be that this lack of direct identification with any one character - while the main characters are the most human, they're still not quite - is what distances some viewers.Nonetheless, Dark Crystal is a pleasant fantasy with enough action to satisfy kids who have grown up on the Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, or Star Wars prequel movies. "},{"Title":"A necessary film to see if you love fantasy movies.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is absolutely a classic fantasy film which focuses mainly on good verses evil. The basic plot is about a world where an evil race of creatures named Skesis rule, and where a race of gentle mystics remain in hiding. The background history of the movie deals the Skesis, who slaughtered an entire race of creatures called gelflings in hopes of evading a prophecy that claimed that a gelfling would one day destroy them. Despite their attempts at killing every last gelfling, they were unable to. The race of gentle mystics found a baby gelfling and took him in, raising him as their own. He was named Jen, and later on, as the plot progresses, he is sent on a quest by his former master and adoptive father to find a crystal shard that will heal the land. Though there are many predictable scenarios that occur, the story is absolutely fantastic. Filled with magic, and a bit of dark undertones, the Dark Crystal remains one of my favorite fantasy genre films.If you're the kind of human who enjoys a good tale of adventure and magic, ancient prophesies of foreboding nature, an epic quest, noble heroes and wretched villains, well then, my friend, you have found the perfect movie to watch. All in all, The Dark Crystal is probably one of the best fantasy films ever made, if you call yourself a fantasy film lover, then you must see this movie. "},{"Title":"Best Puppet Movie Ever?","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I think this movie is possibly the best puppet movie ever made.It is stupendously well done and the whole thing is just bursting with beauty. The nostalgia of this fantasy is one that everyone should and could enjoy very much. 10/10 for a terrific puppet-film.The plot isn't always very thick, but the film makes upp with it's beauty, it works so well. Definitely not a kiddie-movie though, it has dark and horrific scenes. The story goes that Jen, a Gelfling, has to recover the shard from the Dark Crystal, he sets off on a journey to find it and it goes on from there.I won't spoil it for you. All you need to know that if you like fantasy, puppets, and crazy stuff, this is the flick of the day for you. "},{"Title":"Darkest Fairy Tale","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  possible spoilers within-Jim Henson's most intimate and personal story was a commerical failure despite the lavish sets, intricate puppet designs and 5 years in the making. The actual story within is simple but with some nice touches.  Set in strange and dark fantasy world, the crystal was cracked one thousand years ago and the ruling race becams two new races, the gentle mystics and the cruel skeses.  The skeses ruled with the wounded dark crystal giving them their power.  However a prophecy has fortold that a race of small elfin creatures called the Gelflings.  Consequently the Skeses sent thier huge crablike soldiers called the Garthim out to anhilate the Gelflings. Jen is the sole survivor and is raised by the mystics untill the triple suns are set to reallign and the crystal must be healed or the skeses will rule forever.  Jen sets out with nothing but a flute and his wits (dull as they seem to be) to try and save the world. On his travels he encounters the strange and grumpy Aughra (who is a brilliantly weird character) and the other Gelfling survivor, luckilly a female, called Kira.  Whilst Jen has been raised to know about book knowledge and mysticism by the Mystics, Kira was raised by the earthy Podlings who have taught her about animals and plants. So thats the story.  What about the movie within?  Well its got some strong points and some weak points.  I'll start with the weak so that I can end with the strong.  First weak point is the doe-eyed heroe's.  Jen and Kira are very sweet but lack any edge and dont convince as the heroes, despite thier bravery.  And during the story the heroe's have almost no way of combating the evil that exists within the story, making the audience feel totally powerless.  The charactersation is weak, most of the characeters are simple black and white.  Most have some outreagous quirk that helps identify them, like the strange whimpering from the Chamberlain. The story contains some very dark and disturbing imagery, the podlings being drained by the skeses is horrible, the murderous nature of the skeses is unpleasent, the garthim are very scary and the clifftop battle between the gentle land-striders and the garthim is a scene that I think is too dark for some children (i stil cant watch it now!  The sounds of an animal suffering dont make a good kids movie to me) The strong points are also many.  The overall look of the movie is very impressive, with a dark fairytail feel that runs through the whole movie. The idea of the duality between the mystics and skeses is brilliant and is the best part of the movie for me.  In one scene an evil skeses falls to his death in a pool of fire, but before the audience can cheer his death a mystic is vapourised in response, seeing as they are different halves of the same creature.  This is a deep and poignant concept.  The strong story lines of sacrifice and love are cliched but well realised and the ending is quite neat.  However the way Kira is brought back from the dead is quite annoying.All in all this is great concept and has several strong points but is not quite the sum of its parts.  The story is short and a bit empty, it almost feels like the heroes just wander around, just about suriving untill they stumble across their victory.  In all this movie is possibly too dark for a young audience espcially if they are children with a gentle nature. Hwoever for a more mature audience this movie contains some strong movie making and concepts.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best Fantasy Film Ever Created","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Out of all the Fantasy films I have ever seen, they pale in comparison to The Dark Crystal. Nearly everyone has one movie or story that moves them deeply and really means something to them and holds tight onto their heartstrings throughout their life. For me, this movie is The Dark Crystal. I can't remember a time when I did not know about The Dark Crystal, as I was a toddler when I first saw it. I cannot remember the first time I saw the movie, but it has always resonated inside of me as one of the most amazing stories I have ever seen in a movie, book or otherwise. Even at the young ages of 3 and 4 I adored this movie, in spite of things which might be considered too frightening for a toddler this movie always held me completely entranced. Unlike the majority of fantasy films created which borrow substance from ancient mythology, or great writers like Tolkein, The Dark Crystal alone created an entirely new world of fantasy for the movie to take place in. This is a fantasy film with no dragons, elves, dwarves, goblins or unicorns. Instead we have unique creations like the gelflings, skeksis, mystics, garthim and podlings. Ridiculously underrated, and underappreciated, this movie was a result of the amazing partnership of artist Brian Froud and the late Jim Henson. Henson created the story, and Froud brought the world to life. The story is your classic fight between good-verses-evil, with a slight twist. However the thing about The Dark Crystal that makes the story so powerful, is the amazing artistry behind it all and the complete immersive quality of the world it takes place in. The Dark Crystal, is a powerful magical device that the wise Urskeks use to make their world beautiful and perfect. A thousand years ago the crystal was cracked, and the Urskeks were split, turned into two separate races. The Mystics who are wise and gentle, and the Skeksis who are cruel and ambitious. It was prophesized that the crystal would be healed by the hand of a Gelfling, a race of peaceful elfin-creatures. And so the Skeksis decided to rid the world of Gelflings and engage in a genocidal hunt to murder them all. However, two gelfling survive, the hero Jen who is raised by the Mystics, and the heroine Kyra who is saved by the Pod People. Jen is told by his dying master that he must find the missing shard of the Dark Crystal and unite it with the whole crystal so that the world can be peaceful once more. Along the way, Jen meets Kyra who accompanies him on his quest to heal the Dark Crystal. Without a drop of CGI, Henson and Froud managed to create a new world entirely out of puppets, paintings and animatronics. The amount of work that was put into this movie is staggering. From the smallest rodent seen scurrying quickly through a scene, to the gorgeous grotesqueness of the skeksis, every creation in this movie is beautiful. You are never distracted by thinking, Oh look at those puppets, simply because the environment is so complete and convincing. There is nothing puppety about this movie. It's movies like this that make me hang my head in shame when I see poorly done CGI that does not properly blend in with its real surroundings. It is a pity that it is more common in these days for people to use cheap CGI that looks unconvincing rather than taking the time and money to create amazing special effects through makeup, animatronics and puppetry that can be much more effective. It is a shame that Jim Henson never saw this amazing work of art given the appreciation it deserved. In my opinion, it is the best Fantasy Film ever created. "},{"Title":"An incredible masterpiece","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film is the combination of Jim Henson's undeniable genius and the imagination of Brian Froud.  It opens up a rich and gorgeous world populated with original creatures that nonetheless play out an old and time-honored tale.  Personally, I consider it Henson's finest work.  The sheer attention to detail--the small things put in that the viewer never notices yet that make the movie so amazing--are unequalled except in the recent Lord of the Rings movies.  And The Dark Crystal was done without the advantages of computer assistance.So much care is taken, so much is done, that the viewer easily forgets that these people are mostly puppets.  In truth, they are no more puppets than many of Henson's other creations.  They are as real as the viewer is willing to believe.  So see it.  Travel with Jen as he leaves safety on a quest to save his world...rejoice in the speed of Landstriders...laugh and make merry with the Podlings...defy evil with Fizzgig.  Do it.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant! An all time masterpiece!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie captures the pure fantasy genre at its best. Good vs Evil, great effects, awesome timeless storyline and ground breaking puppetry will leave you feeling like you've just travelled to another dimension and had the time of your life. "},{"Title":"A highly underrated masterpiece","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was, and still is, a one-of-a-kind milestone and a masterpiece of its genre.  There are very few live action movies that try to go for the no humans onscreen theme and none of them were anywhere as big, or as good, as The Dark Crystal.You will be amazed at just how well done this movie is.  You may even find yourself believing that the puppets (or muppets, since Jim Henson made this film) are actually real, living breathing creatures.  In fact, Jim Henson, Frank Oz, and Brian Froud (the conceptual designer) went so far as to create everything (and I mean EVERYTHING) in this make-believe world to make it seem believable.  Wildlife, landscapes, even the eating utensils and clothing styles were all created specifically to create a world that feels like it's always been here, and we are just observers seeing a small portion of its history.The only downside to the movie would be that it's a bit dated, but at the same time, it has that strange 80s fantasy look to it that makes it seem like it REALLY is from another world, another time, in an age of wonder - to quote the opening lines.This is a movie to be appreciated by adults and loved by children. "}{"Title":"Slow-ish but Good-ish...","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I do remember that this was treated as a failure, but making 47M in '82 puts it into the year's top 20, so go figger. It's alright, somewhat slow-and yes you have seen this plotline a gazillion times if you ever read any sci-fi or Tolkien or whatever-but so what? It's not the formula, it's what you do with it.Here I think that Henson and co. did a fine, imaginative job with it, despite the rather flat lead characters. The whole crystal/3-sun eclipse thing is good, the surrounding creatures varied and clever, the baddies bad and the good ones crusty. I rather like the horseshoe crab/tanks we see running around doing the baddies' deeds for them too.Was this too scary for little children? Ummmmmm, at the time, maybe, nowadays, nahhhhhh. I think it would if anything bore some more than anything else. The rest would get carried away by the plot, the design and etc.I like it, though it's not a classic, Henson did a good thing here.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"A fantastic piece of Art !!!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For me as an artist this is the most beautifully designed movie I've seen so far. Creatures, costumes, sets, SFX...everything is just incredibly well done! Also the Soundtrack of Trevor Jones is one of the best in movie history! The only thing I don't like is, that the movie gets sometimes too slow paced. All in all this is a one of a kind movie! DARK CRYSTAL also inspired my own work "},{"Title":"A Modern Day Classic","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies as a kid. I bought it a month or so ago... just to see if it still had the same appeal... it certainly does! This movie is so pretty... and imaginative.. you can tell a lot of work had to go into this film. I'm really not sure what to say about this movie except.. don't write it off as a kid's flik... adults can very well love it too! "},{"Title":"The Muppets meet a world they never even dreamed of!","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The first time I saw The Dark Crystal, it scared me a lot. Now I totally love it. I love the character of Jen. He has much more courage than me and he knows that he has to do something that I could never do. The Skeses are amazing creatures and they are able to scare the pants off of me. The animation is incredible and the creators of the Muppets have created another hit. I highly suggest The Dark Crystal to anyone who wants to see a world entirely different from their own. "},{"Title":"Just the best","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In my oppinion, this one is the best fantasy flick ever made. I have seen many but none as fantastic as this one. I think everything fits perfect in this movie, they made everything look so realistic. So if you like fantasy this is the one you MUST see!!! "},{"Title":"*** 1/2 (Out of four)","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Fairy tales are measured upon a sense of humor too sophisticated for its core audience but just self-reverential enough to entertain adults. Although The Dark Crystal takes itself perhaps just a bit too seriously for its own good, it doesn't affect the overall quality of the film. Directors Jim Henson and Frank Oz have exhaustingly combined their resources to result in one of the most visually remarkable landscapes, puppetry or otherwise, to have ever graced the wonders of the celluloid strip.The film follows the misadventures of a heroic fawn-like character named Jen, a gelfling raised by the righteous Mystics during a time of darkness. Indeed as the film begins Jen is advised by his shaman-like surrogate father to retrieve the crystal shard to restore a sense of good to the universe.  Unfortunately his efforts are blocked by the evil ostrich-like Skepsiks, slovenly overgrown dodos in opulent dress which remind us of the surreal vision behind Henson's imagination. With the help of a senile old lady witch-doctor who looks inspired more by the drawings of Gerald Scarfe than by the cutesiness of Henson's Muppets, Jen embarks upon a tale told a thousand times before but hardly with as much visual panache as attained here.As the movie progresses, we are introduced to even more ornate caricatures. Of course there are the enchanting female gelfling Kira and her small Toto-like pet (inevitable reminders of The Wizard of Oz), a creature resembling a carnivorous plant whose digestive stomach lies embedded in the ground (one of the most wonderful effects I've ever encountered in cinema), and a bunch of beetle-like captors whose appearance in the film continues the comparison to The Wizard of Oz in their purposeful similarities to the flying monkeys.Although the film cannot attain its sense of magic throughout (the ending seems perfunctory), The Dark Crystal nevertheless takes the casual movie-watcher to a plane so dimensionalized that it is almost a shame that latter-day movies have replaced this tangible feel with a more automated digital computerization. The film came out in 1982, and bombed badly...this is too bad, because it really is the most evident relic of Henson's bygone genius.  Of course one can't blame the film, but we can blame the filmgoers of that year.  This was the same year which brought us the feel-good sentiments of E.T. and Tootsie.  Spurned were the likes of this movie, Blade Runner and Pink Floyd The Wall.  The bond which links all of these films is their darkness, one which exposes the shadowy side of man's nature (or Nature in general) in an almost delicate manner.  Although The Dark Crystal does not possess the poetic somnambulance of another overlooked children's film with dark undertones, Babe Pig in the City, this film would mark an extraordinary opportunity to try something new when bored by the generic harmonics of such recent Disney fare as Pocahontas and The Hunchback of Notre Dame.   "},{"Title":"the best and most imaginative fantasy film ever made","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I recently rented the Dark Crystal because i managed to skip over it all of those years as a child. As a child i grew up with an insane amount of dedication to Willow, Legend, Masters of the Universe and other fantasy epics of the 80s (a dying breed that in my opinion is film's best overlooked genre). After watching the Dark Crystal i was so amazed and in awe it was almost as if i were a kid again. Sometimes one would wish that Hollywood would look to the past instead of future, because the special effects and puppeteering in the Dark Crystal wowed me more than all of the recent CGI special effects films put together,and this was a movie made in 1982! Not until someone sees this film can someone witness the genius that Jim Henson truly was, and likewise with Frank Oz and everyone else that contributed to the film. It's a shame that this movie has never received the credit it deserves. Hopefully with the upcoming release of the enhanced version on DVD, all of that will change. "},{"Title":"Still one of the best fantasy movies","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's hard to believe that this movie was actually released in 1982. This was made in a time that movies weren't full of CGI like in today's action movies and animations. Dark Crystal takes it even one step further by not putting human actors (at least not visible) in there but only working with puppets and dolls. That the story and direction came from the brain and hands of Jim Henson (responsible for the creation of the Muppet Show) is certainly not a surprise. Not only does he and Frank Oz manage to make a whole believable fantasy world with colorful creatures and characters but also provide the viewer with an amazing adventure and much background info about the protagonists. Despite the limitations you have in expressions on puppets like for example the Gelflings, they do manage to make you feel and empathize with Jen and Kira, the 2 main characters. I guess this must have been one of these movies that has been broadcasted numerous times on TV during my childhood. Dark Crystal is and probably will always be my favorite fantasy movie and easily be one of my favorite movies of all time. I'm not sure if I want a sequel here. I don't want the magic of this movie be ruined by some cheap CGI and action. If you have the DVD I recommend you to watch the making of as well. "},{"Title":"Yin-Yang","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Concept 'Dune' meets 'Wizards'Some spoilers...As far as 80s fantasy, goes this is certainly advanced in its concepts compared to, say, the 'Star Wars' universe.  No Christ allegory here.  This was probably Gary Kurtz's way of thumbing his nose at the holier-than-thou Lucas.  Here we get some congruent dualism that contributes to the darker nature of the film.It's also ground-breaking not only for its technical achievements, but for its aesthetics.  Jim Henson, like Disney, set a mold for our imagination as to how puppets could look and act.  He also created the template mood that we use to judge all others in the category.  Think of 'Meet the Feebles', completely opposite in tone from the 'Muppet Movie'.Here Henson goes against the original template; no monochrome, plainclothes characters.  The only faltering I see is in the constructed world; it seems directly ripped from TV (specifically 'Fraggle Rock').  It's not as lush as 'Legend', not as friendly as 'Willow', but it still has plenty of merits.  I place this high on my list of films, certainly higher than the juvenile follow-up 'Labyrinth'.Sound design aficionados should listen for Ben Burtt's work from 'Empire'.Final Analysis = = Learn from this... "},{"Title":"Jim Henson's Masterpiece.","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This has all the elements of brilliant horror/fantasy an ancient evil, a damaged holy relic, a clan of wizards, a hero, and a prophecy.Additionally, it has elements so far above and beyond the norm, that I am simply amazed that this movie does not have a stronger following.These elements include a conceptual design by Brian Froud (!), a renowned fantasy artist, and the costume designer from Labyrinth; the story, direction, and production of Jim Henson, himself!; a musical score by Trevor Jones, the composer who lovingly uplifted the beautiful movie, Excalibur so high above the other Arthurian productions; and Muppet Show screenwriter David O'Dell. (Yes, he also wrote the Masters of the Universe screenplay, but we will forgive him that transgression.) The effects were done by our favorite Star Wars effects people at ILM, and while the characters were done by the puppeteers at Henson's Workshop, this is far from a Muppet Movie, believe Me.The story itself is creative, inspiring, and amazing, yet darkly sinister in its beauty in such a way as to completely hold you to it.If you share a love of fantasy, then you will surely love The Dark Crystal. I am wholly amazed with this production, even now, some 22 years after its release. The flora and fauna, the textures, the set designs, and costumes, the creature designs and distinction one from the other are all impeccably done, with full attention paid to the very last minor detail. The designs on the floors, walls, and trappings are meticulously designed, created, and manufactured, and this story was so wonderfully done that I am in absolute thrall with this movie, as if I have never seen it before; indeed, this is My first viewing as an adult. This is a beautiful, darkling, compelling, and sinister tale, so professionally executed that it is, without question, the most creative and lovely fantasy I have ever seen. The narrative is compelling, and inspires a suspenseful beauty which begins with the opening scenes and continues throughout the Gelfling's quest for the crystal shard which is missing from the Dark Crystal, but once he has it, he realizes that no one has told him what he must do with it. Without his giving his all, making the hard choices and sacrifices, their lives will cease to exist. Will Jen the Gelfling save their world? or will the evil Urskeks win dominion? Watch this breathtakingly beautiful production, ride the spiral of Fate and Magick, and find out for yourself. IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MOVIE, DO NOT READ PAST THIS POINT!! SPOILERS ABOUND!! But there is also another perspective on this film...The evil Urskeks and the Wise Ones are, of course, one and the same. This is highly symbolic of the world's leaders. We are all human beings, we all have the same emotions and we share the same capacity for caring as we do war. We all have wisdom and a darker' side. This movie is a sub-promotion of the One-World Government; the New World Order, mentioned in countless literary works across the globe.The Gelflings, who are creatures very reminiscent of elves, are those small people; the common clay of the world's diverse societies - the survivors of the many man-made, world-wide holocausts which have been committed upon nearly every social group on the planet, at one time or another. The Dark Crystal itself is representative of many things hope, greed, love...all those things which are the driving forces of those in power.The missing shard shows that when motivated by the wrong cause, part of the equation is missing, thereby leaving the person only partially filled, constantly needing more and more, never to be fully filled, nor their hunger for the power sated. This movie is also a caution against siding with one or the other of the forces, as they will one day come together in a kind of peace with which no one will be satisfied, due to their disliking and strong dissatisfaction with the other side. It shows us that homes can be confiscated by governments, land can be taken away, as can life, liberty, and all pursuit of happiness, at the whim of the governments.The most precious freedom we have, as humans, is the element of Free Will, which the Urskeks did remove from the Podlings by way of the darkest use of the Dark Crystal. Free Will can be removed, even if only in the mind. Brainwashing does occur, and it takes three times the amount of time and work to deprogram, than it does to set the brainwashing into place. This is a very deep, sociologically and psychologically thought-provoking endeavor, which I also found charming, brilliant, and lovely...on the surface. It rates a 9.8/10 from...the Fiend . Every fear has a wish behind it, don't you think? "}{"Title":"Who says you're too old to watch fairy-tales??","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  (SPOILERS coming up) Like most fans, I fell in love with the Dark Crystal at very young age. I think I was a 6 or 7 years old brat when I saw it for the first time and I was completely astonished. I just stared at it with my eyes and mouth wide open and it was the coolest, most terrific thing I ever saw. I haven't seen it in over 10 long years now and I finally had the opportunity to buy a copy. Yet, I was a bit worried because I feared that the original impact it had on me as a kid would be lost now and the magic it once had would look silly and childish in these modern age of cinema technology.  Well, I'm pleased to say that it still was an entertaining and fresh looking fable to me. This kind of tales are not bound to a certain age&#133;whether you're 9 or 99 years old, you'll always find yourself to be a little enchanted by the Dark Crystal. The sinister fairy-tale world of Dark Crystal exists out of two life forms. Thousands of years ago, the Crystal broke in half; with one small piece missing and two kinds of creatures (good and evil) were created. &#133;Naturally, the evil breed is the coolest species. They look like a mixture between vultures and wild boars and their days are filled with sucking the juices out of harmless little gnomes and that sort of things. The good breed are a bunch of lame and uninteresting tortoises that only open their mouth and say ` AAAAAAAAAA' &#133; A small &#145;Galfling' is send out on a quest to find the missing piece of the Crystal and this has to be done before the three suns are lined next to each other. If not, the Evil boys will live and terrorize for all eternity. I think this little summary clearly proves that the Dark Crystal is a highly imaginative film, obviously made with a giant dose of creativity and goodwill. You can enjoy it no matter what age you have. If you watch this together with your little critter, he or she will be intrigued by the wonderful characters that keep on getting introduced. Also, the terrific visuals and unique settings will be loved. If you've reached a more respectable age, Dark Crystal will still be appreciated because of the subtle morbid humor and macabre atmosphere. Yet, I have to be fair and admit that the movie has aged a lot over the years. The film uses quite many conversions between hand-made decors and real environmental footage and that often looks very fake and amateurish. And perhaps, the entire era of CGI has killed the myth of Jim Henson movies&#133;because of the gigantic technical development in animated movies lately, some children won't be impressed at all and they might laugh it away&#133;Real shame!   "},{"Title":"Unique Vision","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal was the first film directed by Jim Henson that truly showed us the marvels he (and his legacy) would make in years to come. The effects in this movie, at the time, were quite astounding. With his always unique vision, Henson brings us to a Taoist world where yin and yang are separated. Two lone Gelflings struggle to survive and to save their world from their greedy oppressors, The Skeksies. An assortment of truly sci-fi, otherworldly, yet somehow familiar beings fill this movie with surprise, humour, and even suspense.What's it for??!! cries Ograh, the one-eyed witch. My answer It's for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not as brilliant as many claim here","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm a big fantasy and animation fan, so this movie seemed to be a safe choice, with all the cult around it.So my expectations maybe were a bit too high. I found many scenes visually interesting and touching, but I agree with the (too few) critics on this board, that the story does not keep it's promises. Too less interesting is the main character, too less is told about the connection between the good ones and the bad ones, too predictable is the whole plot.I also agree that many scenes are really scary (that Chamberlain guy with his Mmmmmmmm can give you the creeps!) especially for children, though I find it amusing when some grown ups put it in the same league with The Ring or even The grudge.I felt annoyed at times, also bored, and only my expectations made me sit through it. This movie tries to have an epic feeling, which it does not live up to in many ways.So, sorry fans, but though this COULD have been a masterpiece in every way, it is just visually stunning and interesting to watch. "},{"Title":"Plods.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal is a technical achievement, to be sure, no arguments there...but it's also as ponderous in its pace as the eternally plodding Mystics themselves.There are two major possible responses to a film like this the first (and obviously the most popular one, especially for those who saw it for the first time when they were kids) is to fall in love with the film and admire its uniqueness; the other is to find it simply interesting to look at, but to feel completely shut out emotionally. They created an artificial world, all right....   (**) "},{"Title":"Dark Movie for Families.","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal (1982) Dir Jim Henson, Frank Oz / Voices Stephen Garlick, Lisa Maxwell, Billie Whitelaw, Percy Edwards, Barry Dennen Inventive Muppet style adventure that explodes onto the screen with such flair for detail yet it ultimately fails as a story. The plot introduces the peaceful Mystics that resemble a cross-breed of sloth and camel. They send a Gelfling on a quest to obtain a shard missing from the Dark Crystal. Failure will result in darkness at the aligning of the three suns. The Gelfling's name is Jen, which is actually a girl's name. His enemies are the evil Skeksis empire that drain fluid out of their victims because their leader wishes to retain his youth. Why doesn't he just take part in a skin care commercial? This is way too dark for young children and there is little to hold interest for adults either. Detailed production with direction by Jim Henson and Frank Oz. Jen is the underdog hero sent on the quest, and Kira is his female counter-part worth her weight. There is an ogre with a flair for wisdom, which the screenwriter never displays. Other characters are not quite so broad but the effects and costumes seem to be the payoff over presenting personalities. The climax lacks the payoff needed but not much of this made any sense to begin with. The production is crystal clear Henson at his best but it is not up to par with the Muppets. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"When Films You Loved as a Kid Turn Out to Be Pretty Bad Movies","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Sometimes we should just not revisit movies that were special to us when we were kids.I remember watching The Dark Crystal with a sense of awe and being fairly obsessed with it, turning scenes from it into games that I would play in the backyard and the playground with other kids who were just as obsessed. But rewatching it recently, I was struck with how static and slow the damn thing is. Could be that it's just a matter of it showing its age. Jim Henson's puppetry was state of the art for the time, and we've become used to frenetic and breathless animation as the norm for kid-oriented films now. But The Dark Crystal is like watching paint dry. The puppets aren't even as mobile as the ones used on The Muppet Show. Mostly they just stand in one place, so action scenes have a strange wooden quality, as if all of the characters are waiting for someone else to make a first move and no one actually ever does. And they're expressionless to boot, and I know that can't be blamed on the age of the film. After all, a puppet had been used only two years before to amazing effect to bring Yoda to life.No, I think this film was probably bad even at the time and I just didn't realize it then because I was a kid.Grade C- "},{"Title":"The best puppetry I have ever seen in a movie","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm not really a fan of Jim Henson stuff but after this... I think I should give some of his stuff a try. This is a movie I wanted to see for a couple of years now and I never really got down to it until very recently. I decided to sit down and watch it and it's actually very good.The plot is that on an alien planet, a thousand years ago a crystal that creates the planet's life is damaged and that stops the planet from creating any more life. This causes the crystal's guardians to be split up into 2 races, the Mystics (which are good) and the Skeksis (which are evil). A thousand years later Jen is the last of the Gelflings (another race that existed on this world) Skeksis killed The Gelflings because of a prophecy that says that a Gelfling will find the crystal's shard and bind them together. So he ventures off on his quest to find a shard and restore life to the planet.The puppetry, This is some of the most unparalleled practical effects I have ever seen. The design for the Skeksis' army (you know, those crab things) are fantastic as is every other design in this movie (maybe except that muppet thing that goes around with Kira). This is definitely worth checking out if you want either to see a way in which practical effects work better than the CGI stuff or if you just want to marvel at it all then check it out.The story, while it is clichéd works, the acting (well, the puppeteers who supply the voices) do pretty good jobs, the set designs are very good and the world they set up is very creative. I mean for an entertaining watch this will deliver if you're into fantasy/sci-fi stuff.So while I can see people not liking this movie I find it a very entertaining watch. It is better than all of the Jim Henson stuff I've seen so far (although to be fair the only other Henson movie I've seen is Labyrinth). I'd say if you're a fan of his stuff (or if you like practical effects over CGI stuff) then this is certainly worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Essential Henson","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" What raises Dark Crystal above its peers is its unflinching commitment to its own universe. Steeped in pleasingly complex lore, Henson and Oz have fashioned a convincing fable set in a consistent fantastical world. Their secret is to never wink or nudge their audience - kids aren't interested in ironic modern world references, preferring the wonderful puppet monsters (of which there are many), while surrendering parents can equally be taken on an uplifting escapist adventure.Perhaps, in a movie world of increasingly fast and merciless editing, the patience of younger children might be tested in the talkie early segments, but that's probably just me being patronising. Heck, it's a lot more involving than, say, The Phantom Menace's (another fantastical children's film - albeit a self-proclaimed one) endless dreary political wrangling. With its stunning production design, wild imagination, and a clutch of frankly barking performances (several of which are from the directors themselves), Dark Crystal is the quintessential Henson movie from a sadly bygone era.And yes, it's better than Labyrinth, too. "},{"Title":"Visually outstanding but otherwise mediocre","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I recently saw this movie with a group of friends who were giving this movie rave reviews. I had never heard of it before watching it so I had no opinion of it going in. Unfortunately, I disagree with their opinions on this movie.The first thing I noticed about this movie was that all of the visuals were stunning and beautifully done. The fantastic world you are brought to seems very realistic and is excellently crafted. However, this is perhaps the only thing I really enjoyed about this movie.I felt that what was happening was just being explained to avoid confusion rather than drawing me in and showing me why I should care. The voice acting had some moments, but overall did not make up for the fact there were no real-life actors to draw the viewer in emotionally. I suppose that the very uninspired dialogue did nothing to help this fact and, except for a few quirky characters like Aughra, the characters seemed very ordinary and uninteresting. This made the movie seem to drag on, despite its modest 93 minutes in length.I would recommend this movie but only will true fantasy fans be able to so thoroughly enjoy it. If you are not a big fantasy fan and are just hearing about this movie now, I would recommend you watch it for the visual experience but be sure to lower your expectations otherwise. "},{"Title":"Epic Puppets","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal is a visually-impressive fantasy epic with puppets. This is the joint effort of legendary puppet master Jim Henson, Frank Oz and Brian Froud.The story is very banal and derivative of the common language of fantasy prophecies, meek young men who become saviors of entire worlds, good vs. evil, mystical artifacts, strange species, etc. Sometimes it seemed like Star Wars, sometimes it veered into The Lord of the Rings territory. There's nothing really new about this story. The ending, however, is quite beautiful, in a transcendental sort of way.Now what is really impressive about the movie is the visual aspect. Every set is unique and literally alive birds, trees, rocks, plants, everything is animated. Then we have the creatures there are the Gelfing, elf-like creatures; the Mystics, who look like giant lizards with soft features; and the Skeksis, a cross between birds and dinosaurs. What's amazing is that each one is unique. Each Skeksi is different from the other, and there are no two Mystics alike. Hair, eyes, clothings, posture, ornaments, everything is different.I can only imagine the time it took the crew to create this movie. It can't have been an easy task and for their effort and magnificent results they deserve all the praise in the world. If only they had invested as much in the story, this could have been one of the great fantasy movies of all times. "}{"Title":"A bit of a mess, I'm not happy to say","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can only remember this 1982 fantasy film from Jim Henson vaguely from when I was growing up, unlike Henson's 1986 film, Labyrinth, which I can remember watching a number of times in my childhood. About a year and a half ago, after rediscovering Henson's famous Muppets, I decided to check out The Dark Crystal, and watch the entire thing from start to finish for probably the first time. Being a strong admirer of Henson (who sadly suffered a premature death when I was under four years old), I expected to like this project of his, but was disappointed and rather surprised when it turned out that I didn't like it at all! I soon gave it another try, but it wasn't much better. Finally, trying it one more time after this past year and a half or so, not much changed.The story is set on a planet called Thra, which has three suns; the Dying Sun, the Rose Sun, and the Great Sun. 1000 years ago on this planet, the Crystal of Truth, which was important to the well-being of Thra's inhabitants, was cracked, dividing the planet's inhabitants into two races; the good Mystics, and the evil, oppressive Skeksis! According to a prophecy, a member of the Gelfling race was to eventually revive the crystal and put an end to the Skeksis' regime, so the Skeksis attempted to wipe out the Gelflings! Jen is a Gelfling who has been raised by a Mystic, and thinks he's the only one left of his kind. As the one who raised him and educated him is dying, he sends Jen on a mission to find a crystal shard. The Gelfling is told that he can find this shard in Aughra's observatory. So, after his master dies, Jen sets out on the mission to find the shard and revive the crystal, but many challenges await! He must fulfill this prophecy in time for the next Great Conjunction of the three suns, or else the Skeksis will rule forever!All the characters in this film are puppets, there are no live actors, which is certainly not something I'm complaining about. Interesting concept, and it seems a live action movie without any actors appearing on screen had never been done before. However, too bad about certain other aspects of the movie. Where do I start? Well, one flaw in the film is some of the voice acting, including the voice provided for Jen, as well as the one for Kira, a female Gelfling who appears later in the film. If you ask me, voices in the film like those two are quite poor. The humour here is lacking. I found the Aughra character mildly amusing at times, but apart from that, I didn't laugh much. I also didn't find the story too intriguing for the most part, I guess it's a little too shallow and perhaps could have used a bit more focus. Pointing out the problems in the film, I certainly can't forget the characters. I didn't care much for many of them, and when scenes with the Skeksis came, for me, it was sort of like, Here we go again. Very boring villains. With some of the movie's flaws, there's something rather unprofessional about it.Henson was a very talented, creative individual, whose body of work continues to entertain people of different ages today, and it's so sad he had to come to a premature death in 1990, at age 53 (a few months before his 54th birthday), caused by pneumonia from a neglected infection. When I first discovered I didn't like this film, I think I found it a tad hard to accept, being a a strong admirer of Henson and thinking how sad his death was. However, while many others praise this film, and while I can praise other works of his, I think this particular project of his could have been so much better, even though I'm sure it took a lot of effort to make. So, I'm not with the majority when it comes to the general notion of The Dark Crystal, but I see some others have similar criticisms to mine, if not exactly the same. Since the film has a generally good reputation, I guess I shouldn't just say stay away, but personally, there's other stuff in the Jim Henson catalogue I would rather be watching. "},{"Title":"really something","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Obviously, there have been many movies about battles between good and evil, but The Dark Crystal is especially interesting mainly because of the talents of Jim Henson and Frank Oz. Featuring the Gelflings trying to capture the title object back from the vile Urskeks, the movie is impressive in every way. But how could it not be, coming as it does from the group behind Sesame Street? I should identify that this movie is not intended to be cute. There is a sense of darkness here, and not just because it's about the battle between good and evil. Also, the Urskeks have the sort of eating habits that we associate more with John Belushi in Animal House.But don't get me wrong. The Dark Crystal is very well done. "},{"Title":"Hasnt gotten better through the years but so what","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember being eight years old, sitting in a half-empty theatre, realizing almost everyone else are adults..  I recall that I was excited by the movie but not scared into nightmares or anything.   I loved the film, it felt like it couldve been a dream, but I remember thinkin Jen was wimpy and I absolutely hated the dog-like creature, Its not a puppet its a rag!! This movie is suitable for humans from 6 and up. They´ll get worse nightmares from grimm bros. or the TV-news.  On the other hand I used to be afraid of the muppet show, so an advice could be to test your kids with Labyrinth to see whether they´re fully Henson-compatible.  Viewing it 21 years later is weird and sweetly nostalgic, but I´m not giving it more than 8 cause I still hate dog/rag and Kira is way cooler than wimpy Jen.   "},{"Title":"Puppets are the Key","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It is a pity that directors, producers and writers are now faced with the issue that C.G.(computer graphic) is what is used these days. Directors, producers and writers in my opinion will always struggle to create something that looks as real as this piece of cinematic genius. Frank Oz and Jim Henson(directors), may he rest in peace, created a vision of fantasy so real, that as it stands now, I see this as one of the best displays of fantasy ever. Film makers today are obsessed with this idea that C.G. is the way to go. Now in some circumstances yes, it is the way to go, take for instance The Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring. This film presented C.G. in a way that I thought was not possible, for the most part it was seemless. In most scenes the only reason you knew it was C.G. was because you knew it didn't exist. However, even though the cast of The Dark Crystal consisted entirely of puppets and their puppeteers at least you know that they're really there, I for one would like to see more movies with puppets. C.G. is okay for the most part, however don't neglect or let the puppet be forgotten, because unlike our friend Jar Jar Binks, Yoda was really there.P.S. Incase no one noticed in STAR WARS Episode II Attack of the Clones even our puppet friend Yoda has given way to C.G., is this bad? We won't know till May 16th 2002. "},{"Title":"Fantasy movie with interesting under tones","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is a classic but has not aged as well as some science fiction movies of its era.  The fantasy world of creatures is believable enough with the goblin type characters gelflings being the central characters. Naturally enough, it is by gelfling hand that balance must be restored to the dark crystal which was compromised some time before the circa of the film.  What holds particular interest for myself are spiritual under-tones. Movie makers Frank and Jim go out of their way to push what seems like Freemason imagery!  Check out the scene when the 'gelflings' wake up and find the crystal they threw away the night before has landed amid a triangle! Gets me worried about Kermit and his pals!  There's some other obvious signs for those who know what they're looking for, so have fun seeing for yourself. I spotted at least ten.  The spiritual under-tones are far scarier than the actual movie. "},{"Title":"They don;t make them like this anymore!","Date":"4 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this for the first time when I was a little kid. It was mesmerizing! I probably watched it at least 100 times over a 6 month period. The idea of making a film entirely of muppets is a giant feat and I'm sure they were told it cvouldn't be done. But, they did it! The story and some of the scenes are a little scary for little kids (nowadays at least) but, never goes too far. I heard once that Jim Henson wanted it to be an adult film but kept it family oriented knowing people would come with their children either way.One of the most amazing scenes was when the lead gelfling is walking through the jungle. The amount of detail in all the plants and animals is unmatched by any cgi today. It's their..it's not on a computer..so it looks much better. I watched it again with my kids last week and couldn't believe all the trouble they went through for such a short scene.My kids..like I before...couldn't take their eyes off it. This, in a time when cgi has made everything look so crisp and clean, is amazing to me. It def holds up to the test of time. They will never make another film like this again..and that makes me sad. But, at least we have The Dark Crystal to enjoy through the years. "},{"Title":"One of the Great Achievements in Film","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Known primarily for Kermit the Frog and the Muppets, Jim Hensen departed from his family friendly franchises to create this film. The film is incredible as the entire world is created from scratch. It's not as if they flew to New Zealand to make this. Every character was created and was a puppet, but also the sets, the landscapes, the ruins of an ancient society and the background creatures. Hensen never cheats the viewer and gives us a full image of the world. The nuances of each creature needs to be noted. The creatures twitched, had bad posture, had soul in their eyes and were better performed than most of today's actors. Some would say the weakness in the film is the story about a world that had two species split from one that ruled over the Crystal of Light, which was shattered through their ignorance. The focus of the story is the journey of Jen, a Gelfling who is the only race to able to heal the Crystal, and his experiences in this wonderful and dangerous world. The story gets a bad rap from some critics, but it more than holds it's own. The odd thing (perhaps because of Hensen's reputation via Sesame Street and the Muppets) is that this film is considered a family film. What makes that notion odd is the underlining themes in the film genocide, murder, torture and slavery. However, that has never stopped people from recommending it for children. In live action cinema, I hold this as puppeteering's Citizen Kane and said that it will never be duplicated. This film was Jim Hensen's greatest work and amazing that you could always feel like you could live in the world. If Hensen proposed this film today, it would never be made unless it was made in CGI. Perhaps what truly makes Hensen's achievement live on, is that it always felt real. "},{"Title":"Mystical and unique","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I think this movie is really unique & different, it's really cool. Jim Henson did all sorts of movies with the fun-loving Muppets, but this one was out of this world. Jim from time to time makes these really different movies, other than the Muppets, He did this movie & the Labyrinth & (even though it wasn't done by him but his studio) Mirrormask, but I think this one is my favorite. For a time, when I was younger, I couldn't see this film because it was rather scary, but I got it out again & I was like, whoa... this is really something. I mean seriously this film stands out among many of my other movies.The story is about an ancient crystal; long ago it was tampered by one of the Urskeks, a race of godly beings and by doing this the Urskeks was divided into the 2 sub races, the good Uhru & the evil Skekses. The Skekses took hold of the now dark crystal & used its powers to find immortality&#x85; a 1000 years later a problem was that they found out another race, the Gelfing were the source of their bane they would put an end to the Skekses power, so the skekses got rid of all the Gelfing only 2 made it out alive. One was taken in by the Uhru, he was named Jen & the other by the Pod people, she was named Kira. One fateful day when both the Uhru chief & the Skekses emperor were close to death Jen learned of his destiny to cure the dark crystal & restore the unbalanced world to peace, he starts his journey by looking for the Keeper of Secrets, Aughra. I think I'd better stop there before I tell the whole plot; I know the story sounds stereo-type, but don't overlook it its really cool.I love the world it's based in, its wonderfully different world with totally different landscape, it's sort of a prehistoric, neo-earthy sort of place; definitely not modern. The plants have an ancient under-water look about them; they are so bizarre but cool like a cross between plants & animal. The wild creatures are just as unique, like a bush-baby part mushroom, some very scary gigantic glowing-eyed beetles, an over- sized red-eyed toad or a rabbit combined with a catfish on stilts, really cool. The Characters are very memorable themselves, Jen is very pleasant, sensitive, and modest, I don't really know how to describe his character but he's very nice. Gelfings almost look human & yet they don't, they look shorter with long ears & long noses. Kira is also very pleasant but she's almost bolder, people who will like this movie will like Kira. The Uhru are these beings who almost look like an elderly herbivore-dinosaur part horse, none of them look young they are very ancient, their personality it celestial, meditative & almost monk-like. The Skekses are these prehistoric, reptilian vulture creatures, under their robes their bodies are disturbingly mangled & twisted just like their personalities & yet they are rather regal & pompous, one of the Skekses, Chamberlain, is very odd & sly. Aughra is quite a character she is quite sort of an impatient hermit, although she is almost womanly, a person on the DVD said she was so ugly she's beautiful.All the voice-acting was great, Stephen Garlick, Lisa Maxwell, Billie Whitelaw did very well. But the puppet-performing was done very good; they did have Jim Henson! So many things I wonder how they did on this movie. It's very creative & unique, but also very dark as well. "},{"Title":"An enchanting experience!","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Congratulations to all concerned for a film that is thoroughly engrossing, thoughtful, visually stunning and uplifting, especially since the film starts in a very dark place emotionally.The story is fairly stereotypical, the influence of Tolkien obvious. What elevates this movie is its sheer passion and enthusiasm the film-makers had to make this the best film that they could. This passion elevates the plot to the point where you really care for these characters, even though they are all puppets! The characters, while archetypes, are very well fleshed out and interesting, and the lead character's journey Jen is involving thanks to an excellent performance by Henson himself. The Skeksis are reasonably well realised, but is the land striders and Mystics that are outstanding. Brian Froud's conceptual design, production designer Harry Lange (2001, Empire Strikes Back) working with Muppet veterans, Frank Oz, Henson himself and veteran cameraman (and Oscar winner) Oswald Morris create a world that still holds up brilliantly as a viewing experience nearly 30 years later. While some of visual effects have dated, the film as a whole is so strong you don't notice this. The story is very well paced, and while not an action the film never drags. The story's climax, while predictable (it's a family film after all!) it is still immensely satisfying, ably supported by a very good score by Trevor Jones. There are even some themes and subtexts that will leave food for thought for older teenagers and adults.An outstanding achievement &#x96; thoroughly recommended! "},{"Title":"Crawlies are the best!","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I really enjoy watching this movie. I love those crawlies! Tee hee hee! I found the gelfling ruins really saddening too. My fav. bit in it (one of them anyway) is when Kira grabs Jen and jumps down the big drop and he's all shocked because she has wings and he says something like but I don't have wings. And Kira has the best snooty tone of voice when she replies Of course not. You're a boy. I love the land scapes and the thought that went into the environment... even if that live action bit is really dodgy. I remember seeing that as a kid and was completely shocked. I thought that Jen was a real person. tee hee. I do feel sad for Kira and Jen's kids, though. Imagine what would have to happen in order to stop their kind from becoming extinct. (shudder) I prefer to think that there were other gelflings around somewhere.I have often wondered if there was an original book that the movie was based on. Does anyone know?  "}{"Title":"True originality","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There are very few movies that are truly original. The Dark Crystal, the Henson Workshop's only independent escapade into true fantasy, is truly original. The complex and hidden history of the world of the Skeksis, Gelfling, Pod People and the urRu is breath-taking.  "},{"Title":"Awesome,but why didn't the Emperor kill annoying ol' Chamberlain","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I do have to agree with a lot of reviews,The Dark Crystal is Jim Henson's best done stuff (besides The J.H Hour and The Storyteller).But one thing that urks me about this movie;CHAMBERLAIN IS SOOOOOOOOOOOOO OBNOXIOUS!!!I was hoping that the Emperor SkekUng,or any ol' Skeksis would have just went ahead and killed him.But other than awful ol' 'Chambey',There is nothing wrong here. "},{"Title":"I Am The Party Pooper","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" On another planet in the distant past, a Gelfling embarks on a quest to find the missing shard of a magical crystal, and so restore order to his world.I know many people love this movie, but for the life of me I just do not know why. I suppose anything I say here can be ignored, because I am in the minority. After watching the movie years ago, I thought it was boring. Watching it again yesterday (March 2013), I thought with my evolved movie tastes I might appreciate it more. No such luck.Do not get me wrong. The designs are incredible. The people involved very literally created an entire world, with new creatures, vegetation and even foreign languages. This is like Jim Henson's answer to the Lord of the Rings (and you could say that Jen parallels Frodo -- only one has to dispose of a shard and the other a ring). This is, in many ways, epic.But I felt like the pace was much too slow. Jen lingers a lot, doing nothing, thinking to himself. For a fantasy film with some action, it really does not have much excitement. Over the next few years, audiences were treated to Legend and Willow, which far surpass The Dark Crystal. "},{"Title":"An odd movie that has superb puppets, and a neat concept","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Dark Crystal was an interesting movie because it is unlike any more around in the fact that there are only around 2-4 characters that are consistently shown. The movie's main character is horribly boring, and very wooden... literally. This is the film's biggest problem a very uniteresting character. The plot revolves around another planet that is very different from ours. The weird thing about this movie (as I mentioned earlier) is that there are very few characters in the movie, and the entire planet seems to be mostly dead. Seriously the movie is dark, and actually sad because you realize just how dead this planet is. The planet has two main species known as the Mystics (Ur-ru) who are like camels in a way mixed with lizards... they are gentle creatures who the main character (Jen) lives with. The Skeksis are like Tyrants and are constantly trying to steal power from each other. I always wondered why they were fighting for power if they were already almost extinct. Both of these species are near extinction.The environments actually look like they inspired Avatar because a jungle scene has some vegetation that looks almost identical to Avatar, and some other environments seem similar. The puppets are VERY VERY good, and are pretty creepy. The ending to the movie is pretty interesting, and there is sort of a plot twist which was cool.The Dark Crystal is a good movie, but it feels like the movie was made only so that you could enjoy the amazing puppets and sets, but if you are looking for amazing characters, or a really deep plot, it isn't here. "},{"Title":"Dark Crystal","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this film many years ago, over 15 I think, and I barely remembered it at all. I mainly watched this film from a nostalgic point of view. It reminded me of many films from my early childhood. I found this suprislingly enjoyable to watch. Obviously the visual quality and the story were somewhat lacking. It all seemed very cliché and obvious. However that is mainly part of it's charm. The film is rubbish, but it knows it is and doesn't pretend to be anything else. Don't take that as a criticism, it isn't. I really think the badness makes the film.Perhaps it was silly, it is definitely one for the younger generation. But sometimes it's nice to sit back and watch something which brings on nostalgia and reminds you of years gone by. So overall three words to sum up the experience; Rubbish,enjoyable and nostalgia.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not quite a classic, but a great journey nonetheless","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Dark Crystal has a derivative story that is somewhat predictable, a sometimes stale lead, and iffy special effects work. In sheer imagination and visual design, however, few movies will ever match this one. Here is a fully realized fantasy world, not populated by Tolkien rejects, but by distinct races dreamed up by Henson and Oz. The scenery is alive, and the villains are deadly.Though I don't know about all the ET comparisons, I'd have to say this is a fantastic movie for all ages. "},{"Title":"The visual design of the film was great, but where's the personality development?","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" There's no denying that there were huge amounts of ambition and love that Jim Henson and the rest of his crew put into Dark Crystal, but something about the film just didn't click with me.  Since I really loved Labyrinth (which is one of my favourite fantasy films), I expected to love Dark Crystal as well... but it didn't work out that way.  In Dark Crystal, the lack of catchy songs was quite off-putting, as well as the lack of human characters.  However, the vast landscapes were wonderful, and the odd creatures were imaginative, yet the main characters had absolutely NO personalities.  Sure Kira and Jen share some things in common, but to me, they never shared any huge expressive emotional bonds.  Sure, they talked to each other about how they were the last of their kind, but they never emotionally expressed the sorrow they felt for everything that was going on around them.  If we, the viewers, can't see that they care, then why should WE care?  Also, it really bothered me that Jen was such a weak main character.  His lack of personality really brought his likeability factor down a few notches.  Plus, the Skeksis characters became annoying after a while.  They're totally indistinguishable for one another (other than their appearance, and clothes). And although I thought the outside landscapes (actually done with blue screen special effects) we very good, the inside settings were too drab, and blended too well with the characters. *Side Note  I don't know why everyone says Dark Crystal is too scary for children (because it isn't); it may not be as friendly as the insultingly stupid kids shows that are around today on television, but that's a GOOD thing.  I may not have liked this film as much as everyone else, but if you have a choice between sitting your kids down to watch T.V. programing for children, or watching Dark Crystal, pick Dark Crystal.  One of the things that I admired about the film was that it didn't underestimate its viewers' intelligence.  Even though it's aimed for the younger crowd, it's not insulting to its viewers.My Rating  three stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As big a Henson fan as I am, I'm ashamed to say that this film fell short of its potential.  Jim set up a story that was grand in scope, but then spent so much time on his whimsical settings and creatures that it has a lot of dead and quiet spots.  If it wasn't for the Chamberlain and Aughra, I don't think I would be able to sit through the movie as many times as I have.  Though I don't particularly like remakes, I would love to see someone tighten-up this script and remake it in a few years.  The basic story is very powerful and could work well for you if you look past some of the film-making flaws.  You may enjoy it once, but I recommend Labyrinth instead. "},{"Title":"A Mixed Review","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Now, it is quite plain for everyone to see that many, many people hold this film very close to their hearts. That's fine, but the film just did not feel or appear to be that special to me. I didn't see it as a child and so none of those good, old nostalgic memories were able to bolster my opinion of this film. I didn't dislike The Dark Crystal; I just didn't like it that much either. For starters, the film is somewhat complicated with concern to story. There are these Ursleks that have taken over because of some astronomical alignment or something and the rest of the world awaits the day when a little gelfling can come and save their future. In this regard, the film is very similar, as has been previously pointed out, with The Lord of the Rings trilogy. It is a pure fantasy film in the purest sense of that genre, and that means that one must be willing to delete any pre-conceived notions of life to fully enjoy the film. I was able to do that to a large degree, but the lives of the characters displayed and the world shown just didn't grab me. Sure, they are visually splendid. The sets, the puppetry, the process used to create this gem(pun intended) are in many ways amazing and breath-taking. But there wasn't much humour in it. The main two characters may as well have been walking plywood for all their interesting character traits and the visions of the creators were a bit out there for me. I liked the ending the best and it does deliver an emotional punch. So the film is a very mixed bag for me. I could and probably should sit through it again and see if it grows on me. I think enough of it to give it another try in a year or two. "},{"Title":"Rich in mood and setting but otherwise poor","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The first thing that struck me was the film's dark, heavy atmosphere, but it is deceptive and even pretentious because the narrative to match is simplistic and shallow, betraying the fact that this is a children's movie, and a boring one at that.I give props to the film makers for the richly created setting. The world feels very alive and authentic, and very alien. The creature designs are interesting, spooky, and delightfully gross where applicable. But without an interesting story and developed characters to hold our interest throughout the hour and forty minute duration it is a lost cause. Henson should have gotten somebody talented to pen an interesting story and breath some life into the characters. Better actors wouldn't have hurt either. The dialogue and voice acting are cheesy at best, and in the case of the seer woman, downright unbearable. I was dying for that character to disappear the moment she surfaced but sadly we have to endure her throughout the entire second half. ...As well as that annoying dog creature, but I might be alone on that one.The action sequences are like watching a goofy puppet show, and serve as a bad reminder of the limits of the props used. I can see where the Garthim attacks might be tense and exciting for a three year old but for the rest of us they are hardly watchable, serving only as fodder to move the story from point a to point b. Regardless of what anybody says, the movie would have benefited greatly with the aid of modern CGI effects. But I guess part of its charm is the fact that it was created using the primitive technology of the day and still managed to create a detailed, believable on-screen world. But as a full movie experience it falls horribly short. "}{"Title":"Not good","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I do not like 'The Dark Crystal'. That has not much to do with the strange creatures Jim Henson has created, but with the way he uses them. He did a much better job in 'Labyrinth', a movie I do like. The problem with fantasy is that a monster or something like that can pop up anytime the movie becomes a little boring. This is also my objection with movies like let's say 'The Lord of the Rings' and 'The Princess Bride', but there it is done in a much better way.'The Dark Crystal' tells the story of, well, a dark crystal. Of course that thing, or actually a piece of it, is what can save the world. Why does the world need to be saved? To be very short a thousand years ago a lot of terrible things happened and when the lost piece of the crystal is not put in place again the Skeksis, not the nicest creatures, will rule the world. The good creatures, called the Mystics, send the last known Felfling (another kind of creature) who is the chosen one. He must go to the crystal and put the broken piece back in its place and save the world, so the prophecy says. On his quest he meets another one of his kind; strange, since he thought he was the only one. So did she. Together they save the world, of course.Along the way they encounter all kind of creatures, some good, some bad. The good are close when they are needed because they had to be saved from the bad. They were there because the movie needed something to become alive again. One coincidence after another passes the screen and since all this leads up to a predictable ending I was not able to forget those simple choices.Yes, it is nice to see a live action movie without any human beings, just puppets, but still I need a little more than just that. Although some of the scenes look pretty good, the plot with all its coincidences and strange things are too much present. If you want to see a good Henson movie, see 'Labyrinth'. "},{"Title":"Nice try, but...","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" As much as I love Jim Henson and his creations, I have to say that The Dark Crystal left me disappointed. When I was about twelve years old, I watched Labyrinth in a movie house and I was fascinated with it. It left a lasting impression to say the least. Recently I bought it on DVD, and found to my satisfaction that it was as good as I remembered it to be. Then I purchased The Dark Crystal - which I had never seen before - out of curiosity, to see if it was as good as Labyrinth (and Jim Henson's productions in general). Contrary to my expectations, I found it tedious and unduly pretentious.The lines of the characters often give an overly pompous and unnatural impression. The plot is laden with symbolism which is supposed to be philosophical and transcendent, but it seems as though the makers of The Dark Crystal have been trying so hard to make a deep movie that the end result seems contrived and cumbersome - a dreary movie which takes itself far too seriously.Judging by the other reviews on this site, it seems as though most people are quite carried away with this movie, but I'm sad to have to say that I felt completely unmoved and indifferent towards it. Four out of ten, in my opinion. (I would have given it less if it hadn't been a Jim Henson movie, and because it was, after all, a well meaning attempt.) "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it...","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" ...but I couldn't bring myself to. Jim Henson's The Dark Crystal did little more than make me want my 90 minutes back.The beginning of the film was good - great intro, prologue, and such and such - but once the actual plot got moving, I just couldn't stay involved. The film was good in spurts (mostly because they reminded me of other films), but compared to modern fantasy epics like Lord of The Rings and even older ones like The Neverending Story, this one amounts to nothing more than a golden terd. Absolutely skippable is this failure of a film. Sorry, Jim. It's not like I could have done any better.Now I think I'll go watch Muppets Take Manhatten to remind myself why Henson is a legend. "},{"Title":"Great job, very realistic!...but some changes needed.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There were some things that I really would have preferred not to have seen... *SPOILERS* -The scene that I can't bear to watch is the Landstriders fighting the Garthim and then being killed by them. I know that it just a way to show what happens when a landstrider falls in battle and that it's just puppetry, but I can't bear to see or hear an animal suffer(their squealing and defeat makes me want to smash those Garthim.). -The scenes where the Skeksis drain the Podlings(and Gelflings) of their life force might be too scary for younger viewers. -Fizzgig being thrown down the crystal shaft. Other than those things, it is a very well-done film. One forgets that all of the characters are puppets; it's so realistic! The expression and action is perfect in this whole thing.Jen is uncertain of his quest in the beginning, as I myself would be, but he eventually sees it's importance and prepares himself for anything. The chemestry between him and Kira is wonderfully done. And they are beautifully crafted as well! I adore Fizzgig. Sure, not all like him, but we're entiled to our own views. He reminds me of my own dog; small, fluffed out, popped eyes, attitude, all of it. Aughra is a hoot! She's cranky, but in a funny way. The Mystics are sweet and gentle creatures, and they have such dear faces. The Podlings are CUTE! Just thought I'd warn you. The lesser creatures and landscape are also wonderfully designed, and very exotic and other-worldly. I adore the moth/horse/walrus-like Landstriders; gentle faces, beautiful, and such powerful courage to attack the Garthim...(I think it would be fun to ride on one, but that's just me.) The Skeksis are NASTY! Sour disposition, creepy lizard-vulture appearance, and willingness to attack and enslave, not to mention the same traits in the spider-crab-like Garthim. This whole movie is a gem, to say the least. Not a detail has been spared in making this as realistic as possible; from the tiniest plant to the landscapes. I highly recommend this film to anybody who likes science fiction or fantasy. I think it feels very much like Lord of the Rings...but I digress; this is something that I highly recommend seeing. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but as flawed as the Dark Crystal itself and should have been so much better.","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is I guess something which comes with the territory the movie you want so much to like but that's flawed to the point that you wish it could be so much better.  I compounded the problem by watching this again right after watching Labyrinth, which is everything I think Jim Henson wanted this to be, but that Dark Crystal couldn't manage.  The story is predictable, the good guys aren't terribly interesting or engaging and the visuals (the best part of the movie) are occasionally off-kilter and a bit jarring.  Probably better than I think it is, but not as good as it could have been.  Worth seeing once, particularly if you like animated work. "},{"Title":"One of fantasy cinema's milestones!","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A thousand years ago in another time and another place in the age of wonder, a universal source called The Dark Crystal has been cracked with a single piece missing and thus creating two new races such as the kind Mystics that live far away from the castle where they can leave in peace and the evil Skecksis which are hideous half-bird half-lizard beasts that live in the castle where they treasure the crystal as their power source. For a thousand years they ruled the land and there's an upcoming great conjunction in which the three suns will join in one and the Skeckis will rule, a prophecy tells that an elf-like being called a Gelfling must find the shard of the crystal from a sorceress named Aughra then head to the castle to heal the crystal before the three suns join in one or else the universe will be ruled by the Skeckis.Brilliant and outstanding Sci-fi fantasy masterpiece from Jim Henson which i call his masterpiece, this is an inspiring motion picture that has moved me ever since i was a child and got me into movies. Five years in the making, Jim Henson and Frank Oz have crafted a motion picture unlike any other has ever achieved before as it was a labor of love as he had a whole crew of wood-makers, jewelery makers, craftsman, and puppeteers.The film uses a cast of realistic and life-like puppets and animatronics plus organic settings that make the movie's world almost as real as you and me. The story is original and thought-provoking with spectacular settings and beautiful yet sometimes dark scenery, the music score is the true star of the movie as it captures every mood and is one of the most criminally underrated movie scores of all time. Ever since i was 3 this movie captured my imagination and turned into a sci-fi fantasy lover even a movie fan as it's still one of my top movies of all time that includes childhood favorites. This is an artistic masterpiece that has to be seen to believed, you must come and experience this highly underrated jewel of a movie even with your family. "},{"Title":"Ugh..","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm sorry but I hated this movie. It made me physically ill. The thought of those poor puppets being abused and all that... darkness.. Bleh.. I really couldn't watch it more than once, and even once was too many. I prefer Labyrinth. "},{"Title":"Man, what was Henson thinking?","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Truly, was was he thinking when he made this atrocity? The man had to be going then through a monster depression, or through very bad times, to give the world such a poisoned gift. Forget the Muppets, Labyrinth, Kermit the Frog et al. This is Henson at his worst; a man unleashing his worst obsessions; his cruelest, darkest, most sanguinary demons on the world. Just picture this an innocent child is kidnapped and then tied to a chair, where a death ray sucks from him his living essence so a tyrant may drink it and regain his youth--all that offered to you in painstaking detail, in appropriate close-ups, so you won't lose any detail of the kid losing his soul, turning into a walking corpse, to be converted then in a slave. And that is not an extreme but the general tone of the movie. One that from the beginning pushes down your throat every somber theme Man knows and which evokes every sad emotion. You got here war, genocide, treason, slavery, rotting corpses, crab-like storm troopers.This is the worst nightmare ever brought to the movies, besides which even Dark Water looks cheerful and I'm not exaggerating. I've gonna through the most extreme flicks without been much affected but this one truly took me down; so much so I had to see another movie right away to get it out of my system. So I did; and guess which the one that cheered me up was The Relic. Imagine that. (And please, spare me all the pseudo-psychological, sociological, babble about the decoupling in good and bad of the original race; or about the symbols each species embody, or the hidden meanings--World Govt. for ex.--that for a movie to have any meaning, first it has to be watchable. But even if that was right, the plot is fatally flawed, as a decoupling should have had for effect a perennial struggle between good & bad, not supremacy by either side as seen here).If you really love your children please don't let them anywhere near this monstrosity. TDC won't give you reprieve in its nightmarish mood. Henson won't allow you any moment of joy, humor or relief. The only occasion when he lets go somewhat (in the Irish-like pub) he promptly ends the joyful mood by making the Garthims storm the place and take everyone, adult and child, captive to be turned into zombies, as I said before. This isn't a flick worth your time. The characterization of both sides is virtually inexistent as we get no hint why the Mystics are good, why we should care for them, as all they do is sit around babbling about the long gone good times and muttering deep sentences about prophesies & star conjunctions. Neither we know why the Urskeks are bad, as we see them just as simple minded predators. To make things worse both specimens are so slow that they almost bring things to a halt every time they do something--not to mention walking, in the case of the Mystics, around which even an asthmatic snail could run rings-which of course ruins the pace. There is also a narrator somberly spurting out pretentious prose that doesn't give us any additional info anyway, except that we must care for the Mystics and hate the Urskeks.BTW, there is a happy end but by them you are so overloaded with morbid images of cruelty, death, calamity, that you don't care anymore.And oh boy, are these creatures ugly, as ugly as if Henson had filled the cast with rejects from each flick, TV program, he did before. The only ones cute here are Kira and Jen--especially Kira, at her most lovely when making her call to the animals--even if they look as simple wigged Topo-Gigios. But the rest of them, man! Kira got a pet which looks and acts like a dog but which isn't your typical pooch, as he presents a creepily disturbing human-like mug which eerily resembles that of a fat guy with a monster hangover. Then we got Aughra, who doesn't make her gender any proud as beauty is concerned; she looks like the rear side of a 100-year old pig; and when she frowns it looks as if the porker wants to...you got it. As for the bad Urskeks, they look like decomposed turkeys. I suspect that Henson bought once a dozen turkeys to fatten them, to throw a giant TG party, and that he left them in his backyard. Then he had to urgently leave for several months, forgetting the birds while they starved, decomposed and were chewed up by assorted animals. Then, when the came back home, he picked up the remains and said to himself Well, here I got the villains for my next flick.I've wondered why I've seen so many disturbed adults in the street, in the last few years, talking to lampposts and licking mailboxes--as Emily Gilmore put it well--and now I know why they are those who as children were made to watch TDC by their parents, which turned their lives into a living nightmare and changed them for the worst. Parents don't allow that happening to yours.In all, if you feel like watching a Henson, do Labyrinth for a 100th time if you will, but never ever come close to this one. "},{"Title":"THIS COMMENT WILL SAVE YOUR LIFE","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  WHAT? ARE YOU THINKING OF WATCHING THIS MOVIE? NOOOOOO!!!Before you waste TWO HOURS OF YOUR LIFE, Consider the things you could do with those hours such as Watch a better movie, pick your nose, or a friends',clip your mom's toe nails, do your homework or even someone elses. I can guarentee that you will have more excitement doing any of these activities than wasting your time watching this movie. For the love of YO MAMA pleeeeeease don't do it or your life essence (MWAAAHAHAHAHHA) will be sucked from you!SINCERELY, TWO VERY TRAUMATIZED, LIFE ESSENCE-LESS MOVIE WATCHERS. BEWARE!  "},{"Title":"Must be joking","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" First off, this film is a joke. I didn't see anything worth watching. Oh sure, you saw evil get beaten by the good guys again but the entire plot was seeming less.It focused on some weird creatures named Jen and his girl friend Kira. Two Gelflings have to save the planet by fixing the Dark Crystal. They are going to save the world of Tra which has three suns, yes you read right, called the Great Sun, the Rose Sun, and the Dying Sun. They need to restore balance, so that the separated urSkeks (Mystics and Skeksis's) can become one again.They go on this dangerous journey and save the world. Big surprise right. Did I mention that this film has the voice overs of the Muppet's? Yep, Jim Henson, Kathryn Mullen, Frank Oz, Dave Goelz, Stephen Garlick, Lisa Maxwell, Billie Whitelaw and Percy Edwards are the actors of this horrible film. I cannot believe they are making a sequel. "}{"Title":"Bad, Bad and Ugly","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Almost everyone seems to love The Dark Crystal, but I am a descenting voice. I rented this turkey on video and gave up before reaching the end of the movie. This one and Death Laid An Egg have the distinction of being the two only movies I killed before the end. The Dark Crystal is in my mind pretentious, boring and poorly made. Not that I am not a puppet-movie lover, but this one is really poor. As much as a i loved Labyrinth I hate this one, it is a boring mess without any redeeming values. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Dude...seriously...","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Skip this steaming pile of excrement and rent The Labyrinth instead. The story makes no sense. They don't even give you a viable reason to dislike the bad guys! I mean, I couldn't see anything different from what they were doing than the nice Republicans down the street. Because the dialogue is so incoherent, it's difficult to tell that they're evil other than they suck the life out of ugly little trolls on a regular basis and they fight each other. Big deal. Oppressing innocents? Hardly- they didn't come down with an iron fist until those innocents were harboring fugitives. And the supposed good guys, the fat slow people, are just as bad. They could have walked into that castle any old time they wanted. The whole story was pointless as a result of this. Old dude at the beginning could have told the elf, Dude, get the shard, come back here, we'll march on the castle. End of story! Also, they had w hole bunch of side adventures just to show off puppets. I mean, when that bird dude approached the two elves, he invited them into the castle. DUH! take the easy way little buddy! But no, if he does that, no stilts puppets to fight the beetles. Not that it mattered, since John, Paul, George and Ringo beat up the stilts puppets anyway.I don't know what they were smoking when they came up with this, and I don't know what you people who think this film is a classic are on, but I'd like some of both so I can better enjoy this little blue marble we live on. But seriously, even the Ewok Adventures were better than this. Sure, the acting was just as bad and the puppets even worse, but it had a story a person can follow and that made some sense. This is just the work of stoners. Peace. "},{"Title":"Horrible Film!!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Within this film, this children's film, we see images that, rather than captivate your imagination, they disturb and frighten you.  This is a horrible children's film.  Albeit, the visuals are truly visual, and the story is bland enough to pass the grade. But Henson, it seems, WENT OUT OF HIS WAY TO DISTURB YOU.  He not only shows you death, but keeps the camera rolling so you can see the moment of death, and at times, the decomposition!  He straps  friendly, muppet children into chairs, and literally sucks the life out of them, and the camera doesn't miss a beat.  You see the muppet kid's face wither into a skeleton, his essense become a liquid- WHY??!!  He makes it a purpose to keep the camera on the nicest thing possible, dying a horrible, painful, disgusting death. The images of the skeksis will give your children nightmares, guaranteed. Giant beetles with crab like claws hunt down innocent children, and at times are seen killing other nice creatures.  What kind of sick children's movie is this?  At every advantage to show muppets in pain, being killed (eaten, decomposing, and even stabbed!), i don't care if it is visually unique, this film is horrible- nothing like LABYRINTH.  This is SICK. "}]