[{"Title":"If you want action, excitement, and tons of fun; look no further!","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"46 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Come on, its BEASTMASTER! How can you deny that this movie is one of the top movies in the eighties pantheon of excellent trash. I mean so much stuff happens in this movie and you are never left wondering what is going on. Every move is perfectly placed and paced. Marc Singer is perfectly cast as Dar. He has a legendary physique in this move, and some shots look like a Boris Vallejo painting. Tanya Roberts is perfect as his feminine foil. Jon Amos, bad ass. Rip Torn does a magnificent job as MAAX. The Deathguards, those guys running around like gorillas with spiked gloves, truly frightening. Then you have the tree people, the acid bat guys, come on what could be cooler. Though above all I have to give it up for the animals in this picture. The animals take the cake, the ferrets, the tiger, and falcon, are majestic creatures of beauty that often surpass the actors in finding moments of true beauty and comedy. Better than Conan, Beastmaster taps the main vein of the seventies fantasy feel in every way imaginable. "},{"Title":"Classic B-Movie swords-and-sorcery","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"32 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For one of the slew of quickly produced movies of the 80's this one is pretty good. You've got Marc Singer when he was young and fit (not leathery and ancient like in the later movies of this series) and Tanya Roberts who is hot in this film. You've got swordfights, sorcery, the whole works. That said, I did find the ferrets a little annoying, but that's just me.On the whole the movie works well and there are some touches, like the flying humanoids that envelop and dissolve their prey, that just make the film.SUMMARY Hero who can talk to animals sets out to overthrow an evil warlord. "},{"Title":"If only they made movies for kids like these again...","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"39 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Too bad movies from this genre are now all but extinct.Beastmaster was one of  the best movies of the early 80'sSword & Magic movies (along with Krull, Dragonslayer &Conan), if not the best. I even believe it inspired He-Manand the Masters of the Universe for those who as myselfwere children of the 80's. Later in the 80's some flickscame out, like Highlander and Willow, but couldn't help thedisappearance of the genre, which I feel very nostalgicabout. Please, please, please, I beg you Ignore any sequelof this movie. Remain with this, a true classic. "},{"Title":"Caw caw caw --- He is the Beastmaster!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How can anyone not like the Beastmaster? It's what movies are all about - it's got a hero, his woman, a villain, sidekicks, animals, loincloths, violence and much much more! It's one of the earliest of films that HBO would play about 4 times a day so it was almost always available. John Amos from Roots and Good Times cheeses it up but damn, do I have a soft spot for the guy. Dar looks like my brother Eric. Rip Torn is a villain with bad teeth! The freaky eagle/vampire things are nutty. It's got ferrets - FERRETS in co-starring roles! Plus a panther and hawks and B-dialog and swords and last but not least crazy-eyes herself, Tonya Roberts! Yowza! It's basically a goulash of afternoon delight. Straight B an 85 - 8 out of 10. Caw caw! Catch it one time or a dozen, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"a childhood favorite","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't care what people say, THE BEASTMASTER is a fun film. Thanks to my parents having cable in the 80s, I virtually grew up with it. I can still recall spending many days and nights watching it on television. I probably had no idea of what was going on, but I just loved watching this animal lover named Dar rescue the hot Tanya Roberts while fighting against an evil priest. Marc Singer is great in the title role. If he were to cure world hunger, create world peace, or even be elected president, he would still be known as The Beastmaster. Tanya Roberts doesn't really do much, but looks damn nice doing it, John Amos is also good as a traveler who befriends Dar, and Rip Torn is as over-the-top as he can get. Lee Holdridge's score, composed in a short amount of time, provides a bit more epicness than the film could have created on its own, with a heroic theme that is used throughout. I was also happy to learn recently that Anchor Bay Entertainment is working on a Special Edition DVD of THE BEASTMASTER. I'm, naturally, very excited about this, for no matter what people say, THE BEASTMASTER was, still is, and always will be a childhood favorite. "},{"Title":"fun fantasy flick","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Like most I missed the theatrical run on this film, who didn't? I caught it on cable. I believe Dennis Miller had a running joke about HBO meaning Hey Beastmaster' on! This isn't agreat film, there are a lot of very obvious red herrings, but it's a lot of fun and certainly has earned it's cult status.This sword and sorcery plot is well handled by Don Coscarelli and he directs his good looking leads, Marc Singer & Tanya Roberts, well. The photography on John Alcott is excellent and one of the highlights of the film. Lee Holdrigde's original score and Alf Clausens orchestrations are absolutely superb. Truly I thought the music was excellent. It's epic, memorable and so suited to the scenes!For a film called the Beastmaster, its smart enough not to ignore the animals. The ferrets are cute, and yes ferrets are like that!, the Tiger (black panther) is fierce and the Hawk is mysterious, yet so graceful. I thought Marc Singer (Dar's) rapport with the animals was just great. The final fight with the Juns is fantastic in it's use of lighting and movement.This film really should appeal to teenage boys and on that level it succeeds beautifully. "},{"Title":"A true genre classic","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An awesomely sculpted Marc Singer headlines in this much beloved sword and sorcery outing brought to us by non other than Don Coscarelli of Phantasm fame.Singer stars as Dar (great name eh? okay, maybe not then...) a child who comes into the world in a somewhat less than auspicious manner, namely from the belly of an ox(!) after he is magically stolen from within his own mothers womb by a corpse faced sorceress. Yes, I know this all sounds utterly bizarre and in fact it is, but you'll really need to view it to appreciate it in all its, erm....glory. As a result of this bestial birth, our hero grows up with an unusual ability to communicate with animals via some form of psychical connection. So that's how Dr Doolittle got his powers to? Um, the mind boggles! Anyway, to cut a long story short, Dar's abilities prove to come in mightily handy later on when he sets out to take revenge upon the evil warrior tribe who massacred the people of his village.Tremendously entertaining from start to finish, this is without doubt one of the finest entries in its genre and is highly memorable. So much so in fact, that it has since spawned two sequels and a spin off television series. If you haven't already done so, then I thoroughly recommend you have a ganders at this timeless fantasy classic. "},{"Title":"A Really Fun Film","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What struck me,after several viewings,is that not only does the viewer enjoy this movie,but the people doing are having a good time as well.It stays with the standard sword and sorcery/Arthurian motif of a dispossessed hero going on the quest,seeking to either establish  his identity,or come into his inheritance.What adds to this particular movie are the following    1.)Singer not only has the rugged good looks,and impressive physique,but he displays a vastly wider emotional range than did The Austrian Oak.His portrayal of Dar encompasses humor and craftiness as well as courage and determination.And it looks like he did quite a few of his own stunts.    2.)I'm not sure is Roberts is trying to do a caricature of a simpering,clinging heroine,or not.In any event,she does go WAY over the top,but seems to be enjoying doing it.   3.)Torn's villain not only chews the scenery,but spits it out,as well.Is there some kind of inside joke by making him up to look like Richard Nixon?   4.)Amos,as Seth,is every bit as much a loyal comrade as Sallah in the Indiana Jones flics.All he needs is to wear a neon sign flashingFRIEND.   5.)Let's face it,they based the script on a classic piece of writing,but a famous authoress.If you start out with something good,it gives an extra advantage.   6.)And,the animals do a splendid job,and the ferrets are cute.   "},{"Title":"Creative 80s barbarian movie","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Following Conan the Barbarian, there were a lot of Barbarian trash movies in the 1980s. The best of them all was Beastmaster because it had creative production design, colorful photography and even some ideas of its own. Dar, the Beastmaster (Marc Singer), can see through the eyes of animals and command them whenever he needs help. The evil priest Maax (Rip Torn) holds Dar's father, the king, prisoner as well as the slave girl Kiri (Tanya Roberts) whom Dar fell in love with. In this action-packed movie, we meet a lot of bizarre folks, like the scary batmen who can suck their victims dry if they catch them under their wings (and still these are some of the good guys!) or the berserkers who carry green worms in their brains to drive them crazy. Director/script writer Coscarelli was also in charge of the very successful horror movie Phantasm, and that shows in the darker scenes. Tanya Roberts looked so good in rags she went on to make Sheena with equally little to wear. Marc Singer's muscles were memorable enough to get him signed many years later for 2 sequels which weren't half as good as the original, but still way better than the politically correct TV series 20 years later. Comparing the 113 minutes director's cut (British DVD) to the old 91 minutes German video tape version, these are the most important scenes previously omitted 1) 8 1/2 minutes of introduction, in which we learn how Maax was threatened by the king, hears the prophecy about the king's unborn son and asks a witch to abduct the baby (from his mother's womb!). Probably it was felt it takes too long until we see the grown-up hero. The disadvantage is that we know less in the short version about Maax and his motives. 2) Still in the first third of the movie, a funny scene was cut in which Dar falls into quicksand, needs help from the animals - and rescues one of them in return. This scene is a charming illustration of the beginning of his friendship with the animals, but not necessary to understand the story. 3) In the last third of the movie, 3 scenes were cut in which the injured young prince is carried into a house, gets better and receives a gift from the Beastmaster. It seems this was cut as it slows down the movie and gives information about the boy only - who is not one of the main characters, anyway. There are also smaller cuts along the way, sometimes due to violence. Anyhow, go get The Beastmaster in this longer version! "},{"Title":"An unoriginal concept, with pleasantly original content","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As far as the Sword and Sorcery genre goes, this is it's shining star. A lot of people comment in negative ways(bad acting, poor costumes, etc.)but the're missing the point of this film style. Let me summarize A man's village is slaughtered by a cult called the Jun Horde. He seeks revenge on them and follows their trail. He discovers he can communicate with animals, and travels with them. He also picks up some human companions along the way, including super-hot Tonya Roberts. Each one has their own reason to defy the Jun Horde. This revenge theme is typical of S & S films; muscle-bound hero, love interest, cool sidekicks, evil wizard, etc.. But this movie is loaded with creative and original material. Animal co-stars, at least three very skilled actors(John Amos in particular), an incredible soundtrack, super-cool throwing weapons, and an emotional character. Conan came only months earlier, and had a much bigger budget. Even with that it pales in comparison to the much superior Beastmaster. All Conan does is mope and get angry, the only time he's even likable is when he's drunk. Plus everything he does is for himself. Dar on the other hand, risks his life to save strangers. He even reveals himself while unarmed to save a child. He can talk to animals, but doesn't control them. They are viewed as his friends, not servants, a good message if you ask me. He even turns down his birthright so he can live his own life. Conan, Dragonslayer, Ator, etc., used fake animals to engage the actors. The Beastmaster had two ferrets, a tiger, an eagle, horses, doves, and more interacting with very believable screen-presence. Even the scenes involving the tiger attacking the actors looked convincing. Dar also has a sense of humor, and isn't afraid to cry. What's more instead of having the bad guys on one side, and the good guys on the other, you have many gray areas in between. The bat people, the priests, the guards, the people who live inside town, the ones that live outside, the ancient sect that used to live in the temple, the witches, the death guards, the Jun Horde, even the animals themselves, all have their own outfits, motivations, and behaviors. This makes it a rich tapestry and very interesting to watch. The characters are layered so that they appear and disappear at the right time, every time. The scene involving the fire was real fire, they didn't have to rely on fancy, over-budgeted special effects. The only thing that comes close in this genre is Ladyhawke. It is a wonderful movie, and the only reason I didn't give it a ten/ten, is the scene where Tonya Roberts appears from the back of the skull in the temple. They never explained how she got there, or why she and Dar couldn't escape the way she came. "}{"Title":"Really silly but I never missed it on channel 5.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Beastmaster is one of those movies that you watch when you're bored and there's nothing else on.  It's got silly lines, a host of B-actors, and a really outlandish plot, but that all adds up to a fun couple of hours. Witches, some wizardry, and those strange bat-like creatures that drain the juices out of you and leave the bones make The Beastmaster silly fun that just seems to grow on you with time. "},{"Title":"Great adventure in this sword and sorcery movie...","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching The Beastmaster when I was a kid, and I thoroughly enjoyed it back then. And as I purchased the DVD in 2013 and re-visited the movie for another watching, I can honestly say that I enjoy it as much today as I did back then.This is a classic tale of sword and sorcery. An infant is rescued from a ritual offering and grow up on the plains with herders and huntsmen, fully unaware of his royal heritage. Growing up, Dar discovers that he has abilities that allow him mastery over animals and being capable of communicating with them. Drawn into a game of treachery and heroism, Dar have to take up the fight against the vile sorcerer Maax.Sure, this was shot back in 1982, but it was a blast then, and it is actually quite fun to watch even in 2013. The effects were adequately back then and serves their point straight on. However, don't prepare to be dazzled by today's standards. But if you are a fan of the sword and sorcery genre, then The Beastmaster is a sure must-watch-movie.The people cast for the various roles did good jobs with their given roles, and I don't really remember Marc Singer as being that buffed and muscular when I saw him in the original V series. But he was really well-cast for the role of Dar/The Beastmaster. Even the animals trained for the movie were doing good jobs.The Beastmaster is a an excellent sword and sorcery movie, and a very formidable choice of movie to the Conan movies. I thoroughly enjoy this 1982 movie and I know that I will put it back in the DVD player again after some years. "},{"Title":"1980s Fantasy Romp that still entertains","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have a massive soft spot for this movie. Unlike a lot of people, I actually saw the original UK Theatrical release in glorious 35mm, and seeing movies like this on the big screen during a period that gave birth to my love of cinema, it remains one of my favorite from my childhood.In a time when film studios were going mad for Star Wars rip offs, The Beastmaster was a welcome and overlooked gem amongst a pile of old stones. A very young Marc Singer (who would go on to international fame in the series V and Dynasty) stars in the title role and, I feel, carries if off successfully. The Addition of Rip Torn as mega bad guy, Mayax, brings gravitas to the antagonist in this.The movie is darker in tone than most others of the era, and the fact that Don Coscarelli (of Phantasm fame) was involved in this is no surprise. Here, his work is far more polished and well produced than the classic of 70s horror, and technically, the movie is a smörgåsbord of up to date film-making (for the period). 35mm film, some nifty special effects and more dead things than you can shake a stick at.The only other movie of this era like this was Conan the Barbarian, which already had a bigger budget and star attraction of the rising legend that is Arnold Swartzenegger, but in direct comparison, Beastmaster still manages to entertain far more than Conan could manage, mostly down to the fact that its editing is competent and never dwells on one situation for too long. Add to that the brilliant soundtrack and you have a movie that does everything it sets out to do in a neat 2 hour package. it may seem like B movie fodder to todays audiences, but its still worth a watch in my estimation, mainly due to the fact that it still stands up as one of the best fantasy movies of the time. If I had to complain about anything, it would be the lack of information and background on the world that this film inhabits as well as the almost silent first 30 minutes that depends more on visual queues and ambiance than dialog. Some of the sword work in this in woefully inadequate to today's standards, but for the time, it was impressive, especially to a 12 year old me. Its upsetting to discover that the Tiger who player Ruuh died 2 years later following skin problems brought on by the black dye used in this movie. It still remains one of my favorite childhood memories and unlike the American audience that had constant re-runs on cable TV, we have had to rely on VHS and TV showings of this movie in the UK. Definitely worth watching and reliving memories of the 1980s "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable sword-swinging fantasy fun.","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I missed out on seeing John Milius' s Conan the Barbarian at the cinema in 1982, but I did manage to catch Don Coscarelli's The Beastmaster, the other sword and sorcery flick that did the rounds at the local flea-pits later that year. With its star Marc Singer no match for the mighty Arnold Schwarzenegger in terms of sheer physical presence, and director Coscarelli working on a much tighter budget than Milius, The Beastmaster might sound like a pretty poor substitute, but I reckon it still rivals Conan in terms of pure entertainment value.Plot-wise, the films are pretty similar, the central character of both being a sword-wielding warrior seeking revenge for the destruction of his people by an evil sorcerer, leader of a fanatical cult; but where Milius's epic aims for the more austere epic approach, The Beastmaster constantly delights with an infectious sense of energy and humour, central character Dar's ability to communicate telepathically with a variety of animals leading to many of the films more fun moments (a pair of mischievous ferrets named Podo and Kodo regularly steal the show, although Rip Torn's Spock-style eyebrows, hook nose and natty skull-shaped hair bobbles gave me the biggest laugh!).Don't make the mistake of thinking that The Beastmaster is all harmless family-orientated fun though Conan the Barbarian wins hands-down in terms of graphic violence, but Coscarelli's film still features a surprising level of nastiness and even a smattering of nudity acid secreting bird creatures digest people alive, corpses are impaled on wooden poles, children are sacrificed, countless people die horrific deaths, and the very lovely Tanya Roberts, star of TV's Charlie's Angels, goes topless for her opening scene and leaves very little to the imagination for the rest of the film in some incredibly revealing outfits. "},{"Title":"This is a movie you have to love","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" You know sometimes they make a movie on a budget that is so pitiful it shouldn't work, as in they haven't spent enough to make an impact. The beastmaster is the kind of movie that studios love because it cost about 4 million dollars to make and it works. I recently watched the directors cut with full commentary and didn't realise how involved this movie was to make. Very simple story, the lead character can communicate with animals and can see through their eyes, he uses this ability to avenge his fathers death against an evil priest and a hoard of barbarians. Throw in a beautiful girl, a few witches and a couple of allies and you have a real winner. The thing to remember here is that most mega budget movies cost at least 25 million US then and this well it didn't (director commentary mentions about 4 million US) This movie is still regarded as an absolute classic and I was raised on this film. HBO became known as Hey Beastmasters On it showed this so often. So if you like sword and sorcery and beautiful heroines and etc etc. You'll love this movie.Enjoy "},{"Title":"Mythic and valiant  hero Dar fighting heinous forces of evil","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a tale of death, blood and vendetta set in a mythical primitive world and wild age . A good sword and sorcery story dealing on bouncing Dar(Marc Singer, a Conan-Tarzan hybrid), a hunk hero who communicates with animals such as a puma, eagle, and a duo of sympathetic ferrets. Meanwhile he falls in love with a gorgeous,tempting slave-warrior(splendid beauty Tanya Roberts) and fights against nasty magician( hateful Rip Torn)and bewitching sorceress.This amusing movie packs witchery, wizardly, necromancy, brutality, magnificent production values and lots of adventures and action. In the wake of Robert E. Howard's Conan (John Milius) and Conan the Destroyer(Richard Fleischer), it's a sort of comic-strip and one of the best from ¨Sword and Sorcery¨ genre . Thrills, action and adventures are brilliantly presented and edited to offer the maximum impact. Marc Singer is perfect cast as classic fantasy-hero. Glimmer and rousing cinematography by John Alcott, Stanley Kubrick's cameraman (Barry Lyndon). Spectacular and emotive musical score by Lee Holdridge. This entertaining film is well directed by Don Coscarelli(phantasm and followings) appointing the accent on the adventures and struggles.It's followed by inferior sequels and TV series , as  1) ¨Beastmaster 2  Through the portal of time(1991)¨ by Sylvio Tabet(also trilogy's producer) with Kari Wuhrer, Sarah Douglas and Wing Hauser , where Dar tracks down an ominous tyrant throughout a dimensional portal to modern-day L.A. 2) ¨Beastmaster 3  The eye of Braxus(1995)¨ by Gabrielle Beaumont with Casper Van Dien, David Warner and Leslie-Anne Down; where again Marc Singer is involved in a life-and-death fights with nasties . And 3) Television series (1999)starred by Daniel Goddard as Dar. Camp fun for ¨Sword and Witchery¨ genre fans. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I loved this film when I was a kid, and I still love it. I loved the beastmaster angle the protagonist can communicate with animals. The animals themselves are pretty impressive a big tiger (painted black to play a panther, though in the sequel, it is an unpainted tiger), an eagle and two (europea) polecats as comic relief.I don't think purists will be happy about what they did to Andre Nortons novel - I can imagine. The rewrote it until the only thing they shared was that it was about a man that could communicate with animals.To jump on the barbarian movies revival bandwagon, started by Conan, they relocated it to a time (and place, if you want to believe the sequel), which is similar to Conans. There are kings & queens -even though the land seems lawless and their power to rule the land is very limited, as the evil sorcerers power is way bigger. There are witches, magic, demons, and there is even a young boy that needs to find its place in the world by fulfilling his destiny.There is basically nothing in there that Andre Norton wrote, except a man that could communicate with animals.Though it sounds like a copy or a bad rip-off, and one of the worst novel-to-book conversion (Coscarelli would later redeem himself with Bubba-Hotep) the movie is actually very good and highly entertaining. The acting is pretty good, even though the actors may not have been the most known ones at that time. Granted, the plot is not always the most complicated one around. But hey, it's sword and sorcerers! Who cares about unexpected plot devices? This movie has beautiful damsels in distress, it has love, it has a bit of horror, it has fast paced action, it has a good score with a catchy theme and it has a happy end. All that is needed in this genre. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I used to have this movie on a video cassette about 20 years ago, when I was around 7-8 years old. I remember watching it several times when I was little. I guess I was fascinated by the human-animal bond that existed between the Beastmaster and his animal friends, or maybe by the dark age placement of the action - the time of mysticism and sacrifice, as the movie trailer says - with all its magic, sorcery, witches... Anyway, I remember liking this movie a lot and it being one of my favorites.Little by little, cable & satellite TV replaced my old VCR which ended being put in its box I-don't-know-where. The cassettes also.It is not long ago when I started talking to a friend of mine about old VCRs and old movies and stuff like this, when suddenly I remembered I used to have a favorite movie. Unfortunately I couldn't remember its name... I remembered only very few things - mainly the appearance of some masked men from over a hill, a pyramid with a lot of stairs and a fire on its top where people were sacrificed and also a tunnel with traps. ...Nothing about the plot, not even the existence of the human-animal bond... nothing else.I had this only thing in my head to find this movie! I took the VCR out of its box, connected it to the computer and watching every single video cassette I could find... unfortunately I couldn't find my movie. I started reading plot summaries on IMDb, I started watching movie trailers... hundreds of titles, sorting them, eliminating those that did not match my memories, adding others that might be it... After a very long time I ended up with a list of about 15 movies. And The Beastmaster was the one that matched best everything. I can't describe to you the happiness when realizing that THIS was the movie! While watching it... everything came back to my memory the 3 witches, the people working the fields near the village, the appearance of the Junes from over the hill, the eyed-ring, the temple tunnel with those monster-arms coming out, the colored eyes of those monsters, the children sacrifices, the fight on the temple's stairs... everything.To conclude... I can say that The Beastmaster is a great, excellent, magnificent, marvelous, fascinating, superb, extraordinary movie... Even nowadays I can say that this is one of my favorite movies. I enjoyed watching it the same way as when I was little. The plot is great, the adventures of the hero are fantastic... When watching it, I feel like I'm living during those ages... Everything is so... I don't know... realistic, mysterious.Ahh... one more thing. I love to play computer games where the action takes place in the woods, in temples, in places where you can always expect a monster or an enemy to appear... And I think now I have the explanation why I like this kind of games D C. S. "},{"Title":"liked it a lot!!! WATCH IT","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I actually really liked this movie, it is a cult favorite of mine. I remember watching it on TV because thats the only place i could get it or see it, the video store was out of the question...it was a well thought out little budget movie but had a good story and good script at the time, good SFX, good action, just a good movie all around. The basic story is that there is a child that is born, and he has the mark of the one that will bring down the evil king that has over turned a kingdom, the evil king has his witches go to kill the baby but before they can do it, a man comes along and kills the witch and he takes the baby as his own almost. He raises him and trains him and gets a peak at why they call him the Beastmaster, he has special powers so he can communicate with them. Fast forward a few years, and the Beastmaster is a young man and his whole community gets massacred by the evil kings army. Beastmaster survives and goes on a vigilante spree to fight and regain his kingdom with the help of some friends 2 staph fighter, a slave girl (love interest) 2 ferrets, a hawk and a tiger, thats basically the story. It had some exciting scenes and it was Never boring, thats what was so good about it. This was also made at the same time as the launch of Arnold in conan the barbarian and people seem to remember that movie a lot better than the Beastmaster, i guess it had that X factor. I recommend this to almost anyone, it was very entertaining and never boring with a good story to it as well. 2 thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Ultra-cheesy '80s-era sword and sorcery action","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This schlocky slice of sword and sorcery entertainment comes from the man who brought us PHANTASM - and it's full of the same cheap cheeriness as in that film. As far as fantasy films go, it's not half bad, with plenty of action and exploitation to keep things moving along steadily. While lacking the visceral excess of CONAN THE BARBARIAN, it has all the key ingredients for these '80s adventure larks, including a black sidekick, monsters, a muscle-bound hero in a loincloth, some cheesy special effects and a baddie wizard who lives at the top of a giant stone staircase. Okay, so this film is a rip-off, but it's a good one at that.It also has a refreshing twist in the tale our hero is telepathically able to control animals, and has a number of sidekicks. An eagle is handy for flying into his enemies' faces and spying, his (surprisingly tame) black tiger is useful for mauling baddies, and his two pet ferrets live in a satchel and steal stuff. The magical elements are primitive yet memorable, and include a ring with an eyeball in it - what more could you want? There's a race of SWAMP THING-like creatures who act as giant Venus Flytraps and dissolve their prey; some incredibly cheesy brute men with glowing green eyes who run around and kill things; a few hideous witches here and there for good measure, and of course lots of cruel warriors with evil-looking helmets whom our hero battles.The acting? Pretty much as you'd expect. Sub-par compared to mainstream films, i.e. just about non-existent, yet typical for your average barbarian flick. Marc Singer (you might recognise him as one of the leads in V) is suitably lean and muscular as the warrior, although his acting skills leave something to be desired, bless him. Tanya Roberts displays little acting talent, instead plenty of flesh; while Rip Torn goes over the top to make an enjoyably hammy villain. John Amos, who you might recognise from DIE HARD 2, fits the stereotyped role of a black sidekick just fine. Strangely enough, the cute animal stars manage to act their human counterparts off the screen every time...With plenty of action, ranging from sword fights to punch ups, an impressive array of sets and scenery, and some natty costumes, you could do a lot worse than THE BEASTMASTER. Two sequels predictably followed in the '90s, both of which have received a lot of flack - but they sound right up my street. "}{"Title":"The B-Movie Master","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" John Milius' 'Conan the Barbarian' may be chiefly responsible for the loincloth-clad hero renaissance in the early to mid 80s, but another film released that same year likely helped to cement it.Once a staple of cable TV (TBS aka The Beastmaster Station, and HBO aka Hey, Beastmaster's On!), it spawned two dreadful sequels and a cheesy but watchable TV series before becoming just another bit of nostalgic pop culture flotsam and jetsam. Which is a shame, as it's actually a rather rousing and fun bit of b-movie hokum. Star Marc Singer brings a fantastic physicality, Tanya Roberts brings her, um, yeah, and who doesn't want to see the Dad from 'Good Times' in S&M gear? "},{"Title":"Pet Your Friends","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An evil cult leader named Maax (Rip Torn) is freaked out about a prophecy surrounding the King's unborn son so he tries to have the baby killed. But a villager saves the boy and raises him as his own. The boy is named Dar and grows into Marc Singer with the ability to communicate with animals. When Dar's village is raided and all of the villagers killed, he sets out to get revenge on the one responsible -- Maax. Along the way, he is joined by John Amos, sexy Tanya Roberts, and some furry friends.As with most sword & sorcery movies from the '80s, this bears more than a few similarities to Conan the Barbarian. Obviously it's not as good but the inspiration is clearly there. Beastmaster is very cheesy and hard to take seriously. I mean, at the end of the day, guy who talks to ferrets is a difficult concept to make work as anything other than a punchline. It's also overlong and full of poorly choreographed action scenes. For his part, Marc Singer does fine and knows when to play it tongue-in-cheek and when not to. Rip Torn is a total ham as the villain. Tanya Roberts actually takes her role seriously, which is embarrassing for her but fun for us. She looks great, of course.So yeah it's cheesy and laughable but it's also entertaining. You can shut your mind off and enjoy it as a simple fantasy adventure flick or you can spend a couple of hours poking fun at it. One question I had while watching is why did Dar never try to talk to the horses of the bad guys and make them stop? In the village raid scene and the climax, the bad guys are all on horses and yet the guy who communicates with animals makes no effort to use that to his advantage. Anyway, it's a good way to pass the time. Followed by two terrible sequels and a forgettable TV series. "},{"Title":"B-movie cult classic inferior to Conan","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Maax (Rip Torn) receives a prophecy from witches of his death from the unborn son of the King. He is banished from the kingdom. The witches steal the unborn son in a cow. An old man rescues the boy from the witches and raises him as his own. Dar (Marc Singer) would grow up with powers to communicate with animals. Mauraders massacre his people and he sets out for revenge. He is joined by two thieving ferrets, a hawk and a tiger. He wins the heart of slave girl Kiri (Tanya Roberts).This is mostly compared to Conan which came out a few months before. Beside being second to the screen, this is an inferior product in many ways. Marc Singer is no Arnold Schwarzenegger but who is? Tanya Roberts is a good slave girl reminiscent of all those great B-movie bimbos. The story is alright especially considering the genre. The production is even cheesier than Conan. It's a movie that can't be taken too seriously. The only thing superior are the animals. I love the ferrets and they stay with me all these years. "},{"Title":"Still holds up, classic!","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Beastmaster is a classic fantasy adventure movie from writer/director Don Coscarelli. Known previously for his independent horror classic Phantasm. Beastmaster is Coscarelli's first bigger budget studio picture and one of his only movies not to cast Reggie Bannister. Even without Reggie, the film kicks serious ass. Marc Singer is great as our hero Dar, The Beastmaster. Singer went out of his way to be in amazing shape and is totally ripped. What he lacked in acting ability he makes up for with athletic prowess, charisma and one sick mullet! In addition to being a powerful warrior, he has the skill to befriend animals. The animals help him on his quest to liberate the kingdom from evil priest Maax and repel The Jun Horde. Maax is a great villain played by the legendary Rip Torn. Tanya Roberts is slave girl Keirie, love interest for Dar and eye candy for the male hetro audience. John Amos, best known as Cleo McDowell in Coming To America is strong support and gives a great performance. The film looks great and was shot by Academy Award winner John Alcott. Alcott won the Academy Award for best cinematography on Stanley Kubrick's classic Barry Lyndon. The F/X look good as well and there is a lot of great action as well. Unlike many similar genre films that came out during the same period, The Beastmaster is a bloodless movie and is family friendly without being corny. That feat was one many movies can't manage, especially the sequel to Conan, Conan The Destroyer. The Beastmaster took in little money at the box office when it was released. However, it blew up when it came out on cable and home video. Since then it has found its audience and is a cult classic that holds up well. The sequels, to the best of my memory are real bad and do not involve writer/director Don Coscarelli. Had he been involved, the sequels would have been better. Even so, this film is still awesome and a classic. "},{"Title":"One of the best examples of the magical cinema of 80's","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let's start saying that this movie is getting old badly. It is a low Budget film and compared with AAA films of that time like the first Indiana Jones it's easy to appreciate that they don't play in the same league. Cheap scenarios and costumes, poor cinematography... The story is simple, dialogs are plain and some of battle scenes are laughable (of course, in 2013).However this movie has something that the most of our days films lack magic, charm and entertaining capability for all the family. This movie is full of magic from the beginning until the last scene. There are a lot of ridiculous scenes or situations which you forget immediately because of the enormous sense of magic and good feeling of this film.It's very hard to explain, but there is something that evolves you and captures your full attention.I can conclude saying that this film is as wonderful and great as technically bad, but always worth of your time. "},{"Title":"A big Yawwn..","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Story? Hey.. we have already seen Conan, The Barbarian, right? So whats new here? The acting? Zilch. Special effects? Zero. Female presence? Boring. The Beastmaster himself? Ineffectual - who must rely on two ferrets to do his job for him. I fail to understand if this film was targeted at kids or at adults? The hero is off to search for his enemies as usual. His travails, pointless fights and harmless flirtations fail to bring any sort of expression on his face, any fatigue of his body or any wear / tear of his garments. Even after emerging from vicious fights, somehow his doesn't ever have a scratch or dust on him. Truly a superman. But he does forget his parents, his village and his heritage, once he comes across a slave girl. Then its the girl all the way. Poor dude.. spoilt for choice, he falls flat for an expressionless female, because he hadn't seen any female in the buff for so many years. The villain is OTP and the side kick has to be a black. I am yet to see a film, in which the hero is a black and the side-kick is white.The pacing is slow, and there appear to be gaping gaps in the editing. Some of the sequences seem pointless, e.g. the dude comes across a cauldron with a human head floating in it.. Some black magicians appear.. a dwarf gets killed.. and then?? Then nothing.. The hero wakes up somewhere, all nice and shiny as usual. With a great smirk, as he is wont to be. Jesuz. The ferrets steal the show. The painted tiger lumbers about. The falcon cheeps like an eagle. And a rather adorable dog dies early in the proceedings. Comparing this film with Conan is an insult to Conan. Actually slept nicely after seeing this. Afterall, there was nothing in this film to excite my senses or keep me awake at night. "},{"Title":"One of the best Swords & Sorcery movies ever produced during the 80's.","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I never ever could have possibly imagined that Don Coscarelli's epic swords & sorcery flick would still entertain me just as much today, as it did back when I first saw it (around the age of 10, probably)! I even think the words B-grade fantasy-pulp are very misplaced, when referring to The Beastmaster. For one thing, the production values where pretty high on this one (likely thanks to the trend-setting Conan, The Barbarian being in production around the same time). Just take a look at utter trash like Thor, The Conqueror (1983) and you'll know what I mean by 'high/low production values'. The Beastmaster looks great, and the cinematography is highly impressive (crane-shots, helicopter-shots, camera sliding down cables,...). Beautiful landscapes, charming miniatures, decent make-up effects, a memorable score... you name it. And I was even more stunned about the fact that this one was made in 1982. How well it has aged. Now, the story itself, indeed has occasional cheesy aspects to it, but it remains highly entertaining, fast-paced (more than Conan for that matter), and Coscarelli co-scripted it very well. The plot has many side-escapades but none of them are actually pointless. The cast is very capable all-together. Even Marc Singer comes of as very convincing in the leading roll. Not to forget a gorgeous-looking Tanya Roberts, wearing a too short piece of cloth wrapped around her hips. So much fun it was to see it crawl up just a little too high on many occasions . Still, for the little kiddies, this movie might not be all that suitable. I'm not even talking about Ms Roberts, innocently showing us her breasts in a swimming-scene. It's more because of Coscarelli treating us on some dark and scary scenes and occasional violent outbursts. As fairly pleasing the over-all acting might be in this movie, the real stars are probably the well-trained animals themselves. A black tiger, an eagle and two ferrets (?). Now, I was slightly amazed about how these animals, with there distinctive personalities drew me into this film once again, the same way they did years ago when I was a kid. Especially the ferrets. In the scene where one of them dies (a great sacrifice), I felt sad. At the end, when his female companion peeks his head out of Dar's bag, followed by the heads of two little babies, I felt like crying a tear of joy. Silly me, perhaps, or am I merely an 'adult' in touch with his emotions? I don't know, but if a movie still manages to captivate me after so many years, it truly deserves an extra point for this.PS Thank you lost-in-limbo for making me want to re-watch this one (back in late March 2007, that was ;) "},{"Title":"THE BEASTMASTER (Don Coscarelli, 1982) **","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I had rented this on VHS as a kid but did catch snippets of the film again on TV while in Hollywood in late 2005/early 2006. It's one of a handful of sword-and-sorcery titles made around the early 1980s incidentally, I watched a number of these last Christmas (Arnold Schwarzenegger's three Barbarian efforts, ATOR &#150; THE FIGHTING EAGLE 1982, THE SWORD AND THE SORCERER 1982, etc.) but this is probably the only one that will make it this year. Although I was aware of its availability as a Special Edition DVD from Anchor Bay, I eventually acquired it from ulterior sources but, ironically, my copy sported a compromised aspect ratio which squashed the characters somewhat and no manner of fiddling with the picture settings on both my DVD and TV remote had any effect on remedying the situation! Anyway, it's a typical if not exceptional entry in its sub-genre (of which I was clearly fonder upon first viewing) &#150; though possessing stronger visuals (shot by Stanley Kubrick regular John Alcott, no less) than plot or characterization; we also get the obligatory rousing score (courtesy of Lee Holdridge) and which I actually still recalled from the time of my first viewing all those years ago! As always, here we have the heir to a throne (Marc Singer, best-known for the V sci-fi TV series of the mid-1980s and which I now own in its entirety i.e. 3 distinct variants) fighting the usurper (Rip Torn) and helping a besieged people (including love interest Tanya Roberts &#150; from the Charlie's Angels TV series but who'd later graduate to her own mythic character i.e. SHEENA 1984, which I also saw for the first time last January).As the title suggests, Singer is able to communicate telepathically with animals &#150; so that an eagle, a black tiger and a couple of amiable mongoose are constantly being called upon in his aid. However, weird creatures also abound Torn's ugly but oddly sensuous witches (clearly a nod to Shakespeare's Macbeth) &#150; though he's himself fitted with a hooked nose and wicked eyebrows &#150; as well as a group of imposing eagle worshippers bestowed with cape-like wings behind which they're able to crush a person to death! Following Torn's demise &#150; when Singer disrupts a sacrificial rite &#150; our heroes have to contend with (and naturally triumph over) another invading group these had earlier exterminated the inhabitants of Singer's village, including his guardian, and are led by an imposing masked figure (a' la the James Earl Jones from the first Conan movie) but whose identity is, bafflingly, never divulged. In fact, for all the film's adult-oriented elements (read sexiness &#150; as in the afore-mentioned witches and a gratuitously naked Roberts having a riverside bath), the film mostly comes off as a child-like retread of CONAN THE BARBARIAN (1982)! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sword and sorcery film in which the bad acting is counterbalanced with some exciting and memorable scenes.","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As badly acted as it is, The Beastmaster is still actually an above average entry in the sword and sorcery stakes. Released around the same time as the influential (and even better) Conan The Barbarian, Don Coscarelli's fantasy film moves along at a rapid pace and has some memorable and imaginative sequences. I saw the film for the first time when I was a 7 year old child, and watched it maybe four or five times back then. I didn't see it again for 22 years - but just the other day I viewed it once more on DVD, in a Director's Cut edition, and I must say that many of the scenes were still fresh in my mind. There are some films I watched a fortnight ago that I can barely remember, yet The Beastmaster has stayed in my conscience for 22 years.... so on that criterion, it definitely makes a certain impact.Evil priest Maax (Rip Torn) orders the sacrifice of his king's unborn son in order to prevent the coming of a prophecy in which the said son grows up and slays him. However, the baby survives its fate and is rescued by a farmer who raises him as his own and names him Dar. As Dar grows into adulthood (the adult Dar being played by Marc Singer), he gradually discovers that he has bizarre powers, including the ability to communicate with animals. He also is trained by his adopted father into becoming a very skilled swordsman. Dar's village is destroyed by a marauding band of raiders called the Juns, who kill everyone including Dar's adopted dad. Dar, the only survivor, sets off in pursuit of the Jun horde hoping to avenge their deaths. Along the way he gains several animal companions - a hawk, two ferrets, and a black panther - and also meets a slave girl named Kiri (Tanya Roberts) to whom he is immediately attracted. During his travels Dar eventually, almost accidentally, stumbles across the town where he was born. The king has long been imprisoned in the town's pyramid, and Maax is now in control, busily sacrificing the children of the repressed townsfolk. Dar vows to rid the town of Maax, but his plan is jeopardised following the rescue of the king.... for the king, during his years of imprisonment, has grown old and blind and, not realising who Dar is, refuses to take his advice on how best to confront Maax.Some of the sequences in the film have a really impressive, long-lasting level of invention. The sacrificial murder of a child thrown into a fiery pit; the eagle men liquefying a victim inside their rubbery capes; Dar pulling himself upside-down and backwards along a passage full of gauntleted hands that grab at his legs; the rather sad demise of one of the ferrets near the film's end. On the other hand, the performances (as noted already) are pretty bad. Singer is physically imposing but that's about all; Torn makes for a hysterically overblown villain; and Roberts struggles with even the simplest of lines (though she does LOOK terrific - and even has some skimpy costumes and a nude swimming scene to encourage us to forgive the amateurishness of her acting). Lee Holstridge provides an infectious score that sounds somewhat similar to the old Battlestar Galactica music. And John Alcott, the cinematographer, gives the film a visual polish that is probably a bit above the material. The Beastmaster is a guilty pleasure - lots of fun, lots of blood-spilling, lots of earnest enthusiasm all round. "},{"Title":"If you liked Conan the Barbarian but didn't think it had enough animals and too many people were wearing pants, this is the movie for you.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It may not win any awards and the 80s has produced far more cheesy films but they deserve acknowledgment for producing the largest number of loin cloths I've ever seen in one movie.  The main character lacked any personality and the abundance of nostril shots didn't help him either.  Nonetheless, it's not a horrible movie.  They stayed close enough to Conan to produce an entertaining movie and added enough gimmicks to avoid being a complete rip-off.One thing, however, disturbed me about this movie.  Now, the Beastmaster and the kid were brothers.  No problem.  But am I crazy or did the kid, at one point, say that the love interest was his cousin?  If the Beastmaster stopped pursuing her after this I think we could all let it go - no one ever hassled Luke about his antics in Star Wars - but the announcement didn't even slow down our hero.  Maybe I'm wrong; maybe I misheard the kid.  Still, you just know that if the Beastmaster did get a hold of a pair of pants he wasn't going to be keeping those ferrets in his pouch anymore.It's got its disturbing points but it should keep you entertained.  An okay movie.  "}{"Title":"Friends from all shapes of life.","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The sorcerer Maax receives a prophecy that he'll be killed by the King's unborn child, so Maax gets a witch to transfer the baby into a cow's womb and then be sacrificed. A man stumbles across the activity, rescues the baby and adopts the child as his own. He was born with the gift to communicate with animals. Dar would be his name and he would grow up to be a muscularly skilled warrior. After his father and his village are butchered by the sorcerer Maax's orders, he sets out for revenge. Along the way he gets in contact with some resourceful animals, a slave girl Kiri and the captive king's right-hand man Seth.Director Don Coscarelli's cult b-grade sword and sorcery epic (well it's close enough to one) The Beastmaster is an enjoyably mystical adventure, which knows it's all a bit of fun. There's no doubting how silly and cheesy it just happens to be, but gladly this item is not overly put off by it. There's a real kid-like mentality to it, but it breathes an sincereness that sweeps you along for the journey. Coming out the same time as Conan the Barbarian , it was hard no to compare the two. While Conan is obviously the better made grandeur production, it kind of had a pretentious feel to it and pacing was incredibly sluggish. Beastmaster might be systematic in the story, but to me it was far more entertaining. I might not win any votes for what I have just typed, but I'll stick to it.Coscarelli who co-wrote the story with Paul Pepperman takes the central idea of our hero communicating with animals from Andre Norton's novel of the same name. The campy plot is routine (there's no real twists or surprises) with a constant mixture of sub-plots and ideas involving different adventures (which were mostly about rescuing someone/ or thing), which all lead onto the main story of Dar getting revenge. Some might be worthless and too straightforward with relax pacing, but I never found a boring moment within them. The direction by Coscarelli has a muscular touch to it and imagination to spare in some creative stabs and visuals. He knows how to create a rich atmosphere and his at his top when his going for that dark edge. The way he staged some of the one-on-one combat scenes though, came across as too clean and choreographed (especially the final climax). The larger battle scenes were gritty, kinetic and relentlessly staged though. Also don't expect much in the way of blood from this mainstream aimed piece.Since the budget was reasonably modest, it did give the film a slick technical advantage, but it definitely tried to outdo itself with the budget it had. The camera-work by John Alcott is beautifully sprawling and nippy. Same treatment for Lee Holdridge's grandly bravura sounding musical score that only heightens the atmosphere, locations and actions. Sound effects were effectively cutting and location sets were cleverly shaped. Only draw-card in this would be that editing at times came across as very ragged. Reading that the film was far shorter in the first cut, the producers then got the editors to extend certain scenes and Coscarelli and Pepperman had no say in it. That's disappointing, because it would have been better off with the first cut and maybe gained more respect. The acting is nothing sensational, but acceptably good. Marc Singer wasn't too bad and felt right at home in the part of Dar. Tanya Roberts looks drop dead gorgeous, but isn't called on to do too much. Chewing it up as the villain is Rip Torn as he fabulously turns it up with plenty of flavour and John Amos is acceptably solid as Seth. Then you got the well-trained animals that impress and charm when on screen.The Beastmaster is extremely goofy, but at the same time this humorous corker makes for great comic-style entertainment. There's nothing spectacular to it, but this cult fantasy flick (which gained popularity on cable TV) is one of the better genre efforts. "},{"Title":"The Movie and the Author","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's been twenty years since I've seen this film, so I can't really comment on the movie itself. However, I will point out one tidbit of information about it it was apparently adapted from the Andre Norton novel of the same title.Not that you would ever guess! The novel is science-fiction! The movie is a Conan-wanna-be swords-and-sorcery pic. The novel's principal character is a Navajo Indian and an ex-soldier, a sort of Green Beret who has just been demobbed after taking part in a galactic war which saw (as one of its final acts) the destruction of Earth by the enemy forces. He has martial arts skills and a team of animals who he has a telepathic-like affinity with a panther-like dune cat, a pair of meerkats (small ferret-like animals that live in burrows on the African savannahs), and an African black eagle. Together, they formed a sabotage team during the war. The destruction of Earth has meant that he and his animal team are now homeless, and he has decided to settle on the world of Arzor, ostensibly because Arzor is broadly similar to his former home in America's Navajo lands (Arzor has no large cities, few paved roads, an agrarian economy, a climate not unlike the Australian Outback, and a non-human but humanoid-like native race the Norbies), but in fact for much more personal reasons.The moviemakers threw all that out--except for the animal team, the movie title, and the chief motivation of the principal character (viz. vengeance). Those they kept. Instead they invented a new milieu, a new plot, and a new leading man Dar, a king's son who finds he can communicate with animals. To this they added a slavegirl, witchwomen, and an evil priest.As for Andre Norton, her thoughts on the matter can be seen from the fact that she had her name removed from the credits; and I have since read that she has vowed never to release the movie rights to any of her books again. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Turkey","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Beastmaster (1982), one of the countless imitators of Conan the Barbarian (1982), is fairly decent 80s trash. It's an afternoon movie to watch while you're texting your friends or ordering camping gear on amazon. Tanya Roberts is smokin hot, fantastic to have her in this movie. A few tit shots for her which is great! Were these mandatory in the 80s? We should bring that back. Also, Rip Torn plays such a funny bad guy. He was in a sweet episode of Columbo in the 80s in which he plays the bad guy and it just makes me laugh.When I saw this as a kid, I was scared by the sucker guys that fold their cape things over you. I was also scared by the torture device scene when they put that green worm in that poor chap's ear. Yikes. Having seen it now it's pretty mild though.All in all - enjoyable turkey. Ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-check it ouuuuuuuut. 4/10 "},{"Title":"If you didn't grow up with it, don't bother","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Beastmaster is one of those nostalgia trips that will leave anyone who didn't grow up with the movie confused as to its actual appeal. It's a bit like Masters of the Universe in that way, only not quite that bad.The problem is largely budgetary. Coscarelli didn't have the money to do anything cool with the special effects and it shows. The story is pretty dull and lightweight perhaps as a consequence. Characters in fantasy movies are always simplistic to make room for the epic tales you get in a feature film's runtime. Coscarelli couldn't afford much in the way of epic, in the traditional and modern sense of the word, but kept the thin characters anyway.Marc Singer plays the hero. Don't know the name? After watching The Beastmaster, you won't be surprised. At least John Amos injects some much needed life into the movie. Rip Torn is good in anything, but why is he on screen so little?And I feel I have to mention the hero's pet tiger. It was painted black for this movie(!). Why was it so vitally important that the creature be black? The paint job is seldom convincing; you can see the stripes underneath the paint! It looks like whoever had the job of painting an orange tiger black either ran out of paint three quarters of the way through, or needed to choose a darker shade of black. "},{"Title":"Certain questions will remain unanswered, indeed unasked, about this movie.","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" All that any cult-Fantasy fan should need to know about this film is that the setting cribs heavily from John Norman's Gor novels. Rip Torn's evil god is Ar, and there is a reliance in the plot upon breathy slave girls and macho barbarian chauvinism. In this regard, The Beastmaster is one of a number of unofficial tributes to Gor that are actually truer to the novels than either of the two licensed Gor movies made in the same era.Whether or not this is a good thing is entirely a matter of taste. The plot of the film is more or less irrelevant, as is the quality of the acting. It's Swords & Sandals, one of the better examples of knock-offs that tried to cash-in on the success of Conan The Barbarian. Good enough, at least, to warrant an expurgated edit for general release, unlike the majority of similar examples of the form. "},{"Title":"A Captivating Fantasy","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching this movie as a preteen and a few times as a teen. I did enjoy the movie back then. An I am enjoying it again as an adult - I forgot just how much I liked this movie until I re-watched it again -- memories started flowing.The movie is quite an adventure fantasy - very cute with all the animals. It'll have you wishing you had the same extraordinary powers over the animals. And the movie has enough action to keep it interesting.This is a movie that goes into to category of Conan and Krull - if you like those or similar movies then you are sure to love The Beastmaster.On a fun note If you like The Beastmaster and online games then try Lord of the Rings Online -- you can play a Lore-master which is much like the character of the The Beastmaster.I would have rated this movie 8.5 but I have to give it a 9 - the extra half point is for the nostalgia factor.9/10 "},{"Title":"Uncomplicated Movie Absolutely Great Entertainment","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I felt very nostalgic when i watched again this one many years later. The Beast Master is a great movie, they do not do this again, and they should. Less CGI and more plot and script¡¡¡¡¡ The actors are a bit campy, and for moments even surreal. But they are very likable and go very well with the story. There are beautiful women, evil sorcerers and wizards, demon-like hybrid fighters, ancient warriors, a touch of magic, just enough violence without being too gorish, and a pack of funny animals who are just an integral part of the movie.This is a movie without pretensions, just pure entertainment. I wish they could make more like this. "},{"Title":"So bad (and yet sooooo good)","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" To begin this review I'm going to talk about The Dark Knight Rises &#x96; a film I really enjoyed, so I gave it 8/10. And, in case you haven't already noticed, I'm also giving Beastmaster 8/10 So, does that mean the two films are as good as each other.No. The 8/10 I'm giving Beastmaster is a completely different 4/5 to what Christopher Nolan's last Batman outing got. This is because you can't really compare the two films. The Dark Knight Rises was an excellent film, made with a massive budget which allowed for great special effects, sets and an A-list cast who turned in excellent performances (the only reason I didn't give it 10/10 was because I didn't think it was quite as good as The Dark Knight). Beastmaster, on the other hand, is made on a shoestring budget, contains pretty awful special effects, terrible dialogue and actors who are mainly just there because their 'body-type' fits the part (if you know what I mean). Yet, despite all its (clearly obvious) flaws, it's just so much fun to watch.Marc Singer (who you'll probably only know if you saw the eighties sci-fi show 'V') plays Dar, a Conan-like figure who can communicate with animals (well... the ones which the story dictates he needs to. You may wonder why he can't make all the enemies' horses simply throw their riders, but never mind). He sets off on an adventure to kill someone, or avenge someone, or rescue someone else. It really doesn't matter.If you've seen films like Krull, Masters of the Universe, Red Sonja and other such eighties 'classics' then you'll know what to expect here. These films shouldn't be judged on the same scales as Hollywood blockbusters like the Dark Knight trilogy and so on. They should have their own so-bad-they're-good scale, in which this definitely deserves an 8/10.Not everyone will love it. It will probably only appeal to those who either (like me) watched it when I was a kid, therefore it carries plenty of nostalgia for me. Or those who simply like cheesy movies (especially ones set in the eighties). If you do, then Beastmaster will be a gentle way of filming an hour and a half.And, if you're male, you'll probably enjoy Tanya Roberts' 'performance' (or at least her choice of wardrobe).http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"The best of the 80s Sword & Magic flicks","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I can't believe this movie only rates a 6.It was surely the best of the 80s Sword & Sorcery flicks and IMO it should be judged against its own kind.The film features fantastic cinematography, great score, and a story that escalates rather than falls flat. There are emotional moments and funny moments and they flow, never feeling jammed into place but natural.Honestly, if you compare it to the likes of Deathstalker or Sword and the Sorcerer, Beastmaster becomes a case study on how to do this type of film the right way. It will always be a personal favorite of mine. Just ignore the sequels! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Action Fantasy.","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Don Coscarelli(Phantasm) directs this superb action fantasy that stars Marc Singer(V) as Dar, who is forced from his rightful inheritance as a baby by an evil priest(Rip Torn) who covets the king's throne. Dar is taken to safety to live with another family, but when his adopted father is killed, he learns he has a unique ability to communicate and control animals(Birds, Tigers, and Ferrets, among others)who help him in his quest for revenge against the marauders who attacked his village, and the high priest responsible for his exile.The beautiful Tanya Roberts also stars as Kiri, a friend who helps him. Despite the familiar premise, this is a fun, engaging and satisfying yarn with a great twist on the familiar plot,(a sort of warrior version of Grizzly Adams!) and appealing heroic characters, and makes magnificent use of its animals; Dar couldn't have done it without them.A real winner, that did have two sequels(which I haven't seen) and inspired a TV series. "}{"Title":"Trashy, but atmospheric","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has a great atmosphere, great pictures, and great music. Yet, this sadly isn't enough for me to make a good movie. I personally found the movie very trashy. It's full of bad acting, has a bad story, that is badly told as well, bad conversations and seriously trashy action scenes. Conan is so much more superior compared to this one. I personally can't understand how people can enjoy this flick. Good, non-pathetic fantasy movies are absolutely rare. I so wished that there'd be more out there. I hoped so much, that Beastmaster would be another one of this rare kind.If you like unintentional humor, or if you are able to ignore trashiness and stupidities, this movie might be for you. "},{"Title":"It is not Conan the Barbarian, but this movie has its own charm.","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this film many times as a child and have to say I really enjoyed it. It was just a cool movie featuring swords, a cool boomerang, tigers dyed black, strange dudes who hug you to death and a very attractive Tonya Roberts. This movie is about a strange cult that sacrifices children and such to a god of some sort. The king of this land has been taken prisoner by this mad cult leader. Well the one that can put a stop to him is a man who has the ability to control animals with his thoughts, a man who befriends an eagle, a dyed tiger (I am guessing panthers are a bit to hard to tame), and a couple of stinky ferrets. He has a few adventures during this quest as he comes into contact with many others on the quest to save the king. The action is rather good for a movie of this type and the movie does not end in typical fashion as the cult leader is killed and there is still more movie left, usually the scene where the villain dies is the finale, but not here. The sword fighting is rather good here and there is quite a bit of gore for a PG rated movie which makes me roll my eyes when professors at universities suggest that movies are worse today and that if they were released back in the day they would get R. The movie is a bit cheesy though and not the best acted movie ever made and you have to see Marc Singer in a very revealing costume that as a guy I do not care for much. Now seeing Tonya Roberts in her costume is a different story all together. "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Beastmaster is one of those movies I always saw in the store, but I blew it off as just another Conan rip-off. Boy was I wrong.This movie was loads of fun. In an age of overproduced sci-fi epics, this classic really shines as an inspiration to that genre. I don't usually enjoy movies like this, but this flick along with a handful of others, (like Jim Henson's Labyrinth and Lucio Fulci's Conquest,) may just make a fantasy nerd out of me yet.One very surprising thing to me is the rating they gave this one PG. Were they watching the same movie as me? I saw topless women, lots of violence, kids being thrown into a fire and people impaled. Those bird people were scary too. Lots of very creative monsters. I sure as hell wouldn't let my kid watch this one.Same as Phantasm, chalk up another win for Don Coscarelli.8 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"Beastmaster the original movie, AMAZING! forget all sequels.","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rivalling only Conan the Barbarian for greatest Sword n Scorcery epic. Beastmaster, has amazing music that compliments a fantastic film. This was the first movie I ever saw on a cinema as a kid. And it blew me away and still does. I was gutted when i saw 2 of its terrible sequels, and then found a load of TV series spin offs on you tube.There is only one Beastmaster, and its this one. Superb film making of the 80s, better than all other Barbarian movies except CONAN the Barbarian. Rip Torn, as Ma-ax was a great villain. And the scene where... *SPOILER*The Eagle swoops down to save that child from the fire is so powerful it raises an emotional tear. Especially with the powerful music soaring over it. I loved everything about this movie, and Tanya Roberts was stunning in it. Some great villains too, that were very authentic, and creatively done. "},{"Title":"beast-master-our connection with animals","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" nice plot but what bode me was the innate connection we all have- an ability to tap into when it comes to communicating with the beasts that roam the Earth. should one tune himself in to his animal state, the communication is open- it just has to be taken on faith and human reign over the beasts that roam the Earth.they respond to absolute truth. Ren had a gift he did not exploit but called upon when he needed help from his animal friends- most notably the ferrets who could climb into places the human could not and unlock openings for hi to rescue the one he did. The animals protected him for he protected and gave them respect and truth. Animals respond to basic feelings they sense. This movie show how great such bonds can be. "},{"Title":"Never fails to entertain","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've said it before, but with The Beastmaster, it bears repeating &#150; the biggest single factor I use when rating a movie is entertainment value. Great production values, an intricate plot, superb acting, expensive special effects, etc. are secondary to the enjoyment I get form a film. Sure, I realize my enjoyment of a movie can be affected by something like bad acting, but I as long as I find a certain level of entertainment in a movie, it's a good movie as far as I'm concerned and I rate it accordingly. So while I am perfectly capable of seeing the flaws in The Beastmaster, I have a blast every time I've seen it and have no problems rating it a 7/10. And when you think about it, isn't having fun one of the most important things you can get out of a movie.I feel sorry for anyone who can't have a good time with The Beastmaster. I mean, what's not to like? If you can't have fun with an oily, buffed-up Marc Singer talking to his animals and swinging a nice sword; a half-dressed (and in one instance, a not dressed) Tanya Roberts; John Amos in S&M gear Rip Torn in dreads and a beak of a nose; ferrets; a tiger with a bad dye job; hideous witches; fights on a pyramid; an army on horseback with bat wing helmets; massive explosions; giant bird-like creatures who engulf their prey; and underground passages filled with crazed, berserker like guards, then you just don't know how to have a good time.Finally, I'm sick of hearing that The Beastmaster somehow ripped-off Conan the Barbarian (something I've heard repeatedly over the years). If you listen to the commentary on the DVD for The Beastmaster, you'll quickly realize that there is no way this movie could have been made in response to the success of Conan - it was pretty much in the can when Conan was released. The timing turned out to be a happy coincidence and I'm sure Don Coscarelli and Paul Pepperman were pleased with that. Conan created a market for Sword & Sorcerer movies in the early 80s. Admittedly, The Beastmaster rode that wave and, I'm sure, benefited form it. And it doesn't hurt that The Beastmaster is one of the best movies of this type that followed Conan. A lot of the Conan-inspired films of the 80s are barely watchable. The Beastmaster rises above the mire and is one of the few actually memorable Sword & Sorcerer movies that came out during this period. "},{"Title":"Remake remake remake, PLEASE!","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I must say this is the best bang for your buck as sword and sorcery flicks go, delivering decent characters and fight scenes along with a tidy little plot. So much as any movie that involves a witch sucking out a woman's baby and depositing it into a cow's uterus can be called tidy. Genghis Doolittle is saved from the witch's sacrificial knife by a kind farmer, then raised in a small farming community. Taught early on to hide his strange powers Dar is left with nothing after the Jun Horde destroys his village. Seems a little rain was all he needed to grow, in short order he assembles an impressive animal entourage and falls in love with Kiri at first sight. Presumably by the end of the movie both know they are cousins, it doesn't make any difference, our last image of them is passionately kissing on top a rock outcropping. (They went on to found West Virginia.) The Beastmaster has his work cut out for him, the evil priest must be killed, the evil army must be stopped, and he has to get his cousin. (The girl.) As such the movie is replete with some satisfying fight scenes, including one or two eaten by dyed tiger pieces I have grown to love. Don't miss the wonderful section detailing how to create a Death Guard either. First you torture him into insanity, then screw studded leather armor and spikes into his flesh, finish out by putting a leech in his ear. (I don't know why on that last part either, maybe they're just being mean...) "},{"Title":"brilliantly insane","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is a definite 10 for me. I have always loved it as a kid and will continue to do so until I am and old man. It would've been even better if Marc Singer were out of the equation, but I guess we must make do. The ever beautiful tanya roberts with those incredible eyes continue to steal my breath like a thief in the night. The overall story is epic in proportion with the crap of the time period in the 80s. Rip torn was a magnificent baddie and John Amos a revelation as Dar's sidekick. I loved the sweeping cinematography and the water sequences where the hawk is flying. I especially enjoyed the scenes where they were making men crazy by removing that part of their brains. Overall, this film is great Friday evening fare. Kick back, relax, drink a pint and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Old School film making...","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The greatest thing about The Beastmaster is it's filming locations and grand sets. A huge pyramid and town was constructed for this film, and the scene near the end where the Jun Horde arrives to battle used real flames, not computer generated flames. The actors and stunt people braved hot flames to get the shots needed for the film. Although this movie is dated and even laughable in places because of it's out of date look, it is fun and exciting.Also, this film was single handedly responsible for introducing the ferret to the mass public. You never really heard much about this animal before this film's release. They eventually became popular pets. Speaking of pets, a film like this is extremely difficult to create, given the animals used. They don't work on cue like an actor. Much patience was needed during filming. When you take all of these things into account, The Beastmaster really is a cool film that has staying power and a cult following. Worth watching for these reasons alone. Just have fun with it! "},{"Title":"singer's swansong","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" long before he was a major superstar, marc singer made this fantastic action/fantasy pic. its got the lot!!!!!! for all the guys there's tanya roberts , absolutely stunning as the most prettiest redhead ever put on film. anyway the film is sheer class, we've got a super leading man and some classic buddies with his two loyal ferrets ''ogo and pogo'' who save the bacon on more than one occasion, and his loyal horse who bails him out of trouble more times than i care to mention. Just sit back and watch this bad boy with the kids or with your mates and you are in for a real treat, its got everything you could wish for if you're a guy, if you're a girl its a quality movie too and one to oggle at , what with all the muscles on show. remember this one was done long before Arnie or Jean -Claude hit the big screen and in my opinion there future careers owe this movie a tremendous debt.l "}{"Title":"Bad Acting, Dumb Plot, Big Hair...Must Be an 80's Movie!","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  +++++POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!+++++What can I saw about The Beastmaster that hasn't already been said?Dar (Marc Singer)was born under a curse. Maax, a crazed priest, finds out that a prophecy fortells Dar killing him, but Maax has other plans. With the help of his priests and mutant women (Nice bodies, but UGLY!!!), Dar is taken from the womb of his mom, the Queen (In a VERY weird way)and transfer him to a cow to be killed. Of course, things never happen the way the bad guys want it to, and Dar is rescued by a passerby, who ends up adopting him. Soon, it becomes apparent that he can communicate with the animals (Although it would have been nice if it was explored in more detail). Years later, Maax comes back into his life, killing off all of the villagers except him. Dar then goes after Maax and encounters Seth, a loyal guard of the deposed King (And Dar's real father) and Kiri, a slave girl. With their help, Dar goes on the typical sword/revenge theme that was all over the screen during the 80's. It isn't too bad, although some people will find it a poor man's Conan The Barbarian. Some of the lines are laughable and a lot of plotholes (Who is Tal's mother? You know who his father is, but you know NOTHING about the mother)will leave you scratching your head, but all in all, it's a typical 80's movie women in skimpy outfits, men in loincloths, and cute animals! "},{"Title":"Good sword and sorcery film...","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" (SPOILERS!SPOILERS!SPOILERS!Its a well done sword and sorcery movie,far,far,far away from Conan The Barbarian, but in the circle of B sword and sorcery flicks, this one is quite good, have good fight scenes and suicidal stunts!! Rip Torn is a good actor, and make a good evil role. Marc singer is a bad actor, but he do is role pretty good, the only thing that saves Tanya Roberts are the boobs  D,the black dude is fine too... This is a quality B low-budget sword and sorcery flick,have some good sword fights, and a great job from the stunts!!!and the animals had a good training... If you liked this movie, i recommendConan the Barbarian(John Milius), Conan the Destroyer, Red Sonja, Throne of Fire(this one, only for really big fans) "},{"Title":"Good For What It Is..","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I get the feeling that those behind the making of this film were interested mainly in providing the audience with an entertaining escape for the length of the film--one that was never dull. In this, they have succeeded admirably as this film is quite a bit of fun to watch and enjoy. Just don't expect any masterpiece or to use your brain too much--that's not the point of a film like this anyways. While this isn't at the level of the Fantasy masterpiece CONAN THE BARBARIAN, it is nonetheless an enjoyable Fantasy romp from the early 1980s--a prime period for this style of film. "},{"Title":"New DVD Release","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having seen this several times on cable while growing up I figured it's only fair to warn parents wanting to introduce their kids to a cult classic remastered on DVD.  Like Revenge of The Nerds, the cable version has several gratuitous nudity shots cut out that are present on the DVD release. Nothing much except some topless shots that total 15 seconds or so.  Tanya Roberts looks good showing off like she did in Playboy to promote the movie, but the PG rating on the case is a little misleading.Otherwise it's a fun cult classic that remains enjoyable despite showing its age.  Not much in this genre has ever done very well, but this one stands on the top of the heap at least.G "},{"Title":"Fun, brawling, and ignore the bad acting","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I adore this movie.  Despite the truly bad acting--and I'll be the first to admit that only John Amos and Rip Torn can act in this entire movie--this is a genuinely good-spirited, fun, swashbuckling gem.  There's half-naked women and even-more-naked men, cute children rescued from danger, neat animals (who can act better than a lot of the people, I have to admit), lots of interestingly- choreographed fight scenes with swords and maces, and fun dialogue throughout no matter how stilted its delivery may be. Most of the blood and gore has been cut out, which gives it an interesting look and feel--you may find that your imagination provides more than seeing it on film would have.I give it a 5 out of 5, because when it boils right down to what matters, this movie has more heart than any dozen high-budget films put together.  "},{"Title":"Best of its genre, I think","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd like to come to bat for one of my all time favorite Sword and Sandal movies.  I agree that its production values are none of the best, and the music is hardly memorable, but the movie has so many strong points that I really think it is the best of its genre.Nice plot the theme is not really revenge.  Dar seems to kill the bad guy (Rip Torn) not because he killed Dar's parents, but because the bad guy is practising child sacrifice.Imaginative elements the bat-winged creatures who hang men in bags from trees and aid Dar are both truly creepy and wonderfully immaginative.  The evil priests who gladly kill themselves at the High-priest's command are great.Remarkable characters Dar brings a refreshing sensitivity to his character--rare in S&S movies--at one point when he is exiled by the young king's people, he weeps quietly.Humor there is a finely played scene where Dar uses his lion to make time with the Beautiful Girl, pretending his is protecting her from the friendly lion.Acting Rip torn is good--he seems to be enjoying his over-the-top acting and that adds to the film.  Marc Singer does a good job as well.I can't say nearly as much for the sequels of this movie. Beastmaster II I find just dreadful, and Beastmaster II is better, but still not all that good--both lack the fresh, imaginative quality of Beastmaster I "},{"Title":"Conan is Better","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Beastmaster just seems like a Conan ripoff gone bad. It is one of the worst fantasy movies I have seen in a while. Conan is much better and so is He-Man and The Masters Of The Universe. At least Skeletor is a cool badguy. In this movie we get a priest gone bad being fought by a mucle bound bozo and some ferrets. Give me a break. "},{"Title":"Rub your eyes, this was such a great fun movie to watch!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After reading several negative comments and seeing the rating, I had to respond.  If I believed everything that I read, I would have missed a great movie.  I can't believe a movie like SE7EN gets high ratings and a great classic like The Beastmaster gets so low of a rating.  Who are these people giving the ratings??  This was such a great movie simply because it's a beautiful epic-like adventure and definitely re-watchable.  The Beastmaster is one of the best for its genre of warriors and sorcerors films and few have been successful in the attempt (i.e. Sword and Sorceror looked very low budget, Yor the Hunter from the Future was not enjoying at all). The direction and acting were quite frankly superb.  And the storyline was engaging.  I would rank this film high alongside with Conan, and Krull. Definitely among the top adventure/action films...10/10 easily!!! "},{"Title":"Ah, The Ferrets.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a fun, mindless movie to waste a couple of hours with. The acting isn't that great, but for what the movie is, it is awesome. The best time to watch this movie is late late at night. My favorite thing to happen is when TBS is showing the first one, and TNT might be showing the second. Enjoyable if willing to just watch a movie without picking it apart. "},{"Title":"I always get a good laugh out of this one","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was a kid growing up in New Jersey, my parents actually cancelled Showtime from our cable service largely because Beastmaster was on almost every day and they got tired of seeing it.I, on the other hand, loved watching a strung-out looking Marc Singer, teamed with ferrets, a tiger with a bad dye job, and the father from Good Times, battling evil.Sigfried and Roy would be proud! "}{"Title":"Entertaining movie","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What more can you ask for in a movie? It's not an award winning picture, but if just want to something fun to watch, then this is it. It has all the elements of a classic fantasy; sword fighting, sorcery, strange creatures, good vs. evil, ferrets. Who could ask for more?  "},{"Title":"One of the coolest movies of all time.","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Beastmaster is one of the coolest movies of all time, and it it definitely the best action movie of all time. The fantasy behind it rocks. The Beastmaster is the star wars of Barbarian movies. I really fail to see one fault in it at all. It is by far that most entertaining movie I have ever seen. Plus, most people don't even pay attention to this, but sit down and listen to the Beastmaster Theme it's exillerating. The theme just thunders. Eat your heart out, John Williams!  "},{"Title":"A distinctive icon in 80s film-making...Quit Laughing!!!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well not much can be said about Singer's career, but still this movie stands out as one of the great movies of our time.  A true timeless classic, for those of us who grew up with Commando and the Cobra movies.  I can see many references in how it was influential with todays film-makers such as Spike Lee, who straight out Jacked the tracking shot with the witch in the foreground, not walking, but the background moved as if she was.  Another thing was the use of color theory, throughout the film, that dramatically effects the mood. "},{"Title":"One of the best fantasy adventures of all time.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the best fantasy adventures of all time.  Very original, exciting, and sometimes funny.  Rip Torn plays a great bad guy and John Amos really fits his part well.  Marc Singer is not the best actor in the world, but he has a great character who can really kick some butt when he has to.  This is a great movie.  If you haven't seen it, you should. "},{"Title":"The most fun you can have with a sword and wild animals !!!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is no classic, yet it has a classic quality. FUN. I watched this film for the first time in years, and enjoyed it more than ever. Ok, so the plot contains hole bigger than Dar's muscles, but so what? It moves at a cracking pace, has some outrageous set pieces, and leaves that warm, pleasent feeling in the viewer that all is right with the world...But enough about Tayna Roberts, now about the film. This is the biggest pile of *******Only joking...I love it. "},{"Title":"A real good Sword and Sorcery movie","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was checking on my beloved video collection, to find something else to recommend you 80's video lovers, and I come across a few Sword and Sorcery movies, which were Conan the Barbarian, The Beastmaster, Conan the Destroyer, Hawk the Slayer, Clash of the Titans.I thought well I no doubt everyone will be praising the Conan films, but I wasn't sure on whether anybody had commented on Hawk the Slayer, Clash of the Titans or The Beastmaster. but I'll review Hawk and Clash soon, and for now I'll concentrate on The Beastmaster.The film is excellent, I really enjoyed The Beastmaster, because it has to be one of the best Sword and Sorcery movies ever, alongside Conan, Hawk, Clash ect.I have seen a lot of sword and sorcery movies when I was young in the 80's, and a lot of them tended to be like a very bad version of Conan.Sword and Sorcery was the big thing in the early 80's, when Conan came out and was a huge hit, everyone in Hollywood jumped on the bandwagon to try and get themselves a piece of the action.  Only a few survived, and Beastmaster was one of them.It was by 1984 that the Sword and Sorcery genre died down, and Hollywood was moving on fast to the action genre, which I blame Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, and Hollywood thinking, 'Wouldn't it be cool if we mixed every genre there is, with  action, and make them extreamly violent, and no brainer, so the audience don't have to think about it'?  Which I think is still happening right now.The only film to come out way after 1984 to be a hit with the action hungry audience was Highlander (1986), even though there was a lot of swords (and too was excellent), there was no sorcery.It's a shame Hollywood don't make Sword and Sorcery films anymore, I know that there's Xena and Herculies, but they are just a 90's version of the 60's Batman, all tongue and cheek, and no heart to the genre.Beastmaster captured the essence of the genre, without going sickly, when the animals that become his friends and help him fight against the baddies.The sequels to the Beastmaster are not up to scratch, but I recommend this film to everyone, it's an excellent film.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Gloriously Gratuitous","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Great cheeseball action. Marc Singer's got enough muscles and does well enough with his weapons to hold his own. There are two really enjoyable sword fights in this movie. Rip Torn plays the bad guy, and he is far above anything else in the movie (big surprise), in the same way that James Earl Jones stood out in Conan. But it's always good to have a great bad guy. John Amos is mediocre as usual. And Tanya Roberts is only in the movie for the purpose of showing off her astounding body, which she does very well. There is one glorious nude swimming scene and through the rest of the movie, she wears little enough to keep you interested. You can watch the edited version on TBS about 6 times a year, or you can rent it and see Ms. Roberts naked. I say rent it.  "},{"Title":"stupid but entertaining!","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a guilty pleasure for many. Sure, it's a really stupid movie but it's also fun to watch. And, women may enjoy seeing the studly Marc Singer in loincloth and guys may well enjoy seeing Tanya Roberts in her,...well, less than a loincloth (in one brief scene). It's doubtful, though, that ANYONE would be turned on by the sight of John Amos in his costume. He showed WAY TOO MUCH, thank you very much! The film is an action adventure film that is exciting, at times, to watch but also is pretty gross from time-to-time. And I mean REALLY gross! But, if you can ignore the floating eyeballs, cow giving birth to a human (it's too complicated to explain), bat people who can dissolve people, etc., it's pretty entertaining. However, be forewarned that the film is really stupid and the acting is, at times, pretty crappy (especially from Ms. Roberts and Rip Torn). So, after watching it you may find that you've lost a few brain cells! "},{"Title":"the name of the two merkeets","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  what a movie! it is my right to exercise subjectivity and say this is one of hollywood's top ten efforts. the part when the pagan's roll into town with the antlers on their heads stays with me to this day. and how about when they poke the witch's ring in the eye around the campfire? tremendous. i wish i could remember those ferrets names though. was it fo fo and teeya? i have no idea.    "},{"Title":"Animal Wars","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Beastmaster is one of the more enjoyable sword films from the early 1980's. The credentials of Marc Singer as a gifted prophet, whose ability to communicate with animals, forms a coherence unmatched by any other films. He gets along with the ferrets, a painted tiger, and an eagle. The plot concerns him doing battle with an evil warlock whose wretchedness is exemplary. The battle scenes are enjoyable and there is even some humor to go along with it all. In the end we root for the good guys. "}{"Title":"Cream of the, er, genre","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Swords & Sorcery  is a genre where the TV shows ('Xena) are better than the feature length films.  This one is okay, however - even very okay, if you count it against anything with Miles O'Keefe or Lana Clarkson, and swords. They spent almost of $100 on the sets, at least three times the normal amount, and almost as much on the animals.  Tanya Roberts is wearing even less than it appears - I guess the wardrobe person ran out of budget, and flashes the camera several times before her character is allowed the dignity of panties.  This is a popular rental cassette and I would bet her performance and freeze frame buttons has something to do with it.As for the plot - what do you expect?  Dar (Marc Singer) must get vengeance on evil horde that killed his family.  Kirie (Roberts) must get vengeance on evil priest who imprisoned her cousin the King.  Lots of running around, swordfighting, clever ferrets, and Ms. Roberts.  This director also made the Phantasm films, so he knows his way around cheese. Rip Torn gets to overact evil and seizes on the opportunity.  John Amos shows up as the wise sidekick.  Heroic acts performed by dogs, panthers, hawks, ferrets, Marc Singer, and cattle.  There is virtually no way to defend this as a great movie, but it isn't MST3K fodder either, which puts it near the top of the Swords and Sorcery genre.  Pure Saturday night popcorn.  Watch it with your dog and your freeze-frame button.  Not too much butter on the popcorn for the dog, please. "},{"Title":"The best part of the film","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The best part about this movie is that plot-wise it is obviously for 12 year old boys, yet there is a stunningly built man prancing around in a tiny loin cloth the entire time. As a woman, I have no problem with that at all, but I wonder exactly who this was originally marketed for, because quite frankly, the movie is terrible! The ONLY thing it truly has going for it is that man's beautiful body. Perhaps the 12 year old boys' mothers were attending with them! Another thing I truly enjoyed is that to summon the eagle, he has to let out a freaky totally unannounced shriek, yet he can call the ferrets and the L'Oreal blackened tiger entirely through telepathy. All in all, I think that it is an entirely worthwhile giant piece of crap. So bad it's good! "},{"Title":"Master of Beasts... But Not of Cinema","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is not a movie I wanted to see. At all. But it turned out to be pretty entertaining (even if it was about a half hour too long). If you like movies about bondage and incest, this is a film you'd love to watch. Certain scenes reminded me of Shakespeare, where others had a distinct Tarzan, He-Man or Willow feel. The quicksand scene was a complete Tarzan homage (ripoff?) and the He-Man connection seems even more obvious when you compare the plot of the sequel (loin-clothed man with a tiger gets sent to modern day Earth). But the film is not all bad. The Beastmaster must track down and kill the man (Maax, played by Rip Torn) who imprisoned his father (the king) and tried to kill him (the Beastmaster). Along the way he meets John Amos, the only black man in this entire fantasy universe. He also meets Kirie, who he falls in love with and she may or may not be his cousin (not unlike the fantasy world of Star Wars, I guess). The plot is predictable, but a few things stand out. The man uses ferrets as his attack buddies... like that works. And in one seen, he fights The Gimp from Pulp Fiction (man locked up in a cellar with a bondage-gear leather mask... obviously the same guy). You can't really beat that. Like I said, the film is too long, but if you don't mind that and need a good fantasy film to drink to, this one works well. Mildly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hmm, that  music sounds familiar -Yes! It's the theme to Battlestar Gallactica! My take on a furry fantasy.","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I could just tell when I heard that crazed cackling from the crones that their faces weren't going to be pretty. Their cauldron tracking device informed me we're going to be treading broadly familiar ground. On the whole, this was sub-Conan antics in post-Conan style, another muscle bound take on the Joseph Campbell hero myth Stone successfully (albiet heavy-handedly) presented in almost comic book style in Conan the Barbarian, that same year. This follows a similar pattern lone, toned outsider on mission to avenge personal grievance with the aid of similarly predicated cohorts, bravely surpasses assorted fantasy hazards with a bit of self-discovery on the way, before finally vanquishing the evil-doers as fantasy writers know them. Unique selling point our man has the ability to communicate with animals (a skill he learnt in a cow's uterus!), befriending two mischievous ferrets (his cunning), one immensely strong eagle (his eyes), and a huge *black* tiger (his strength, duh. What did you think?). Add to that the requisite massive blade and a sharp boomerang thing and you've got yourself a slightly offbeat but otherwise genre defining sword and sorcery film. Entertaining as sword-wielding Barbarians are, I prefer my 80's fantasy heroes to have a bit more charisma than your Singers and your Arnies, relying on wit and intellect over brawn and steel in the face of overwhelming opposition; the Tolkein model of plucky heroism (Dragonslayer is a good example of this with the Galen character). That or a good magic ring.This film is more fun than Red Sonja and (probably) that old John Norman creation Gor, but it scores low on the tension front. Dar's nemeses proved unequal and underwhelming, lacking that 'omnipotent threat factor' of the best of the genre. The music was poor and repetitive -redolant of other Italian sword and sorcery scores, plus a hint of Battlestar Gallactica. Adequate special effects, but lighting and camera-work obviously didn't catch the 'beauty' of the landscape so they went for the old tinted-lens look. Needed more monsters and traps (but I think we're talking low budget here).On the plus side,Tanya Roberts was a suitable damsel in distress/ warrior woman, providing as much distraction as those thieving ferrets. Those eyes! "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Maax is a twisted cult leader out to steal the thrown of King Zed, but when Zed banishes Maax, he sends one of his three witches to steal Zed's unborn son. Ripping him right out of his mother's womb with magic and placing it a cow's womb, she took him to die. But a brave hunter killed the witch and rescued the young boy. Naming him Dar, they find out at a young age that he possess the power to communicate with animals. But Maax sends his thugs called the horde to wipe out his peaceful village, thanks to a brave dog Dar survived again and makes plans on using his powers to kill Maax to avenge his people and his foster Father.Pretty bad film, but it is worth for what it is. Good acting and script, but bad dialogue.Rated PG for Violence. "},{"Title":"I just thought it had a bit of everything, and the kids enjoyed every minute of it.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK so this isn't one of the Conan or Highlander films, but for myself and my children, all five of them, we thought it was brilliant, along with The Labyrinth and Dark Crystal. It wasn't the acting or the soundtrack that made it great , not even the scenery. It was all these things put together as a whole. I have a couple of Astores and I make sure this is always on them, do they sell... Of course they do ) ) ) I do believe that there is a series spin off from the original film but I haven't really seen one of them, may be I will soon. Right that's my bit of drool over for you must admit he wasn't that pretty but he sure had a beautiful body. xxx "},{"Title":"The first human king of beasts","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I got to admit I was a little grossed out when I first saw it as a child. But as I grew older I got over my problem with the film. The cast is great, the story is great, the creature effects are great. A near perfect movie. I think that Rip Torn does not look good in war braids, not at all. But Tanya Roberts looks good in anything and nothing at all. Anyway, this became one of my favorite fantasy movies in the 80's. Not to confuse it with the stupid and confusing BEASTMASTER the series, which I will not really get into right now. That's another review in the not to distant future. Where was I? I love the bat creatures, I wish they had a name other then WINGED CREATURES. All and all a true classic from the 1980s' and I give it...9 STARS "},{"Title":"Hey Beastmaster's On...","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Marc Singer stars as Dar a warrior who can communicate with animals and is also a warrior skilled in hand to hand combat as well as sword fighting however will this be enough to stop an evil priest(Rip Torn) who is taking over the kingdom. Beastmaster is one of the few respectable sword and sorcery flicks made in the 80's. It's cheesy and slightly over long but very fun, all the same. Marc Singer brings charisma to the part and makes for a likable hero. There are a few silly moments that emerge, such as Singer having the eagle pick up one of the soon to be sacrificed slave but this is vastly more enjoyable than 95% of the genre. Indeed the movie has aged well and still holds up as an entertaining nostalgic treat.* * * out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"Something For Everyone","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember watching this a lot on TV in the 80's. The old gang back at the college dorms really enjoyed it. This film has a lot GREAT eye candy. Gay guys had hot Marc Singer(V) in a tiny leather shorts. Straight guys had hot Tanya Roberts(Charlie Angels) in a tight cut up leather thingy. If you love watching animals there are plenty of those to entertain. If you are a fan of Lord Of The Rings genre you might like this as well.See something for everyone. I don't think any of us cared that the acting or the script wasn't that great. The special effects were pretty good for the time and small budget they had. This is just silly fun for boring weekend afternoons. Just sit back and take in the sights!  "},{"Title":"One more bad word said about this film, and I swear to god, I'll do a Travis Bickle and go nutso!","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this tongue-in-cheek fantasy adventure, and I don't give a flying fruit bowl whether author Andre Norton agrees with me or not. Marc Singer (who looks as though he's been poppin' pills) plays barbarian hero with friendly ferret companions. If you want to be depressed and ultimately be bored silly, rent Conan the Barbarian. If you want a good time, check your brain at the door and watch this fun flick. "}{"Title":"The Worst Movie for the Best Laugh","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Yes, I admit, this movie is awful. Yet, it's so funny to see the mistakes and try to figure out what is going on, that it's a great movie. I remember watching this when I was younger with my two brothers and loving it. So I bought it to bring home to watch with them and spent almost two hours laughing straight out until tears flowed from my eyes. If Mystery Science Theater 3000 was still around, they could use this movie.All in all, it is a classic. It has made my list of favorite bad movies next to Grease 2 and The Pirate Movie. Maybe you should look for it in your local movie rental place instead of buying it, but $9.99 is not much to pay for a good laugh or two. "},{"Title":"The Cheesemaster is what it should be called","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" But for some reason, I admit, I somewhat enjoyed this flick despite it's incredible amount of cheesy moments and effects. I think because I used to watch this all the time when I was a kid, it's like a comfort blankie. But I mean the way Dar presented himself and how he hit on Kiri was nothing but a good laugh all the way. The villain is like a high school bully that could easily be beat. The only part of this movie to be honest with you that is just great to watch is the animals. Especially the ferrets and how just plain adorable they are! D I know, I know, but I would kind of recommend this movie in all good fun and humor. Sometimes you just need a good cheesy laugh, and you'll definitely receive it with The Beastmaster.5/10 "},{"Title":"Don't expect much.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is better not to expect much from these kind of movies. You got a young handsome Marc Singer, a topless Tanya Roberts in a bathing scene, a bad-but-enjoyable B-movie plot, a bunch of wierd creatures and witchcraft and lastly, some good location. Oh yes, and don't forget some crappy action scenes. There, ingradients for a perfect spice movie.One can enjoy it if he can live upto this stuff. After all, it is better than the sequels. Credits to Coscarrelli for that.  "},{"Title":"sword and sorcery and ferrets!!","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Maybe I just wasn't in the mood to watch this. Maybe if I had watched this movie a million times on cable in the 80's like a lot of people I'd have a better opinion of it. Overall I thought the movie was pretty weak. The sets were cheap. The costumes and make up were laughable. I just couldn't get into the story line.  But I loved the animals! The ferrets stole the show. My finance has always wanted a pet ferret thanks to this movie. Now I see why, they're the best actors in the movie. Overall movie C ferrets A+ "},{"Title":"Like a fine wine, it has aged well...","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember seeing this film back when it came out in 1982, and it had a VERY short run in theaters. One man who sat near me stood up in the middle of the film and shouted The Bear's the best actor! and stomped out of the theater. When it was first released, people were appalled  that they had to pay about $4.00-5.50 for this movie.  However, this movie has found new life on video, and being one of the first movies in the wizards and swords fantasy genre, it has proven how well it was made. Of course, having the beautiful Tanya Roberts scantily clad didn't hurt things. In all honesty, I think people believe it was made better by other movies in the genre which were much worse. Rating 2 1/3 stars/ 5 stars. Check it out if you like this genre; otherwise, skip it.   "},{"Title":"Anti abortion propaganda in disguise","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed watching this film for years just based on its originality (I think if the adult arm of Disney wanted to make Conan the Barbarian, it probably would have been something like this), but despite an overtly thin, possibly childish plot,  I kept wondering why this film was so fascinating.  I suddenly hit me--this film was anti abortion propaganda in disguise.  I dont know if Coscarelli intended it as such, but theme was there.  The high priest said that our then unborn hero must be cut from its mother, branded with the sign of Ar and sacrificed (are the followers of Ar abortionists?).  When our hero is saved and turns out to be a great hero, it is obvious that this film is preaching about the potential lives wasted by the abortionist's knives.  Was it Dar's bare chest or the wisdom of bringing every child to term why women liked this film much more than men? "},{"Title":"The Beastmaster","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Absurd fantasy that tried to mold itself to the even more absurd Conan or Red Sonja films. Everyone involved should be embarrassed, epsecially Torn. "}]