[{"Title":"Required viewing for surviving the eighties","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"78 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" All throughout the decade of pencil-thin neckties and Pat Benatar look-alikes,  various films came along that served to embody the times.  Valley  Girl (which introduced us to Nicholas Cage) and Secret Admirer were just  a drop in the proverbial bucket.  Amy Heckerling's Fast Times at Ridgemont  High was the textbook definition of life as a teenager in the eighties and  remains so to this day.  The story was brought to life in a very unique way  that hasn't been duplicated sinceThere was no actual plot to speak of.  This was just...High School.   It's a film about a group of kids looking for love, status, or a good buzz.   The film was nothing more than that, and it didn't pretend to be more. In  addition, Cameron Crowe's script made you *care* about what these kids went  through as if their individual situations were happening to us (as they may  very well have).  It's almost a crime that a sequel was never made,  although a mediocre TV series was spawned.   Armed with a cast of  characters that struck a chord with all of us (primarily because we knew  someone in High School who acted just like them), and a soundtrack that  reeked of the Mark Goodman-J.J. Jackson era of MTV, this film stands as a  perfect portrait of a decade a lot of us say we'd like to forget....shortly  before brushing the dust off an old Night Ranger cassette and indulging in  a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"I wish I'd gone to Ridgemont High","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"61 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A fast-paced film with its share of laughs, Fast Times also takes time to sensitively handle many of the tough issues teens face. Abortion, trust, abandonment and sexual fears are all dealt with fairly and believably. An interesting snapshot into the world of teenagers--the great thing about this film is that it's not too stereotypically Californian. It could have been set anywhere in Canada or USA and still have been just as accurate. In addition, there are many scenes that will just have you doubled over with laughter--the carrot scene, as well as the interaction between rebel Sean Penn and angry Mr.Hand are just fantastic.  "},{"Title":"The 80's Teen Culture at Its Finest","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"57 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982)Cameron Crowe's script for `Fast Times at Ridgemont High' has totally held up in the nearly 20 years since it's release, in its portrayal of teenage life. Virtually plotless, the movie just follows the stories of a group of teenagers as they go about life in high school. And like so many 80's teen movies, it rightfully takes place for quite a bit of its run at the local mall. I find this movie to be extremely realistic, even in its somewhat exaggerated depictions of what some of the characters do (Jeff Spicoli ordering a pizza in the middle of class, or Charles Jefferson's winning of the football game by venting his anger at the school that supposedly trashed his car). But this is, after all, a movie, and a pretty good one too. And check out all those kick-ass 80's arcade games! *drools*I'll try and give my best recollection of each of the main character's basic storylines. Let's see, Jeff Spicoli is the ideal surfer dude, empty-headed, sporting Hawaiian shirts, and talking in irresistible slang. He dislikes the uptightness of school, particularly personified by his history teacher, Mr. Hand. The two begin to have a battle of the wills. Brad Hamilton is a senior who goes from one fast-food job to the next, who has no idea what he is supposed to do with his life, even though everyone, including his guidance counselor, expects a lot from him. Stacy Hamilton is a guy-crazy chick who is sensitive but who wants sex and attention, leading her first into the arms of an older man, and eventually into those of Mike Damone, a cocky hustler, when the only guy who genuinely cares for her is nerdy Mark Ratner. Damone is a shady character, a charming sweet-talker who scalps tickets and does what he can for a quick buck. He tries to help Ratner score with Stacy, but then steals the girl. Ratner is an insecure nerd-type who is good at heart, who works at the mall movie theater, and who just wants his shot with Stacy. He finds himself broken-hearted when he uncovers Damone's betrayal. Linda Barrett is Stacy's best friend and confidante, a sexy, confident girl who is constantly moving from one guy to the next and sort of becomes a quasi role model for Stacy. That's the basic premise for all of what goes on.Probably the most famous line is that uttered by Sean Penn's Jeff Spicoli `Aloha, Mr. Hand.' I'm not sure if it's the Hawaiian talk or the idiocy of the teacher's name that has made this line so supremely quoted over the years. Anyone who has seen the movie recognizes it immediately. I can say immediately that I have never, ever seen Penn play a part like this, and I don't think I've ever seen a surfer personified with such grace. Even though the conflict between Spicoli and Mr. Hand is light-hearted, I always wanted to see them having a fist-fight in the halls. Stacy's story is actually pretty serious.she winds up being the victim of a teenage pregnancy, which is not often addressed in a teen comedy. Her eventual realization that Mark is the guy for her seems natural and not scripted. And thankfully, they're only starting to date by the end of the movie, and not getting engaged or married or something equally stupid as in some lesser movies. Damone is such a weird off-beat character, and his friendship with Ratner so unusual, that I have to give Cameron Crowe credit for making it all work. Brad seems to have the least to do with the other characters but as an unsuccessful go-getter, I can definitely relate to him.In conclusion, this is one of my favorite 80's teen movies. It goes a lot deeper than `The Breakfast Club' and its adult characters, though not well-sculpted, are treated with more warmth and humanity than many of teen comedies. It's a required viewing for teens, young adults, and anyone with a fondness for 80's culture.Grade A  "},{"Title":"The American Graffiti of the 1980's.","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"55 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just like American Graffiti, you not only will see a timeless classic, but you will also see the breeding ground for many of today's greatest actors. Sean Penn, Anthony Edwards, Eric Stoltz, Phoebe Cates, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Forrest Whitaker all appeared in this film in the early stages of their careers. Even Oscar winner Nicolas Cage (appearing under his real surname of Copolla) was in this film, though in a very small role. This film was a glimpse into the future at some of the actors who would become major stars in film and television.As for the film itself, it pretty much was a look at how high school really was in the eighties with all the pressures from sex, the cliques and, of course, drugs. In fact, the Catholic high school I went to was pretty much a carbon copy of Ridgemont. The film also manages to blend comedy with drama as it shows how high school was and still pretty much is. This film is definitely a classic. "},{"Title":"The American Graffiti of the 80s","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was a few years out of high school when this came out, and really hit close to home for me. After I saw it, I looked up some of my old friends, most of them also saw it too, and we said to each other, that's us!Many of the characters were a lot like the people I went to school with. I knew my share of stoners, studs, and girls who getting guys wasn't the biggest hang up in their life. Even today, I can sit, and watch this and I get fond memories of my old friends, and the fun we used to have.This was made during the post-disco, pre-greed era of the 80s that was far too short. I'm surprised to find out this movie is still popular considering it is far from being politically correct. I'll admit, I wouldn't want my kids to some of the things these high school kids did, but it is a reminder how much fun the era was.  "},{"Title":"Fairly Funny Time at Ridgemont High","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"49 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   I was encouraged to see this because it was hailed as one of the best `teen comedies', a genre revived more recently by `American Pie'. This is an amusing but also touching tale of a bunch of teenagers caught between childhood and adulthood (as teenagers tend to be..).The characters are, naturally, disparate (they always are). You've got the geek, the tender one, the surfing one, the `cool cat' one, et cetera. All these stock types can be bland but, when done well, really flesh out a movie. As in `American Pie', this is an example of the combination working to good effect. The issues dealt with, mild enough by today, were quite controversial for its time. They touch on concepts of underage sex, drugs, employment and so on and their relevance still resonates - despite its founding in 80s culture, the movie still has something to actually say. Cameron Crowe's script - based on his own book - is sharp. The characters actually have a depth (rather than being a one line joke as it is too often) and the humour is gentle, rather than of the bodily-fluid nature. The film is never preachy, merely saying, `This is how it is' and moving on. The structure is fairly conventional - follow a set of characters over a long period, and see how they fare in a final big event, but again that's okay.Acting is quite good here, especially considering the genre. This is of course helped by some of these actors,  such as Sean Penn and Nicholas Cage, having gone on to do bigger and better things with their talents. They all have a warmth and even Mike (Robert Romanus), who could appear sleazy if portrayed poorly, comes across as an ultimately affable man who is a good guy. The non-teen cast, principally the teacher Mr. Hand (Ray Walston) are all good as well and the only problem I may have is the occasional eighties styling (principally the haircuts and outfits) which tend to make me feel one step removed from the characters (but that's not a fault of the actors).`Fast Times at Ridgemont High' surprised me with its depth. I had expected farce, but I got some genuine thought and characterisation, along with the requisite humour. It's not quite the laugh-fest I expected but it was good viewing. It still has meaning for today, although time has dulled its sharpness somewhat. Not a must, but certainly - given its short length - a good maybe. 6.9/10. "},{"Title":"The most real depiction of high school life!","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"48 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, for a comedy its true. I'm only 19, just finished high school, and I live in Australia and many of the aspects rings true for me as it does for almost anybody that you talk to that grew up in that era of America's history.Many aspects of the movie are absolutely hilarious, but sometimes a few of the smaller jokes miss their mark and you will only notice the joke and laugh on another viewing, which I strongly recommend in doing so. The characters are all great, but are all surpassed by Jeff Spicoli, portrayed by Sean Penn in one of his first roles, and his surfer character has been imitated many times but never bested (yes, Bill & Ted are ranked at 2nd) and he steals almost every scene he was in.In the movie, you'll see some of the most accurate depictions of sex in a teen comedy (which caused the movie to be quite censored) and it downplays the Hollywood glitz of it all by portraying a girl lose her virginity in a dirty used baseball dugout covered in graffiti, and then complaining it hurt the next day... one of the characters masturbating while a very enticing dream sequence occurs, only to be disturbed by the object of the dream... and even a sex scene where the teenaged boy cums early after a few seconds, which ends up getting the girl pregnant because of no condom use.Its these kinda portrayals of teenage life that I'm glad Hollywood makes movies, and I know when I have some kids of my own, I'll be showing this movie to them first above any other teen movies like American Pie and such... to show them what the real world can be like, while still keeping it in a comedy situation.Rating 9/10Recommendation See this movie... numerous times, its great, its funny... its real.  "},{"Title":"No Shirt , No Shoes , NO DICE","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my all time 80s favorites. All kinds of stars in this one. Totally depicts high school teens in the early 80s Fur Shure! Lots of comedy - little bit of drama - whole lot of sex. Sean Penn as the stoner surfer dude is the funniest role in his career. Phoebe Cates , was just becoming a known star. Jennifer Jason Leigh totally looks her part as a teen virgin and you can also see Nancy Wilson (guitarist of the band HEART) here in her tiny cameo role. Love this early 80s classic.Own it.Learn it. Live it... "},{"Title":"Quite the time","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Almost 22 years after it's release &#150; this movie still remains to be great. Amy Heckerling gave us another hit in the 90's &#150; Clueless &#150; so it's no doubt that this too has become a cult classic.This movie being a high school movie evolving around teenagers, though made in the 80's, contained all the elements that a horny teenage movie would have &#150; topless women, pot smoking, masturbation, cheating on tests, virginity losing and all that sex talk and quite obviously teen pregnancy!!! However they were not extensively used unnecessarily with the intention to make people laugh &#150; they were used at the right time and were very funny.Sean Penn was excellent &#150; that was quite the performance as Jeff Spicoli &#150; especially now considering he is an Oscar winner &#150; that's quite the long road he has traveled.This was a great teenager movie &#150; and for people who just love high school movies &#150; this movie should next on their lit. "},{"Title":"Awesome! Totally awesome! All right, Hamilton!","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a quality film. It's over 20 years old and has become one of those iconic teen movies and it's pretty easy to see why. It has everything you would expect; the bad hair, the bad clothes, the bad music, teenage awkwardness...all the clichés and stereotypes that we've seen repeated in basically every teen movie since then. And it has Sean Penn playing a stoner surfer. Sean. Penn. I'm pretty sure this movie is funnier now just because Sean Penn has had a successful career as a proper dramatic actor, and he plays the ultimate surfer dude perfectly. The grudge between himself and Mr Hand (Ray Walston) is great and probably produces the best (or at least funniest) moments of the film.All in all, Fast Times is fun. It might be because it's dated, cheesy, and clichéd, but it still does the job and it is entertaining. "}{"Title":"that was my skull.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If I was so depressed I needed to watch a good funny movie to get me out of it and I could choose one movie in all the world it very might be be this one. Fast Times is such a darn great classic that I've almost not wanted to comment because what could I possibly say to do it justice?Anybody growing up in the early 80's has probebly heard of this and most have seen it(though I actually know some who HAVEN'T!!). In fact most people in the world have probebly heard of it, its pretty legendary. Fast times is the ultimate, the ULTIMATE and alltime best high school movie.And many of the child stars in this have gone on to become superstars, particularly Sean Penn and Jennifer Jason Leigh.I've probebly viewed this movie more often then almost any other and as I've grown up my enthusiasm hasn't dimmed-even at parties-many times its-lets watch FAST TIMES AT RICHMOND HIGH. It's the ultimate fun movie.The only other teen movie that I think is as good as this is Clerks but Fast Times to me still kind of beats it, because its so much a part of history I can't even remember where I was when I first saw it-it's sort of always been there and personifes the good time high school party movie-even if high school wasn't exactly like that much of the time-well this IS the movies...LOL.But who HASN'T known a spicoli in their time? Or a stasy? Or even A Mr Hand??!! I sure have-I think possibly my favorite was Stasy's brother Brad, he was so QUIETLY comedic he made the movie!!I would love to see a part two of this-the fast times kids as adults-in the business world!!!  Married with kids! Oh man what a trip that would be and I'm sure it would sell a few million tickets at least-why haven't they done it yet?Seriously, even though the kids look younger and younger to me each time I view this, (which only shows how much OLDER I'm getting!)Fast Times remains an ultimate favorite of myself and just about everyone else I know who's seen it. Hey Mike got any blue oyster cult tickets??!! "},{"Title":"High School for Actors (and Writers)","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Here we have a film for kids that may have resonated in its day. But now it is only of historical interest. But what interest! So many actors got a start here.Cage and Whittaker are hardly there so not much interesting to see. The two really interesting ones are Penn and Leigh. I've seen this film, `Sweet and Lowdown' and `The Pledge' in quick succession. Of male actors working today, Penn and Downey are in a class by themselves. Downey being more internally focused. Penn likes to let us watch, weaving his own watching, his display of himself and his display of his character into a single performance.You can see him doing that here. I recommend you get the DVD and listen to the comments of writer and director. After nearly twenty years, these guys still apparently don't know what Penn is doing. He's graduated and they are still in high school.Jennifer Jason Leigh fascinates. I think she is every bit as serious an actress as Penn. But she has an instrument that holds her back -- being a woman actor carries a curse because there are fewer risks you can take in how you move your body. Think why we don't have a female Jim Carrey.Lesser actors like, say, Jeanne Tripplehorn have a more appealing instrument, so we the audience accepts more effect with less talent. The contrast is so much greater here with Leigh working next to Cates. Just as all Americans are inescapably racist in some way, we all have this high-school level barrier of archetypes of woman that limits our skills as dramatic viewers. (Sissy Spacek, another effective actress, suffered from this same problem I think.)I'm sure the dynamic about how actors find intelligent roles has much to do with small town politics, but Leigh has given us a `Mrs Parker,' and a reporter in `Hudsucker' that is every bit as self-referential as Penn's Surfer Bud. The problem is us I'm afraid. We need to graduate.Also. A lesson for P T Anderson. Crowe here writes the characters first (they are based on real people) then creates a series of small episodes. This works when the point is to evoke a general feel as in the porn industry `Boogie Nights,' here, the rock industry in `Almost Famous.' But usually that environmental impression has much less impact than other narrative approaches can accomplish in drama. Watch this film and you are reminded that its only charm is the evocation of an environment, which has since been mined numb. Better to develop into real drama. Crowe hasn't since this. Let's hope PT does. "},{"Title":"A classic film of the 1980's.","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times At Ridgemont Highis an all time classic look at high school in the 1980's. The cast is awesome.The lives of the characters are really awesome, in school, we all have those times in our lives where we do a lot of crazy things in and out of school. The story starts out in the mall, seeing some of the kids who work there like Linda Barrett,played super by the beautiful Phoebe Cates (Gremlins 1 and 2, Private School, and Lace 1 and 2) and Linda's friend, Stacy Hamilton, played by another beauty, Jennifer Jason-Leigh (Single White Female, Deloris Claibourne, and Grandview U.S.A.) who is a girl who is easy,they both work at the pizza place in the mall. Across form the pizza place is where Mark Ratner a.k.a. Rat, played by Brian Backer (Police Academy 4 and Meatballs)who has the hots for Stacy but is shy. Rat works at the movie theatre across from the pizza place. Mark Ratner gets some advice about how to get Stacy from his friend, Mike Damone, played by Robert Romanus (Bad Medicine, Fame, and Booker)who is a scalper, sells a lot of concert tickets. Mike Damone is the type who can get women easily.The other characters in this movie are great, Jeff Spicoli, played superbly by Sean Penn, he is the ultimate character in this film. Jeff Spicoli is a stoner who is into surfing. Spicoli has to deal with the history teacher, Mr. Hand, played by an awesome actor, Ray Walston (Johnny Dangerously, The Stand, and Picket Fences). Mr. Hand thinks that everyone of his students is on dope, he is so talkative about his Time,,lol.Brad Hamilton, Stacy's brother, played super by Judge Reinhold (Beverly Hills Cop 1, 2, and 3, Gremlins, and Vice Versa). Brad has had 3 jobs in this movie, first job is at All American Burger, gets fired for telling a customer off, A seafood restaurant, and his final job and a convenient store. Brad's senior year at Ridgemont has be somewhat good and bad, his girl friend,Lisa,played by Amanda Wyss(Better Off Dead,A Nightmare on Elm Street)breaks up with him.Charles Jefferson, played by Forest Whitaker (Good Morning Vietnam, Platoon, and Species)is a football player who owns a 1970's Firebird,which gets wrecked by Jeff Spicoli, who was driving it with Jefferson's younger brother, played by Stanley Davis Jr., on their way to a party. Spicoli has the car towed in front of the school and writes Lincoln Rules and other stuff, making it look like the rival high school,Lincoln's football team trashed it. Charles Jefferson pounds the crap out of Lincoln's team in the football game.Mike Damone makes a move on Stacy, and they have sex.Later on,Rat finds out and is mad and Mike for doing that, they nearly get into a fight. Stacy is pregnant and goes to get an abortion. Jeff Spicoli gets a visit from Mr. Hand and quizzes him on some history, they both get to like each other. The dance at the school went good, Mike Damone and Mark Ratner make up and are friends again. Brad is at work at the Mi-T-Mart, Jeff Spicoli is there getting a few things and has to go to the bathroom, a robber comes in and tries to hold up the place, but Jeff Spicoli distracts the robber and gets hot coffee thrown in his face, things work out for the better for everyone.The movie really has some many funny moments in it, the cast is really super. One of the great films that came out in 1982.The supporting cast also in the film are Scott Thomson (Police Academy 1, 3, and 4, and Ghoulies) as Brad's friend, Arnold. The late Vincent Schiavelli (Ghost, Night Shift, and Better Off Dead) as the biology teacher, Mr. Vargas. Zoe Kelli Simon, who's stage name is Kelli Maroney (Night Of The Comet and Chopping Mall), plays a cheerleader. The late Lana Clarkson(Amazon Women On The Moon,and Scarface)plays Mrs. Vargas.You will also see a younger Nicolas Cage (Valley Girl, Con Air, and Face Off)as Brad's other friend. A younger Anthony Edwards (Revenge Of The Nerds 1 and 2,ER,and Gotcha) as Jeff Spicoli's friend. Eric Stoltz (Mask, Pulp Fiction, and Some Kind Of Wonderful) as Jeff Spicoli's other friend. James Russo(Beverly Hills Cop, The Postman, and Extremities) as the robber of the convenient store.The soundtrack to this movie is awesome. Songs like Speeding by The Go Go's, Somebody's Baby by Jackson Browne, Love Rules by Don Henley. Fast Times At Ridgemont High by Sammy Hagar. I Don't Know by Jimmy Buffett. Goodbye, Goodbye by Oingo Boingo, Fast Times (The Best Years Of Our Lives) by Billy Squier, Raised On The Radio by The Ravyns. I have the soundtrack at home, it is awesome, I recommend getting it.I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably overrated.","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out in 1982. I was in my early twenties at the time so I could understand the things in this film (basically stereotypes). I didn't like the film then and the only reason I would suggest that anyone see it now is for '80's nostalgia. I always thought that this was an empty film pretending to be funny, which it isn't, and trying to have some kind of message. It's nothing but a cheap, trashy, BAD bad taste (as opposed to good bad taste, which I like) teen exploitation movie masquerading as something special. From it's reputation, one would think this is some work of brilliance. The characters were shallow and dull and I could never figure out how people love the ridiculous stoned out surfer character so much.Now...if this film had not taken itself seriously or, perhaps, been written as a put on or satire of high school or even teen movies and teen pop culture in general, circa 1982, such as the brilliant Lord Love a Duck did back in 1966, it very likely would have been something much better or even truly great.In my opinion, if you want to see something teen oriented which is far superior, see Heathers or definitely Rock'n'Roll High School or even Ferris Bueller's Day Off. "},{"Title":"For those that think today's teen comedies are great, this is what you are missing.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have read many reviews in this forum by people that can only be young and uninformed, that claim that movies such as Drive Me Crazy, Here On Earth, 10 Things I Hate About You and such are the best films around that are about teenagers and high school. That is not a stupid opinion, only an opinion of someone that has never bothered to rent those comedies from the section of the local video store that gathers dust. Films like the ones mentioned are squalid imitations produced and written by misguided souls that are doing their best to cash in on a genre that has been dead for years. And yet they succeed. But if you want to check out and admire the pioneers of the business, you have to go back to the Encyclopedia of the 80's and look for names like Hughes, Heckerling, Linson, Kouf, Boaz Davidson and so on. There you will find films with titles such as The Breakfast Club, Secret Admirer, The Wild Life, Mischief, Last American Virgin and Fast Times At Ridgemont High. Disguising today's excuse for teen comedies as honest attempts to delve into the psyche of today's youth is nothing but chicanery and should be uncovered for what it really is. Just a cheap knock off.Fast Times is the ultimate high school comedy that features everything from subtle observations like kids sniffing freshly photocopied paper to more overt gestures like teens and young sex. The films was written by a young Cameron Crowe, who has gone on to be famous with films like Say Anything and Jerry Maguire. But back in the early 80's he returned to high school in cognito to observe teens and their rituals and the result was his book based on his studies. Some of the students were so angered at his film because they said that his characters were to much like the ones he knew and hung out with. And if that is true, can you imagine what it was like to know a guy like Jeff Spicolli? Here is one of the all time funniest characters that has now been imitated to the point of banality. Here is a guy that wants nothing more than to have sex, smoke some weed, drink some beer and squeak by in his World History class. Oh yea, and surfing is his passion. I don't think we were prepared for a character like Spicolli because I have never seen an imitation of him done quite right. He is the perfect caricature of the 80's surfer dude. As one of his classmates says,  This guys been stoned since the third grade. If the Spicolli character is the comic genius of Fasttimes, the rest of the cast is the reality. There is a pallet of interesting characters played by young and energetic, soon to be famous stars that started their careers in this film. Jennifer Jason Leigh, Phoebe Cates, Judge Reinhold, Forrest Whitaker, Sean Penn and even lesser known faces like Anthony Edwards, Eric Stoltz and Nicolas Cage all started in this film. Look at where they are today.Fast Times is the blueprint of any film that wants to capitalize on the teen market. There is well thought out comedy, painstaking relationships, the rah-rah bravado of high school sports, the essential prom night, sex, drugs, rock and roll and of course the excitement of working at the coolest place in the mall. This is one of the funniest yet most poignant films about high school and growing up. If you think the Godfather is the Bible of all mafia movies, Halloween is the godfather of horror films and Raiders of the Lost Ark is the pioneer of action films, then you will understand that Fast Times at Ridgemont High is THE original high school flick. For those who think any film released in the late 90's or early 00's ( with the exception of American Pie ) is the best you can get, then please do yourself a favour, see this film. There is no contest. Every idea in todays films has been borrowed from the great ones from only a couple of decades ago. Look no further than this great movie. It is the one to watch.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"disturbing depiction of teens as numb & dumb","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Reviewers who call this a great comedy, must be kidding. This is one of the most depressing movies I've ever seen. I can't tell if the filmmakers intended to make a social commentary on disaffected youth. But surely we're not meant to laugh at the sight of emotionally detached, morally empty teens? Oh, I'm aware that teenagers do stupid things, and I'm not appalled by the portrayal of drug use, sex, etc. These things happen. I *am* appalled by the notion that life-changing events such as losing one's virginity, getting pregnant, or having an abortion can be considered no big deal. These characters don't think before they act, and they don't seem to *feel* anything afterward. This is what disturbs me about Fast Times, and this is what I (thankfully) can't relate to.It's interesting that TV shows like Dawson's Creek were criticized for their supposedly unrealistic depiction of teens with large vocabularies, who made a big deal out of everything, and discussed their feelings. However, at least those kids *had* thoughts and feelings! As an intelligent, sensitive kid, so did I. Guess I didn't have the universal teen experience. But personally I'd rather read or watch a story about adolescents who overanalyze and feel deeply, than one where kids act like unthinking zombies. Shouldn't storytellers encourage growth and depth, rather than perpetuating a shallow way of life?Apparently Cameron Crowe went undercover in a high school and based his story on real events, which, frankly, scares me. Was this truly the '80s generation? Is this the current generation? And when making a film, is it enough to hold up a mirror to reflect society? Or shouldn't the filmmaker go a step further to comment on what he sees? Maybe even try to make the world a better place? True, many viewers are turned off by films that seem preachy, but if writers/directors are skilled enough, I believe they can get a message across effectively. The best stories have a *point*, a lesson to be learned. I cannot figure out what Fast Times is trying to achieve.Other than to gross me out. For instanceA 15 year old girl loses her virginity to an older man she barely knows (who *must* be able to tell she's inexperienced and underage, but doesn't seem to care), outside, while staring at graffiti. Is this supposed to be a comment on how degrading and meaningless sex can be? On the fact that first times are rarely enjoyable, especially if you don't feel anything for the other person? A warning to choose your partner wisely? Perhaps, but it's certainly unpleasant to witness. And difficult to understand why she goes through with it. Stacy moves on to her next sexual partner like she's changing shoes, then casually asks the boy to pay for her abortion, as if she's asking him to buy her a soda. Is this meant to be *humourous* or is it just bad acting? The aftermath of the abortion is also treated like it's no big deal, when in fact it would be a painful process, both emotionally and physically. Should I ignore that and simply praise the film for being brave enough to let a character go through with an abortion when movies/TV tend to push the pro-life agenda? I'm pro-choice, but I still find it unsettling that Fast Times seems to be sending the message that making this choice, and going through the actual physical ordeal, is as easy as pie.Is this movie condoning/glorifying casual sex, casual...everything? Or just...showing it...without taking a moral stance? If so, the filmmakers might be as emotionally detached and ethically bereft as the characters! I have to wonder whether they didn't make their message (if there is one) clear, out of a desire to appeal to the masses, to avoid possibly alienating their target audience with anything too preachy. Could be no noble intent here, merely the use of controversial topics/scenes for shock value, and to get attention/make money.Was the ending a feel-good finale because the nice guy/geek gets the girl? The problem with that is, we never see her grow a brain or have an emotional epiphany about what/who she wants. Stacy just seems to let things happen to her. The conclusion feels as random, empty and pointless as the film in general.I want to praise Phoebe Cates though. She took what could've been a clichéd, one-dimensional role (sexually-experienced, bad-influence best friend) and gave it depth. You can sense that she figured out her character's motivations, and it comes through in her performance. I was most impressed by her scenes, and don't know why Jennifer Jason Leigh gets more critical acclaim - there's nothing going on behind her eyes, and such a blank void/innocence/childlike mental state, only makes her sex scenes seem more exploitative. Unfortunately the film treats Phoebe as a sex object too, with that gratuitous fantasy scene. Phoebe was insecure and sought reassurance about her acting, only to be treated like a bimbo-model. I can understand why she quit the movie business, with all the degrading trash she had to do. Shame she wasn't given more opportunities to prove that she really could act! The other actors made no impression. I didn't find Sean Penn's stoner dude act amusing as it's reputed to be.For the life of me I can't understand why Fast Times At Ridgemont High is hailed as hilarious or the ultimate teen movie. Ironically it evoked reactions in me that were lacking in the film itself, namely it made me THINK and FEEL (despair!) But if you want to laugh and feel good, I'd recommend these truly funny filmsgood-natured goofy fun ADVENTURES IN BABYSITTING (1987), CAN'T HARDLY WAIT (1998)clever, satirical, dark humour HEATHERS (1989), THE CRAFT (1996), SAVED! (2004)great blend of realism & wish-fulfillment, relatable characters and psychological/sociological truth THE BREAKFAST CLUB (1985), SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL (1987) "},{"Title":"For Teenagers Only","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In California, at Ridgemont High, a group of teenagers are looking for something as part of discoveries in their lives the pothead Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn), who is permanently stoned, dreams on becoming a great surfer in Hawaii. His history teacher Mr. Hand (Ray Walston) is giving hard time to him. The fifteen year-old virgin Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh) wants to have sex and her friend Linda Barrett (Phoebe Cates) is her mentor. Her brother Brad Hamilton (Judge Reinhold) works at a fast-food and is paying for his Cadillac. He wants to break with his girlfriend Lisa (Amanda Wyss) now that he is senior to date other girls. The shy Mark 'Rat' Ratner (Brian Backer) is into Stacy and his friend Mike Damone (Robert Romanus) is his mentor. Along the semester, they have surprises and make discoveries about friendship and love.Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a typical film for teenagers only; adults will certainly find it overrated, shallow and silly. The good points are the chance to see a generation of actors and actresses in the beginning of their careers. For example, this movie is the debut of Nicolas Coppola, a.k.a. Nicolas Cage with a brief participation. Another interesting point is how easy is to a fifteen year-old girl to have an induced abortion in a clinic; however, there is no message and the scene loses an opportunity to discuss a polemic theme. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Picardias Estudantis (Knaveries from Students) "},{"Title":"They've got the beat!","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a very special film to me. It's the first high school movie that actually portrayed what REALLY went on inside the schools of the 1980's. What is seen in the movie is not only true and slightly disturbing, but also really funny in ironic ways.The movie shows the interactions of a bunch of high school students, all of which are unforgettable. I was especially very fond of Jennifer Jason Leigh, since she gave a very realistic performance as a 15-year-old high school student who finally gets laid at the beginning of the movie (but later decides that she wanted a real relationship instead of just sex). Sean Penn's performance was arguably the least realistic, but he was hilarious as the doped-out high school dude. And Judge Reinhold (who later on co-starred in the Beverly Hills Cop films) was funny and likable as Jennifer Jason Leigh's older brother.There are many great 80's songs featured in the soundtrack. The very first song, called We Got the Beat, jump-starts the beginning of the film with a blast. Then later on we hear the song Somebody's Baby twice, when Jennifer's character has sex two times with different men. Although the song is a happy song, it can make the sex scenes awkward since Jennifer looked very young for her age. I always had to look away from the screen whenever Jennifer was naked, because she looked too cute! It was disturbing to see at first, but I got over it.The only bad thing about the movie is that it's very short. But it can also be a good thing, since a shorter film means that people can watch it more times in a row. When I first got the DVD, I watched the movie 3 times in one day! It's one of the only movies that I can actually watch many times in a row.Overall, this was a great high-school movie with lots of laughs and memorable moments. And despite the fact that some may get offended by the nudity and the short film duration, the movie will still remain as a cult classic in my book.I give this film a 10/10.P.S Look out for early roles & cameos by Forest Whitaker and Nicholas Cage in this movie!) "},{"Title":"Spicoli Rules!","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH (1982) **** Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold, Phoebe Cates, Ray Walston, Robert Rowanus, Brian Becker, Eric Stoltz, Anthony Edwards, Forest Whitaker, Vincent Schiavelli, Nicolas Cage.  Hilarious and accurate depiction of life in 1980s high school that ranks among the best comedies of angst, anomie and above all - uncertainty - including American Graffiti and Dazed and Confused. Vignettes with a fine ensemble of up and coming stars particularly Leigh (who's never been so innocent) and Penn as stoned surfer Jeff Spicoli (People on ludes should not drive! Hey, Bud, huh, let's party!) is a comic gem of a performance.  Great soundtrack and stable direction by Amy Heckerling and all too-knowing screenplay by future filmmaker Cameron Crowe (Say Anything...).  Best bit Mr. Hand convinced all are on drugs.  Look sharp for Crowe's wife, rock singer Nancy Wilson, as the hot babe Reinhold tries to impress in traffic wearing his fast food pirate outfit. "},{"Title":"Ultimate 80s teen movie...but how good, really?","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" People talk about 'Fast Times At Ridgemont High' being the representative slice-of-life teen comedy for the early 1980s in the same way 'American Graffiti' depicts the early 1960s and 'Dazed And Confused' the mid-70s. 'Fast Times' deserves special kudos because it came out when the times in question were still taking place - in fact 'Fast Times' would go on to define its era as the must-see comedy for those who made up the movie's subject matter back in late '82 and early '83.Here's my problem It's not much of a comedy. Sure, it has funny moments, but it's very downbeat too much of the time. The two main female characters, played by Jennifer Jason-Leigh (Stacy) and Phoebe Cates (Linda), give solid performances but have hardly a true laugh between them, other than Cates' simple action of opening a door. The male characters have their funny scenes, too, but in-between acts of such casual cruelty and harshness that it really doesn't compensate. Here's something to ponder The funniest performance in this film is by a guy whose only other comedies were 'Shanghai Surprise' and 'We're No Angels.' Sean Penn is very good as Spicoli, but he's got the one character you are encouraged to laugh at, him and Ray Walston's Mr. Hand, of course, both hilarious. 'Jefferson was saying if we don't get some cool rules pronto, we'll be bogus, too!' When they aren't in the film, my attention drifts. As a comedy, it's alternately funny and flailing. As a drama, this is an afterschool special with swear words and nudity.'Fast Times' is fun to watch simply for the time-capsule elements. Writer Cameron Crowe really had his ear to the ground as he took measure of a LA-area high school in the guise of a student, and director Amy Heckerling has a clearly sympathetic understanding for the tribal rites of the young. The score is warmed-over '70s mellow guitar rock already past its prime, but offers great songs, none better than Jackson Browne's last great hit, 'Somebody's Baby,' which had its first release on the 'Fast Times' soundtrack (and might be subtitled 'Stacey's Sex Theme' as it shows up whenever she gets it on.) Heckerling doesn't gloss up the sex (the first such scene takes place in a grimy concrete bunker with the memorable graffito 'Surf Nazis' over Stacy's head), and that's to her credit. The film's grittiness works in this way for me because the early '80s seem on retrospect a less innocent time than the earlier eras depicted in the other teen films, the first time in which sex between young people could be truly casual while traditional religious and social strictures seemed to fall mute. In that way, she hits the right notes.But Heckerling accepts this casualness to the point of promulgating it. We see Stacy unabashedly learning about oral sex with a carrot and getting an abortion in which her main source of pain seems to be about getting a ride and money from the guy who knocked her up. With AIDS just around the corner, and a host of moral issues surrounding unbridled sex among minors, I find myself wanting to scream at the screen like Mr. Hand 'What are you people, on dope?'That's a personal issue a lot of 'Fast Times' viewers won't join me in feeling. What I think is a broader problem is the shallowness of the story lines and the characters, how lacking in deeper resonance they are. As Heckerling points out in her joint DVD commentary with Crowe, Mark (Rat) Ratner is someone who finds sex as difficult as others find trigonometry. He's a nerd, and I can relate, so how is it the attractive, sexually active Stacey chooses him and seeks a relationship with him? Hot girls don't chase nerds, simple as that. The film might have tried to flesh out this relationship and offer some explanation why else she likes him other than his awkward smile, his obvious desire, and his willingness to offer her some encouragement after Mr. Vargas' morgue demonstration, but you are left with a couple of half-finished, awkward conversations and the sense that they had to wind up together because they are the lead actors.'Fast Times' is a fun film to watch, but thin as the soles on a pair of checkered loafers. It's the definitive teen film of its time, but 'Valley Girl' and 'Sixteen Candles' have better narratives, 'The Breakfast Club' more interesting characters, and 'Last American Virgin' a stronger ending. If it was just Sean Penn and Ray Walston sitting at Perry's Pizza for ninety minutes, in a sort of 'My Dinner With Spicoli,' I think 'Fast Times' would have been more fun. "}{"Title":"Funny, truthful and very much the best of breed 80's high school picture.","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Teenagers start becoming aware of sex, relationships and the need to earn extra cash in this slice-of-life high-school tale.A film that will probably not be done any justice by me or any better reviewer for the simple reason that so much of what goes on has been done so many times since. But I still believe this is the best schoolyard melodrama around and it still makes me laugh with its home truths and clever one lines.(You want romance, we can't even get cable TV!)Sean Penn is a standout as the stoned surfer who, sadly, lives nowhere near the sea. I don't believe any teacher would take time to go around anyone's house (as here) to continue the lessons, but it is a funny scene! What was presented here was taken as a model for other films that tried to boost up the sex, comedy or drama - but this film is a lesson in balance and stepping lightly that others missed. Nothing is too big a deal - not even abortion.Fast Times was a lot of fun when I saw it twenty years ago and is still fun today. True many of the actors went on to do even better work, so it is great to see them when they still had their own front teeth and even a bit of puppy fat.This is especially true of the great Jennifer Jason Leigh - one of the best American actresses of her generation. Not great here, simply very good. "},{"Title":"Of the genre - could be worse","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not a fan of the teenage/high school genre, which seems to be a uniquely American thing. Thus I approached this with some trepidation and whilst my worst fears were not confirmed I remain unconvinced about the genre.There is little by way of plot; just a few months in the lives of the characters who range across the usual types to be found in this type of film. As with teen movies the focus is firmly on the males - they are the only ones allowed any variation of character. The girls always seem to be the same one-dimensional cardboard cutouts whilst the males are allowed to range from crazy to lazy and nerdish to pervish. In particular, the scenes immediately before and after a visit to the abortion clinic suggest that undergoing such a process leaves no physical or mental scars and is about on a par with a visit to the dentist for a check-up. Thus it's fair to say that the film is sexist - surprising given that it's directed by a woman.On the upside there are some good lines - particularly the comment about romance in Ridgemont In Ridgemont? It's not even easy to get cable TV in Ridgemont (or something like that). And Sean Penn makes the whole thing tolerable.Is age and generation something to do with appreciating this type of film? I am a great fan of American Graffiti - it's more or less my generation. And why did I find myself rooting for Mr Hand in his battle with Scipoli?! I tend to follow Roger Ebert's and James Berardinelli's reviews and it's interesting to compare them on this film as they usually tend to have similar reactions. Berardinelli was fine with it seeing it as a reflection of his own generation, whilst Ebert hated it. And, of course, Ebert is from a much earlier generation.If you have 90 minutes and time is hanging heavy then you could do worse (unless, I suspect, you are an American at high school in the eighties in which case you'll probably appreciate it much more).Pass the zimmer frame, nurse. "},{"Title":"The best parts of this movie are between the lines","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a classic. it is such a classic, that when people use the word 'classic' to describe a movie, the benchmark for that distinction should be something which stems from this movie. ironically, 'classic' is a slang term i would expect to come right out of the mouth of SPICOLI, the movie's lovable surfer/stoner whose performance was only grazed and approximated by BRAD PITT in TRUE ROMANCE. but i digress.the most important thing about this movie to me, and it's been a number of years since i've seen it, is what lies between the lines. CROWE is an awesome writer. the character DAMONE spouts one liners about chicks and broads like he's been getting' it on since kindergarten. but an acute eye will notice a new swagger to his walk the day after his pool house romp with STACY, which anyone who's ever lost their virginity will tell you can only mean one thing. Did anyone catch this was his first time?and then there's LINDA BARRETT, who is allegedly dating a 40 year old pilot or something and pedantically informs STACY that their love-making sessions typically last about 45 minutes and they always climax together. am i the only person who recognizes that she has never had sex and has learned everything she thinks she knows from the pages of COSMOPOLITAN?If it's been a while since you've indulged, you should watch this movie again. hell, I should watch this movie again -- if only to find other brilliant subtle aspects which permeate what is possibly the most quintessential high school movie of all times. how cool would it be to have the distinction of having been a part of such a thing? my hat is off to you CAMERON, and AMY HECKERLING as well (along with all the on-screen talent). Perhaps it requires the sensitivity of a female director to convey the discreet nuances of what appears on the surface to be an otherwise obvious movie, giving it depth, and vaulting it to the esteemed level of a CLASSIC everyone should see. "},{"Title":"Dude!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film really takes me back. A lot of it rang so true, even to my high school in Texas in the mid '70's. The basis seems to be that these children are facing too many adult pressures, trying to grow up too fast. I was that way, too. Although I didn't realize it at the time, it was a wonderful time to grow up. The war was over, as was the draft. It was a great time for sex, drugs, and rock 'n' roll. It was before the twin scourges of AIDS and crack that turned society away from the personal freedoms (more or less) that were won earlier. The film is quite comedic, but also dips into rather edgy territory. It was great seeing all these talented and (now) famous actors at the dawn of their careers. Enough has been said about Penn. There was Anthony Edwards with hair! Could be Judge Reinhold's best work. Ray Walston was perfect as Mr. Hand, very poignant in light of his recent death. Best of all, though, were the girls. Jennifer Jason Leigh was awesome. Her sweet, young, innocent look was perfect for Stacy. (She looked great naked, too!) And Pheobe Cates. She was, and actually still is, so beautiful. And her red bikini scene in Brad's fantasy will live forever. She has more than just beauty, though, tons of sweetness and charm. I'm sure most everyone has seen this film. It is the quintessential high school film of the time.  "},{"Title":"American Graffiti for the 1980s Crowd.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny and highly dramatic at the same time, Fast Times at Ridgemont High was released shortly before the AIDS scare of the 1980s. This is the last real film that deals with the innocence of adolescents in a world where risks were becoming greater and prices were becoming higher for younger age groups. Ridgemont is just a typical early-1980s high school in California. There are the pot-smoking surfer slackers, (Sean Penn, Anthony Edwards and Eric Stoltz), the shy and compassionate ticket-taker at the local movie theater (Brian Backer), the working class hot-shots (Judge Reinhold, Nicolas Coppola and Scott Thomson), the sneaky ticket-scalper (Rick Romanus), the all-world football player (Forest Whitaker) and then there are the naive young girls (Phoebe Cates and Jennifer Jason Leigh) who think they know everything, but do not know half of what they think they know. Their paths will sometimes cross and sometimes not in this comedy that is harsh due to its strong dramatic elements. Drug-abuse, under-age drinking, under-age sex, abortions, destruction of property, the list goes on. Fast Times at Ridgemont High pushes the envelope on growing up in America in the 1980s. Teens love the film because they relate to the silly situations shown here, while many older adults shy away because they do not want to open their eyes to what really goes on with America's youth. The film is an educational tool that is covered with a light candy shell. When you get to its core it is a somewhat disturbing film that is about any high school in the U.S.A. A revolutionary film that is almost a complete success, but does have many shortcomings admittedly. Sometimes the tastefulness of the film-makers must come into question here, but most things are warranted. And let there be a warning the activities in Fast Times at Ridgemont High are tame by today's standards for high school people. Ray Walston is solid as a history professor. Nicolas Coppola would later become Oscar-winner Nicolas Cage and of course Sean Penn and Jennifer Jason Leigh are two of the cinema's finest performers today. 3.5 out of 5 stars.     "},{"Title":"Pizza Guy","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie came out right before my Freshman year and I still remember someone asking me to deliver a pizza to them in the classroom. I brought the pizza to the door, but was too chicken to enter the room and hand the pizza over lol. But, the idea came from this movie. When I first saw this it excited me about High School life which I was about to begin in a year or so. I also became a huge Zeppelin fan as you can hear Kashmir playing in the car ride. It's been many years since I've seen this, but still remember many scenes. And that girl by the pool, well let's just say I watched that scene many times while rewinding the VCR. Great flick! "},{"Title":"The Original Teen Sex Comedy","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times at Ridgemont High is one of those films, even if it was made before you were born, you have heard of it in some way. It is so referenced to society and some of it's scenes are legendary. I was watching I love the 80's and they showed some pretty funny clips, so it was always on my mind to give this movie a look. I finally remembered to rent it at Hollywood Video and watched it last night. Although I'm not sure I laughed as much as others would have, I still liked this film for some reason. Just because I think in one way or another you could relate to it and remember how hard it was being a teenager.We have Stacey and Linda, two hot young high school students who are very sex deprived and look to make this year their best ever. Mike who is chasing after Stacy and looking to have a meaningful relationship with her. Brad, a senior who is looking to make his last year the best but plans turn out to be different when everything turns on him. Then of course we have Jeff Spacolli, the stoner surfer dude who manages to finally let a teacher, Mr. Hand, have his own.Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a classic teen comedy that I would highly recommend. It is all in good fun and was just so much fun to watch. The cast looked like they had so much fun and the movie just looked like a blast to make. It's understandable on why this film's legacy lives on, this was the movie to watch before American Pie and it's always a joy to stick to the original, trust me. Even though this film had it's stupid moments, I gotta admit I couldn't help but laugh at Spacolli's line What's that noise?...It's my skull!, we're proud of you, Sean.7/10 "},{"Title":"Delirious Penn!!","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Along with Porky's First times at... is one of the funniest movies about brainless American teenagers full of hormone. It's more politically incorrect than most of nowadays teen-comedies (such as Road trip or American Pie, unless this one was made 24 years ago.A good soundtrack full of 80's MTV rock and loads of hilarious sequences (most of them performed by Sean Penn and his dumb surfer character). Also we got Jennifer Jason Leigh in one of her first main roles.+My rate 7/10-------------------------------------------- "},{"Title":"Ah, high school...those were the days.  Especially since everyone just might be stoned!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sean Penn, Phoebe Cates, Forest Whitaker, and a very young Nicolas Cage all showed off their acting talents in the wacky Fast Times at Ridgemont High, about several high school students and the various things going on in their lives. Probably the funniest scenes are what stoned surf dude Jeff Spicoli (Penn) does in stern Mr. Hand's (Ray Walston) class, but that scene where the one guy fantasizes about Linda Barrett (Cates) - resulting in an embarrassing situation - is also a hoot.All in all, this is one movie that will never get old, even if it did spawn a zillion imitations. I can guarantee that you're going to like it. I just wish that I could have experienced the whole thing. So let's party, dude! "},{"Title":"The DVD was like sitting on the shelf saying, Hey bud, lets party","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This teen movie set in the 1980s and sending up the 1980s was actually made in the 1980s. Well as teen movies goes it has the followingHooters Virgin who loose their virginity Teenage sex Slightly crazy teacher Hooters A stoner Virgins who remain virgins And of course more hooters.But like Saturday night fever it also has a story that has true elements and characters that you really care about.The crazy teacher is someone you like as much as you like to make fun of. The virgins don't delve don't go into a long self analysis before having or not having sex, they just do or do not have sex. There are no horrible jocks to be destroyed, only one jock hero who is fooled into being an even greater hero.And except one scene with bare breasts the nudity is integral to the story. Why is this, because Cameron Crowe wrote a book based on his time in school as a young looking 25 year old journalist. The movie hasn't aged because it takes the characters journey's very seriously and many of these themes still exist today. In addition it does not take the 1980s seriously. In fact as I watched it I had to check the release date to make sure it wasn't a late 1990s movie sending up the 1980s.Some disappointments come from some of the characters and their relationship never really developing but this is a result of an author documenting what he sees around him rather than projecting himself into the characters.Certainly one of the more interesting teen movies to be made, real in an unpretentious way...It is like if Crowe didn't write it as he saw it, it would be bogus and then the movie would be bogus too. "}{"Title":"A pure Classic","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. The story is true to life, the characters are like people you went to school with, and the laughs keep on coming. Its got drama, romance, comedy, its great. They couldn't have provided a better cast. Jeff Spicoli is definitely my fave character in the film. Without Sean Penn this film would have been faltered but he is the saving grace. Providing most of the comic relief even in some not so funny situations. Great soundtrack, acting everything, this movie is a straight up classic and if you haven't seen it i think there may be something wrong with you. Get out and buy it its worth it to have it in your movie collection. Killers54 "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that Fast Times at Ridgemont High is the best 80's coming of age movie ever made. Every school needs a student like Jeff Spicoli (played by Sean Penn) and every school needs a fifteen-year-old wanting to explore into the young world of sex. Every girl wants to, they just won't admit it because they think they'll be called a slut. And there is always a dork who likes some girl and doesn't have the balls to ever tell her. Basically it couldn't get any better. It's got the best actors, music, and story plot. Plus, what school isn't fit without the biggest dick teacher, Mr. Hand. The guy gets off on ruining peoples lives. Everybody has a teacher like that. So like I said, it couldn't get any better. "},{"Title":"Any Comparison To American Pie Gives Pause","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've been listening to an inordinate number of people attempting to favorably compare the God-awful, juvenile American Pie to Fast Times for awhile now.Which is of course, an insult to the seminal latter no pun intended.I just watched Fast Times again yesterday, for probably the 20th or so time, and it still soars above anything even John Hughes did while he was semi-hip.And if a single actor from Pie EVER achieves the success of Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Forest Whitaker, Eric Stoltz, Anthony Edwards or even Phoebe Cates, feel free to mail-bomb me.Wow ~ and nary a toilet joke!This one's the masterpiece of the genre. "},{"Title":"Any Comparison To American Pie Gives Pause","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've been listening to an inordinate number of people attempting to favorably compare the God-awful, juvenile American Pie to Fast Times for awhile now.Which is of course, an insult to the seminal latter no pun intended.I just watched Fast Times again yesterday, for probably the 20th or so time, and it still soars above anything even John Hughes did while he was semi-hip.And if a single actor from Pie EVER achieves the success of Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Forest Whitaker, Eric Stoltz, Anthony Edwards or even Phoebe Cates, feel free to mail-bomb me.Wow ~ and nary a toilet joke!This one's the masterpiece of the genre. "},{"Title":"About the embarrassments of being a teenager","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What began life as a undercover writing assignment for infant terrible Cameron Crowe (a baby-faced 20-something who went back to high school impersonating a student) becomes a surprisingly serious-minded comedy about the embarrassments of being a teenager. Opening scenes at the Southern California shopping mall, scanning the rear-ends of the video playing kids in their designer jeans, shows an almost-documentary feel for teen life. Director Amy Heckerling relishes these little throw-away moments, excelling with her attentive eyes and ears, but eventually the 'plot' kicks in...and the movie's satiric juice leaks out. The characters, while not clichés or actual stereotypes, are well-portrayed by a talented cast (and their dialogue is often funny), but once we begin to follow them around--experiencing their foibles, mostly sexual--Heckerling loses the early promise. I much preferred the realistic working lives of these kids over their dull love lives. Phoebe Cates and Jennifer Jason Leigh create a relaxed, lived-in friendship that seems to go back a ways, and of course Sean Penn rarely hits a false note as an overly tanned, perpetually-high surfer dude. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Fast Times at Ridgemont High","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Solid comedy that will stand the test of time. Fine script by future director Crowe and stand out performances from Penn, Leigh, Cates and Walston make this a non stop laugh riot. Walston also starred in the short lived television series based on the film.  "},{"Title":"Exploring the Teenage Experience","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Three seminal films of the seventies and eighties explored the high school experience Grease (1978), The Breakfast Club (1985), and this film--Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982).Each of these films dealt with the common themes of the high school experience and the issues that confront all teens. Such films are, of course, coming of age stories, with teens discovering where they fit in socially. And learning about sexuality and the awkwardness of first experiences.Fast Times is packed with wonderful performances, but the central characters are a brother and sister--Brad Hamilton (Judge Reinhold) and Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh). Both hold part-time jobs and are learning valuable lessons about the benefits and vagaries of employment. Brad has a regular girlfriend, but is beginning to feel he is too young to commit exclusively. Stacy feels she lacks the sexual experience of her peers, so she considers forcing the issue.Fast Times defines the school cliques of its time, just like the other two films. Teens want to belong, to find acceptance, and director Amy Heckerling does a good job of exposing the vulnerability that results from their longing.The film is also a comedy. Some of the funniest scenes revolve around Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn), whose portrayal of the wasted surfer dude is pure genius. His foil is Mr. Hand (Ray Walston), the opinionated and strict American History teacher who makes it his job to stand up to the Spicoli's. He is to Spicoli what Mr. Rooney is to Ferris Bueller, but with more caring. He is not trying to force his students to follow the rules because he seeks power; he is hoping to teach them some things about life and responsibility.Ms. Heckerling's vision for the film was unflinching, including some graphic scenes that were cut to avoid an X rating. But the expurgated version still addresses tough teen issues head on. Older viewers will recognize the situations and identify with the characters' feelings. "},{"Title":"The Spirit of the Eighties in One Movie","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are a lot of budding stars all around this film. As this is a fairly slow-paced movie, I suggest you make a point of it to count all of them. Make sure not to miss a young Nick Cage, who is listed in the credits under his birth name, Nicolas Coppola (yes, he is related to that Coppola; he changed his name to avoid (justified?) charges of nepotism. He, of course, later won an Academy Award. So did Forrest Whittaker. Sean Penn won two.Let's talk about Penn's character for a bit. He is a stoned California surfer dude that serves as the main comedy for this film. Is he funny on his own right? Yes; yes he is. He steals every scene he is in and shows the sort of charisma that you just cannot fake. The scenes he shares with the strict history teacher, Mr. Hands, are the some of the funniest I've seen in any eighties film, and that is saying something.But it is far funnier considering that he is played by Mr. Dramatic Sean Penn. When I first watched this film, I had never seen him portray anything comedic or even close to it. And I have to say, it caught me off-guard. You wouldn't think a man who would be more fit for Shakespearean drama could make you laugh so hard at his dumb jokes. But it works. All hail Mr. Penn.This film, like a lot of Mr. Crowe's work, does not rely on the typical three-act structure to keep you interested. It just takes you along, like the waves that Sean Penn's character surfs, and takes you into these people's lives. The atmosphere is not as palpable and moving as it is in Almost Famous, but it's there nonetheless. You feel for all these people's lives and ambitions as you ride with them through the year. The characters feel dramatified, but in a way that increases their humanity instead of obscuring it. The situations feel real I look at this film and think, Yeah; that's what it's like. If I had to give this film a personal score, I'd probably give it full points. This is exactly what I want to see from a high school movie; and even more than that, I have developed a sort of personal connection with it. The first time I sat down for a viewing, I was a high school student myself, and I was spellbound. There is a certain authenticity that's lacking in many high school movies, even many good ones. For one of very few times in my life, I felt like I was watching a high school movie that was made by people who had actually been in high school. The tone hits the sweet spot between cool indifference and passionate shenanigans.For the life of me, I will never understand those who think this movie to be overly graphic. Yes, there is some sex in it. So be it. If there weren't sex, people would be missing the point of the film. It got an R; leave it alone. Now, why a film specifically and accurately showing the day-to-day activities of teens could not be seen by a lone teen is a different matter altogether. But nonetheless, the moral outrage this film caused is quaint and frankly weird. Remember, Animal House came out four years earlier. I'd love to time travel back to this film's release date and laugh at all the critics, including one man I greatly respect, the late Roger Ebert, who gave this film a one-star-rating in one of this most questionable decisions ever.But if this did break new ground, then applause to it. And I have to admit, I think it did, particularly for a film of this nature. Whereas most of its eighties contemporaries now seem old fashioned and slightly uncomfortable, this film still feels refreshing and relevant. I don't know whether that is more because this movie took more risks or because or society has not progressed as far as I would have liked, but it is worth noting nonetheless.And a result, the reactions are sort of flipped nowadays, at least from I've seen. The movies that were judged racy but acceptable at the date of release are now looked down upon by some, while movies like this have steadily been gaining their reputation as classics.As it just me, or should Crowe try television? The flow of his movies is more like a weekly series. I think he'd do well. It'd certainly be worth a shot after producing no great films in the last fifteen years. But likely, his lack of success has less to do with that and more to do with him not having personal experience, which seems to be a necessity for him. Those years at Rolling Stone made him director material. They also gave him an impressive library of music that he makes great use of in his films.I love Crowe. But he's not a perfect scriptwriter. And nor is Amy Heckerling, who actually directed this, a perfect director. And if I have to be brutally honest, some of the non-Penn performances feel a little stale. But this is definitely a movie with a lot to say and depict. If you want to know what was popular in the eighties, check out Ferris Bueller of BTTF. But if you want to experience the eighties, go watch this film. "},{"Title":"A Enduring Classic About Teen-age Life","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cameron Crowe's screenplay that was based on his undercover expose about life at a public high school in Southern California became a great film and an enduring classic in Fast Times At Ridgemont High.Sean Penn had a star-making performance in it that catapulted him to one of the best actor of his generation.Also,we get to see debuts of popular actors such as Anthony Edwards,Nicolas Cage and Eric Stolz.Also,we get to see memorable performances from Phoebe Cates and Jennifer Jason Leigh.Aside from the performances,the viewer is treated an expose of poignant and laughable episodes that features lives of high school students from inside the classroom,outside the school and the different perspectives they have as they prepare for life after high school.Overall,it was a great movie about an examination of teen-age life. "},{"Title":"Delightfully High!","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Written by Cameron Crowe & Adapted from his 1981 book of the same name, 'Fast Times at Ridgemont High' is an unbelievably engaging comedy-classic, that doesn't fail to amuse or entertain even after 3 decades since its release. Its great fun & is unabashedly High!'Fast Times at Ridgemont High' Synopsis A group of Southern California high school students are enjoying their most important subjects sex, drugs and rock n' roll.'Fast Times at Ridgemont High' is about kids, who explore life as it comes. Its nostalgic, but at its heart, its a coming-of-age film, which bonuses from its hilarious narrative. The characters range from wild to wicked, but they are so well-written, that its not hard not to love them. I was captivated by their journey. Crowe's Screenplay is pure genius, offering hilarious moments almost throughout. Amy Heckerling's Direction is perfect. Cinematography captures the craziness, competently. Editing is sharp. Performance-Wise Sean Penn is legendary here. Easily in his funniest role till date, the prolific actor pitches in a haywire act, that'a simply unforgettable. Jennifer Jason Leigh is fantastic. Phoebe Cates is excellent, in her most popular role to date. Judge Reinhold is first-rate. Robert Romanus excels. Brian Backer is good. The Late/Great Ray Walston stands out.On the whole, 'Fast Times at Ridgemont High' works big time! Go, laugh out loud! "}{"Title":"It's a Fast Time Watching this Movie","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although I didn't LOVE the film, I honestly wanted more of it when it was over; Fast Times is a good coming of age movie with its own quirky tone that sets it aside from films like Dazed and Confused or American Graffiti.One main difference between this film and the others mentioned is that this film covers an entire school year while Dazed and Confused and American Graffiti deal with the events in a town over the course of one day. The time flies by in this film as the editing uses hard cuts to transition to scenes which occur weeks or months later.Comedy comes from all types of characters in this film, making it a great deal of fun. One of the funniest moments in the film is a famous one which I had no idea was a fantasy scene - Brad Hamilton imagines his sister's friend taking off her top and walking towards him. She catches him in the act, and it makes for a very awkward situation.Even the serious characters, like Mr. Hand, bring life to the story. His interactions with Sean Penn's character are like separate quirky battles between the two of them.I don't really get why Sean Penn is billed first in the credits - the main characters, at least in my eyes, are Stacy Hamilton and Rat. However, I do have to admit parts with Sean Penn are some of the funniest in the movie, though Penn seems to overdo the stoner voice. The ending of the film was one of the best Sean Penn parts of the movie, which I will not reveal since it is a great moment which becomes a big payoff for a particular character.Overall, the film is funny, light-hearted, and while there are many elements to the movie it goes by in a flash, just like the title states; it truly is the perfect title for the film. "},{"Title":"A really funny movie...","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really like this movie. I actually re-watched it again last night, just so it would be fresh in my mind for this review. It's a very funny movie, with a lot of sex and nudity, but in a fun way. It's not classy or tasteful, but it's not a perverted porn, either. This movie is definitely not kid-friendly. Every time someone opens their mouth their either talking about wanting to get laid, talking about practicing blow-jobs, and pregnancies and abortions, and then has very unsubtle references to pot. But then again, I don't think they were trying to be subtle.This movie takes place in Ridgemont, focusing on teenagers from Ridgemont High. It spans about a year throughout the movie, so Fast Times is right. We meet a group of teenagers, some guys, some girls. Some dorks, some average nice guys, and one really douchey pervert of a guy. We also have Spicoli, my personal favorite character. He's always stoned, but he's very friendly and very nice. Some of them are looking for love, some of them are looking for sex, some of them are just pigs and one of them just wants to party.Overall, I give movie a 7 out of 10, which in my ratings book is Great. "},{"Title":"The overall movie","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times is a perfect example of what good writing, directing, and acting can do. This film has moments of pure honesty that I've never seen before in a teen comedy. If you're a teenager, you'll love it, at least you should. I never met anyone who saw it and didn't like it. Also, little kids should not see it. It talks about things and shows things that they're not ready for yet. it has great parts for example when Spicoli orders pizza to the classroom and the teacher gets very mad. it just shows how high school was back then in California. which looked like a lot of fun. the film also, used a lot f the techniques that most movies do. for example, they would fade from scene to scene. but overall, this was a great movie and should be watched by teens all over. "},{"Title":"Don't Take The Basic Cable Version Seriously","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I graduated a southern California high school in 1977, which is essentially the location and time period of this movie. It's incredibly on the mark. But your mileage may vary, and I'll let the other reviews cover that. My purpose here is to reveal the horror which I just witnessed on a basic cable showing of Fast Times.This movie earned an initial 'X' rating from the MPAA when first submitted, and after a few cuts garnered an 'R' for its release. The movie I saw on basic cable this morning would barely rate PG. Massive cuts and edits were evident all through the film. Entire scenes were removed. The dialog was edited so that you'd think it was made in the 1950's. The hilarious masturbation scene was edited in such a way that it appeared Linda walked in on Brad while he was peeing. (They actually ran the film backwards during this scene.) Even some of the musical soundtrack had changed, due to rights issues I'd guess.My point is, if you've only seen this movie on basic cable, you really haven't seen this movie. The version I saw today was on A&E, and they just butchered it. Things like that should be illegal. "},{"Title":"Fast Times at Ridgemont High","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" National Lampoon's Animal House was a fantastic sex obsessed teen comedy, Porky's wasn't, and American Pie years later revamped it, and this one came in between, from writer Cameron Crowe (Jerry Maguire) and director Amy Heckerling (Clueless). Basically this film follows the students of a Southern Califonian high school, Ridgemont High, who go through all forms of insightful, sympathetic and of course funny growing up, or coming of age. So Stacy Hamilton (Road to Perdition's Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Mark 'Rat' Ratner (Brian Backer) are both looking for a love interest, Stacy has experienced friend Linda Barrett (Gremlins' Phoebe Cates) to help, and Rat has sleazy Mike Damone (Robert Romanus). Stacy's dorky senior student brother Brad Hamilton (Beverly Hills Cop's Judge Reinhold) is struggling to keep a job and also has deal with his girlfriend dumping him, but he picks himself up slowly. In the centre of all of this is constantly stoned surfer dude student Jeff Spicoli (young Sean Penn) is struggling to keep up with his studies, and has a little head on with history teacher Mr. Hand (Ray Walston), who thinks all students are on dope. The poignant moment in Stacy's story, besides practising giving a blow-job on a carrot, is when she and Mike have sex, and she ends up pregnant and needing money for an abortion, but Mike doesn't help at all. Rat of course finds out and gains to courage to stick up for himself, Linda is also very angry and punishes Mike with constant Prick abuse, don't worry, everything settles when it comes to the end of high school and the prom, oh, and Spicoli learns his lesson from Mr. Hand. In the end, Brad saves the day in his new job at the mini-mart, Mike is arrested for the flogging of tickets, odd teacher Mr. Vargas (Vincent Schiavelli) switches back to coffee, Linda attends college living with a doctor, Stacy and Rat are together having a love affair with no sex, Mr. Hand still thinks all students are on dope, and Spicoli saved Brooke Shields from drowning, but blew the reward money on getting Van Halen to play at his birthday party. Also starring Scott Thomson as Arnold, young Forest Whitaker as Charles Jefferson, Eric Stoltz as Stoner Bud, Anthony Edwards as Stoner Bud, and look out for young Nicolas Cage, then credited with the surname Coppola, being the nephew of Francis Ford, as Brad's Bud. At times is has the same style as American Pie with young people wanting to lose their virginity, but seeing the consequences of some of their decisions is much more dignified, and seeing all the then mostly unknowns doing it is really fun. The casting, especially Penn as the early Beavis and Butthead / Bill and Ted style incarnation, is fantastic, the situations presented are both there to make you laugh, and at times feel for the characters, so it is not just a typical teen comedy, it is certainly a must see. It was number 87 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs, and it was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments for Reinhold's daydream with Cates removing her red bikini bra coming out of the swimming pool. Very good! "},{"Title":"Hey Bud, Let's Party","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like Office Space, Fast Times deserves a spot in a time capsule. Great comedy-drama sympathizes with it's characters plights. Great Characters especially Mr. Hand. Sean Penn will be most remembered for his role as Jeff Spicolli the forever stoned surfer dude. For the most part a great soundtrack. Early stop for future stars Forest Whitaker and Nicolas Cage. The edited television version makes no sense removing key scenes and replacing them with cutting room floor footage. A lame short lived TV series followed. Television couldn't be as edgy as this movie is. Nonetheless a great movie all around. Better than most of the teen movies of it's time or any other. "},{"Title":">>>Blast times back in the day<<<","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now, ah let's see...that's it 1982, wow! What a time to be alive and bumpin' around. Ronald Reagan in office, everyone was scared of the 'Reds'! Heck we were just out of the seventies practically, things were totally different dude. Faasst Times at Ridgemeont High..writing on the wall as Sammy Hagar, the red rocker belted out, in regard to a bunch of heinous teens, with hormonal issues. They thought they knew it all...it turns out they were just out of their heads!! Sean Penn from everything I heard about the making of this was actually living in 'Spicoli' he said. Who would have thought, crazy Sean would have been this good, back then!? Surfin' lazy, Van Halen wannabe rocker who just wants a cool brew and some good 'bud' to share with a bud. This group of misfits that rounded out this little comedic HIGH-school whip of a movie, were new, wet behind the ears, pimpled and well..into everything, and the perfect fit for Ridgemont High School. I have seen this many times from when the theater opened it back in 82'. Still, it has the same feel as it had then. It's like the stoner's movie about nothing and for the masses in the high school cast that's where most ended up. No worries though, everyone learned a little something about high school, recreational drugs, beer, lust and maybe if they were fortunate...'life'. The portrayal of the lives of these teenage growing 'pains' was along what I saw in school back then, since I entered high school a year later. It was a different time and way of life then. The eighties had it all! This movie has a fantastic line up of talent. Who could forget Ray Walston as the irreverent and ever-anal Mr. Hand, always irritated with Jeff's behavior, no matter how cool Jeff would be trying to play it off. Mr. Hand asks Jeff as he enters class after the tardy bell, Mr.HAND Mr. Spicoli, why are you continually late to my class? SPICOLI (thinks, puzzled) I DUNNO. Mr. HAND Well class I am going to write his words on the chalk board for all to see. Mr.HAND- Mr. Hand will I pass you class? (without hesitation) Gee Mr. Spicoli...I don't know? Spicoli Huh huh huh, cool.There is of course a ton more great comedic 'short-shots' in this one... The new digitally remastered DVD is especially good with bonus features to view. If you haven't seen this in a while it is a treat to behold. Ahh, the days of naive ignorance and a whole lot of fun!! Recommended for ex-high schoolers and current schoolers too. The Spirit bunny- cheer leaders had mondo spirit, so give me an 'F' give me an 'A' give me an 'S' give me a 'T' well, okay you get the rest, so go already and pick this classic up again and sit down plug in blast back to 19 hundred 82 two, light-up, drop-out and most of all enjoy the fast 'times'. (****) "},{"Title":"Look, Rashomon this isn't, but ...","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ... Fast Times is certainly the quintessential teen comedy of its day, though I stop a bit short of making the common generational mistake of proclaiming its virtues paramount over every teen comedy made since; no doubt the teen comedies of each generation speak to that generation and are largely lost on the others.What separates this from the others, IMHO, is its treatment of sexuality. The scene in which Jennifer Jason Leigh's character loses her virginity should be required viewing for teens, nudity or no, because teen sex can be *exactly* that awkward, abrupt and unfulfilling (and apparently JJL insisted on filming it exactly that way and exactly that explicitly for exactly those reasons); it's worth a hundred abstinence lectures from smarmy middle-aged moralists.It's a funny movie, but it's also an honest and a true one.7/10. "},{"Title":"The best teen movie of all time!!!!!","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie came out 24 years ago, and I remember watching Siskel & Ebert when they were still on PBS' Sneak Previews just completely trash this movie. They said the acting was poor, the plot sucked and they used every excuse in the book to show sexual situations. I was 9 at the time, and never saw the movie until my teen years sometime in the late '80s. I was like, Are Siskel and Ebert on drugs? First of all, the acting is great. Just look at the roster Judge Reinhold, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Phoebe Cates, Forrest Whitaker, Sean Penn, Ray Walston, the curly-haired teacher dude. All of whom had either established an acting legacy or were about to launch quite the acting pedigree. The plot sucked? It's HIGH SCHOOL!!! That IS the plot. A year in the life of teenagers. Every excuse in the book to show sexual situations? It's HIGH SCHOOL!!! High school is FOUR YEARS of sexual situations. Where did Siskel & Ebert go to high school? The ultimate litmus test to this movie's greatness is that, 24 years after it came out, we still have hardly a day go by without myself or someone else quoting a line from this movie. Spicoli All I need are some tasty waves. Make up your mind, dude, is he gonna s--t or is he gonna kill us? Brad Mister, if you don't shut up I'm gonna kick one hundred percent of your a**! Doesn't anyone f***ing knock any more? And, of course, there's the Phoebe Cates bikini-top scene, which needs no introduction. No doubt about it, a definite 10 out of 10, and one of my all-time classic movies. "},{"Title":"Best movie since Porky's!","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie got a lot of talks in the 80's. Though I was only a kid, a lot of fashion sense was big. So was the music too. Pat Benatar was big, the look topped Fawcett's look big time. What rocked this movie the most is the cast. The stars were well chosen, and the plot was very obvious. However, there were some changes like in Porky's where this young girl named Stacy(Jennifer Jason Leigh) gets advice from her friend Linda(Phoebe Cates) that are anything but straight-forward. Her brother Brad(Judge Reinhold) is a big man on campus who is determined to make it big. In his case, the restaurant business is like a bad light bulb. The burger joint is sizzling away, and the seafood place was man overboard in his eyes. The memorable scenes is the pool with Phoebe Cates coming out and open her bikini top out to him in the dream, and the self-love scene is funny. Oh Boy! Then the other pool scene when Stacy have sex with Ratner's(Brian Backer) friend. And Forrest Whittaker had the cool 70's Camaro, which gets wrecked by Spicolli(Sean Penn), the surfer bum. That fueled him up to kick Lincoln High's butt in the football game. I would be mad myself if my car was vandalized and wrecked. Ray Walston did his fine work at playing History teacher Mr. Hand. He was very hardcore, yet very obscure when he thinks everyone is on dope. Preposterous! This movie is a lot of fun, it makes Porky's look like soft porn, however, that movie is highly recommendable too. Class dismissed! 4 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Teen cult film classic Learn it, know it, watch it","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film has been called one of the better of a disreputable genre, which is exactly right. No one (at least no healthy male ) should miss Phoebe Cates and Jennifer Jason Leigh's famous nude scenes, or Sean Penn's unforgettable performance as stoner Spicoli, with his classic one-line summary of Thomas Jefferson. Cameron Crowe made up the characters based on real teens from his year as an undercover high school senior. His script shows a rare ear for teen dialog and absurd situations. The film launched Sean Penn's long (some would say too long) and Phoebe Cates' short (some would say too short) careers.Fast Times is an early classic of the film genre best represented by the John Hughes flicks of the late 80s (Molly Ringwald, Ferris Bueller). Unlike the gross-out Porky's or later slick ripoffs like Scream and American Pie, this movie is both funny and bittersweet. The whole teen-twenties category captured the late Boomers/Gen-X-er's struggling into adulthood without adult guidance, which is the subtext of Crowe's fast times - kids growing up too fast. Neither Crowe nor director Amy Heckerling offer explicit morals here, but the standard question of postwar American life - where *are* your parents? - floats in the background. As in Almost Famous, Crowe delivers devastating judgments without being the least preachy. Fast Times was released in 1982, at just the moment when American culture was leaving behind the decadent 70s and the Boomers were starting to have their own kids. Definitely a funny-sad snapshot of a bygone time.http//home.earthlink.net/~donzig/Ferris_Saves/ "},{"Title":"80's Timeless Time Capsule","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold and Phoebe Cates star in one of the great 80's coming of age comedies. Fast Times at Ridgemont High is Clueless meets Valley Girl. Timeless throughout the generations, this is still a popular movie with the youth market. The typical storyline of drugs, music, sex, friendship, school work and part time jobs is real and emotional for this high school cast. Most teen movies fail to capture the truth of growing up under the giant umbrella of peer pressure. Unlike most of the pop-culture junk that was produced in the 1990's, Fast Times at Ridgemont High is real. From the amazing 80's soundtrack to the wardrobe that the cast dresses in, this movie is like a time capsule. People of this generation can still relate to what it was like growing up in the early 80's in small town / California esq. society. Last but not least, Phoebe Cates will live for a thousand years with her innocent, yet provocative swimming pool / dream sequence. What teenage boy can't help but love this scene! "},{"Title":"A shame I was 10 years too late.","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My older sister rented this for us to watch one night and I had heard about it, but was not too excited to see it. I laughed my pony-tail off and watched it again as soon as it was over. I wish to God that I was around when this film was popular, I can only imagine the effect that it had on young viewers starting their high school lives with sex, drugs and rock and roll. Great that it was based off of Cameron Crowe's book, which Fast Times, obviously was a BIG push for him. The characters were all likable and I could still relate to so many of the things that happened on screen, hit home - even almost twenty years after the fact, (and three for me). This will go down as one of my all time favorites and I look forward to having children of my own so I can share this one day with them. Heck, the day before they START high school.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I grew up in the 80's and I feel that this movie is just a Classic. I recently purchased it on DVD and have been extremely satisfied with it. The cast is great, with so many big names. The casting director did an excellent job. It's not unusual for me and my significant other to go to bed at night with the DVD on and fall asleep watching it, then wake up in the middle of the night to find myself playing it again. My DVD has probably had more plays than a rental one. It just puts me back into the 80's with the music and environment and so on.  If you haven't seen this movie it's a MUST.  "},{"Title":"awesome!!","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie a year ago, and I love it. It is so great. Not only is it funny, it tells the teen life the way it is and I could relate with most of the characters, and it has a great soundtrack. I recommend this movie to all teenagers who haven't seen it because, Fast Times At Ridgemont High still rocks even though its over 20 years old. 5/5 POINTS FOR THIS MOVIE.. You d*ck!-Jeff Spicoli lol.. "},{"Title":"Awesome, totally awesome!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply the greatest teen Movie ever made. Cameron Crowe did the research by going under cover in a high school and obviously got the real scoop on what high school life was all about in the mid eighties. I know cause I lived it. The actors were great choices as is evidenced by looking at the careers that followed for many of them. "},{"Title":"Whoah, wont that give me brain damage?","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Totally awesome movie with a totally awesome cast, putting this entire cast together again today would not be possible, there arent enough $$$ around, so it is pure luck that most of the cast had not yet reached their commanding figure stage of their career. I wrote the review for this a Fast Rewind so I'm not gonna write it again, I am going to simply say that it is well worth your $$$ for the DVD or VHS if you can get it (out of print as of 31st March 2002). Many funny moments which occasionally allude to a deep plot about what its really like out there, as I just graduated year 12, I can vouch for this movies validity, it all really does go on, except we dont look as good when we do it and we cant command sex the way these people can, and we tend to be prosecuted for having a bootfull or weed and so on and so forth. VERDICT= you cant make a time machine, make yourself younger and go back to the early 80's (although if we did I doubt it would be as we remember it or as it appears in these vids) but you can watch this video in a dimly lit white room on your big screen TV wearing a tight Rusty shirt with tight black jeans and a Marlboro in the mouth and feel like you are at the theatre all those years ago. Watch this and Secret Admirer (also highly recommended by me) one after the other and you'll see it works. 11.5/10 stars "},{"Title":"Number #2 in my list of teen movies","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You can't call yourself a teenager if you haven't see Fast Times at Ridgemont High . The film is required viewing for teens of the eighties, nineties, seventies or any time period. Cameron Crowe made a film that teens can relate that still stands the test of time. I would love to go to Ridgemont and hang out with Spocolit, Brad Hamltion & Mike Damone. I would also love to get Linda Barret and Stacy Hamltion in the sack. For their nude scenes the film gets a 10.  "},{"Title":"COOL!!!!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982) tells about a bunch of high schoolers who are having the best times of their lives.This is a movie with lots of today's stars.Sean Penn plays a surfer dude called Jeff Spicoli who gives headache to his teacher Mr Hand who Ray Walston performs.Sadly Mr Walston passed away last January at the age of 86.Jennifer Jason Leigh is Stacy Hamilton and Phoebe Cates plays her friend Linda Barrett.They're both hot chicks.Mark Ratner (Brian Backer) is a little shy and he's interested in Stacy.He gets some help from his buddy Mike Damone (Robert Romanus).Judge Reinhold plays Stacy's brother Brad Hamilton who tries to make it in life.Forest Whitaker plays Charles Jefferson.Eric Stolz, Anthony Edwards and Nicolas Coppola who was later known as Nicolas Cage can be seen in this movie.Lots of these people became big stars after this movie.Fast Times at Ridgemont High is totally awesome teen comedy from Amy Heckerling.This movie doesn't have a real plot.It just shows these teens hanging out.But it kept me interested through the movie.Fast Times is one of the coolest movies of the 80's.I was born in 1981 so I didn't get to be a teen ager in that decade.In this movie the 80's seems like a cool decade to be a teen at.My school time wasn't that cool.Compared to this movie it sucked.This was made long before American Pie and many other teen movies of the 90's.They're good movies but this is a classic.There are lots of hilarious scenes in this movie.I recommend it for everybody.There ain't no dull moment at Ridgemont High. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great high school movie. I haven't seen a lot of the other ones, like Sixteen Candles or The Breakfast Club, but I have seen this one, and it is doesn't look like it could be matched. It shows just about every class of people in high school in each person. There are the druggies who don't care (SpicoliSean Penn), and the people who are just trying to look for a break in life (B. HamiltonJudge Reinhold). There are also some others that are depicted, like all the football superstars (JeffersonForrest Whitaker). Then, it's cool, if you think about it, there is like a male duo that has a female counterpart. You probably don't understand what I'm saying. I'm talking about Mike Damone and Mark Ratner (Robert Romanus and Brian Backer). Mark is looking for a date and has to turn to Mike for help. Mike tries to act cool like he's the expert. Then you have Stacy and Linda in the same position (Jennifer Jason Leigh and Phoebe Cates). Stacy has to go to Linda for help. It's just cool how they set it up. Anyway, This movie depicts all classes of high school life, and many aspects of it as well. I have seen a situation much like the one where spicoli walks in late and says the line was too long at the vending machine. I just couldn't make it on time. This is  movie, unlike a lot of the other strictly-for-laughs comedies, that you would want to sit down with a friend, eat doritos, and enjoy. I just wanted to say that this is a great high school movie. So, if you're in high school and haven't seen it, see it. "}{"Title":"The most entertainingly hilarious, 'serious' teen movie ever made","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This one really captures (American Graffiti style) the teenage ethos during an era, the late '70s and early '80s, when kids were surprisingly mature (much more mature in a real sense, than nowadays). The Sherman Oaks Galleria Mall where they shot a part of this film was recently demolished but Van Nuys High is still around and whenever I drive past it, scenes from this movie automatically come to mind. What a laugh riot of a film but also what a deeply serious one! You laugh all right, but you can't help but  realize how painfully true most of these absurdities were and probably still are for the American teenager; uniquely absurd, American versions of universal rites of passage, I would say. Sean Penn and Judge Reinhold RULE their parts and Romanus will always be remembered for his portrayal of 'Damon;' but the best scene, of course, is the now classic 'carrot demonstration' between Phoebe Cates and Jennifer Jason-Leigh. Now THAT, my friends, is high school as it really was!  "},{"Title":"The Quintessential High School Flick","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  &#145;Fast Times' is the quintessential high school flick.  What &#145;American Graffiti' did to put high school films on the map, &#145;Fast Times' did to expand and redefine the genre.  Every hijinks film that has succeeded in recent history owes a debt of gratitude to this film for resetting the boundaries.This is an adaptation of Cameron Crowe's book about his undercover high school experience.  What differentiates &#145;Fast Times' from its predecessors is its realism, since it was based on the actual experiences of real kids.  The skits weren't as outrageous as other high school flicks, and indeed this wasn't that funny a film.  But it struck a chord, because of its frank depiction of the issues with which kids really struggle.This film was controversial from the start.  Universal almost didn't release it because they thought it would bomb.  Profanity, nudity and sexual situations were just not done in high school films.  This was the first such film to earn an R rating.  It was actually rated X until they toned down the sex scene between Stacy (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Mike (Robert Romanus).  The studio was sure that the only audience the film had would be prohibited from seeing it.  Finally, Universal agreed to release it on the west coast only with no promotional budget.  It exploded and the rest is history.Though this was an ensemble project, the film really belonged to Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Judge Reinhold.  All three gave outstanding performances and went on to successful acting careers.  This part was perfect for Penn who has made a career of playing offbeat maverick types.  Penn may have peaked in this film, not because his skills have diminished, but because he has not and may never again find a role into which he can slip so seamlessly.  Jennifer Jason Leigh did not one, but two nude sex scenes; a very gutsy move for a 20 year old actress at the time.  In this film she became a model for the sweet girl trying to lose her innocence.    Reinhold spring boarded off this film to land numerous successful roles in the 1980's and 90's most notably the Beverly Hills Cop series of films.  The film also helped launch successful careers for Eric Stolz, Forrest Whittaker, Phoebe Cates and Anthony Edwards.  Nicholas Cage was also an extra in this film and was director Amy Heckerling's second choice for Spicoli.  She went with Penn because Cage (then going by Nicholas Coppola) was only 17, and he was limited as to how many hours he could work because he was a minor.The DVD has an interesting retrospective, produced very recently, where the director and many of the actors give their stories of the making of the film.  The only disappointment with the DVD was that they didn't go back and re-master the sound, which was still mono.This film changed the landscape for high school films.  Though it has been eclipsed by numerous more recent films, it stands as a trailblazer that made them all possible.  I rated it a 9/10.  Anyone who liked &#145;Clueless' or &#145;American Pie' and hasn't seen &#145;Fast Times' should go back and see where it all started.    "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent. I hate using American High-school colloquialisms but this film, is actually awesome!! It's successor Clueless, is much more recognized, but never nearly as good! Fast Times, like Clueless is a high-school story filled with a range of different characters who try and live out their fantasies and ambitions as the high school time barometer ticks away.To see Sean Penn in a doped out skater role is almost unsurpassed in terms of comic entertainment. To compare him then and now is amazing.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is also amazing; Judge Reinhold is the main man on campus until he gets fired from the prestigious hamburger joint and loses his grip on life. This is a masterful touch. For the essence of a man's cool to be judged on his position in the fast food business is hilarious. In fact all these kids hang out at the mall, and they all have different jobs in that mall. But certain jobs have more cache to them than others. For example a waitress is not as important as a cinema usher, and so on!!These characters are so endearing because, much like with Clueless, they go through life embracing all the wrong beliefs and ideas. They strive to be top dog, and each persons bid to attain supremacy is as superficial as the next. Of course, today every teen film is full of these people who try to win the high school popularity contest and who ultimately gain enlightenment against the odds (She's All That, 10 Things I Hate About You, American Pie, Clueless), but Fast Times was the first to bring these teen issues to the foreground.Another unique aspect of Fast Times is that, unlike it's successors, it dares to be more direct and more crude in it's presentation. The sexual issues are more provocactive and the scenes are more racey. One might say that the film is much more realistic. This goes without saying because the characters are multi-faceted and their personalities never sway. The characters do not undergo some amazing metamorphosis by the end; they preserve their uniqueness and imperfection. This is why Fast Times is streets ahead of it's rivals.The soundtrack is fast and furious, full of cheesy yet appealing rock tunes. Jackson Browne's Somebody's Baby is a particulary good track.To conclude, I will say that fast Times at Ridgemont High is a fabulous film that has so many of today's big stars making fools of themselves in loveable roles. I loved it and those who have seen it would all vouch that it is the quintessential teen film. "},{"Title":"Awesome, totally awesome!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a child of the 80s (born 1982) it is not hard to not appreciate this film.  I first saw it on a triple feature day on pay-per-view (which included American Pie, Animal House, and this Fast Times) in February.  My mom highly recommended it to me, and there was no turning back.  She told me how Sean Penn played a stoner in it, and how funny he was, and I knew I had to see it.Sean Penn playing blonde surfer Jeff Spicoli was just too much.  The best line he had in the film was Is this US History.  Oh, I see the globe over there.  The scene of the Volkswagen Hippie-Mobile Van door opening and the three stoners falling out was classic, especially since I know someone who I could picture falling out of his van and smoke pouring out.Snaps to Jennifer Jason Leigh and Judge Reinhold, who were good as Stacy and Brad Hamilton.  Brad's best line was  Listen buddy if you don't shut up, I'll kick 100% of your a**!  I also thought Phoebe Cates was good as Linda, but by far my fave character was Spicoli! I was shocked to find out that Spicoli's stoner buds were Anthony Edwards from ER and Eric Stoltz, formerly of Chicago Hope!!!Fast Times also dealt with true issues, such as Stacy's unprotected sex and abortion.  I like how Stacy declares at the end of the film that she was going to wait for when she meets the right guy.  Safe sex is definitely an issue now more than it was in the early 80s, since AIDS wasn't discovered until the early 80s.  Therefore, pregnancy wasn't the only concern.  AIDS and STDs are another, which should have been pointed out in the film.The film did not contain any dragging points to the plot, and moved smoothly by, making it enjoyable to watch many times over.If you like teen comedy, or even 80s movies, see Fast Times at Ridgemont High.  It's totally awesome! "},{"Title":"great acting, great plot, and a very risky film!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   I saw this movie for the first time on USA and I loved it. I rented it and I fell in love with it! I then bought it the next week!! This movie is soooo cool!! My cousin told me that when it came out in 1982 it totally shocked everybody. It wasn't planned to be such a popular film. Now it is a cult classic! And it boosted so many careers, Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Pheobe Cates, Judge Reinhold, Anthony Edwards, Eric Stoltz, Nicholas Cage, Forest Whitaker, etc....       Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a comedy about kids at Ridgemont High School in California in a town called Ridgemont i assume because there mall was the Ridgemont Mall. You look into the lives of lovesick Stacey Hamilton(Leigh), shy Mark Ratner(Backer), sexy  Linda Barret(Cates), scalper Mike Damone(Romanus), big man on campus Brad Hamilton(Reinold), and surf bum stoner Jeff Spicoli(Penn). You go through the school year as they deal with American history, sex, drugs, and jobs. I give Fast Times at Ridgemont High 10 stars!! Should've won Best Picture for the 1983 Oscars!! Not really. "},{"Title":"Totally awesome!","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Believe it or not, I just saw Fast Times At Ridgemont High for the first time. I thought it was really good! The movie is definitely at its best when Jeff Spicoli is on screen. I laughed out loud at the scene in the morgue and all the other students are completely grossed out, and Spicoli goes, Gnarly! I have a friend who looks just like Spicoli and he loves this movie. Ray Walston is also very funny as Mr. Hand. (ironically, my last history teacher was just like him. How creepy is that?) The whole cast is terrific, and it's certainly worth watching just to see some future superstars. Watch with a group of friends every time! "},{"Title":"Fast Times... brings back great memories of high school.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times at Ridgemont High is the most awesome movie I own.  I was in high school when this movie was released in theatres.  It hit the nail right on the head as it depicted high school in the 80's.  Every time I watch this movie, I can't help but think of the great times I had in high school(my high school sweetheart's name was Stacey, whose brother was named Brad, go figure).  Anyone who went to high school in the 80's will probably be able to compare their classmates with the characters in the movie.  The music in the movie is also spectacular, as it complements the movie like no other I've ever seen.  This is my favorite all-time movie and I highly recommended it to all.    "},{"Title":"CAMERON CROWE ROCKS","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great, great film. Cameron Crowe has written a classic and Amy Heckerling has directed with great sensitivity. How many of us in high school have tried to just fit in like Stacey Hamilton, or have had a Spinoli or Damone in our class. This film is so true to life and probably the best of the 80 teen flicks. Awesome, totally awesome. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's Comedy","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great caricature of the high school experience in the 80's.  I love the dialogue, I love the visuals (Damones quivering legs, PHOEBE CATES), the characters are hilarious, the soundtrack just takes you back... This is one of my favorites to watch over and over! "},{"Title":"Essential eighties teen sex comedy","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the funniest things about FTARH is that there are so many critically respected actors in early roles all bundled in to the same film.  Sean Penn is by far the funniest as the stoned out surfie, you would almost swear that Keanu Reeves used the same character for the Bill & Ted films.  This film is also interesting as it was written by Cameron Crowe pre Singles and Jerry Maguire and directed by Amy heckerling pre Clueless.  So much talent went in to making this film, and as a teenage comedy about High Schools go it is certainly one of the best, if not the best that I have seen.  As it was the early eighties, the music, not to mention the fashions have to be seen to be believed.  Everyone did a really good job, but Reinhold and Penn have most of the real comic moments. "}{"Title":"Fast Times...","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fun account of high school told through a witty script by Cameron Crowe and the direction on Amy Heckerling. Penn is classic as stoner Jeff Spicoli, while other young faces make names for themselves. Walston steals the picture as the irascible Mr. Hand. Made into a short lived sitcom in 1986 that starred Walston.  "},{"Title":"1982's Fast Times is just as shocking as 1998's Something About Mary.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film should be required watching for all teens age 13 through high school.  It communicates important messages without teaching.  Also, like American Graffiti and Grease, nolstagia will cause adults to enjoy this film.  But one other reason I enjoy this film is because it is the film that made Phoebe Cates a star.  Along with Sean Penn, she literally steals each scene she is in.  She has had a wonderful career (Heart of Dixie, Shag, Bright Lights Big City, Drop Dead Fred, and Bodies Rest and Motion to name just a few) but this is her defining movie of the eighties.  This is also the first popular mainstream movie I remember where a guy is shown (off camera) masturbating while thinking about an on-screen girl (Phoebe Cates). It was the Something About Mary of its time and that scene is still as shocking today.  I was 14 when I first saw this film and I aged two or three years during that scene (so that's what the guys do!) and the carrot munching scene (so that's what the girls do!).  I was very shy wearing bikinis (and eating carrots) around guys during the next year thinking that they would all check me out then rush to the bathroom (if only, Phoebe Cates I am not!).  If this scene was discussed in a classroom I would have survived the experience better.  Of course the producers chose the stunning Phoebe Cates as the catalyst.  The guys in this film are for the most part geeks and freaks and the two key actresses Jennifer Jason Leigh and Phoebe Cates are stunners.  This film is heavy on the cheesecake light on the beefcake (typically 1982).  In real life I was the girl-next-door Jennifer Jason Leigh type who wanted to be the seductive Phoebe Cates.  In this film it is showed that both types are wonderful and beautiful in their own way, if only they, and us knew it at the time.  "},{"Title":"High school the movie","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There isn't a whole lot of hilarity going on in Fast Times at Ridgemont High, it's one of those movies that is meant to capture an era, a generation, like American Graffiti before it. There's is no real plot line, just a series of scenes that follow characters Brad, Stacy, Mike, Mark, and surfer bum Spicoli (Sean Penn). Its charm is not its humor, but its relatable parallels to high school life. It's a film about high school kids trying to get laid and dealing with jobs and parents and hard-nosed teachers in the process. It's the first thing I would give an alien studying high schools in the 1980s.The film marks the debut of writer Cameron Crowe, who essentially went undercover to deliver the accuracy of high school life and in the process sparked what would become the stereotypes that countless high school movies and TV shows would depend on for decades after. His genius is that you get all these characters. They're naive and well-intentioned, but they just screw up. That's who everyone is in high school. They're also horny, but that's another matter.Fast Times is not without its memorable scenes, even if the humor won't put you in fits. The scene where Brad (Judge Reinhold) pleases himself to the image of his sister's best friend in her bright red swimsuit has inspired countless spoofs and similar re-imaginings (like 1989's Christmas Vacation. Even though Spicoli feels entirely irrelevant to the plot, his scenes dealing with the infamous Mr. Hand are impeccable examples of character acting and that's why his image is synonymous with the film.So its lack of plot might be boring and it might not be the bucket of laughs you'd expect, but Fast Times is representative of a type of film-making that for is iconic and memorable because of its honesty. "},{"Title":"Don't expect anything very interesting about Fast Times","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times At Ridgemont High doesn't have very much going for it except a handful of really good actors when they were only somewhat good actors.The movie centers around various high school stereotypes of the early-1980s, the innocent girl, and the sexually experienced girl; the nerdy, but smart guys; the cool guys that help out the nerdy guys; and, of course, the stoner/burn out. The problem with all these characters is that they fail to become anything more than stereotypes, although, the writer & director obviously tried very hard to make them so.The movie would have really worked a lot better as more of a drama with comedic elements, but instead tries to be a teen comedy with a couple of dramatic elements thrown in.It's sad really, that these characters all seem like they could have a lot of depth if only the director and writer tried to explore them a little bit more. For example, there is the whole guy getting his best friends girlfriend pregnant subplot that is resolved very half-heartedly and without much thought.There are a few funny moments, however, such as when one of the characters is on a date and realizes that he has forgotten his wallet at home, and he ends up biding his time until his friend is able to drop it off by continuously ordering Cokes. Unfortunately, these scenes end up getting lost in the fog of such a disorganized plot.Forget this movie, and go see The Breakfast Club instead. "},{"Title":"Alright 80's film.","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to say, Sean Penn did an awesome job as a surfer stoned dude. I'm actually surprised he didn't win any award for his character, he was spot on! He is like, the only one I knew outta all the actors on this!It was kinda stupid in having a teenage pregnancy on this, it would've been better off if the scene when Stacy and Mike Damone were having sex, it honestly needed to be cut off. It was even pointless as well, it wouldn't have wasted the movies time!I seriously loved Ray Walston as Mr Hand, I never even heard of the man before and I think he is such a great actor. I would be wondering if he actually was a teacher in real life, he plays one so well.Even though I found the movie enjoyable and funny, I think they should've done the ending right! "},{"Title":"It's Not John Hughes...","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" But I can certainly see how it may have paved the way for his era in teen movies several years later. As far as 80s comedies go, this is not my favorite and it doesn't really have a right to be labeled as the greatest. Am I calling it a bad film? Not at all. I enjoyed Jennifer Jason Leigh immensely, and her chemistry on screen with Brian Backer was an absolute blast to watch. Sean Penn offers a classic stoner/surfer role and the movie wouldn't' be complete without Judge Reinhold's surprisingly relatable character Brad. The soundtrack was amazing, and isn't it fun seeing future stars like Nicholas Cage, Eric Stoltz and Forest Whitaker in their beginning roles? So what's my beef with the movie? Well, I'll tell you the film has a great beginning. It starts off light-hearted and humorous. The ending is satisfying and likable. I lost it right in the middle. Now, I can understand that this movie was dealing with many of the same problems teens dealt with in the 80s. However, given the light-heartedness the movie does have, I cannot see the sense in having the extra sex scene and following abortion- related sequences in the film. This is a rather touchy subject, and while it might have been appropriate to label the times then and even now, I don't think it belonged in the movie. Because of it, there is something off in the tone between the beginning, middle, and end. The plot otherwise performs interestingly enough; there is no plot. For most of the movie, not one scene leads into another. Things just happen at random. Sort of like life&#x85;and I think that was the point. Bravo to those who accomplished this. The movie is indeed a classic, but it is certainly not the best in its genre, but good for what it's worth. "},{"Title":"A Trailblazing Teen Film","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This cult classic is based upon the book by Cameron Crowe who at age 22 in 1979 went undercover as a senior at Clairemont High School in San Diego to write his book, Fast Times at Ridgemont High A True Story. In the book Crowe focused on six characters. There is no movie plot, just several vignettes that focus on the key characters. As we shall see, the main movie characters &#x96; Linda, Stacy, Jeff, Mike, Mark, and Brad &#x96; represent different teen types.The opening movie credits swing with the Go-Go's We Got the Beat as we see the multi-tiered Ridgemont Mall as the backdrop. The camera proceeds to follow the main characters in their various activities preparing food at Perry's Pizza, waiting on customers, buying movie tickets, watching people pass by, etc. At the arcade young people play old-time video games, like Asteroids and Space Invaders.Then we begin to meet the characters close-up; it is late summer/early fall. Two girls, Linda Barrett and Stacy Hamilton (Phoebe Cates and Jennifer Jason Leigh, respectively) discuss the latest heartthrob, Ron Johnson, a stereo salesman. Linda, the experienced one, coaches Stacy Hamilton, who tells folks that she is 19, but is really 15. In the high school, Mr. Hand (Ray Walston) knows how to control his American History class. The Biology teacher, Mr. Vargas (Vincent Schiavelli), is a little flaky. Stoned since the third grade slang talking' surfer Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn), late to Hand's history class, is a space- shot who occupies another world. Mike Damone (Robert Romanus), hustler and ticket scalper, is a smooth talker, but in reality is insecure; like Linda tutoring Stacy, he coaches his buddy, the nerd Mark Rat Ratner (Brian Backer) in how to handle Stacy, with whom he has a crush. Rat is a ticket-taker at the mall's movie theater. Believing that having sexual intercourse is a rite of passage into acceptance, Stacy sneaks out at night and has a hot date with the older Ron. She bears her breasts for the camera and has sex in a baseball dugout. Stacy's brother Brad (Judge Reinhold) works in several fast food joints and wears the hats to prove it. He drives a blue Buick LeSabre and practices in a bathroom mirror how to disengage from girlfriend Lisa (Armanda Wyss). Brad is destined to suffer several humiliations. After the scene switches to the Christmas season, Damone saves Rat's date at a restaurant with Stacy when he retrieves his wallet (that Rat forgot) at his house. Stacy again yearns for sex, but Rat runs away. Using Charles Jefferson's (Forest Whitaker) Chevy Camaro, Jeff drives like a maniac and totals it. Thinking that his car was wrecked by the folks at Lincoln High, Jefferson destroys them at a football game (42-0). In the early spring, Linda at a pool with Stacy exposes her magnificent breasts in a classic scene from the 1980s. Brad masturbates over her in a fantasy daydream sequence, but Linda catches him and grosses out when she opens the bathroom door. Jeff orders a pizza at history class, but Mr. Hand takes it away and passes it out to others. Mike Damone scores with Stacy in an unsatisfying sexual encounter. She promptly gets pregnant and nonchalantly has an abortion. Later there is a confrontation in the gym between Mike and Mark. At a field trip to the local hospital, Stacy gets sick after viewing an autopsy by Mr. Vargas, but is helped by Mark, her partner in Bio class. But it is unrealistic to believe that this swinging chick would be attracted to such a nerd (it just doesn't happen). Her likability is questionable. In the late spring final exam dates are posted. At the senior dance Mike and Mark make up and become friends again, although Mike's status has dropped a notch. Jeff passes his forced oral exam with Mr. Hand and misses the dance; the two seem almost amiable. Linda gets stood up by her far-away boyfriend and cries. The seniors dance to Wooly Bully. At a mart, Brad foils a robbery attempt; Jeff inadvertently helps. The ending &#x96; epilogue sequence &#x96; tells us the near future of the main characters, which will not be revealed here. Directed by Amy Heckerling, this film is generally an honest one of how teens acted in the early 1980s. There are several sight gags and various observations on romance, sex, drug use, rock 'n' roll, cheating on tests, destruction of property, abortion, and alienation of teens and adults. Character development is at a high level and Sean Penn steals every scene he's in (even though his character is ignoble); he would emerge as a big star, as did Nicholas Coppola/Cage. Ray Walston is solid as the stalwart history teacher. Except for Phoebe Cates (and Nicholas Coppola in a minor role), the high school students were well into their twenties. On a down note, several sets were more graphic then they had to be; they were degrading and disturbing. Did 20-year old Jennifer Jason Leigh really have to appear nude? And what about her 15-year old character who has an abortion? But, already at age 19 in her big screen debut, she appeared topless in Eyes of a Stranger (1981) where her character, both blind and deaf, was stalked by a serial rapist-murderer. Now, could not Cates/Leigh's carrot-munching scene in the cafeteria been handled differently? Did we really have to see those close-ups of Brad in the bathroom during the pool scene? Had our culture already degenerated? The Universal film was understandably R-rated. Despite some raised issues and eyebrows, the film remains entertaining for mature audiences. In 2005 it was added to the American National Film Registry as culturally significant for permanent preservation. "},{"Title":"teen sex-romp with edge","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's teenage lives of the kids at Ridgemont High in California. Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is a 15 year old virgin. Her best friend Linda Barrett (Phoebe Cates) pushes her to lose it. Stacy does it with older stereo salesman Ron. Her older brother Brad Hamilton (Judge Reinhold) is a senior thinking he's got it all figured out. Rat Ratner (Brian Backer) is a shy kid infatuated with Stacy. His best friend is the fast-talking hustler Mike Damone (Robert Romanus). The kids work and hangout at the mall. They make out at the Point and talk about sex. Charles Jefferson (Forest Whitaker) is the football star. Teacher Mr. Hand (Ray Walston) and stoner surfer Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn) are the standout side characters.This movie is a great teen sex-romp. It ushers in a new era of teen movies bringing a new edge to the genre. Cameron Crowe's writing is sharp and insightful. The music is amazing. It taps into a specific time and place. Amy Heckerling's directions are fresh. It also features the young faces of Eric Stoltz, Nicolas Cage and Anthony Edwards. It is simply the marriage of great writing, young up-and-coming stars and realistic edge. Modern movies would never have a teenage abortion. Not to mention that Phoebe Cates became teen sex goddess overnight. "},{"Title":"Great for teens but not for adults.","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen Fast Times At Ridgemont High plenty of times in the last 30 years. It was very popular on late night T.V. in the 1980's (the edited version) and then the theatrical version years later on when T.V. was allowed to air the R-rated version. I enjoyed this film more as a teen but as a middle-aged man, the movie just isn't as entertaining. I would recommend FTARH to teenagers and young adults but not to those who were kids back in 1982.Still, to see a cast with 3 future Oscar winners in Sean Penn (I Am Sam, Milk), Forest Whitaker (The Last King Of Scotland) and Nicolas Coppola Cage (Leaving Las Vegas) makes FTARH noteworthy. The battle of wits between Jeff Spicoli and Ray Walston's Mr. Hand are very entertaining. It was clear back in 1982 that Sean Penn was destined for a successful career in Hollywood. The stoned out California surfer dude was perfected by Penn and for years people have made that stock character a part of many films, television shows and cartoons.Many years later, lad mags would push Phoebe Cates' famous nude scene as the most perfect display of breasts ever. That one point of the film, you truly feel that you're in an alternate universe when she undoes her top and presents her beautiful assets all shiny and wet to the viewer. That scene never gets old and to this day Ms. Cates is a legend to many young men.The acting is still solid, the music is 1980's and pretty much every character is likable. There's little to fault about it other than the questionable decision to have Amy Heckerling direct this. I just feel the film is better for teenagers. I would recommend finding Cameron Crowe's book and reading that (or seeing Animal House) instead of this film unless you love seeing Spicoli and Barrett over and over again. "},{"Title":"A classic of teen movies.","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Such a great movie, really showed, that too extreme actions and impossible scenes are not needed for a high school comedy. I mean Jeff Spicoli could have carried the movie by himself, he was extremely funny, and it is great to see how a ''stoner'' was seen in the 80's, not that other characters were bad, everybody did great.If you watch the movie closely, you can see from the emotions of self proclaimed sex experts Linda and Damone, that really they are not experienced at all, Damone's first time was with Stacy, and Linda never had a first time with the 40 year old boyfriend she kept talking about with Stacy.Jeff Spicoli's pizza delivery to the class was awesome D, everyone who likes high school movies showing teen life should definitely watch this one, since it is a classic and in my opinion one of the best high school movies ever. "}{"Title":"We were all teen-agers once","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Who am I? Who do I want to be? Are status, stature and popularity commodities accruable as assets to be leveraged for future happiness? Am I cool? Is there a future? Can I affect my future? These and a lifetime's other existential questions are symptoms of adolescence. And Cameron Crowe knew this when he went undercover, eventually emerging with the material which became Fast Times... the movie. His book is more timeless than the film, but Amy Heckerling's celluloid vision is a brilliant snapshot version of Cameron's anthropologic masterpiece. Like the contents of a time capsule, both formats depict an era's manifestation of a stage in our (human/people) cultural and societal development. For humans, adolescence is the advent of the recognition of personal power and its antithesis, society. In the civilization of North America the petri dish of this development is High School. It is in High School, as 14-19 year old humans that we discover a truth Our parents and the adults in our lives have been proto-types, models, for the civilization (aka SOCIETY) in which we will be expected to earn our place.Sex, drugs and rock n' roll, in their period's incarnations, have been the driving forces of adolescence since the advent of society (aka Civilization). Sex? Ask your parents to be honest. Ask your grandparents to be honest...ask your Great-grandparents to be honest. If they are, they will admit that getting laid was a driving force of their adolescence. Drugs? Civilization's earliest records address alcohol/drunkeness. And organics (leaves, flowers, plants) are part of EVERY known culture's spiritual development/knowledge/wisdom. Every extant tribe has knowledge of consciousness altering substances and honors their VALUE. Rock and Roll? Music, poetry and the forms of their transmission are part of the historical record of every culture. Understanding of and appreciation of rhythm and melody are inherent, instinctive in humans (Music soothes the savage beast anyone?). The history of people, especially the history of their values, is integral in the history of music.So, Fast Times at Ridgemont High (the movie) exists as a product of the vector of thousands of years of human history, human civilization. Fast Times at Ridgemont High (henceforth FT) is meant to be seen as a depiction of human adolescence intellectual and emotional developmental behavior vis. late 20th century culture.Oh, and the source material is generated by a man who was several years out of High School, with all the wisdom we believe life generates.All that said, my viewing in 2014 of the film made in 1982 assures me of the film's artlessness. FT sincerely depicts the behavior of adolescents of that period. We were responding to our environment, the attitudes, politics and expectations we were immersed in. Like adolescents of every era since civilization created society.For perspective, consider the Children's Crusade (1212 AD). "},{"Title":"Holds Up Very Well!","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a sucker for 80's teen films, especially from the likes of John Hughes and Howard Deutch. But the one film that started this craze was the excellent Fast Times at Ridgemont High. The film receives lessons in vulgarity from 1978's Animal House, but it doesn't lose any of it's sweetness. I'm surprised how well the film holds up because many of the events in the film may as well happened during my high school years. It's all about drugs, sex, and rock'n'roll(at least it was back in the 80's....). The film takes social issues teens constantly deal with and turns these issues into characters that everyone can relate with.Amy Heckerling's film tells a story that focuses on a select group of characters. There is Jeff Spicoli who is a laid-back stoner and has a thing for surfing. Stacy who is a young girl in need of sex and her older brother Brad, who is a senior bouncing from place-to-place job-wise. There is Linda who is a gorgeous, smart girl and Mike who is a ticket scalper. There is also Mr. Hand, the world's most uptight history teacher.The acting is really good here. The film features performances from future Oscar-winners like Sean Penn, Forest Whittaker, and even Nic Cage. Penn's performance is the standout as everyone's favorite stoner. The film also has a good group of 80's favorites such as Jennifer Jason Leigh, Phoebe Cates, and Judge Reinhold. Finally, Ray Walston delivers an excellent performance as Mr. Hand.Overall, Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a fantastic comedy and is the advent of all the excellent teen films from the 80's and 90's. I'm surprised how well the film holds up. It also features a killer soundtrack from my favorite artists such as Tom Petty and the Cars. The film is not only raucously funny, it has a very sweet core. We come to care about the characters, and that is always a plus in a film featuring mostly teens. This is what someone would call an 80's classic. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"A Faithful Portrait of a Generaton","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When the dust of 60's and 70's social changes settled, the first of many generation of teenagers came of age in a new world, one that still exists today.They had much more freedom, but much less guidance than all previous generations have had. There was no mothers at home managing the house and the children anymore, they now had to work nine to five like the fathers. Or there were no fathers around at all, due to growing divorce rates. No relatives, no churches, nothing, just the teenagers. The almost complete absence of adults in the movie shows this new reality quite well. Only the school professor represents the extinct social order, well intentioned but ineffective like an obsolete machine of a bygone era.Adolescents do whatever they want and there's nobody to seek advice from except their own friends. Despite its comedy intention, the movie shows a somewhat sad and lonely world in a very raw and crude realistic way. Sex, abortion and other crucial issues and decisions are taken in a light, irresponsible way.Was it really like that? Yes, it was. As a portrait of a generation, the film is very accurate. I lived through it, for I was a teenager myself in the early 80's. It was pretty much like that. No father and no mother around to supervise much, all calls up to me for better or for worse.It may not be an artistic master piece like American Graffiti, but it is a good movie and an invaluable document of an age. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Teen Films Of All-Time. An Excellent And Hilarious Classic.","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times At Ridgemont High is one of the greatest Teen films of all-time,an excellent and hilarious classic. Filled with fine direction,a great ensemble cast,a wonderful script and a fantastic soundtrack Fast Times At Ridgemont High is Teen films and Coming Of Age movies at their best.Based on Cameron Crowe's book of the same name and Set in Southern California,Fast Times At Ridgemont High tells the story about a year in a High School semester with several students including Jeff Spicoli(Sean Penn),a stoned out surfer who has to deal with stern but fair History teacher Mr. Hand(Ray Walston),Stacey Hamilton(Jennifer Jason Leigh),a 15-year old sophomore who's trying to figure out how to date guys and Brad Hamilton(Judge Reinhold),Stacey's older brother who's a senior in his last year of High School. Jeff,Stacey and Brad and their friends have to deal with growing up as well sex,drugs,Rock N'Roll and the mall.Fast Times At Ridgemont High is a brilliant,hilarious and unforgettable film that is an instant classic the first time you watch it. It's a movie that is not only a landmark film in the Teen movie genre but it also a film that introduced actors who would become famous later on such as Sean Penn,Jennifer Jason Leigh,Judge Reinhold,Phoebe Cates,Forrest Whitaker,Nicolas Cage,Eric Stolz and Anthony Edwards while giving viewers one of the most realistic and accurate movies about High School and Teenage life ever caught on film. Right from the opening credits Fast Times is a movie keeps you glued to the screen giving viewers a movie that is funny and outrageous as well as honest and real showing the strings,arrows and awkwardness of being a Teenager showing the ups,downs,ins and outs of American High School. One of the reasons Fast Times works so well and is a classic is because while the film is set in the early 1980s the film is timeless in the way it deals with Teens because Teenagers no matter what decade or era think about the same thingssex,drugs and Rock N'Roll and that will never change. The episodic nature is wonderful because in Teenage life things are all over the place and Teens go from one day to the next. The Comedy and laughs in Fast Times is truly great,funny and hilarious because the humor has a balance of being wild and over the top while being subtle and smart with some moments and dialog in the movie that are memorable and will have you roaring with laughter. While the movie is funny and hilarious Fast Times can also be dramatic in the way it deals with sex and relationships but it's not always glamorous or romantic but powerful. When Fast Times was released in 1982 some critics called the movie a Sex Comedy because it came out the same year as Porky's but the film is not a Sex Comedy. Yes there is sex and Comedy but Fast Times is more of a Coming Of Age tale about growing up than about a bunch of Teenagers trying to get laid. The teenage characters Fast Times are amazing and memorable because they are not really stereotypes you see in most Teen films but are real people you see in real life and when you see some of the characters whether it's Spicoli,Stacy or Brad you will relate to them because you will feel like you knew characters like that in High School and the main characters have tons of depth and power that adds to the movie's legacy and is one of the many things that make this film the classic that it is. The screenplay by Cameron Crowe is terrific and classic because while some of the dialog is funny some of the dialog feels authentic and accurate almost like a documentary on High School life. With Crowe's dialog you are inside the mind and it's almost you are standing next to the characters and hearing some of the conversations that go on in the film and you feel like none of the dialog is fake. The ending of Fast Times At Ridgemont High is fantastic and iconic giving viewers a funny epilogue on what happens to the some of characters after the movie ends. A wonderful conclusion.The cast is great in their roles. Sean Penn is excellent,hilarious and at his best in his star making role as Jeff Spicoli,with Penn being funny,iconic and unforgettable. Jennifer Jason Leigh is terrific and sweet as Stacy Hamilton,a young sophomore. Judge Reinhold is wonderful as Brad Hamilton,a senior who's Stacy's older brother. Richard Romanus is delightful and smooth as Mike Damone,a ticket scalper. Brian Backer is fantastic as Mark 'Rat' Ratner,Damone's friend who has a crush on Stacy. Phoebe Cates is outstanding and sexy as Linda,Stacy's older best friend that gives her advice about boys. Ray Walston is sensational and hilarious as Mr. Hand,a History teacher and has great scenes with Penn. Vincent Schiavelli is amazing and funny as Mr. Vargas,a Science teacher. Scott Thomson(Arnold),Amanda Wyss(Lisa)and D.W Brown(Ron Johnson)give good performances as well. Also,lookout for early roles from Forrest Whitaker(Charles Jefferson),Nicolas Cage(Brad's Bud),Eric Stolz(Stoner Bud),Anthony Edwards(Stoner Bud),Taylor Negron(Pizza Guy)and James Russo(Robber). The direction by Amy Heckerling is fine,with Heckerling bringing a simple but effective style to the film and using a hand-held documentary feel to the movie. Good direction,Heckerling.The soundtrack is amazing with songs by The Go-Go's(We Got The Beat,Speeding),Led Zeppelin(Kashmir),Tom Petty(American Girl),Stevie Nicks(Sleeping Angel),Jackson Browne(Somebody's Baby),Rayvns(Raised On The Radio),Onigo Boingo(Goodbye,Goodbye),Jimmy Buffett(I Don't Know),Don Henley(Love Rules),Sammy Hagar(Fast Times At Ridgemont High),Reeves Nevo & The Clinch(Wooly Bully,Life In The Fast Lane),Billy Squier(Fast Times,Best Years of Our Lives)Timothy B. Schmit(So Much In Love)and more. An outstanding soundtrack.In final word,if you love Teen Movies,Coming Of Age Films or films in general,I highly suggest you see Fast Times At Ridgemont High,an excellent,hilarious classic that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Good teen comedy","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I usually don't watch teen comedies . Mostly for the reason that they aren't too bright or funny . They mostly have toilet humor and unsympathetic characters . So , I wasn't thrilled when I've read the summary for this movie . I decided to give a try , since people were praising it very much and because I have soft spot for anything 80's related.Fast times at Ridgemont high isn't a deep or even too bright movie . It's a story about American teenagers who wants to party , have sex and go shopping . I don't know how accurate is this portrayal of American youth . The characters are mostly clichés , yet the actors do a good job of making them likable.The best performance of movie belongs to Sean Penn (Yes , THIS Sean Penn) . Before he became a serious actor (and a serious asshole) he created one of the funniest characters ever &#x96; Jeff Spicoli . A surfer who isn't too smart . He likes to get stoned , good party , everything that is awesome and doesn't worry about anything . He's incredibly cool . I mean how could you not like a guy who orders pizza on his history lesson ? I was pleasantly surprised to see Judge Reinhold (Roosewood from Beverly Hills cop) as good hearted Brad Hamilton , Forest Whitaker (Ghost dog) as aggressive football player Charles Jefferson and even Anthony Edwards (Top gun) as stoner bud .Other good performances come from Jennifer Jason Leigh (the delicate Stacy) , Brian Bacler ( the shy Mark) , Robert Romanus ( womanizer Mike) , Phoebe Cates (arrogant Linda) and Ray Waltson ( grim teacher Mr. Hand).The movies most memorable scene is the Brad's dream sequence with half naked Linda . I think that is a really sexy scene , but not the sexiest scene ever . There is also some nudity and lot of talks about sex here , so people who don't like this kind of stuff shouldn't watch the movie.The jokes aren't especially sophisticated , but they are funny and with good taste . Fast times is very 80's in style (music , hairstyles , ending credits) and for me it's a good thing. There are some nice songs here  Jackson Browne &#x84;Somebody's baby , The Go Go's &#x84;We got the beat , Oingo Boingo Goodbye goodbye , Jimmy Buffett I don't know (Spicolli's theme) , Led Zeppelin Kashmir and Reeves Nevo and The Cinch Wooly bully.The movie mostly wants to entertain the audience , but thankfully there is some message here. Sex is fun , but love is more important . Also sex means responsibility. The relationship between Stacy and Mark proves that.It's a good fun . I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Still a Classic","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I always have to put a disclaimer in front of a review because there is always some joker out there who likes to argue taste which I find annoying.Fast Times probably one of the most underrated movies of it's kind. It is intelligently written and executed.Considerably better than many films in it's Genre. A springboard for actors Sean Penn and Forest Whitaker among others. It is a brutally honest depiction of what being a teen goes through in high school and in life. It has rightfully earned cult status in pop culture. It deals with real problems and real issues that teens go through.This film ranks in my top 25 films of all time. "},{"Title":"Realistic Teen Comedy.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Amy Heckerling directs this Cameron Crowe story of the various students at Ridgemont High School, played by Sean Penn, Phoebe Cates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold, Forest Whitaker, and of course Ray Walston as Mr. Hand, the old-time history teacher who can't believe the kind of students he has to teach.Both funny and dramatic, often simultaneously, film has characters that one can either identify with personally, or someone they used to know. It's surprisingly(for the most part) cliché free, and feels fresh even 30+ years later. You may find yourself wondering how these people's lives turned out, even with the epilogue! "},{"Title":"The First Great High School Movie?","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A story of a group of California teenagers who enjoy malls, sex and rock n' roll.I watched this film many times when I was younger, never realizing how ground-breaking or risqué it was... we had taped it off the television and all the dirty bits were removed. Even when I eventually did see it in a fuller version, the abortion scenes (but not the nudity) were cut... wow.Is this an important film for the topics it covers? Yes. Is it important for the debut (or early) roles of many of its stars? Absolutely. But all around, it is just a brilliant look at teenage life in that time period, which probably has not changed all that much. "},{"Title":"Background for this Movie","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is based on fact.Cameron Crowe, in his 1981 book Fast Times at Ridgemont Hight (Simon and Schuster publishers) explains the following.Whilst writing articles for a youth culture magazine, not a day went by when the term 'the kids' wasn't used. Everything was done in mind as appealing to the 'kids' market, whether that be music, movies, everything and this began to fascinate Crowe.As a 22 year old in 1979, Crowe discussed the idea of the book with his publisher who advised him to return to school and find out what was really going on with these kids. In 1972 Crowe had attended Ridgemont Snr High for Summer School and had been enthralled with the place because his regular school was a strict Catholic one. To him Ridgemont seemed sublime and forbidden.In 1979 principal William Gray at Ridgemont was mooted the plan by Crowe, to be a Snr for a full year. This would result in enough material for Crowe to write his book about contemporary high school.Principal Gray, initially skeptical about this venture was won over when Crowe began to list the celebrities he had been writing about and thus the project was underway. Gina George an English teacher was let into the secret and became Crowe's homeroom teacher and Crowe began his undercover project as a High School Snr.Crowe was totally ignored at Ridgemont during his first month there and met Linda Barrett after school one day in a journalism class. She befriended Crowe and because of her job at the local ice cream shop, Linda was a notable person on campus. She introduced Crowe to many people and he became part of her group of friends.Following his year at Ridgemont where Crowe became so accepted as part of the crowd, that even the Principal mistook him for a Snr at the Prom, he came clean on the project and interviewed many of his characters extensively and corroborated their stories and his notes from the previous year. Crowe's assertion in the books Preface of February 1981 is that all the incidents are true, only superficial identifying characteristics have been changed.If you can get hold of a copy of Fast Times at Ridgemont High it is well worth the read. The movie does not really do the story justice. In my opinion it would do well from a remake with a fresh look at the book resulting in a much more cohesive and detailed movie.Enjoy ) "},{"Title":"Second Coming of Phoebe Cates","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A quintessential teen movie of the '80s. If you think of high school drama from that period, you'd think of this one.To me, I only saw the movie for Phoebe Cates. She's trimmed up since her first movie Paradise, and that bikini scene was the Piece de Resistance of the movie.I didn't care how the other characters did, or what the movie was about, my eyes were glued to Cates.But actually the movie was pretty good. It was a new kind of a movie then. Its list of stars looks like who's who of the teenage movie stars of that period. The movie blazed the trail for many more movies of the kind that was made until well into the '90s.So I love this movie. It's one of those movies that you can't forget about, and I think it will remain that way for a long time. "}{"Title":"Sean Penn's Breakout","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cameron Crowe was a freelance writer working for Rolling Stone when he went undercover at a California high school and pretended to be a student. His book was made into a movie which featured a very young Sean Penn as a pot smoking surfer boy whose favorite phrase is hey dude. He is hilarious. Jennifer Jason Jason Leigh is a girl who wants to be popular and pays the price after losing her virginity. The usual teenage angst is portrayed throughout with a good soundtrack, script, and top notch acting, especially from Penn and Leigh who went on to great careers as two of the best actors in the world. Fast Times is definitely one of the better of the coming of age movies to come out of Hollywood. Foreign films dealing with sexual awakening are generally more open and honest then their American counterparts. This time, we get a realistic look at kids growing up. "},{"Title":"I wish I was there to see it in '82","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What surprised me about Fast Times at Ridgemont High is just how good it is, compared to the teen flick fare that was around when I was in high school. I wasn't apart of the generation being spotlighted in this 1982 movie (I was almost 2), but I could relate to the characters and situations in this film far better than, say, American Pie. Fast Times plays it straightforward, with no uncomfortable scenes that tend toward the ham-fisted. This authenticity is no doubt due to both Cameron Crowe's experience as an undercover high-schooler, but also due to Amy Heckerling's honest direction. The movie is packed with a cast of familiar faces, and most of them have their roles down perfectly. Fast Times features great performances from Jennifer Jason Leigh, Phoebe Cates, Judge Reinhold, Sean Penn and Ray Walston. Walston sinks his teeth into the role of Mr. Hand, the hardass history teacher. And it's completely understandable why Penn is the center of the movie's ad campaign. Jeff Spicoli is the stand-out character, and Penn absolutely embodies the role. Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a thoroughly comedic film that dares to address serious issues. And as a teen movie, it excels in its examination of the awkward high school years, sexual frustration and even the consequences of sex. But it doesn't go too far (or too dark) in treating its target audience with respect, and there's plenty of goofy humor to lighten the mood. The credits rolled, and I was left beaming.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great HS comedy still beats most of today's HS movies.","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was made thirty years ago and still is one of my favorite high school comedies. I was 22 years old when it was made, so I may be a little biased (having graduated HS only four years prior). I have seen it several times and it is definitely better than most of today's high school movies.Like any high school movie there were a few scenes that were far fetched and others that were more realistic.The performances were very good and in a few cases off the charts. Sean Penn, Phoebe Cates and Judge Reinhold were excellent. The younger actors were great, but the older performers like Ray Walston as a teacher were excellent, too. Even though it is funny, about a third of the movie is drama and those moments are well acted, too. They involve some serious decisions that have to be made by some of the characters.Another reason to view the film is the music soundtrack. It is excellent. It is quality rock music. Thank goodness it was made in 1982 instead of 1977. Otherwise, it might have had a lot of disco music.(What a difference five years makes!) "},{"Title":"Didn't grow up in the 80's but still engaging","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This basically like watching high school life during the early 80's although I didn't attend high school in the 80's. It's with teens dealing with emotional problems and feelings and being open about it through conversations with friends. And the conversations in this movie is actually funny although you heard, hear or will hear similar stuff in high school. But most of the conversations is about the opposite sex and how to handle certain situations when it comes to the opposite sex. I will say the conversations isn't something positive or good. Like everyone else is doing it so we need to do it to fit in kinda stuff. One of the greatest challenge in life is being yourself in a world that is trying to make you like everyone else which is indeed a difficult challenge for some students. Despite the message not being good it's still entertaining to watch. But yeah all the way to high school year when it comes to the students it's all about popularity, fitting in and doing what everyone else does or what the media say is cool. But the portrayal of the setting and the characters is realistic, especially with the dialogue to the point it's intriguing. Although it can be similar conversations you heard before in real life. Now this movie doesn't have a core story but shows how multiple different teens deal with worries and what is on their mind while attending and not attending high school. Overall despite the constant shallow messages and it being politically incorrect. It was engaging to see how some teens really act in the early 80's. Now I never seen American Graffiti but after watching this movie I sort of want to see it now. It's kinda strange to see popular celebs now a days so young in this movie.6.9/10 "},{"Title":"All I need is efficient characters and a focus and I'm all good","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's common knowledge to note that every decade has their own defining film for the teenage youth. The seventies had American Graffiti, the eighties had this and Porky's, and the nineties had American Pie. The big question is; what makes them so loved and cherished, even to this day? I think it's the relatable qualities, the close to home nature, and the sentimentality of the picture as a whole.The dedication to make this film work is nothing shy of admirable; screenwriter Cameron Crowe went undercover at Clairemont High School in California for a year as a student to get an inside look at the teenage life. He was planning to pen his book Fast Times at Ridgemont High A True Story. He then had the idea to make it into a film, and rounded up director Amy Heckerling and so a film was born.Much like Porky's, a film I reviewed last summer which has gone on to recently be my most viewed review, somehow, someway, the film follows a generic and straight-forward plot line, where it eventually picks and chooses which characters it will like to follow. We have Brad Hamilton (Judge Reinhold), the obligatorily obnoxious upperclassman, his younger sister, Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh), a fifteen year old Freshman who is a lot more interested and curious about older guys and sex than they are about her, her current love interest, Mark Rat Ratner (Brian Backer), Ridgemont's star football player, Charles Jefferson (Forrest Whitaker in one of his earliest roles), and the iconic Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn), a rather typical, totally rad stoner who is constantly the target for ridicule by his teacher, Mr. Hand (Ray Walston).Yes, they are all caricatures, but the film persistently tries to feed life into them, making them fly past their cookie-cutter appearances. There's definite determination here and, surprisingly, despite being a tad too heavily erected on conventions (sort of the last thing I'd expect after the writer himself went undercover in a high school) it's a well done film. It packs a certain care and understanding for the teenage life, where everything begins to change. Driving becomes doable, maturity elbows its way in, and sex becomes a rather recurring topic. Fast Times at Ridgemont High may not be the ideal comedy for the subject, but it addresses it in a kinder manner than many give it credit for it. It's blunt, but it has a solid point.Starring Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold, Phoebe Cates, Brian Backer, Robert Romanus, Ray Walston, Forest Whitaker, Nicolas Cage (Coppola), and Anthony Edwards. Directed by Amy Heckerling. "},{"Title":"Sean Penn simply Shines as Jeff Spicoli","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, Martin Ebert hated this movie but for some reason I think that he has missed the entire point. Fast Times at Ridgemont High is pretty much a T&A movie, but it takes a different angle to that of Animal House. I tend not to like T&A movies, and I have seen quite a few of them; films such as Revenge of the Nerds, Porky's, Animal House, just to name the more famous ones. Fast Times does fall into this category but I think that there is more behind the themes in this movie, and if you come to this movie simply expect the typical Americanisms then you will be sourly disappointed.Fast Times at Ridgemont High is based around a girl, Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh), who really wants to know about sex. What makes this movie different is that Stacy changes through the movie as she goes through numerous experiences. She begins as a nymphomaniac, wanting to bed anybody she can get, and in the end settles for a non-sexual relationship. Stacy comes to realise at the end of the movie that boyfriends are not about sex but about relationships, and it is with this realisation that this movie draws to a close. Most comedies of this genre have the nerd, who in this movie is Mike Damone (Robert Romanus), chasing after the pretty girl all through the movie only to finally get her at the end. Damone and Stacy get together halfway through the movie, but it is Stacy's confusion about the nature of the boyfriend-girlfriend relationship, that doesn't have it fulfilled until the end.The other characters in the movie also raise it above the simple vulgarity of the typical T&A movie (but it is still classified as soft porn, particularly some scenes play out like a porno). Brad Hamilton (Judge Reinhold) is one example. He begins the movie with everything going for him, and as such he is an incredibly arrogant boy. As the movie progresses his life begins to collapse around him. He looses his job after insulting a customer, and his girlfriend dumps him for the reason that he wanted to dump her. He then gets a job in a seafood restaurant where he has to wear a really stupid uniform. A typical T&A Movie would have everything turn out right for him, but Fast Times doesn't. He finishes the movie without a girlfriend, and the women that he does want, he never gets.Jeff Spicolli (Sean Penn) is the one character that adds so much life to this movie. It is his antics that make this movie funny. I don't find such movies funny anymore (and never really did) but it is Jeff Spicolli's rebellion that makes this movie a gem. Spicolli is the unusual character in this movie, the only other place I have seen anybody remotely similar is in Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. Those guys are actually duplicates of Jeff Spicolli. Their mannerisms and quotes were almost identical. The classic scene here, which was tried and failed in Hong Kong cinema, is the scene where the pizza guy delivers a pizza to Jeff in the middle of class.If you want fantasy, this is not the movie for you. Watch Revenge of the Nerds. What we have here is a movie about life. It is a movie based on a semi-real book and the characters in this movie seem to have a life about them. This isn't a movie about pretty girls getting everything that want, but more about a woman who discovers that the thrill of sex is not really all that thrilling when there is nothing behind it. The look on her face when she first does it in a football field shows how it isn't that great. A romantic time isn't experienced in a dirty shelter with graffiti all over it. The scene where she lies naked on the couch in her change rooms, while the guy she likes emotionlessly dresses and walks out also protrays a woman who's fantasies about sex been shattered. Ebert doesn't like this but I think his mind has been twisted by the fantasy elements of other T&A movies. If I want fantasy, I watch Willow, but what we have here is much closer to reality. "},{"Title":"Life In The Fast Lane .","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just saw this movie over the weekend on VH1, I saw it a long time ago first on TV, when I was in 7th grade; and then I rented it when I was a Freashman in High School. I loved this movie a true classic comedy, even though some of the actor's in the movie are miscast. This movie is a typical coming of age movie, sex, drugs, and rock and roll. I thought the era of the film was more 1970 decade than 1980's. The reason why; first all the promiscuity, music,and drug use; i.e. marijuana. I went to high school in the late 1980's and graduated in 1990. It seems like my generation, wasn't that promiscuous, drugs were out, and dating older guys were a WTF are you doing. Yes there were a couple of girls who did get in trouble like in the movie; but it was a family matter. The part they had to a T was THE MALL. If you were of high school age you went to The Mall or to the skating rink on the weekends.The reason why I liked this movie is because it had and covered everything teenagers experience, the good, the bad, and the consequences of such actions. I thought Spacolli, Sean Penn's character was classic. He and Mr. Hand reminded me of some of the bone headed class-mates I came in contact with and Mr. Hand well I had a few of those teachers in school, LOL.When I watched this movie just this past Saturday, I could have sworn more of it seemed cut this time on TV. I just know when I saw in back in the 80's , more of the iffy scenes were shown back then. I am so against censorship, it's like everything is TABOO to talk about. If we don't talk about these topics we become a Nation of ignorance. Kris L. Cockayne "},{"Title":"Nice and to the point","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not going to bore you guys with a recounting of events in the film. What I will do is tell you that the film is amazing and that you should see it immediately if you haven't already. Not only is it warm, funny, and light-hearted but it instills a rush of nostalgia reminding you of your own misadventures during those turbulent, hormone- fueled high school days. With a terrific cast- from the talented Sean Penn, to a memorable cameo by the always thrilling Nic Cage, who, speaking of which will be starring in a new thriller called Trespass http//bitly.com/qN22Cm- Fast Times is a cultural gem; one that only gets better with time. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In my humble opinion, 1982's Fast Times at Ridgemont High and 1994's Dazed and Confused are the best high school comedy-dramas.I had a taped-from-TV VHS version of Fast Times and watched it a few times over the years; I thought the film was decent, but nothing exceptional, that is, until I recently bought the DVD and saw the film the only way it was meant to be viewed -- in its original, uncut form. I was pleasantly surprised to discover that Fast Times is indeed great and I had been seriously ripped-off in my past viewings. In fact, it seemed like I was seeing the film for the first time! The story is set in a California high school in 1982. What makes Fast Times work so well is, despite the goofy Spicoli antics, it honestly attempts to depict the high school/teenage experience in all it's glory & shame, good times & bad. Too many films of this ilk focus on raunchy shenanigans and go no deeper. Fast Times doesn't make this mistake. The film features quality characters with great depth and the viewer experiences (or re-experiences) the fun/painful high school years through them. Although there's a little nudity and sexual explicitness it's not overkill and, besides, it belongs in a film that endeavors to honestly depict the high school experience, otherwise it wouldn't be true-to-life; in other words, it'd be a lie.Damone is a great character with his smooth-talking mesmerism. He strongly believes in putting on airs to succeed and conceals any weakness. If he falls flat, so to speak, he immediately covers-up and acts like nothing happened. Never advertise your failings or the savage wolves will tear you to pieces, he seems to think. Many of his pithy sayings & beliefs are absolutely true, e.g. Wherever you're at, that's the place to be. In other words, Live in the moment. Although he uses a girl as a sex object and swiftly loses a good friend & follower as a result, I found it interesting that he later genuinely apologizes, which shows humility and character. The friend then sees the humanity behind Damone's smooth-talk and properly opts to forgive & forget. This is great stuff.Another quality character is Stacy Hamilton, played excellently by Jennifer Jason Leigh. She's petite, cute and can cop an alluring expression for the object of her desire, which totals three in the story.The other characters are strong as well -- Stacey's likable older brother, Brad; the surfer dude Spicoli; the awkward-but-trying-hard Mark Rat Ratner; Stacey's sexy best friend, Linda (Phoebe Cates); etc.Late in the film we observe Stacey make a huge mistake and suffer the consequences. It's to the movie's merit that this episode is genuinely heart-wrenching, especially considering that the film's largely a comedy. Then her brother unexpectedly shows up, faithful and dependable; he doesn't say much but it's clear he loves his sister dearly. It's scenes like this that propel Fast Times head & shoulders above the competition.Another sequence that hits home is when a certain character humorously fantasizes about his dream girl, but it goes too far and... (I can't give it away, but it's totally hilarious and true-to-life).Then there's Spicoli's relationship with Mr. Hand. On the surface these two are nemeses, but we observe a different dimension to their relationship near the end when Mr. Hand has a tutoring session with Spicoli in his bedroom. The teacher is almost enlightened when he discovers that Spicoli actually understands the principles of history, it's just that he phrases the data according to his sub-cultural lexicon. Also, as unlikely as the tutoring session in Spicoli's bedroom seems, I had to do this when I was in high school due to a broken leg and literal body cast. An older gentleman would sit by my bed and tutor me a few times a week for a few months.Of course, the soundtrack is a highlight as well. Go to IMDb's soundtrack listing for all the songs, like We Got the Beat, Kashmir and Somebody's Baby. CONCLUSION Like I said, Fast Times is one of the best high school comedy-dramas out there, along with Dazed and Confused. It eschews one-dimensional and juvenile raunch for something deeper, more balanced, true-to-life and even moving. Simply put, Fast Times is a must own. "},{"Title":"A Petrie Dish of a film","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times, taken on its own merits is enjoyable enough but, perhaps, nothing particularly special. Yet, look at it again from the side 1. It more or less single-handedly created the format for raunchy US high school coming-of-age movies 2. It was a first outing for the not inconsiderable autobiographical talents of Cameron Crowe; 3. It contained THAT moment. You know, the seminal red bikini slo-mo moment. You knew what I was talking about, didn't you? 4. Most importantly, it was a breeding ground - a Petrie dish, if you will - for a generation of the USA's young actors. The list bears repeating Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Phoebe Cates (if only she hadn't retired so young!), Judge Reinhold (never off the screen for a while), Forest Whitaker, Eric Stoltz, Nicolas Cage, Antony Edwards...Watch and marvel! "}{"Title":"Getting Wasted Youth","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At first blush, this seems like it's just your typical 1980s teen movie collection of Hollywood-situated actors acting like they're still in high school. The difference is - IT'S FUNNY! Director Amy Heckerling and writer Cameron Crowe know what's real, and how to pull out poignant, seriocomic emotions. The main storyline features budding slut Jennifer Jason Leigh (as Stacy Hamilton) getting advice from experienced sexpot Phoebe Cates (as Linda Barrett). After awkwardly losing it, she gets in trouble with smooth-talking mall rat Robert Romanus (as Mike Damone), who is advising nerdy Brian Backer (as Mark Rat Ratner)...The Go-Go's' We Got the Beat and Oingo Boingo's Goodbye, Goodbye make stupendous soundtrack bookends...Meanwhile, jerking Judge Reinhold (Brad Hamilton) can't keep his hands on a fast-food restaurant job. Throughout it all, perpetually stoned Sean Penn (as Jeff Spicoli) heads up a Greek chorus of surfer buds (avec Eric Stoltz and Anthony Edwards). The chemistry between Mr. Penn and history teacher Ray Walston (as Mr. Hand) is most amazing; pairing these two was something impossible to plan, which makes their exchanges all the more hilarious. Probably the secret to this film's success is that it takes chances. You also see this in several startling moments. But, it's balanced... Fast Times at Ridgemont High is not bogus.********* Fast Times at Ridgemont High (8/13/82) Amy Heckerling ~ Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold, Robert Romanus "},{"Title":"Some tasty waves, some cool buds, and I'm fine.","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Changes in audience demographics and increases in disposable income led to a golden age of teen movies in the late 70s and early 80s. Film's like Animal House, Over The Edge and Porkies kicked things off, but outside the work of a few auteur directors (Cameron Crowe, John Hughes, Savage Holland, Robert Zemeckis, Rob Reiner etc), most of these films are unwatchable today.Fast Times At Ridgemont High is no different. But though the film is nothing but a collection of now worn out sex jokes and dumb gags performed by one dimensional characters, one nevertheless sees why it, like many of its siblings, captured the zeitgeist and appealed to young audience members. These were films that homed in on the anxieties of affluent white teens (growing pains, the need for independence, sexual education, money woes, working at the mall, dating, bullying, the boredom of highschool etc) and offered young viewers their first looks at profanity, smut, nudity and sex. In short, these films connected with horny, dumb and goofy Western kids.What's unique about Fast Times, though, is the way it came into fruition. Today, most of these teen comedies are slapped together from bits and pieces of other films, a bunch of jokes and archetypal characters thrown together with little purpose. But Fast Times began as a piece of gonzo journalism, writer Cameron Crowe going undercover in a high school, using the material he gathered to write a book and then turning his book into a screen play (which was then directed by Amy Heckerling). So Fast Times is really a slice of investigative reporting. Can you imagine a modern teen movie being born this way?6.9/10 - This beast made waves back in the days, but its ripples have travelled so far and wide that riding even its crests have now become a total bummer. Yes, the film is grittier and more frank than most of its spawn, but today only Sean Penn's inspired (and influential) role as a California surfer and Judge Reinhold's endearingly optimistic performance as a fast food worker, resonate in any way. "},{"Title":"Proof that regardless of the era, high school has never been a simple experience.","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In Ridgemont? We can't even get cable TV here, Stacy, and you want romance.I have a budding appreciation for the 80's. I was just a wee tyke during the later part of that decade, so I don't remember anything about those years. But all the teen movies that I've seen have led me to believe it was an awesome and corny time to be an adolescent.Fast Times at Ridgemont High is one of the iconic movies from that era, and that reputation is richly deserved. It still holds up very well today. It starred younger versions of a bevy of today's biggest stars, like Forest Whitaker and Sean Penn, alongside some of the names that were synonymous with the 80's, like Jennifer Jason Leigh and Phoebe Cates. It's very much an ensemble movie, with a collection of characters and scenarios that range from light-hearted (Penn) to more dramatic (Leigh).   The script was courtesy of the talented Cameron Crowe, who adapted it from a book that he re-entered high school to research as he was writing it. As a result, this wasn't a simple sex romp or teen comedy. Sure, it was pretty funny in parts, but it also dealt with the sometimes heavy issues that teens were wrestling with back then (and are still tackling today). The twists and turns of teenage relationships, unplanned pregnancies, jobs, abortions, and the like, are touched on in a genuine (if simplified) manner. Even so, this movie is a lot more evenly split between comedy and social commentary than The Breakfast Club was, for example.  Movies like Fast Times at Ridgemont High are pretty ageless. It's not a bad idea to give it a viewing if you missed it the first time around. I'm glad that I did. "},{"Title":"Dude!","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nowadays we could all use a little Jeff Spicoli in our lives. Sean Penn sure could. This movie proves that once upon a time Penn was actually capable of enjoying himself and engaging in some good, lighthearted fun. His stoned surfer dude Spicoli is such a great character. Sometimes there's nothing more to life than Hey bud, let's party! If only life were always so simple. For Spicoli perhaps it is. But some of the other characters we meet will have to confront some rather serious issues. And with that this movie sets itself a bit apart from so many other teen comedies. The laughs are there. Thank you Mr. Penn for that. But the serious moments interspersed throughout really make you feel for the characters. And that is what ultimately makes the film a success.Everyone remembers Penn's Spicoli. And, probably because of one scene in particular, everyone remembers Phoebe Cates. Perhaps overlooked is Jennifer Jason Leigh who may actually be the real standout performer here. In portraying the innocent freshman Stacy Hamilton, who is rather eager to lose that innocence, Leigh gives a very assured performance. A challenging role to play and Leigh fits the part perfectly. Playing Stacy's older friend Linda, who would have us believe she is much more wise in the ways of love than her young counterpart, Cates is perfectly fine. But her character doesn't have nearly as much going on as Leigh's. Overall there is a fine group of young performers on display. Plenty of familiar faces and a few relative unknowns too. And seemingly everyone involved does very well. But, with the possible exception of Penn off in his own little Spicoli world, it's Leigh who comes off best.The movie is a nice little slice of early 1980s high school life. It definitely has that unique 1980s look and feel to it. There's really not all that much in the way of plot but there is enough to keep you engaged for 90 minutes. You've got the very good young cast of characters and there's room for a few memorable performances from an elder generation as well. How can you not love Ray Walston as Mr. Hand? And Vincent Schiavelli as Mr. Vargas too. Whenever the movie threatens to bog down a bit, and there are a few moments where it does, it's Spicoli to the rescue. Oh, that wacky Sean Penn. Penn gives the movie some laughs, Leigh gives it some heart and everyone around them does their part to keep things headed in the right direction. This is not just another run of the mill teen comedy. This one's a little more than that. A great film? Probably not. But so much better than so many others like it. "},{"Title":"Fast Times at Ridgemont High","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You always hear talk about certain movies which define a generation regarding high school life. I can't really say Fast Times at Ridgemont High was that way with me as it was others, but watching it again late tonight, I realize it is one for many a few years older than myself. It preceded me, as one of my film's was Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club. Those were movies which I watched multiple times as a kid, then revisited them as my years in high school were coming to an end. But, to see all the names associated with Fast Times at Ridgemont High, it certainly had a groundswell of talent which would blossom in years to come. While actors with careers like Nicholas Cage, Anthony Edwards, and Eric Stoltz wouldn't exactly flourish until years afterward(..their roles are all quite small, or cameos of little significance to this film's plot), others like Jennifer Jason Leigh, Phoebe Cates, Judge Reinhold, Forest Whitaker, and Sean Penn has sizable roles which only opened larger doors, and we can only grin at their future success, knowing this was a place where they got their start. Like many teen movies in this decade and the previous 70's, Fast Times at Ridgemont High had a provocative script with great emphasis on sex and drugs. It's really a scattershot series of events in the lives of teenagers during a particular school year.A fifteen year old experiments with sex(JJL), getting pregnant by a boy who only lasted a few seconds, and, without his help, had to get an abortion on her own. A theater patron(Brian Backer)carries a torch for JJL. Phoebe Cates is JJL's pal and she is always commenting on her sex life with an older mature man. Judge Reinhold's life becomes quite complicated when he loses a managerial job at a hamburger joint and his girlfriend of two years(Amanda Wyss;A Nightmare on Elm Street, Better Off Dead)calls off their relationship. Sean Penn is a pothead surfer who raises the ire of his uptight teacher Mr. Hand(Ray Walston). Forest Whitaker is a star football player who demolishes the opponent team, believing they trashed his car(..Penn and Whitaker's little brother were the actual culprits!). Robert Romanus is a ticket scalper who gets pal Backer's potential love interest pregnant. These specific characters are the main ones focused on at times during the movie.I can see why this might be offensive. JJL's awkward scenes involving sex and nudity even had me a little uneasy. How Romanus gets off with a slap on the wrist for his part in JJL's pregnancy(..although, she played a heavy part in this, one has to admit). While a popular scene forever remembered, the pizza delivery in the classroom, while funny, is highly unlikely. I wasn't as bothered by some of the sexually frank dialogue as others for I recognize that these conversations occur by both sexes(..the experiences, such as delivering oral pleasure and the complete sexual act as well)in school as teenagers ponder what it feels like. While seemingly neat and tidy a resolution, I have a hard time believing JJL's Stacy would recover from that abortion so quickly and easily. As a whole, I enjoy this movie, reliving that period fondly, the cast is a delight, and the music is terrific. I can see why it's embraced still after all these years, even if I have my share of problems with the film. The scene with Cates, Reinhold's fantasy is a riot and a pleasure to behold. It was cool seeing both Backer and Romanus together again after appearing in The Burning, knowing that several familiar faces in my favorite genre, horror, pop up(..such as Pamela Springsteen as the psycho Angela in the subsequent Sleepaway Camp sequels, Kelli Maroney as, you guessed it, a cheerleader who takes her position seriously, and, as already mentioned, Wyss as Reinhold's former girlfriend who wouldn't put out for him). V Schiavelli has a memorable part as a biology teacher notorious for taking his class to a real dissection of a human corpse(..and his wife is a babe). I think the culture clash between Walston and Penn is timeless(..and I can just feel his pain as he must grade such poor work despite all his efforts to teach these kids). "},{"Title":"Cameron Crowe, accept your diploma!","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If Alice Crowe really skipped her son not once, but twice (!) in school, I guess he had every right to go back after something less traumatic (traveling the world with rock stars) and get research material for what would turn into the great youth epic of the Ronnie Raygun era. The director Amy Heckerling and Crowe keep talking for another ten minutes after the end credits finish! All right, that's my kind of DVD!! Me thinks the high school experience is an integral part of his life, maybe more so than any other institution he has been a part of.Rolling Stone magazine ain't got nothing on Ridgemont, dude. The talent that had their first great roles in this flick are comparable to only The Godfather before and I don't know what since (fill in your favourite for this slot, such as Dazed and Confused). Life in this town is about ultimatums. You either have a pool or not. You're either having sex or not. You've either annoyed Mr. Hand or not! What Judge, Jennifer, Sean, Phoebe, Forest and all the others learn at high school could fit in a thimble, if you're considering curriculum only. The true education is in cars, on the beach, at the burger joint, and yes, at that grand temple of the teenager, the mall. Sean Penn gives what has to rank as one of the twelve or thirteen most influential pieces of acting in the cinema. It's impossible to watch anyone play a dude and not summon up visions of Jeff, his gift to the world of comedy.Jennifer Leigh is heartbreaking as Stacy, the nubile little sister of Judge. Her character has a precious vase for a personality, one that can only become a glued back together item after the inevitable jerk she falls for shows her what the adult world is really about. Take note of this wolf in stereo salesman's clothing role, young ladies! That guy you think is Mr. Wonderful probably isn't!Phoebe probably caused more damage to videotapes and the tracking of the universe's VCRs than anyone else ever with the pool scene from paradise (and Judge probably made more kids throw up with laughter than anyone else, taking matters into hand). Yes, this film has something for almost all. It's a brilliant snapshot of schools before the last quarter century, with all the recent danger and insanity not in the way of teens just wanting a good time without risking a stray bullet in the process. "},{"Title":"keeps ya smilin'","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast times is definitely a movie for the more layed back type of person. Anyone who just wants to sit back, chill out and have a good time watching these interesting breeds of characters just live life. It is quite similar to Dazed and Confused yet a little more of a social critique than Dazed is. The movie does a good job at juxtaposing the 'fake' with the 'true'. We see how the more mature & sophisticated crowd (Linda, Mike, Brad and Mr. Hand) all have biased morals and think very highly of their social status. Whereas Spicoli, Stacy and Mark all let loose and have morals they themselves have established. So whether you're in a serious mood and are interested in a quite interesting character and moral study or just chillin at home watchin the movie with Mary Jane for some laughs, this movie delivers! "},{"Title":"Keep doing it. It gets a lot better, I swear.","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What more could you want Sean Penn (his second film), Anthony Edwards, Eric Stoltz, Phoebe Cates, Judge Reinhold, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Nicolas Cage (in his first feature film) and Forrest Whitaker in the dawn of their acting lives? This alone makes the price of a ticket worthwhile.Those of us that were to old for the eighties, can see just what it was like to be a teen at that time. No plot here; just a look at teen life as they tried to get laid or get high or both.It was good to see the departed Ray Walston as Mr. Hand, or Vincent Schiavelli as Mr. Vargas.Great soundtrack made it even more fun, as did the skintastic pics of Phoebe Cates and Jennifer Jason Leigh. "},{"Title":"Just Like My School","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember going to school some time in the 80s (81 I think) and this is exactly as I remember it. Nerds, jocks, jokers, greasers, teachers, beauty queens, cheerleaders etc. Looking into the girl's shower rooms through a glory hole, putting dead dwarfs in the nerd's desks, setting the teachers' chairs on fire and other pranks, and watching girls swimming and transforming was all part of everyday life. It was fast; fast living. Fast Living at Bell End Boy's School where I attended. Those were happy days with all my friends; Neville, Bobert, Shawsy, Wee Scott, Bunter, Fitz, Simon, Murph, Stoat, Biggles, Rodger, as well as a few girls like Jem, Lee, Gree, Corky etc. My wee brother Andy was a couple of years below me so we didn't bother much with each other as that wouldn't have been cool. That chump Brendan tried to involve himself in our gang all the time but we all hated him more than Coldplay so we just beat him up and played tricks on him. After a particularly horrible toilet incident we would cleanse ourselves and then lob the cleansing utensils over into the cubicle he was sitting in. Ha ha, he would scream when they landed on his head or smeared his beloved physics homework. What a chump.This film follows in true American Apple style by following the exploits of a group of dirty young things trying to fling one out, if you know what I mean. This time the older kids are trying to help the younger kids, giving them tips on how to unhook bras with their teeth, standing back to back whilst on fire. I just showed my brother a few Carry On movies and sent him on his way- slice of cake! Everyone has fun, no-one gets eaten, and they all go to college. The end.Best Scene When Pheebee Gates jumps into the swimming pool as a nerd, swims to the other side, climbs out and strips out of her bikini only to reveal a dangling sausage that Dr Manhattan would be proud of. "},{"Title":"Why would I review this thing 27 years later?","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Because it never gets old. I just watched it again (the last half, anyway), for about the 20th time, and was once again was highly entertained. I know this is the 80's teen comedy by which all others are measured, but there's a great reason. IT'S GOOD! All of the actors were basically unknowns, and many of them ultimately became superstars and/or Oscar winners. The same can't be said for Just One of the Guys, or Back to School, right? But Billy Zapka should be in some sort of 80's Villain Hall-of-Fame from those flicks, if there was one.Anyway, along with the famous alumni, hats off to all of other actors from Fast Times who either fell off the acting radar (Rat, Damone, Arnold, Lisa, & the cheerleaders (Cindy & Springsteen's sister), as well as the dearly departed (off the top of my head, I can name Mr. Hand & Mr. & Mrs. Vargas).Finally, a special shout-out to April Audia, the Pat Benatar Wannabe. She will always be the prototype for just what the late 1981 fashionistas were into when FTARH plays on classic movie channels in 2039. "}{"Title":"very watchable 80s teen movie","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a very watchable film, and i understand why some people remember it so fondly. It paints an upbeat, slightly nostalgic view of school life in the 80s. Sean Penn is specially notable for his performance as the (?permanently) stoned surfer dude Jeff Spicoli. His class room antics are laugh out loud funny! However, the entire cast does a good job. Some of the events are slightly clichéd and predictable, but the cast manages to make it all a worthwhile experience. Still one does wish there was a little more depth to the proceedings.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome!  Totally awesome!","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An absolute classic for sure. I was given this movie two years ago as a gift and had never watch it until now. Little did I know I owned one of my new favorite films about growing up in my collection already. This movie has an incredible cast of young up and coming stars such as Jennifer Jason Leigh, Sean Penn, Judge Reinhold, and Nicholas Cage whom all do a great job. I almost forgot to mention the beautiful Phoebe Cates hubba, hubba. This movie is full of heart and comedy and does it so effortlessly. It's a movie about real people and real situations growing up in high school and sets the stage for all outrageous and bold teenage comedies to come. "},{"Title":"FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH (Amy Heckerling, 1982) **1/2","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While not generally into teen comedies, I had decided to check the film out several years ago on Italian TV given its high rating on the Leonard Maltin guide; having attained something of a cult reputation in the interim, and not being quite sure of what I had made of it at the time, I recently rented Universal’s SE DVD.Adapted by future film-maker Cameron Crowe from his own novel (culled from a year-long research into the subject by apparently enrolling incognito into high school!), the movie also incorporates his love of rock music (as later seen in the autobiographical ALMOST FAMOUS 2000, inspired by his exploits as “Rolling Stone” magazine’s youngest contributor). He brings undeniable insight into the sex-starved lives of teenagers which, with the little it has changed in the intervening years, I guess makes the film just as relevant today as the day it came out; the problem is that the whole has little appeal outside of its intended audience (which, at 32, I can’t really relate to despite not having a family of my own)! The film is notable for its frank depiction of sexual encounters and its cast of youngsters, many of whom would soon hit the big time – Sean Penn as the constantly-doped surfer, Jennifer Jason Leigh as the virginal student, Phoebe Cates as her luscious and experienced best friend, Judge Reinhold as Leigh’s brother (who has a tough time keeping jobs at various fast-food chains), Forest Whitaker as a football star and, in bit parts, Eric Stoltz and Nicolas Cage (billed Coppola). Among the elders, the most prominent are Ray Walston as the disciplinarian (even vindictive) U.S. history teacher – who’s constantly at loggerheads with Penn – and Vincent Schiavelli as the biology professor. In the long run, however, the final verdict is that there are better movies of its ilk out there NATIONAL LAMPOON’S ANIMAL HOUSE (1978) is more memorably irreverent and PORKY’S (1981) is bawdier and funnier. "},{"Title":"the original teenage angst film","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this project was the starting point for the careers of a lot of very popular actors including the Oscar winning Forest Whittaker.the results show.its is somewhat dated, with the references to Pat Benetar lookalikes, but I saw the same kind of stuff at that age.numerous memorable lines came out of the movie and a lot of genuinely funny scenes. Some of these characters could easily been inspired by people I went to school with. or should I say 'sort of' went to high school since my 9-13 years consisted of 80% boredom 10 % ho hum and 10% 'awesome! totally awesome!!' I finally got around to renting the uncut version from the video store including the famous Phoebe Cates topless 5 seconds. She sure was a hottie in 1982.sex drugs and rock and roll, all in a neat 97 minutes. "},{"Title":"Another classic teen movie from the 80's","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was really lucky to see this film. I put it on for background noise while I read a book. Somehow, I found myself regularly looking up from the book and then putting it down to concentrate on the movie. I wish I had seen it when I was a teenager. I know I would have loved it. The thing I like about this movie is that it's set in the 80's when I was a teenager, and it was fun to be transported back to a time I strongly identify with (love those space-invaders), it's got some great characters, it looks great, it's funny and it's true. If you rent the DVD there are some cool extras as well. I watched them all, then listened to the commentary! I am a fan. What amazes me about these early movies is how many went on to mega-stardom (Sean Pen) and how many should have - but didn't (Romano). If you like this I recommend you check out Mat Dillon in Over the Edge as well. Cult Classic! "},{"Title":"Masterful Comedy.","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times At Ridgemont High is a very well-written comedy that goes way beyond Phoebe Cates's topless scene or Sean Penn's Spicoli. Not only it's a classic 80's movie that has influenced many other movies, it's a well-structured, inventive film with great quality to it.The film has four story lines of Stacy Hamilton, of Brad Hamilton, of Jeff Spicoli, and of Damone and Mark Ratner.The story lines vary in tone, yet they maintain that harmony that allows the characters jump from one storyline to another and fit perfectly.The characters are memorable, quotable and very well played. Spicoli is perhaps the most memorable character in the movie, the stoner, surfer dude played brilliantly by Sean Penn. Brad Hamilton (Judge Reinhold) is the guy who wants to succeed yet finds himself stuck in the same jobs, Stacy (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is the girl that wants to grow up too soon, Damone (Robert Romanus) is a weasel, but a funny one, and Ratner (Brian Backer) is an innocent geek. And of course Mr. Hand (Ray Walston) who is a hilarious character trying to deal with Spicoli.Fast Times is a fun movie, an enjoyable movie and a flashback to the 80's. "},{"Title":"Not Much Plot, But I Am Always Compelled to Watch It","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are looking for a great plot in Fast Times at Ridemount High, you will be disappointed because there is very little. It is more about the Fast Times (pun intended) of high schoolers who are interested in hanging out at the malls and having sex.But what makes the film work very well is the ensemble of very talented young actors who do amazing work with the weak storyline. The character stereotypes are very strong and well played. But it are the stand out performances of Sean Penn as stoned surfer-dude Jeff Spicoli and the absolutely BRILLIANT performance of Ray Walston as strict history teacher, Mr. Hand, that make this film unforgettable.Viewers are drawn to the performances of Jeff Spicoli and Mr. Hand so well, that incredibly, their scenes make the movie better than what otherwise would have been a typical teen, sex-obsessed exploitation flick.There are some great one-liners throughout the film that die-hards know by heart. Critics have discussed the superficial role of some of the other characters. However, an important point is that many high school students are often immature, superficial, and sex-obsessed. Perhaps not to the extent that this film shows. But if the film DIDN'T show the extreme attitudes of the students, you would have a fairly ordinary movie. Fast Times is positively reflected in fun times and the exciting escapades of high school kids. This movie shows that it can be fun without a major plot or seriousness attached to it, and not many movies can say that.The downside is that due to conflicts between the director and the scriptwriter, there will not be a full extended version of FTARH. The network TV print omits or dubs the bad language and removes all nudity. However, the TV version also has several scenes of added (and interesting) dialogs between the characters, that are not present in commercial home video versions, and probably never will be unless an agreement is reached between director Amy Heckerling and screenwriter Cameron Crowe, which is very unlikely.However, the performances of Sean Penn and Ray Walston push this film near the top. Focus on the fun and you won't be disappointed. This is a highly recommended film! "},{"Title":"No shoes no shirt No Dice","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" wow what a great movie from the 80's. This is the kind of movie that you pop in your DVD and just laugh. Its a pretty simple movie about high school, the mall, and kick ass music. Sean Penn plays Jeff Spicoli and Jeff is quite the character the stoner kind of guy you see in every high school. With a great soundtrack so so acting and come on Phoebe Cates topless its a sure watch and my favorite high school movie. Its the type of movie that is just pure fun to watch and I've seen it quite a few dozen times and I always end up laughing still at the jokes. For anyone who wants to watch a great high school movie I would recommend this movie 10\10 "},{"Title":"there *was* a sequel...","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...it's called Clueless - Fast Times for the '90s. As a class of '82er myself, this movie really spoke to me (while Clueless *so* did not - but I enjoyed it anyway).On the DVD commentary, Cameron Crowe talks about how the studio pressured them to change the music from what they had originally; I remember particularly the use of Jackson Browne in certain scenes where I always thought it was perversely inappropriate, and to find that the director originally had different, and much more appropriate, music in those scenes made me wish they'd do a Director's Cut with the originally-intended music inserted.Then I saw the Director's Cut DVD of Donnie Darko, and in the commentary the director discusses how the theatrical release had some of the same music in a different order, and they moved everything back to where they originally wanted it in the DVD.So why not do that with Fast Times? "},{"Title":"A load of fun.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A teen cinema classic, and rightfully so. It's hilarious, realistic and very enjoyable. All of the performances are great and a joy to watch. It's a bit clichéd and cheesy, but you have to keep in mind that this is the film that created most of those clichés. I really love how it studies the different groups of teenagers from the pothead surfers to the fast-food workers to the regular Joe's. Even more so, I love how it studied the various pressures of High School and how these affect the teens involved. It subtly does a deep investigation on the pressures of drugs, sex, careers and school through very different, but very similar and relatable stories of youth. One of my favorites to sit back and relax, and it's a great joy to see so many phenomenal actors (Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Forest Whitaker, etc.) "}{"Title":"Funny way to start the year","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a school year in the life of four teenagers and some of their friends. Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is trying to be with a boy for the first time and for that she will have the help of Linda Barret (Phoebe Cates). Mark Ratner (Brian Backer)is a boy that has an interest in Stacy so with the help of his best friend Mike Damone (Robert Romanus), he is trying to be with Stacy. The plot also involves Stacy's brother, Brad (Judge Reinhold) and Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn) who is the kind of punk of the school, that has the best parts in the film and that is the best character.The plot is very simple and is not the best thing in this film but it works because of the cool characters, specially Spicoli. And also because of the previous work of Cameron Crowe, who enter undercover in a High School to write his book and to be closer to the behavior of the students. So the best thing in this film are the dialogs and of course the characters. The are very funny personalities, like the one of Mike Damone, who is like the boy who knows everything about girls and about rock concerts or the one of Brad, that is like a senior and is a successful single. But the one that steals the film is Spicoli, just because he has the funniest scenes in the film and is the most charismatic in the school. With the personality that Sean Penn has right now he must be shame of this character, just watch the episode in Two and a half men where Sean appears.Conclusion this is a simple but funny film, excellent for start the year with a smile. That has a cast full of stars in their beginnings Sean Penn, Nicolas Cage credited as Nicolas Coppola for the first and unique time, Forest Whitaker in a funny role as the best football player in the school and the older brother of Spicoli's friend,Jenifer Jason Leigh,Eric Stoltz and Anthony Edwards. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Mall A Place and an Experience","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The mall is not only a place but an experience. Yet while the mall is an experience, none have dared attempt to write the mall epic as say Hotel. did for the hotel industry. Malls have been used as a backdrop in two significant movies Fast Times at Richmont High and Dawn of the Dead.Fast Times at Ridgemont High defined the life of a teenager in the eighties. All the usual teenage problems are vividly satirized and detailed with honesty and realism teenage pregnancy, sex, drugs, first love, teenage breakup, etc...The cast infused the characters seamlessly and with believability in the story of one school year in the life of several teens. This was nothing especially extraordinary it was just...High School and the mall.The film transcended the typical teen movie, music, nerdy teachers, dope, nudity in a burst of the energy and fun of American teen commercialism. The movies' charm lies in its evocation of an environment, the very mall culture I speak off. While the film depicts the happiness, frustration, ugliness, and joy of being a teen during the 80's within a veneer of sophomoric humor, it portrays the ritual rite of passage in the assumption of adult responsibilities, owning cars, working, getting fired, trying to grow up too fast. This is not presented without sugar but in a rather stark, realistic way. The excitement of working at the coolest place in the mall is balanced against responsibility getting fired and danger getting robbed.A TV version briefly aired with some of the cast, but the movie's popularity was not strong enough to draw an audience to it.The Galleria which served as the backdrop for the film regrettably is no more. The film was shot in the Sherman Oaks Galleria Mall in Van Nuys California. The mall failed to survive the 1980s and has been demolished.Yet in High Times, the mall itself is not the story; it is the stage, the setting the prop. The people not the backdrop are the story The Mall Genre Could there be such a thing as a mall movie, one like hotel principally about the place? I have concluded the mall could only be a stage not a story in itself.The mall never assumed as with the old first class hotels or department store a personality of its own. The mall swayed with the times and the demands of the market. Thus there never was an internal conflict such as alluded to in A Christmas Carol of a business operation bucking the times to preserve an ideal manner of doing business.The old five star hotels and the family owned department stores which struggled to preserve quality service against the tides of changing, competitive times might be capable of telling such a story as the book and movie Hotel eloquently depicts.The mall as much as I love the excitement of it never grew such firm roots that it itself could be the center of controversy over direction. The mall's sight never transcended nor passed the very next sale. "},{"Title":"Setting the foreground for teenagers of the 80's.","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was had just started my freshman year in high school when Fast Times came out. It was the beginning of the 80's when America was in a very strange transition that was affected heavily by pop culture. I believe. In lieu of all the teenager high school comedies ever made I would give Fast Times credit for starting it all, or at least breaking the mold for that genre. Very few movies of this kind were made and they usually didn't explore risqué and taboo themes quite as boldly. What thus followed in the 80's were exploitative romp films about teenagers getting into trouble. There are many to add to the list like Private School, Last American Virgin, Revenge of the Nerds, every John Hughes film and more... Fast Times is definitely a cheesy film and knows it's target audience and shamelessly panders to it with all the sexual, drug and adolescent themes. Whether it served a purpose valuable purpose to kids or not is not its motive, but rather a means to drawing a young audience. The situations and the characters are interesting and from a thematic standpoint it uncovers teenage insecurity and awkwardness very well. And it's funny, both painfully and sardonically. Fast Times was a precursor to my high school years and set the mode for the way myself and many teenagers viewed life. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Genre","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is the mother of all teen films. We may never see its like again. I think what gives the film a special resonance is that none of the characters are particularly cool or popular. They are all oddballs. And none were rich either. There is not a mercedes or bmw in sight. These characters have a realness and a vulnerability you do not find in other movies of the genre. You have the Jennifer Jason Leigh character. A pretty girl but not the stereotypical sorority-type idiot. And she ends up falling for a dork like Rat. As for the character of Damone , he has never been equaled in any high school movie. A teenager who says things like, is that your brother, he's a good looking kid. Need one say more? And how about this. The teachers are almost as likable as the students. There's a reason this film is still a favorite 25 years after its release. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Teen Comedies Ever!","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rated R for Sexual Content,Nudity,Language and Drug Use. Quebec Rating18+(should be 13+) Canadian Home Video RatingR(should be 18A)I have seen Fast Times At Ridgemont High 3 times already and I must say this film is great!Along with Dazed and Confused and American Pie Fast Times at ridgemont high ranks as one of my favorite teen comedies.Teen comedies need to be more like this film!Sean Penn has done plenty of serious roles its funny to see him as a funny stoner in this film.There is no real plot to the movie and the acting isn't all that great but it accurately shows teenagers and the film is really funny.That's what makes a great teen comedy.The film just shows the lives of a couple of California teenagers and the misadventures they encounter.Fast Times At Ridgemont High is a hilarious teen comedy.One of the best ones out there! Runtime90min 10/10 "},{"Title":"Have owned it for 4 days & watched it SEVEN times!!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Must see! Must see!! I can't believe this movie has been out for 24 years, and I just now viewed it! I am a big fan of John Hughes--and now Cameron Crowe is a close second. Great soundtrack, great nostalgia (even if you were in grade school when it came out!)--I forked over $35 for the paperback on eBay and even bought the soundtrack! Some of the highlights include first-time roles for many future stars, sexual instruction with a carrot in the cafeteria, and cultivating the Pat Benetar look!If you love Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club, St. Elmo's Fire, Pretty in Pink, Weird Science, Some Kind of Wonderful, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Little Darlings, Foxes...see this! "},{"Title":"A good teen flick of the 80's","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a story about a group of California teenagers who enjoy a variety of things such as sex, malls, and rock n' roll. This film is very enjoyable and for its running time at 90 minutes, I thought it flew by extremely fast and maybe that's why it got its title. Fast Times introduced us to two new people that have changed the course in films today. One an actor by the name of Sean Penn who played the stoner, Jeff Spicoli who loved spoking pot, surfing, and irritating Mr. Hand. Later on Sean Penn became a huge star in movies like Mystic River, 21 Grams, and The Thin Red Line. The other being a writer and director who wrote the screenplay for this film and wrote and directed other hits like Jerry Maguire and Almost Famous. He goes by the name of Cameron Crowe. Overall, this is a very entertaining and funny teen flick of the 80's that boosted a lot of careers up for some people that were involved in the film. I recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook 8/10 *** B "},{"Title":"Silliness at it's best","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that really don't have a plot to speak of. It's more a series of peaks into the lives of the Senior class of Ridgemont High.These peaks are hysterically funny, and, surprisingly enough, original. This is the quintessential 80s movie. It is filled with funny lines...lines that people are still quoting almost 25 years later.Yet there is also a heart to this movie that makes you care about these people...you want them to succeed. The soundtrack is absolutely 80's too.I really don't feel right giving this movie a 10 because it's really not great cinema, but it is a great movie, so it gets a good solid 8. "},{"Title":"Narly for it's time","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've now seen 'Fast Times At Ridgemount High twice now. The first time, shortly after it came out on video.. Let's see.. Yikes! It came out in 1982! So, let's say around 1983 (they took their time to go to video back then), and I thought it was an amusing tale. Fast forward.. Yikes! 24 years! And here I am seeing it for the second time finally. Well, my friends, as the old saying goes, time hasn't been the best friend to this. While this remains a time capsule of the 1980's at that time, the downside of it, is that it looks AWFULLY dated. While there are some standout performances from actors-of-the-future (Sean Penn of course, and my fave, Jennifer Jason-Leigh) and Judge Reinhold cements his goofy shlub routine here, they're doing your standard Oh those high school students of today! They're so goofy! Only this one has leg-warmers. Other than the 80's spotting, it's only a shoulder shrug from me. "},{"Title":"Whoa.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I saw the movie, I was amazed at how well it was filmed. But when I saw the buildings and the quad, it seemed really familiar to me. When they showed the front of the school, I said, That's Van Nuys High School! I went to that high school. That's how I knew. I was in awe.Since then, it has been my favorite movie. I borrowed the video from a friend and made it a DVD. I showed my friends who didn't believe me. They too were in shock. The whole school has been famous for many reasons.Did you know that Paula Abdul went to that school? I didn't, but I found out by checking the school stats. Awesome, huh? Anyway, the school has been a movie set, it's been used for commercials and on occasion, a wedding location. Unfortunately, I only know of one wedding that has taken place at the school. "}{"Title":"Hey, there's no birthday party in here for me!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sean Penn creates an icon in only his 2nd major role. While he's not necessarily the axis of the movie, what you take away from it you will owe mostly to him. He's the Big Lebowski in a really fun movie about high school that deserves it's status. Every word that comes out of his mouth is so funny and quotable. Spicoli is truly one of the greatest characters to come out of the 80's. He's not the only actor of note here. Jennifer Jason Leigh has her breakthrough role as every geek's dream-girl showing a naiveté and innocence that are so hard to resist. Cameron Crowe captures the time and place for that era and makes you wish you could have been there. "},{"Title":"The way it was.","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny how allot of classic movies about certain periods come out later than the period it covers. American Graffiti is a decade removed from the period it covers. This came out exactly when it was happening. I graduated in 1983 and in the fall of 1982 i remember seeing this in the theater (and yes, partying to the max also i might say) and having a good time watching basically what was going on in my school in NJ. Everybody is covered here, the Jocks, the stoners, the eggheads, the average joe's. Now 2 decades later i saw it for the first time since High school and a rush of memories came back. I nearly fell out of my chair when Spincoli call MR. Hand a Dick.. My old vista cruiser station wagon i had (watch the 70's show) could easily pass for that old VW van. Hearing my friends now complain about there kids and have bad they are, i watch this movie and laugh, if anything, we were crazier back than. Guess when u get old you forget how things were. Than you watch a movie like fast times and your young all over again. ---Thats my head,, I'm so wasted--- "},{"Title":"Why never a sequel?","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a classic 80's teen flick. It feature's a great cast of characters, who most of us will find familiar with people we knew growing up.The story is pretty simple, it's a struggle about teen's growing up in a world of sex and desire compared to morality. What is desirable, and what does it take to be desirable? The story mainly revolves around, Stacy Hamilton, (played by Jennifer Jason Leigh) a young woman's struggle with exactly where this line lays. Her journey takes some unexpected twist, although perhaps as a movie these twist are less expected.There's a variety of characters in this story the stoner (played by Sean Penn), the cool guy with all the hookups, his somewhat dorky shadow of a friend, the older brother who makes no mistakes, and a few others. We get to know these characters from a distance, with the occasional glimpse into their personal beliefs.This is a classic teen movie, and most people not afraid of differences will like this film. Recommended for mature teens and the open minded, not for the kiddies.8/10 "},{"Title":"i love this movie","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is so cool for 3 reasons 1)a stoned sean penn which is hilarious 2)its hella funny 3) Pheobe Cates' boobs i give it 5/5 "},{"Title":"***","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982) Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold, Robert Romanus, Brian Backer, Phoebe Cates, Ray Waltson, Scott Thomson, Vincent Schiavelli, Amanda Wyss, D Amy Heckerling. Raucously entertaining &#145;80s high school-comedy takes a look at the teen scene in Southern California where kids revel and get high, hang out at the mall, and talk about sex. The stereotypes include Leigh as a pizza shop waitress taking sex advice and then getting pregnant, Penn is most memorable as a stoned surfer dude named Spicoli, and Waltson is the history teacher, Mr. Hand who's convinced his class is on dope. Heckerling's feature debut is wild, funny, and surprisingly more honest and innocent than it appears to be, based on Cameron Crowe's factual book of his experiences when he went back to high school in 1979. Even though the vulgarity and sexual tendencies are plenty, the material seems dated compared to today's standards. Film debuts of Nicholas Cage (appearing under the name Nicholas Coppola) with no dialogue as a burger flipper, Anthony Edwards, Eric Stoltz, and Forest Whitaker. Running Time 92 minutes and rated R for crude humor, language, sexuality, and nudity. *** "},{"Title":"It is still fun to watch","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It has been more than twenty years since the very controversial Fast Times at Ridgemont High came out. I am not one for teen movies (I hated American Pie) But I liked this one.  This was an interesting little piece where there wasn't a lead character but there were a bunch of small parts that took up the movie.The top billed was Spicoli, played by Sean Penn.  Then there was Brad Hamilton played by Judge Reinhold, in one of his best parts, and his sister Stacy, played by Jennifer Jason Leigh, and there are many more interesting characters in the film.  The film had a lot of sex in the movie for the day. In the film there were some incredibly mature themes brought up like masturbation, abortion, teen sex, drug use and some other interesting things.It is a fun movie to watch and very funny.  The movie has no real definitive ending that raps up the entire situation and that is what makes this movie so endearing is that it is just people at this high school interacting and living very much for lack of a better term in the fast lane.  And unlike some of these teen movies today there is a conscious in this film and it is not one of these stupid gross out films like the crappy American Pie.What interested me as well are all of the famous actors that were in this movie before they became famous, like Judge Reinhold, Sean Penn, Phoebe Cates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Anthony Edwards, Nicholas Cage, Forrest Whitaker and a few others.  Judge Reinhold does the best job here out of all the actors, he just seems so natural in his part.  Ray Walston who plays a high school teacher is also very funny in this film.  This is not a great movie, but it is a nice film to rent and definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Best Teenager movie ever","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast times at ridgemont high is not only a comedy but a drama that sets the truth about teenagers and the way we are today. These are characters that work and had ideas. The women in this film didn't want romance, they wanted sex and fast. There are two heroes in this film to begin my list, Jeff Spicoil(sean pean) as the stoner student that doesn't give a damn like these other kids about work or sex(except naked chicks), all he cares about his smoking dope, having a nice buzz, crusing the streets and surfboarding. The best scene with him is when he orders his pizza in Mr. Hand's class. I wish I could've done that in Government class. The second hero is Rat. What makes him my second hero in the film is that, when he is out with stacy in the first date, stacy tries to hurry things by having sex. But, Rat gets out of the situation.there is no hurry for sex or working.This film is the best of all teenage flicks, not to mention the atmosphere in the 80's. 10/104 star rating. "},{"Title":"Still packs a punch","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie, even twenty-some-odd years later and it still pretty shocking in parts.  All of this has aged really well, which is a true testament to a film that is so completely 1980's.  Judge Reinhold's role really stands out, as it has not been copied as much as Sean Penn's surfer dude.  And it is very clear that Jennifer Jason Leigh should have been nominated for her role as Stacy.  Chocked with tons of great dialogue.  Aloha! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but not as funny as everyone says...","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an enjoyable movie. I decided to see it after hearing all the hype about how it was such a classic. I think this is a little overrated, but its still enjoyable. I like spickoli and I like the plot with Jennifer Jason Leigh and boy did I love Phoebe Cates! This is a nice movie with a decent plot, but I won't rush to see it again. "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome!","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sue me, I had to say it.Fast Times At Ridgemont High follows a group of high school students before their graduation.  Rather than having an elaborate plot, the film follows various students in their last weeks of high school and how they interact with each other.In many movies, a large cast can kill their potential, but Fast Times is one of the few films I have seen that can pull it off.  There's not really enough space to comment on everyone here, although I must give mention to Sean Penn and Vincent Schiavelli.  This was Penn's breakout role, which led to him playing a wide array of dissimilar characters.  It's nice to see where he came from, and his acting here is certainly something to be proud of.  Sure, he was a kid then, and he may not have had to act to play this character, but still, he's hilarious.  And Schiavelli's Mr. Vargas is great.  I swear, that man has a cameo in every film ever made, ever, and he never sucks.I am not normally into teen films, but in all seriousness, this is a great movie.  Definetly the best teen sort of movie I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"The Original American Pie","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The inspiration for every teen comedy that has since followed. Jeff Spicoli is the quintessential burnout. I would like to thank Phoebe Cates for the wonderful hours of enjoyment when I've been by myself, thinking her pool scene. Judge Reinhold wasn't the only one fantasizing about her. Great Soundtrack. Whenever I hear American Girl by Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers I think of this movie. I also think of  Silence of the Lambs when I hear the same song. In a few words this movie is quite simply Awesome!...Totally awesome! "},{"Title":"Thoughts of a SoCal kid, digging the scene...","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was all the rage when it came out.  Showing issues that were happening all around us in Sounthern California.  The cast is great, and is a movie you won't have to worry about not getting your monies worth.  You can probably catch it on Satelite, and for sure on VHS.  "},{"Title":"doesn't anybody knock anymore!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was watching this movie the other day again, and I realized something. Yes it was one of the first teen comedies, yes it's one of the best,and also the best written. The characters act like real teenagers. The situations for the most part and the way they deal with them are realistic, and because of that, this movie sets a standard not often reached. The main reason to watch this film however is that it's funny as hell, and in a good comedy that all that really matters.  "},{"Title":"Awesome! Totally Awesome!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen! The film is about a surfer dude (Sean Penn) who gives a headache to his tough history (Ray Walston) for convincing that everyone's on dope. Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Mark Ratner (Brian Backer) are looking for a love interest and are helped along by their older classmates Mike Damone (Robert Romanus) and Linda Barrett (Phoebe Cates) respectively. The film is located in Southern California, which is where I live in. If you have not seen Fast Times At Ridgemont High, rent it at your local video store near you. You'll like it! I like it!10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"A Timeless Teen Classic from the golden age of the 1980's","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To commend on the 20th Anniversary of this timeless classic,I was wondering if there is a special edition out somewhere(either on video or DVD) because in terms of a good investment,if you wanted to see what high school life was like and the way high school kids went through on a daily basis,this is the movie to see. This was about everyday teens that were dealing with family problems,sex,and other items of important interest. I'm surprised that they didn't bring this re-released on the screen digitally remastered at the movie theatres(like they did with Spielburg's E.T.),but if it did,it would be worth seeing. But instead,if they did it would be on video,and to see some of the scenes that were deleted from it's original release which included the carrot scene,Phoebe Cates' swim sequence,but the one that will be immortalized in movie history would be the confrontation between Sean Penn's character Spocoli and Ray Walston as the History teacher. However,wouldn't be great if Sean Penn would bring back that character again and do something far more better than his crap as in his previous projects? That would be something. But anyways,it is a classic in itself and worth seeing again. "},{"Title":"Film that defined a generation","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much like Easy Rider in the 60s, and Saturday Night Fever in the 70s, Fast Times defined the 80s. Some of the themes, though, transcend the time period and still ring true today. It's a very funny film and I highly recommend checking it out if you are interested in a trip back to the 80s.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films of the 80's.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Of all the teenage comedy flicks from the 80's, this is the one that I fondly remember with nostalgia. It captures the mood and spirit of that era with dead-on accuracy. The characters and situations in this film are so believable and true-to-life, one wonders if Cameron Crowe was inspired by actual events and people when he wrote the screenplay for the film.All the usual teenage problems are vividly satirized and detailed with honesty and realism teenage pregnancy, sex, drugs, first love, teenage breakup, etc...The believable cast, which includes Judge Rheinhold, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Sean Penn(funniest role he will ever play), Phoebe Cates (hot! hot! hot!), Robert Romanus, Brian Backer and Ray Walston (Mr. Hand), all seem to inhabit their characters seamlessly and with believability. The cast has never been more perfect or inspired in a film of this kind. Also, check out the great music.      I give it a thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"Better than average","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having not been a great fan of either Crowes or Heckerlings other movies, I didn't really expect a lot from this movie. Sure it is said to be a `cult classic' but that usually makes me even warier. I must admit I did enjoy this movie as it did convince me that it was an honest and quite true reflection of growing up as a teenager in the US in the early 80's. What did shock me though is how dated it looked. From the off it oozed late 70's/early 80's which I suppose added to its authenticity. There are some memorable scenes in this movie, notably involving trainee nympho Stacy (a very cute Jennifer Jason Leigh) desperate to be educated in the way of sex, plus Sean Penn's stoner surfer Spicoli character pitting his smoked out wits against his army major type history teacher. Plus theres poor old Judge Reinhold involved in the most embarrassing situation any male could be caught in (literally). Watch for Eric Stoltz, Forest Whittaker, Anthony Edwards and Nicolas Cage (billed as Nicolas Coppola) in very early roles. Just out of interest, what ever happened to brunette beauty Phoebe Cates, seen here in a now all too rare starring role. "},{"Title":"Quite different","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was born in 1976 and consider myself more of the X generation...the one that never really knew a world without AIDS and the prominence of the religious right.  I saw this movie for the first time in 1999 and almost blew my popcorn across the room.  Was there really ever a time when a teenager had an abortion without protesters in front of the clinic?  Was sex quite that loose and unprotected, without the possibility of death hanging over it?  Since this movie was made during the time period it is supposed to portray (as opposed to movies like Dazed and Confused), I can only assume that's the way things were, at least in the high school Crowe examined.  It's a real shock to me with my high school perspective of the early and mid-1990s to see this movie.Of course, I realize that most films made involving any sex at all never really confront AIDS or anything else negative, so I guess this film shouldn't have shocked me so much.  Maybe it's the really blunt nature of the sexual content that makes it stand out from most teenage dreck.  I will mention that the sexual content is fairly realistic, not having the almost pornlike quality of most teenage films, where the pleasure seems like the only end to a scene.Aside from all that, the film rolls along just fine for the most part, my personal favorite parts involve the humiliation of working in a fast food place.  I can relate.  I am grateful no one made me wear a paper hat in public. "},{"Title":"A good adaptation of Cameron Crowe's book","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie doesn't quite capture all the wit of Cameron Crowe's book about going back to high school undercover, but it doesn't seriously muck anything up, either.  Still, if you like the movie, and you'll like the book even more.    "}{"Title":"fast times in the 80s","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love all the teens 80s like porky's, Cant buy me love and so on. Anyway this is a cool west side sunshine skate teen movie. Now when I seen this I was trying to move to cali it look so much fun with the girls and the sun. And i think wayne's world rip this off a bit. peace out. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a classic movie The Bright spot was Sean Penn's Character Jeff Spakoli He was great in this film. Especially when he orders the pizza in the class room. Brad was another great character being played by the Judge. His great spot was at the end when the guy was robbing the store. They could have gone with out the part when he is in the bathroom that was disgusting. Overall i give 10 out of 10 stars. I HIGHLY recommend it. "},{"Title":"Twenty years later, this ode to late Boomer culture shows its age","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Cameron Crowe and somehow never saw this even though it's been available in video format since the 80's I'm sure.  The final shape of this film, however, does share some commonality with other work that Mr. Crowe may be given full credit for (ALMOST FAMOUS, SAY ANYTHING, among other cinematic successes).  It also, inadvertently, by its trendy capture of teen High School culture serves as a bit of evidence of the shallowness of Baby Boomers on the decline.  A lot is made of the colossal demographic importance of those born in the Boomer generation (the years 1945-1964 inclusive).  At this feature's filming in 1981, the supposedly seventeen- and eighteen-year-olds at Ridgemont High are rebels with an attitude.  However, with a little checking I found out that Sean Penn was 21 and Judge Reinhold 24 (the female leads were closer to high school-agers).  The madcap high jinks lead to many comic moments, only a few that are meanspirited.  I enjoyed the film, despite the format I happened across it  a NBC Feature Film edited and fitted for the TV time period (July 28, 2001).  The network thought it was improving it by muddling some of the teens' profanities and descriptive terms.  Don't see this feature film in such a hacked-up form unless you have no other choice.  The commercials that NBC ran intermixed with FAST TIMES were its grandchildren in ironic ways.  For those who didn't see 1981 for themselves, FAST TIMES is terribly dated but simultaneously amazingly mild in its adolescent sex mania and rampant disregard for the bilge that is much of High School pedagogy.  Mr. Crowe must've seen basically the harmless part of California secondary schools.  (Notice in a purely ethnic Los Angeles High School's cinematic story, STAND AND DELIVER, how Hispanic and Chicano students act and look different as the 80's went on). FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH as an ode to Boomer culture is OK as far as it goes.  It does put the sexual revolution and the devaluation of chastity under unflattering light as much of the entertainment business in the last 40-some years has done while thinking that it is doing young people such a great favor. "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a delightful film this is, fairly bursting with energy and fun,sort of like an American new-wave explosion of teen commercialism, and Imean that in the best sense. The least schmaltzy of Cameron Crowesscripts, the best directed of Amy Heckerlings films, and the best castassembled in the last twenty years. Check out Jennifer Jason Leighs starmaking entrance into film, it's even better than Sean Penns, which isgreat. The other roles are a who's who of film today; Forest Whitaker,Nicolas Cage (back when he was still a coppola- I guess that name wasokay to get him his first few jobs) Anthony Edwards and Eric Stoltz asSean Penn's stoner buds, James Russo as the Pyscho, the list just goeson and on. An enormously fun film that actually has deeper moments aswell. The teen film that John Hughes wishes he'd made, and that I wishthey'd do a sequel too. "},{"Title":"awesome!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* Fast Times At Ridgemont High is definently the BEST teen flick ever made!  This is a movie that almost all of us can or could relate to.  Now c'mon, we've all known someone like Mark Ratner or Jeff Spicoli, and we've all had a teacher like Mr. Hand.  This movie makes school look like the ultimate party (not that it isn't).  Even though the eighties style and appeal are long gone, the troubles, triumphs, and tragedies of the characters will never fade away.  This is a film to be watched.  So grab a few friends, a bowl of popcorn, and some old memories and get ready to relive highschool.  You'll wish you never graduated. "},{"Title":"The one that started it all!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the film that, for better or worse, started the 'teen film' trend of the 80's. I love it, and watch it whenever it comes on. There's even a different version of it that was on tv once! Featuring star making performances (Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh) and future stars just starting their careers, (Forrest Whitaker, Eric Stoltz, Anthony Edwards) and one of the best scripts about teenagers ever written. This movie is fast, funny, and touching but not in a corny 'John Hughes' kind of way. I believe it's the American Graffiti of the 80's! "},{"Title":"A real treat","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A movie like this may be slightly outdated.  I'm sure this movie fared better with the teens and pre-teens of the eighties/the Me Generation.  However--being that I saw it just recently--I thought it was very good and very original.  You can spot up-and-coming stars of the present like Sean Penn, Forrest Whitaker and if you look really quickly--Nicolas Cage.  The film definitely has some memorable characters, including Jeff Spicolli--played amusingly by Penn.  It's nice to see Penn--who's usually credited for serious roles--in a light comic persona.  I've always been a big fan of the music of that decade.  In that area, I cannot be disappointed.  The film opens with the great Go-Go's hit We Got the Beat.  There are landmark moments, like Spicolli ordering pizza into a classroom.  And there is the famous Judge Reinhold masturbation scene in which he dreams of Phoebe Cates--who looked EXTREMELY HOT back then!--rising from the swimming pool, about to romance him.  That, in a way, continued the slowly-growing fad of the gross-out comedy, first spawned by Animal House in 1978.  I'm sure I can't totally relate to the characters in this movie, though they are well drawn-out.  However, I'm sure anybody who has been a teenager in the decade can.  I like how the teenage characters in eighties movies, compared to those of now, are a lot more...real!  In teen movies nowadays, you see these polished blondie bimbos with no zits or any facial blemishes.  They all look like Barbie Dolls.  If you compare the girls in eighties movies to those of the nineties and the millenium--there's a huge difference!  Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a very funny comedy that is a sheer treat and will make you feel refreshed.  It's a bigger treat for people who grew into adolescence during that decade, but it's still fun for everybody. My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Truly a classic!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are looking for any sort of depth in a film, this one's not for you. If you're looking for a fun, funny film, this is it! In my opinion, this is far and away Sean Penn's best performance thus far. Jeff Spicoli and his friends are the essence of the 80's. Everyone is looking to get 1) high and 2) laid. The film shows the happiness, frustration, ugliness, and joy of being a teen during the 80's. However, none of this goes too deeply, so the viewer need not do anything except enjoy the (largely sophomoric) humor. This is one not to be missed! "},{"Title":"great stuff","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times at Ridgemont High is, as everyone says, a terrific high school movie. I say it trumps all of 'em except the immortal Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Great acting. It always kills me to see young actors turn out performances a great deal better than those of established older actors. (Another example of that is Stand By Me.) Sean Penn is hilarious, so is Ray Walston (Mr. Hand). The where are they now bit at the end is especially funny. It's also cool to see how several now established actors got their start (Sean Penn, Forest Whitaker, Jennifer Jason Leigh, etc). It's also the first film venture of Cameron Crowe (director of Jerry Maguire).Hooray for Ridgemont! "},{"Title":"Just fun","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ok, this is the quintessential fun Califorina movie of the 80's. This is one of the few teen films (besides Rock and Roll Highschool) that does justice to the way teens think. Sex, Drugs and Rock and Roll. It's just that simple.Not only does this movie show how kids feel, but they have the typical teenage sex life do anything that moves.Nothing more i can say. "}{"Title":"1980-s teen flick at its best","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was loosely based on a series of articles Rolling Stone published circa 1980. A young writer for the magazine re-enrolled in a local high school and spent nearly a year researching what teens were really doing and saying. The piece became a book which was adapted into Fast Times. FT is a well-made film that treats its light subject with respect. There are several break-through performances from young actors including Sean Penn as the pot enhanced Jeff Spicoli, Forrest Whittaker (!), Jennifer Jason Leigh (as her standard damsel in distress), Phoebe Cates, and Judge Reinhold.And the young writer from Rolling Stone that started it all? Jerry Maguire writer Cameron Crowe, who also gave us Singles and another classic young adult movie, Say Anything. Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Sean Penn shines","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie.  Sean Penn plays the hilarious stereotypical surfer dude.  He is the kind of character people impersonate for months after seeing the film.  Sean Penn definitely makes the movie and without him it would be any other 80's teen movie. "},{"Title":"Good, but no 80's classic","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I finally got around to watching this film a few weeks ago, and although I found it to be enjoyable, I don't understand what all the hype was about. This is a cute movie, but not particularly memorable, and I'm puzzled as to why this is revered by so many people.  Nevertheless, it was fun seeing so many familiar faces, and many of them gave solid performances.  Walston and Penn seem to get all the recognition, but I think that the real stars of this film were Leigh and Romanus.  They seemed more real and likable than the caricatures that were played by many of the other stars, and they are the primary reason that I liked this somewhat overrated film. "},{"Title":"the 1980's","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times At Ridgemont High is one of the most 80's movies around. It's so 80's, it's Rubix Cube. It's so 80's, it's Pac-Man. You get the point. This movie is funny. Very funny and well acted by a group of up and comers in the 80's. Forest Whitaker, Judge Reinhold, Jennifer Jason Lee, the very yummy Pheobe Cates. But the entire show is stolen by two people Ray Walston and Sean Penn. Walston plays the now infamous and legendary Mr. Hand. Aloha. Penn plays the even more legendary pizza munching, pot smoking, surfer Jeff Spicoli. His portrayal of this stoner belongs in the movie pothead hall of fame. With Cheech, Chong, Fonda, Hopper, and numerous others. The malls, the music, the clothes are pure 80's. This is probably the Easy Rider of it's generation. Watch it baked and the movie takes on a whole new life. Aloha.  "},{"Title":"It had the making of a classic","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times at Ridgemont High was a good movie, but the first time I saw it I didn't like it as much as I do now because a lot of the jokes I could not understand at the time, but later on I did. I liked this movie but I wanna like it even more but I can't. This movie had the making of a classic because the movie went deep into the personality of the people in this movie. I love movies like that. But this movie could've been better. Don't get me wrong this movie is entertaining, and funny. I just wish it was more entertaining and funny because of the so many plots of a soon to be bored fast work worker, a young freshman girl that wants to have sex or later have a relationship, a guy that's always stoned, and doesn't think about the future, a nice, shy, and nerdy guy that likes a girl, his best and only friend that sells tickets, and gives pep talk about how to meet girls to his best friend, and a girl who is always giving tips about sex to her lady friend. Once again it has the making of a classic but isn't a classic, but it is a good movie. I give this movie *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"A great just for fun high school movie","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great if you just want to watch a movie and have fun watching it. It really depicts the life of high schoolers, including a rebel(Spicoli), a pizza waitress who is obssessed with what guys think of her(Hamilton), a kid trying to get a little money in his pocket(B.Hamilton), a girl who thinks she knows everything about dating(Barrett), a guy who is trying desperately to get a date(Ratner), and a kid who's cool about everything(Damone). A great high school movie. "},{"Title":"Totally rad","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is the quintessential teeny-bopper movie of the 1980's.  The characters are well acted, and achieve a depth great enough to render the plot more meaningful.  Sean Penn is great as the irrepressible Spiccoli. The high school atmosphere is comparable to the one in Dazed and Confused, if a bit more cartoonish.  Great flick!  "},{"Title":"A memorable film.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times At Ridgemont High is one of the most memorable films from my childhood. I've seen this film many times and it still holds up for me. Amy Heckerling did a great job with all the characters she had to handle. This movie is filled with appearances by many then unknown stars. The standout has to be Sean Penn. It took me awhile to realize it was Penn, he takes over the role and you'll remember his character way after the film is over. Great 80's movie. "},{"Title":"An 80's High School Classic","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much like today in 1998 the early 80's were known for their fancy of teen or high school movies. The seventies were a bit of lull for film, having  highlights like Jaws,Star Wars, and Close Encounters, but overall were  lacking that comedic kick that America needs. So along in '82 comes a film  like Fast Times at Ridgemont High, bringing back that teen angst and young  decadence. It did all the little things right, emphasizing America's  youths world of drugs, a sex-crazed society, and their place in life. It  inspired along the Ferris Bueller story, Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast  Club, Risky Business, and other films that made the 80's the great decade  it can now be seen as. "},{"Title":"Not as Good as Expected It To Be","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only good thing in this movie was Forest Whitaker, its funny because its a total surprise seeing him at an earlier age and when he wasn't that famous up until now. For me he was the highlight of the show but he was only a sub character. The rest of the other characters where boring even Sean Pean, sounded more of a lame version with a 'gnarly' accent.I expected it to be storywise, comedy or romance etc there's no story in this movie other than highschool and sex with underage girls that chase older men so that they get pregnant and go for abortion its like the movie Juno. Problem with this movie it tries to come up serious and funny at the same time but doesn't click well, in the end it feels awkward.I've seen lots of teen flicks that are just as good, funny and with chemistry and teens getting into mischief. I recommend The Breakfast Club or Patrick Swayze movies. If you think this will be like Porky's, Screwballs, Bill & Ted, Revenge of the Nerds or Weird Science its not even close. "}{"Title":"Fast Times indeed.","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movies tells one year of various teenagers from Ridgemnont High, and how they dealt with jobs, sex and maturity.It's, really about that. Despite the future famous actors were just beginning, i think all are great in it's roles being Judge Reinhold, Phoebe Cates, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Sean Penn the most interesting. Still, i think the movie is not so entertaining as could be your average 80 teenage comedy because at the same time tries to dealt with youth issues like abortion, masturbation and, even, dope.Some of these topics are treat in a funny way (Like in the Jeff Spicoli role), but the things go darker and more serious, and maybe its was necessary to the movie to succeed. The movie is full of 80s hits as usual. "},{"Title":"Fast Times A Harbinger For Worse Times","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although Fast Times At Ridgemont High boasts a long list of now more famous actors and actresses and has this seemingly nostalgic feel for some folks who grew up in the era depicted, it remains a shallow, hit or miss teenage comedy about growing up in or around southern California, circa 1979 to 1980. Writer Cameron Crowe revisited a high school, posed as a student, and wrote the book upon which this film is based. The trouble is the story and experiences in the film are in no way indicative of the average high school experience. Each character is a stereotype, with the exception of Reinhold as Brad. There's even a token black character Forest Whitaker plays a ferocious high school football player not around long enough to make the mostly white demographic uncomfortable.The film is notable for giving several actors their start, including Nicholas Cage in his film debut working at the burger shack with Judge Reinhold. Anthony Edwards and Eric Stoltz are Penn's fellow potheads. James Russo appears as a robber near the end of the film. Director Martin Brest plays a doctor. The film moves swiftly from one vignette to the next with Adam Sandler-like hit or miss accuracy. There are some funny scenes to be sure, just as there are several vulgar scenes. Ray Walston, as Mr. Hand, is an oppressive disciplinarian history teacher made fun of back then but sorely lacking in today's schools now.Director Amy Heckerling had her pick of the litter of up and coming young actors and actresses for the film. Jennifer Jason Leigh is appealing as Stacy, the average high school girl. Judge Reinhold is well cast as Leigh's brother Brad, the guy with the car in high school. Phoebe Cates is perfect as the seemingly more experienced bomb shell girl. Sean Penn, as Spicoli, sets off an unfortunate chain of events that resonate to this day, culminating in a whole generation of parents just as irresponsible and obnoxious as the Penn character was in this film. Now instead of a class with one character like Spicoli, we have entire schools full of Spicolis and 40-50 year old adults spouting the word awesome every few minutes. That's progress. ** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"good 80's teen film","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" there was a school, it was called Ridgemount High, there were pupils, they were fast and they had good times, they had fast times a ridgemount high. that should of been used in the trailer. however this film was a very good film that showed a grounded sense of school life not like American pie or any of the current teen school movies because everyone in it is not perfect and the scenarios are quiet realistic not like in American pie Mr Miagi fly around like superman and eating cheese.There should be a second film made and released called Faster Times at Ridgemount High (The next Generation).I am going to come up with a script for this however if anyone has any input please contact me on the following email address zammitgroup101@yahoo.co.uk and i will add u to the credits.I was thinking how these films are always centred around certain types of people eg nerds, jocks, stoners, cheerleaders, slutty girls, the nice guys etc. and it works it maybe over done but its how u present them that counts. but u should not go for the typical stereotypes though a bit more ruffled like the crisps round the edges.I will post this script once copyrighted and once finished. "},{"Title":"The finest teen comedy ever!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Forget American Pie, Porky's and Animal House; with its brilliant script (by Cameron Crowe, based on his own book), spot-on direction from Amy Heckerling and an amazing destined-to-be-famous cast (spot Nicolas Cage, Anthony Edwards and Eric Stoltz in early performances), Fast Times At Ridgemont High is THE quintessential teen comedy.Following a group of students through a year of high school, this wonderful movie deals with the trials and tribulations of life as a teenager with a genuine affection for its characters. Crowe's sharp script handles delicate topics such as sex, drugs and finding employment without ever preaching to its audience, whilst still managing to be both touching and funny. Add brilliant performances from practically all involved and Fast Times is absolutely unmissable, especially for anyone who grew up in the 80s (the film is a great reminder of the decade that taste forgot the soundtrack, the clothes, the video games, the hairstyles everything about Fast Times oozes 80s style&#151;or lack of it).Although, on the surface, the movie might seem rather aimless at times, meandering from one character to another at whim, there is a central story that runs through it all Stacy (played by the very cute Jennifer Jason Leigh) is a teenager desperate to learn about sex and, guided by her (seemingly) more experienced friend, Linda (Phoebe Cates at her most gorgeous), she samples the delights of carnal love without a thought for the consequences. Enevitably winding up pregnant, she decides to get an abortion, but fails to get help from the irresponsible guy who knocked her up.Other minor story lines run parallel to Stacy's, but they mostly exist to provide light relief; Sean Penn's stoner surfer (surely the template for Keanu Reeve's entire career) constantly upsetting his teacher and Forest Whitaker's football star who believes that the rival team he is due to play trashed his car, provide some of the funnier moments.And of course no review of this film would be complete without a mention of possibly the greatest topless scene in movie history (OK, I may be slightly biased, since I'm a die-hard Phoebe Cates fan); Brad imagines Linda emerging from a swimming pool, popping off her bikini top and giving him a full-on lip lock. As far as I'm concerned, Fast Times is worth watching for this moment alone (although I find it slightly off-putting that Brad is busy jerkin' the gherkin during this scene!). And if that wasn't enough, Jennifer Jason Leigh joins in the fun and flips hers out during both of her sex scenes.A modern classic that is worth watching time and time again, Heckerling's movie is a surefire winner from start to finish. Now if only they would make a sequel (Ridgemont High School Reunion, perhaps) gathering together the original cast and crew (Phoebe Cates could come out of retirement for this, surely), I would be one very happy bunny. "},{"Title":"The best high school movie made!","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of my all time favorite movies. It tells how high school was and still is. Written by Cameron Crowe, which was first a book, and then turned into a movie. To me, this is probably the best high school movie ever made. Other high school classics such as American Graffiti, Dazed and Confused, and American Pie go along with this movie. But no high school movie is as great as this is. This taught me all about high school and what to do. They still have the same groups that were in high school back then today in my school stoner's, jocks, popular crowd, beauties, etc. Almost all the high school movies made got their inspiration from this one.I first got into Cameron Crowe after watching Almost Famous (my favorite movie) when my cousin gave it to me for Christmas. I loved that movie. Then him and my father told me about Fast Times and I knew I had to see it. After watching it, I watched the special features and learned that Crowe went back to high school to research what high school was like at the time. He turned into a book, they liked it and asked him to turn it into a script, and Amy Heckerling directed it well.If you are looking for a really good high school movie, this is the one to watch. I hope me comment helped to whoever is reading it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times at Ridgemont High is based on Cameron Crowes cult novel by the same name and he wrote the screenplay to the film. Cameron Crowe has written and directed some of the best romantic comedies of the last several centuries. He was the man behind Jerry Maguire and Almost Famous his two real masterpieces. He was also behind decent films such as Elizabethtown and Vanilla Sky. His screenplays are some of the best ever written and although Fast Times at Ridgemont High is not his best it is really good. The performances in Fast Times at Ridgemont High are great. Jennifer Jason Leigh is amazing as the fifteen year old girl who is suddenly interested in sex. Sean Penn though is the easy standout as the fifteen year old kid who has been stoned since third grade. Penn is just completely hilarious as the stoner who I would guess inspired Napolien Dynamite. So so funny. "},{"Title":"Penn is brilliant","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times could quite possibly be the greatest comedy ever made. After a teacher of mine (in fact a priest) recommended this to me, I decided to rent it. I've never laughed so hard in my life.Fast Times at Ridgemont High is pretty much the story of regular teens and exploring every side of a teenager. Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn) is the average pothead trying to have a good time in life. Brad Hamilton (Judge Reinhold) is the over succeeding high school grad, and his little sister, Stacy (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is on the verge of being a prostitute in her freshmen year. Well I guess they're not exactly typical high school students. There really is no plot. All the filmmakers do are taking the viewer through a year in the lives of these people. While Reinhold and Leigh are very strong and funny Penn is the reigning champ over all of them. His one liners and the constant dispute with the new teacher, Mr. Hand (Ray Walston) makes him quite possibly the funniest character I've ever seen. He is the definition of cool in my book and the king of comedy.The film in my mind should have been rated NC-17 for everything in the film. There is sexual references left and right, nudity, language, etc. but if you don't have a problem with any of that then you'll enjoy it. While I'm writing, there are also the births of two now major actors in Forest Whitaker as the all-star football player who would kill if anything happened to his car and Nicolas Cage who is one of Spicoli's pothead friends. Trying to explain all of the jokes would be really stupid so I'll just leave it there. This is probably the funniest comedy I've ever seen. It is very original and has so many laughs that you're hurting afterwards.Fast Times at Ridgemont Highs. Starring Sean Penn, Judge Reinhold, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Brian Backer.5 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Fast n Funny","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was like the beginning of the careers for tons of prominent actors including Sean Penn, Judge Reinhold, and even Nicholas Cage has a cameo.  This movie has a decent plot and the characters really had chemistry.  Hey, who says people on dope can't make a decent movie? 7.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dated but OK","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A look at teenage life and love (and sex) circa 1980 in California. I loved this film back when it came out. I graduated from high school in 1980, so I knew these characters and the movie treated teenagers realistically and was well-acted and funny. It was a rare Hollywood film that showed true-to-life teenagers. 20 years later I still like it's honesty but I don't find it funny anymore and it's actually kind of boring. Also the approach to sex is very naive (the pre AIDS talk is very uncomfortable to sit through). There are some sex scenes but not many. Supposedly there were a lot more shot but they were cut before the movie was released. What saves this film is the great soundtrack (starts right off with the Go-Gos We Got the Beat) and some very nice, natural performances from Jennifer Jason Leigh, Phoebe Cates and Judge Reinhold. However, Robert Romanus (playing the school scalper) is ugly and gives out a horrible performance. The best scenes in the film belong to Sean Penn (as Jeff Spicoli, a constantly stoned teenager) and Ray Walston (as Mr. Hand a very tough teacher). Their verbal battles are hilarious and definitely worth catching.So, it's an OK film on late 70s/early 80s teen life. "},{"Title":"While Fast Times At Ridgemont High is not the side-splittingly hilarious classic comedy that it has come to be known as, it very accurately captures a picture of the eighties, and it is still quality enterta","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times At Ridgemont High has dated pretty badly, but it still has it great moments. Sean Penn stole the show without question, and it is a shame that he did not have a larger part than he did. However, I think that this was intentional, because Amy Heckerling seems to make a conscious effort to ensure that no clearly identifiable star emerges from the film. Her main goal was to present a film that detailed high school life in the eighties as accurately as possible, without distracting the audience from that with a Hollywood star or a detailed plot. Nevertheless, it is clearly Sean Penn who is the most remembered from this film, and not just because he later enjoyed the most successful career out of all of the other actors in the film. I think that Penn's notability in Fast Times At Ridgemont High stems simply from the fact that he was by far the funniest character in the movie. He delivers a nearly flawless portrayal of the stereotypical surfer guy, with the Hawaiian t-shirt, the hot-boxed Volkswagen bus, the long hair, and the dumbed down manner of speech.Despite all of the hilarious elements of this movie, I think that it was almost too emotional at times for the type of film that it is. We're seeing guys get fired from their jobs, girls getting their hearts broken by idiot guys, and geeks who chicken out just before they are about to get together with beautiful women (again, breaking our hearts). On the other hand, this is what life is like, and that's one thing that I really liked about this movie &#150; it didn't sugar coat the material, but instead presented it in a more realistic way. However, I still think that there should have been more stuff with Sean Penn, and just more comedy overall. I wish most of if not all of the film had been more like the scene in the beginning where Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn) and a couple of his buddies walked into the diner and took their shirts off, THAT was funny.    "}{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although on the surface this film might look like just another high school comedy, it is actually a very frank study of mixed emotions and the importance of sexuality to teenagers. Nothing to do with sex is glamorised in the film, and stereotypical sexual qualities based on appearances are turned around in the film. The teenage characters are defined by how they feel towards sex and love, with the exception of a junkie who is looked down upon by others, but who might actually have the best philosophy of what the days of one's youth are meant to be about. The film consists of events all threaded together without much of a solid storyline or any atmosphere, yet this works perfectly in showing the rush of the high school experience, full of many different things that are hard to pull apart. For the same reason, there is also a very limited sense of time. The film does go fast. It is very well photographed, with the camera not only following the characters around, but changing style for different characters too, and there many interesting shots that can be compared and contrasted to show the difference between lust, love, and other things. The film does not however work all the time, particularly when it handles comedy. Some subplots are inserted for laughs only, as are some characters that are drawn as stereotypes. The problem seems to be that the film wants to make us laugh as well as think, but it may have been better to just leave it dramatic and thought-provoking as some of the humour is just plain forced. The silly where are they now? credits also prevent the film from ending on a powerful note. Even so, there is a lot to think about after the film has ended. It is a time capsule of youth during the 1980s and the social pressures that teenagers faced, but even today many ideas of the film still have relevance. "},{"Title":"Just another teen movie from the 80's","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nothing special to this one. Your typical teen movie from the 80's. Sex, music, nerdy teachers, dope, what else... Seem like the ultimate goal in life is to coast through high school and life. The grande finale the graduation of course! What a pity!Out of 100, I gave it a generous 57. That's good for * on a **** stars rating system. Seen at home in Welland, July 28th, 2001. Marko Roy. "},{"Title":"Must be the only movie ever made that treats abortion the way it should!","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I usually like Roger Ebert, but his review of this completely missed the ball with his square-stick-up-the-butt review. This movie is NOT scuzzy or salacious in any way shape or form. Let's consider that there are a grand total of three (3!) breast scenes, for a estimated 24 seconds, or perhaps it was 11? This movie has THREE Oscar winners in it Withaker, Crowe and Penn, with even 2 Oscars.People who do find this movie dirty aren't the ones who got dates in high school nor college.I found this movie refreshing, since it treats abortion as a natural choice for a 15 year old girl, but most of all, the way they talk about it. See there the immediate positive effect of a woman directing it. It isn't the usual whole belabored brouhaha it usual is in American movies, full of guilt, shame etc. The teen father is a scumbag who first tries to shift blame, and slut shame Leigh, but quickly realizes that he has a responsibility. That's refreshing and rare in US movies. He tries to get the money, he fails, but what matters he sincerely tries. Kudos for not making him one dimensional.The brother is not judgmental, and he agrees to keep her secret, instead being overly protective, or making a big deal out of it. He's perfect! He asks if she's okay, which a brother should, and doesn't pry. The simple act of getting her food is a way of telling her that he will back her up, without the oppressive need of telling her explicitly so, which amount to self-aggrandizement in many cases.JJL, as an actress, is not exploited in any way whatsoever. She went on to have a solid career (exploited actresses usually don't) with a record 19 nude roles, last one at age 50. That breathes confidence in herself and doesn't say ooh, I was so damaged by doing nudity at age 18. (btw neither was Shields, Thora Birch, Drew Barrymore etc.) FTARH was the beginning of Leighs career!Sure, the nude scenes might SEEM gratuitous, but believe you me, this is what goes on at high schools, also to this day. At age 14-15 girls are pretty materialistic they wantthe guy with biggest car, highest pack status etc. Why do you think Dakota Fanning stopped homeschooling at that age? Don't expect good judgment from them as to what guy to sleep with. Besides, sleeping with a hot older boy, elevates her status enormously with her friends, that's true now as well, even in Utah. Blue state girls might not go all the way like red state girls, and they surely are less promiscuous (www.gutmacher.org), but even there, French kissing the football captain is a good thing.Cates' nude scene is regularly voted The Best Ever Nude Scene of All Time. BTW, Cates' advice to Leigh to dump the 26 year old is sound don't mope around for some sales clerk. Usually, the girl would be victim. Stacy moves on, upbeat!The only highly unrealistic thing was the teacher. What teacher would allow Sean Penns behavior, AND go to his house for tutoring?? never would happen.The Melancholic Alcoholic. "},{"Title":"Aloha, Spicolli","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A coming of age film set in Southern California. A bunch of friends go through trouble with high school and life in general. I didn't think explaining the storyline thoroughly was necessary with this movie! I was admittedly lazy, but come on! If you haven't seen this movie at some point in your life what rock have you been living under? It's one of the best coming of age films of the 80's, plain and simple. This movie is full of heart and lovable characters that are easy to relate to. It combines comedy with seriousness & ethics almost perfectly. How many of us of had an awful job and a dull relationship that you wanna end? Brad Hamilton (Judge Reinhold) is perfect for this role and I was easily able to empathize with him. Reinhold is underrated! Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh) Is a total sweetheart that I just wanted to hug! Her character deals with a bleak, realistic situation. Touchy subjects like sex, pregnancy & abortion are all brought up with her. It was heartbreaking and riveting at the same time. Too often we are pressured into sex (Both guys and women) and I thought this film did a good job of exploring this issue. Mike Damone (Robert Romanus) & Rat (Brian Backer) are endearing as good friends. Ratner is a shy fellow that doesn't know how to talk to women. Let's face it, there are many guys in this world (Myself included) that are terrified at the thought of approaching women. Damone is a jerk, who you can't help but love. Romanus is so charismatic that it's impossible to hate him, even if his character does some extremely questionable things. Phoebe Cates is very sexy and performs well in her role, but her character is a tad on the shallow side. Spicolli (Didn't think I'd forget, did you?) is one of the most iconic characters from the 80's. If Penn wasn't careful he could have easily gone overboard with it, but that doesn't happen. Penn gives a legendary performance that will withstand the test of time. Ray Walston is equally good as Spicolli's nemesis with a heart. I wish I had him as my teacher. People like Nicolas Cage, Forest Whitaker, Anthony Edwards, Amanda Wyss (Nightmare on Elm Street), have small bits in this film. (This was Cage's film debut!)You have no excuse to not see this movie! It has everything you could want in a coming of age movie. There is a reason this is hailed as a classic by many people. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Period piece...","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The fabrication of Reality- the evocation of a Time that may or may not have really existed- is sometimes fascinating to see. Case in point FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH. This one manages to capture the spirit of the late 70s/early 80s the way movies like American HOT WAX and American GRAFFITI managed to somehow accurately reflect THEIR particular eras. Yes, FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH captures that selfsame NOSTALGIA. Interestingly, it's a period piece done DURING the period it captures. There are too many memorable performances to cite here, but three need mention Judge Reinhold as the guy who wants something MORE out of life after school; Phoebe Cates, who no doubt starred in many a wet dream; and Sean Penn as the spaced-out Spicoli. Hats off to the filmmakers and the writer(s) and the players. FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH is a job very well done. "},{"Title":"Good times, bad times, fast times","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's a scene in this gag-reel of a movie that effectively sums it up The frisky Stacy Hamilton tells Mike Damone that she's pregnant and he's the father. Their solution is to pay half-and-half, settling for an abortion. It's over with a nonchalant smile. No morals. No ethics. No regard for human decency.Fast Times At Ridgemont High portrays high school at its rawest (80's high school at least, but you'll be surprised and slightly unnerved at the accuracy of these stereotypes). Sex, drugs, and rock n'roll are the cultural norms. I suppose if it were in the 1950's it'd be sex, drugs, and Elvis. Contemporary times would see it as sex, drugs, and hiphop.The film is an absurd comedy and a satire on teenagers in high school. It provides no catharsis to the audience for the idiocy of its characters, nor does the fickle faced ensemble cast ever pause in philosophical respite to question their amoral improprieties.Interestingly enough, this is the enigma of high school--and teenagers are clustered into an institution where their hormones, curiosities, and lusts accentuate to dynamic proportions. I think the writers knew this. Or (for that matter) anybody who attended and graduated high school should find resonance in this farcical film. Whether or not the characters will ever learn from their actions is irrelevant; it's illustrating a misfortunate time in everybody's life. The existential stoner Jeff Spicoli actually reminded me of a kid I once knew who scoffed at truancy and binged on beer and food. There's familiarity in Linda Barrett, the stunningly beautiful but self-righteous and pretentious dame. Mark Ratner is the archetypal nice guy, a milquetoast compared to his assertive peers.The film plays with no actual plot; it's almost like a down-to-earth soap opera, switching scene through scene, visiting and frequenting the familiar stereotypes. The gags are hilarious. The irrational is tactifully spot on. However, cycling through a Rolodex of stereotypes is not an effective means of delivering any sort of message, except that there's fast times at Ridgemont High. Couldn't it have been good times, or bad times? I'll validate for sure No way in hell it would've been Smart Times. Ironically, that's the success of the film. I mean who hasn't, at one point or another, reminisced about the bad food, the stupid stunts, the excessive drugs, or the mediocre life that they had in high school? Fast Times At Ridgemont High. For some it's a high school reunion. For others, a reality check. I found myself actually enjoying it but was disappointed at the lack of any real or probable pay off. Then again, I felt the same way about my own high school. High school sucks. Sometimes you just want to get it all over with. Fast. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Teen Comedies Out There","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982) **** (out of 4)Amy Heckerling's adaptation of Cameron Crowe's story was released in the middle of a teen flick craze but today it's clearly head and shoulders above anything else out around that time and it's also rather amazing to see the unknown cast members and see how many of them would go onto great things (including three Oscar winners). What makes the film work so well for me is that no matter who you are you're either going to connect with at least one of the characters or you're going to know people from your life that is just like what you're watching. I think one thing that really sets this film apart from the others (outside the cast) is how realistic the situations are. Whether it's the girl experimenting with sex (Jennifer Jason Leigh) or the pothead (Sean Penn) or the star (Judge Reinhold) who finds himself fading, all the characters are just so well written and well detailed that you can't help but connect to them. The film contains some major laughs with most of them coming from the battle between the pothead and his teacher Mr. Hand (Ray Waltson). The performances from the entire cast are top-notch and you're really going to be hard pressed to find any better ones. The pros like Penn and Leigh are terrific but so are some of the smaller, less famous actors like Robert Romanus, Brian Backer, Vincent Schiavelli and not to mention the fun seeing future stars like Whitaker, Stoltz, Edwards, Russo and Cage. Then, of course, there's the swimming scene from Phoebe Cates. Another major plus is the terrific soundtrack with music from Tom Petty, Jackson Brown, Led Zeppelin and various others. FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH remains as funny today as when it was released and I think in a lot of ways the film is even more charming since there are so many now popular faces. While the film is mainly a comedy, I thought the few dramatic moments also worked extremely well and this helps make the film one of the most memorable of its kind. "},{"Title":"Comedy about life at Ridgemont High.  Times are certainly fast.","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This comedy is rather funny, it is one of those pieces that focuses on multiple stories and subplots. You have your loser that annoys one of the teachers, you have your loser who wants to date a hot girl and you have your guy that seems stable, but ends up losing his job. The movie also has a subplot I do not really care for and sure it is relevant to high school and such, I just do not think a pregnancy and abortion were the best subplot to throw into what was mainly a comedy with very little sentimental attitude. I also am not totally opposed to abortion, but I do not care for a girl getting one after doing absolutely nothing to protect herself. It is one thing to get one if you're protecting yourself and do everything preventative in your power, it is another to do it after letting a jerk have sex with you while you are acting like you are dating an oblivious dolt. Enough of my sermon, the rest of the movie is funny, the cast is good for the most part and aside from the one poorly chosen subplot most of the comedy bits work. Sean Penn, an actor I have probably never seen in anything else is rather funny as Jeff Spicoli. Judge Reinhold is also good and I totally feel for him as he got fired from that one job. I have been set up like that in my job, but I usually just say 'I will call for a manager' as soon as I can tell the person is going to be difficult. So for the most part funny, not the funniest comedy from this era, but it certainly has one of the best pool scenes ever. "},{"Title":"A Must For Sean Penn Fans","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie tells a story about teenagers going through adolescence, very basic for our times, mostly boring & dull. The Directing is pretty decent for an 80s film. nothing extraordinary.What lifted the film up is Sean Penn's Character,a constant junkie for 3 years, i admit i laughed my a** off whenever he came up on the screen. they should have made more in the school scenes with the Teacher Mr,Hand (Ray Walston) they were 10/10 comedy classics.Its a good choice if your a Sean Penn ultimate fan, then its a must. Comparing it to our comedy standards nowadays, i would say its pretty much normal, i give it 6 out of 10. Thanks for Sean! "},{"Title":"you missed one important actor!!!","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What about Lou Diamond Phillips?? he was the ticket scalper dude (can't remember the name they gave him , though I can't believe he was missed in the character list!I originally saw the movie as soon as it came out as I was 24 at the time it seemed as though I knew some one that matched each of the characters, even Ray Walston's character , Mr.Hand.I enjoyed seeing the movie in 1982 and a couple years later , but now 25 odd years later the only thing that drew me to watching it again was the list of stars that spawned from the original movie and the fact that in 25 years you forget not only the (weak) plot but how many really good actors were in it. "}{"Title":"Cameron Crowe's Teen Classic that Continues to Entertain 25 Year Later","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A nearly flawless teen comedy, FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH is the classic, raunchy, episodic look at an eclectic group of high school students at a California high school. A clever screenplay by Cameron Crowe, based on his own undercover masquerade as a high school student and spirited direction by Amy Heckerling help to keep this classic fresh and funny 25 years after its release and with a perfect, hand-picked cast, some of whom became big stars Jennifer Jason Leigh as the virginal Stacy Hamilton; Judge Reinhold as her big man on campus older brother Brad; the luscious Phoebe Cates as Stacy's girlfriend Linda, who offers Stacy lots of bad advice on men; Ray Walston as the hard-nosed history teacher who thinks all of his students are on dope; Robert Romanus as Mike Damone, the skirt-chasing ticket scalper, and shining above all in the role that made him a star, Sean Penn as the perpetually stoned Jeff Spicoli. Crowe and Heckerling seamlessly interlace these characters through multiple story lines to great effect. The film also features one of the best soundtracks of an 80's film and brief appearances by future stars like Forrest Whitaker, Amanda Wyss, James Russo, Eric Stolz, Vincent Schiavelli, Anthony Edwards, and Nicolas Cage. Anyway you slice it, a classic. Beware of edited versions...a Director's cut would be a dream. "},{"Title":"One thing that has always bugged me (Song Reference)","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One thing that has always bugged me is when Damone is advising Rat on his version of date etiquette. Damone states to Rat, And five, now this is the most important, Rat. When it comes down to making out, whenever possible, put on side one of Led Zeppelin IV. Although Rat and Stacy are not making out in the scene, the Led Zeppelin song playing is Kashmir from Physical Graffiti (i.e., Led Zeppelin VI). Due to the reference to Led Zeppelin IV, I expected to hear a song from that album. It's not that the song was not appropriate for the scene, just that Damone's reference to the source of the song is incorrect and the reference to Led Zeppelin IV is incorrect, although it is the fourth release, the album is untitled and known as Untitled. Just something that has always bothered me. On second thought, this may be an effort to show that Damone knows nothing about good make out music and Rat knows nothing about Led Zeppelin.That is the only negative thing I can say, otherwise I have always loved this movie and it's an accurate representation of high school life at the time, brings back memories for me. "},{"Title":"Cameron Crowe not so talented writer","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After watching Fast times at Ridgemont High, i came to the conclusion that Cameron Crowe isn't very talented at all at writing.All his movies are pretty predictable, mundane, or downright copies of an original. Vanilla Sky , a remake. Almost Famous ,  a movie about HIS life.  doesn't require much creativity there. Jerry Macguire,  a movie loosely about a real life sports agent.Say Anything , quite possibly the most boring romance movie ever made.  i turned it off after 45 min into it. Fast times  he had to go undercover as a student just to get ideas to write his stupid book. not very original or creative indeed.  "},{"Title":"screw american pie, this is the pinnacle of teen comedies","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILERS*i love this movie. it has an honesty and an awkwardness that rings true with many people when remembering their teenage years. it doesnt resort to gross out moments like american pie, and it doesnt have the unrealisticness of movies like dazed and confused. the only over the top role is spiccoli, but the movie needs a characeter like spiccoli to balance out the more serious characters like brad and demone. spiccoli rules!!! so does mr hand, played to perfection by ray walston. there are so many awesome characters in this movie, i truly love them all...brad is cool, he reminds me of me when i used to work at a fast food place, unlike me though, he doesnt put up with shit from the customers. also i used to have a major crush on my sisters best friend, so we have that in common as well. spiccoli is cool, he needs no explanation. i recommend you watch the dvd, it tells the huge effort penn went into to get into the spiccoli character, the dvd is awesome BTW, it has one of the best audio commentarries ive heard with director amy heckerling and writer cameron crowe...many cool insights into the movie!rat and demone are cool as well, although demone always seemed to old looking for me. when rat chickened out when he and stacey were getting it on, i wanted to scream at the tv, dude! you've done all the hard work, what the hell are you doing?! stacey was a hottie as well, JJ leigh did a great job, but the supreme hottie award goes toooo......PHOEBE CATES! OMG, the first time i saw the pool scene i was fourteen and it was the closest thing id seen to porn, needles to say that particular scene has stuck with me since. i dreamt of phoebe for weeks after seeing the movie, and i love her to death, shell always have a spcial place in m heart for movie babes.overall, this movie s***s on every other teen/young adult comedy (with the exception of animal house and american graffiti for being the grandaddies of the genre). these new teen comedies pale in comparison, you can tell they were written by adults, american pie is a hollow shell next to fast times, cos fast times has a soul, it has heart, it has laughs and drama, and its honest.from the bottom of my heart, thankyou amy and cameron.  "},{"Title":"A fine movie IF.......","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  you were born and raised in rich areas in the San Fernando Valley like Sherman Oaks and Studio City and were a COMPLETE preppy. Other than that the movie is horrible. BTW the poster ad is misleading. It is NOT about Sean Penn's character. It's about whining little preppies. "},{"Title":"These girls didn't go to my high school","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After hearing about this film for 20 years I finally decided to sit down and watch it. Although I enjoyed it, I consider it to be the least entertaining of all the high school movies I've seen. My favorite character was the super cool dude who scalped tickets and wooed the ladies, but was a mess inside. Funny show....maybe these girls did go to my school and I just didn't notice. "},{"Title":"The original American Pie, not a film for teenagers.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Even though the film is 20 years old, only now have I had the chance to see Fast Times from beginning to end. Because of the language, situations, and teen nudity, the network TV versions must cut quite a bit out.  For 1982 this must have been a raunchy film, and one which overall gives a very dangerous message to teenagers. I'd love to be able to discuss this with a group of men and women now 35 to 40, who would have been teenagers in 1982, and find out how Fast Times may have influenced their sexual morals, both positively and negatively. Of course, Sean Penn as Jeff Spicoli is the standout star of this film. Now, 20 years later and many other fine performances behind him, we can fully appreciate what a fine actor he is. And Phoebe Cates (Mrs Kevin Cline now), water sprinkling over her, made her famous 13-second topless appearance at 5220 into the film (but who's counting?), and in slow motion it lasts quite a bit longer, her 18-year-old breast gently swaying as she reaches out to mythically hug her admirer who is really in the bathroom jerking off.  Then at 5858 into the film, Jennifer Jason Leigh for 12 seconds in a nude reclining pose on a couch, her 19-year-old breasts and soft, rounded figure looking classically Greek. Beautiful filming. The current release DVD is very well done, and the picture is first-rate.So, what's wrong with this movie? The whole film treats sex and abortion with the same gravity as holding hands and kissing did in the 60s.  After her first sex experience, playing a 15-year-old, Leigh complains that it hurt. Her friend (Cates), obviously more world-wise says, just keep doing it, you'll get used to it. The whole film has a cold, calloused, amoral tone to it. A fun movie to watch and enjoy if you are adult enough to dismiss it simply as entertainment, but a very dangerous film for impressionable teens who may want to use these characters as role models.  "},{"Title":"Television version somewhat different...","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though either version is good, the television version is somewhatdifferent. Besides the usual euphemisms for the f word, for example, thereis also a different story regarding the abortion episode whichsuggests some attempt at appeasing the  pro life crowd in thetelevision version. And, of course, the topless scene with Cates is cut.However, whichever version you watch, it is a good slice of life.Especially poignant was the part with Judge Reinhold's characterwhere he asks the school counselor when the fun was going tostart. That was exactly what I had wondered when I was in highschool 42 years ago... "},{"Title":"Fun movie with unpleasant undertone","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fast Times lives up to its name; it's a lite, funny movie with Sean Penn's debut performance (also his funniest) as a clueless stoner, and Judge Reinholt playing the oldest teenager on the planet working at a fast-food joint trying to be taken seriously while wearing those stupid paper hats.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is terrific as typical high school girl who thinks having sex is a rite of passage into acceptance, and Ray Walston is upstaged by none as the no-nonsense teacher.  The movie has many funny moments, with a few degrading and depressing moments thrown in out of left field that spoil the fun and have you reflecting on how depressing the good ol' days were long after the fun starts again.  Worst case  Jennifer Jason Leigh loses her virginity to the school creep in a very depressing tunnel (he couldn't even spring for a hotel), we are given a very gratuitous closeup of her breasts as she looks at the dreary, dripping ceiling, and later she discovers she's pregnant and has an abortion.  When her brother, Judge Reinholt, finds out, she says Please don't tell mom and dad.  He is shocked, not that she had an abortion, but that she would even think he would tell. Are you kidding?  Come on!  He replies.  What a bro'. Why squeal on your fifteen-year-old sister to your parents that she had an illegal abortion?  They might do something silly like get her birth control and counseling on sex (not to mention a physical examination that could save her life.)  Adults are seen peripherally with an us against them attitude, and the movie doesn't even seem conscious of it.  The alienation from adults and depressing mistakes kids can make dampens the overall enjoyment of the film, which frankly could have done without it.  Why even include these scenes?  If you're going to have a raunchy film, show the breasts and get on with it, and if you want a message, why show a scene where it's shown as *good* to hide the abortions from the parents?  It almost feels like a message started to bubble up at one point and was beaten down again before it could emerge.It could also have done without the how to perform a b****** on a carrot scene in the cafeteria, while cheering guys look on.  The producers of this film were in their 50's I believe when this film was made.  Do they really believe our youth had degenerated to this level or close to it by the 80's? Or did they think they were too obtuse to be insulted by it?  More rhetorically, did they care?  Needless exploitation scenes like this really detract from the film, and could have been easily edited out with no loss of continuity.If you see the movie, you will probably have a lot of fun; but I think you too will notice these moments like five-feet speed bumps on the open highway.Happiness is good health and a poor memory.  This saying must have been referring to the good ol' days of high school.Six stars. "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, after seeing 4 or 5 other high school comedy-dramas, I found this one to be the worst of the lot... Not that it's a bad movie, it's just bland, particularly compared to the others I've seen--American Graffiti, Dazed & Confused, Sixteen Candles, American Pie, Clueless (by the same director as this film), and a few others.  The themes covered in this movie are just like the other ones, the main one being the discovery of true love as more important and more worthwhile than sex.  The characters seemed pretty uninteresting compared to the hilarious caricatures populating The Breakfast Club or the more emotionally complex characters from Dazed & Confused and Clueless.  For me, Sean Penn and Judge Reinhold were the only really hilarious people in the film, and I never really got emotionally attached to anyone.The only thing I really valued about the film was the fact that a bunch of famous 80's actors are in it, and it's an interesting look at the culture of the time period.  Other than that, it was pretty boring for me.  Maybe it's just because the more recent high school movies I mentioned have used this movie as a template, copied from it and improved on it to the point that the original just feels generic. "}{"Title":"Socially irresponsible but well made.","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH had not been marketed so strongly to teenagers, perhaps I would have a very different opinion of the movie. After all, it is reasonably well made and has some interesting characters--particularly the guy played by Sean Penn. However, this movie was a hard R picture--with tons of very adult content that is inappropriate to teens--at least in the way they presented it. This is really a shame, as the lessons in the film are great material for teens to see and consider--they just didn't need to make the film so crude and explicit. For example, some scenes were simply added to sex up the film--such as Judge Reinholt masturbating to a fantasy in which Phoebe Cates takes off her bikini top. Did we really need to see this? But, some of the more adult content was interesting and would have made great material for teens--such as the girl (Stacy) who is so interested in keeping up with her friend as well as getting a boyfriend that she quickly puts out--and getting pregnant in the process. This is daring but real--a problem many young people face. Too bad the film didn't stick with these type topics, as sex and temptation are challenges teens face--like it or not. And, the girl getting pregnant is a realistic situation.So, if the film had kept 95% of its content and dropped the scenes of gratuitous sex, it would have been a GREAT teen film. But, sadly, the film was probably too teen-oriented for adults back in 1982 and too crude and irresponsible for teens (and by the way, what sort of parents thought it was good for the kids to go to this film?). Perhaps the only good audience are old folks like me who graduated in 1982--we can see the film and look back with nostalgia about the old days. "},{"Title":"So Fast it must have passed me by completely...","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've got to admit that the tag-line about carrots is funny, but that got a bigger laugh from me than anything in the movie itself did. I enjoyed watching it as a nostalgia piece, and to 'play spot the rising star' (the hot young females in the cast didn't hurt none, either!) but all of the supposedly 'killer' one-liners just didn't work for me. I was hugely surprised by this turn of events at the time because I did have a lot of admiration for Cameron Crowe, but then I saw this and Elizabethtown in quick succession, which kinda derailed that train somewhat...The main cast all did well enough - I bought into them, they delivered their lines acceptably, etc... I just didn't think any of it was particularly humorous. As teenage '80's comedies go, I'd even rather watch Porky's, which surprised me, because I automatically assumed that Fast Times...  would have more class. I guess you had to have been there, and not much of it rang my laughter bells, I'm afraid. Are we THAT different to America in the UK??! Maybe so. "},{"Title":"Uneven but entertaining","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movies tries to juggle a lot of plots, a lot of characters, and a lot of changes in tone, so it's easy to look the other way when one or more of the above hits the ground. Jennifer Jason Leigh looks impossibly young as Stacy, out to bolster her sexual experience; she's completely believable, and her performance is the real reason the watch the movie. Not that a cast that's probably ideal for any Six Degrees came isn't worth checking out; it's just really not as funny as its reputation suggests. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie  greatest teen film of all time","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the best teen film in my opinion alongside the breakfast club .Many films have come and gone but none of them had the same impact as did this film . It is basically about group of teenagers going through their senior year facing many problems like having sex ,losing their virginity and doing drugs . The cast is very well assembled with relative unknown faces at that time and most of them have made it big specially Sean Penn whose role in this movie is very different from the roles we are used to seeing him. Though he was great but my favorite was Damon .Both the girls were gorgeous and had a lot of part in the success of this film.This is a classic movie in this genre and many attempts have been made to make a movie like this but they haven't been successful . Now days teen films are semi porn movies they don't make it like they used to make it in the 70s and 80s. American pie is good but with all the sequels that they have made it is not great anymore .This movie will always be the benchmark for making teen movies. "},{"Title":"Feature content or feature roots?, version 1.02","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Which way do I go on this? By the feature content or by its roots? The content is centred on a brother and a sister who can be described as having cursed sex lives, also on an individual who can be described as cursed. I find the treatment to be relevant and sympathetic, not just a school kid thing. This is based on a book sourced by the writer going back to high school and pretending to be a school kid. From the DVD making of he was someone who left school early, before qualifying, in order to work in journalism and he had enough success for there to be interest in a film script at a fairly early stage. The DVD commentary and making of underline that this is a story that a lot of people actually love. Some comments talk of the feature as if it is a historical document. What is not discussed in the DVD is whether he had informed consent from the school and the kids for doing this. I am reminded of the feature in America's Sweethearts (2001) and provisionally assume no. I am reminded of my past experience of the UK arts, etc, worlds and assume no. One description is that this story is based on the kids who made friends with the writer, my guess being that they did not know that he was an experienced professional writer doing a job. In the UK I have come across that in more than just artists, it is fairly commonplace. The DVD says fly on the wall. Further, fly on wall suggests that the observer is showing reality as it is there. If that were true in this case I would only consider it to be the surface of reality as interpreted by the fly. In reality I would expect a lot of puppetry to be going on, with most story tellers in this fly genre to actually be puppeteers moulding reality to say other than what would naturally happen. Propaganda. My qualms relate to basic civil rights. Is this in harmony with the civil rights of those at the school when the spy project was carried out, or were these being walked over in the name of a storyteller wanting basic input for the story that would be written? Maybe, maybe not. My past in England tells me that there are real issues here. HSM 2 has a phrase 'iced tea imported from England' which does not necessarily refer to this. * So I need to clear that point before making a personal decision re how I rate this story. I had already started to have qualms re I Could Never Be Your Woman (2007), though in part that is a parody of such situations, daughter is not impressed with mum. I had understood it to relate to the writer's experiences re the over forties and to second childhood, but there are small bits of the detail that make me wonder if this links with a UK arts spy type thing. There are bits of this story that I rate a lot, but I now need a way to clear that point. Questions of basic civil rights, questions hinted at in America's Sweethearts. And also in I Could Never &#x85;To consider reality, to some extent any individual needs to be a story teller. I found the where and how of story tellers getting and using their inspiration to be a difficult question. Integrity to others versus integrity to reality versus integrity to oneself. For some, paradox and taboo can make it impossible to be a person. Sweetheart shows an approach that goes to another extreme. My user comments here tend to wobble all over the spectrum as I do not find The Now to be so helpful for moving towards good practice in healthy ways. I currently rate the approach of the writer of Heathers (1988), which was not an easy step for me to attain. Ridgemont is different, not the same approach to inspiration sources. I Could Never Be Your Woman appears to be vastly different again. I find the issues to be difficult stuff. * The babies trilogy, started by Amy when she was pregnant?, suggests to me that in Ridgemont she was directing a story that she could have faith in, that the characters were the sort that she felt at home with? So that is a big guess and the tall glam Linda, friend of Stacy, looking a bit like young Amy will just be coincidence. Fly on the wall spy writing, especially when those targeted are nearly underclass types, is widely respected so its use is understandable. No way should I accept it, though. "},{"Title":"Who are we kidding?","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very typical high school sex-comedy which may pretend to be about more than one thing, but really, who are we kidding? Writer Cameron Crowe (Say Anything) and director Amy Heckerling (Look Who's Talking) do manage to throw a few side issues in, but their target audience wants sex, and so that is what they get. If this pic is an accurate reflection of youth today, then it's a wonder that every second fifteen year old girl isn't pregnant. Even if it isn't accurate, it's no wonder kids are so promiscuous.Fast Times at Ridgemont High isn't any better or worse than other films of this style though. The young cast (including Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold, Phoebe Cates and Sean Penn) go through their paces, being typical teens - always curious about sex. Aside from that there is little else on their minds. It takes young Stacey (Leigh) all of the 89 minute running time to decide that anybody can have sex, but she just wants a relationship and romance. This of course is not before she loses her virginity (at 15) to some 26 year old jock, and then has another brief encounter with her prospective boyfriend's 'best friend'. Kids huh!Wednesday, February 28, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"A true American beauty","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. This movie is not only beautiful, but a piece of American history. I am going to paste this line over and over again to reinforce the power of this film and its significant impact on American society. I love this movie. This movie is not only beautiful, but a piece of American history. I am going to paste this line over and over again to reinforce the power of this film and its significant impact on American society. I love this movie. This movie is not only beautiful, but a piece of American history. I am going to paste this line over and over again to reinforce the power of this film and its significant impact on American society. I love this movie. This movie is not only beautiful, but a piece of American history. I am going to paste this line over and over again to reinforce the power of this film and its significant impact on American society. I love this movie. This movie is not only beautiful, but a piece of American history. I am going to paste this line over and over again to reinforce the power of this film and its significant impact on American society. "},{"Title":"We're all on drugs","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I watch this flick the thing that I were most amazed of was that the youth haven't change since the 80s till today, I mean every thing that happened in the movie has happen to me or I have heard of it from someone else, every character is very real.The movie is good but I was hoping for more since this film supposed to be a cult classic for teenagers, but its good.I don't understand why all the publicity for this movie appears as a main character Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn) he's important but the main character really is Stacy Hamilton (Jennifer Jason Leigh).I recommend people to watch this film because you will find a lot of similarities with your life as a teenager, and is just one of that movies you have to watch. "},{"Title":"Misogynist-erotic aura hanging over this one.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember kids in my elementary school quoting Spicoli from this movie, but then again, I also remember them quoting movies like Strange Brew and Weird Science -- I was never much into pothead comedies of the 80's, and maybe that's why I've put off watching this until the age of almost 29 ( and on Turner Classic Movies, no less! ) Also, it was written by Cameron Crowe, next to Kevin Smith the most aggressively pandering screenwriter in existence, whose reputation is due for a major tumble.Surprisingly, the usually faceless director Amy Heckerling seems to have brought more of her own personality to bear on the film than Crowe, and that personality consists mostly of a jealous hatred of young nubile girls which cloaks itself in the guise of realism. I live in the heart of Southern California and went to one of the most hormonally charged high schools in the country, and yes, there were girls that were even more oversexed than Jennifer Jason Leigh and Phoebe Cates in this movie, but there were other kinds of girls too, and the fact is that Heckerling chooses to show ONLY sex-crazed females, while the boys are allowed to be hard-working and conscientious, idealistic and capable of true love, or even unconscious Buddhists like Spicoli. This division between the very prematurely adult girls and the hapless teenage boys separates the movie from something as supposedly X-rated as Kids, which looks almost politically correct in its cross-cutting between the equally randy sexes. The guys in this movie could become anything when they grow up; the girls are nothing but porn stars or baby machines in training, complete human voids straight out of Preminger's Angel Face.I have to say, Phoebe Cates gets most of the attention for her topless sashay, but it is Jennifer Jason Leigh, far from a born sex object, that Heckerling is mesmerized by. Innocent at first glance, a closer look reveals tiny, vampiric teeth, glinting eyes, and a skittish, elusive unreadability to her facial expressions that makes her a master of the casual heartbreak -- the girl who looks like pure love but who really wants to be pushed down face first in the mud. In other words, Leigh is an inflammatory, purely sexual being in this film. Though the films came out at pretty much the same time, or close enough that there's obviously no chance of influence, Heckerling's treatment of the Jennifer Jason Leigh character is remarkably similar to the way Maurice Pialat coolly observes the sexual self-immolation of the even sexier and more disturbing Sandrine Bonnaire in the great film To Our Loves ( A Nos Amours. ) I'm not complaining about any of this, mind you -- true eros is only to be found in the gap, and the romantic version of the gap, the space of dreams and fantasy drawing off reality but never touching it, is the girl who promises everything but gives nothing, that is, gives nothing to the guy who offers her true love but everything to the unappreciative hordes. In a way, longing for this impossible type of girl, who we have all met, and who dates back from Ingrid Bergman all the way to the flapper -- and perhaps thence to Eve herself -- is a primitive stage of the yearning for God.Even so, these sexually wayward, death-wish-driven females keep getting younger and younger, and you have to wonder if this so-called objective look at high school life became a sort of self-fulfilling prophecy, a model for the wasted Britney generation to emulate. Watching movies, after all, is a prolonged second step of the mirror stage. It's quite possible that the representation of a certain type of girl in this and other teen sex comedies, a type of girl originally chosen for her titillating dramatic possibilities rather than out-and-out realism -- of which there is an infinite variety of interpretations -- was taken for the way all girls naturally are, as a template for females in general. In other words... Someone had better remake The Nun's Story with Lindsay Lohan before we end up doubling the population in the next ten years.Then again, they'd better not -- we might need the soldiers. Starship Troopers could serve as kind of an unofficial sequel to Fast Times, come to think of it. "},{"Title":"Vocabulary Quiz","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's interesting tracing the roots of stereotypes and scenarios.  Here we have the forerunner to 'American Pie', yet smarter than 'Porky's'.  Well, I never was a fan of Cameron Crowe and Amy Heckerling failed as a director ('Clueless' shows she never learned).  Thus, all the energy is thrown on the actors.  That's where John Hughes has an edge against this production.Penn, of course, is the focus of everything.  From him we get 'Bill & Ted' and then 'Beavis & Butt-Head'--the evolution of stupidity.  No, wait, not really.  'Bill & Ted' focus on the stereotype, everything is in the vocabulary.  With Penn, the idea is new (a cross between 'Easy Rider', James Dean, and Brando.  He's since pushed that methodology further and, by golly, he enjoys having us watch him work.Too bad most of the others actors (and Crowe) are not as clever.  About 2/3 of the dialog is porno-quality and most of the characters are throwaways--pieces of existence.  Probably the worst is Judge Reinhold; he comes across as the most artificial that it feels like Penn is laughing AT him.Universal became a pro with these movies back in the 80s.  Once again, music becomes a focus in the movie; I wonder what the strange correlation is between the teen market and bands.  It probably deals with the whole desire for independence and making oneself heard.  I dunno.  I also don't why why recent filmmakers haven't evolved from the trends here?  Don't they understanding Crowe's writing?  I take it they failed, too.When a film dedicates itself to the actors, there better be good folks on that side of the camera or else...Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "}{"Title":"The most beautiful girls meet the ugliest guys.","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply a terrible, depressing movie. What really perplexes me is how the casting director manages to cast such beautiful women (Jennifer Jason Leigh, Phoebe Cates) against such ugly male actors. Brian Backer would be the ugliest guy in this movie except that he manages to appear with Richard Romanus, who looks like Barry Manilow and Desi Arnez had a child. I honestly can't stand to look at him. This movie is slow and shallow, and when it does set up a joke it takes forever and then pulls it off with all the energy and excitement of a Saltine cracker. FAST TIMES... has none of the heart of AMERICAN GRAFITTI, nor the slapstick of ANIMAL HOUSE. Rent and watch either of those and skip this dreary film. "},{"Title":"Fairly Funny","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This poor guy was born at least 10 years too late. Where Fast Times has depth, as he admits, he keeps trying to compare it to American Pie, which lacks good, real actors, decent story lines, and any sort of a plot. It is one of the worst John Hughes wannabe rip-offs ever. I mean, fart jokes? This new generation lacks so much imagination, they keep trashing good movie after good movie, or making them a farce. If they're such good movies, LEAVE THEM ALONE! American Pie is a joke. Fast Times is a legend, and launched more careers than most '80s movies. Give it up, dude. "},{"Title":"High school was never like this.","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only thing this film represents to me is teens being irresponsible.It does not represent high school as I saw it,though I have no doubt that some of the people around me were living this way.The film's messages are clearDrug use,premarital sex and abortion are okay.Since I don't agree with any of that,I have to say that I do not find the film even remotely entertaining or even the least bit amusing.The only compliment I can give it is that it is solid proof that Sean Penn has had a very special gift when it comes to acting from the very beginning.However,the film's above mentioned lack of entertainment value will keep me from viewing the film again. "},{"Title":"Good 80's film but could have done without a few things","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all I'd like to start by saying that I think Amy Heckerling is an awesome Director. I loved National Lampoons European Vacation.This movie was pretty great for a few reasons but was disappointing for other reasons. The chemistry between Spicoli (Sean Penn) and Mr. Hand (Ray Walston) was right on. The irresponsible stoner kid who doesn't give a rat's tail about being to class on time and the teacher who frowns on truancy. The two of them are very talented actors who worked well together and their scenes together were funny. In terms of the fashion statements and the party-all-the-time attitude, this movie captured the 80's very well. However (spoiler alert) there were a few disturbing things about this movie. For one thing when Stacy (Jennifer Jason Leigh) tells Mike (Robert Romanus) that she is pregnant, the reaction ruined the movie for me in an instant. He agrees to pay for half of the abortion and give her a ride to the clinic? Boy what a sweetheart! I think this is quite the sexist shot at men. Also, I think it would have been more poetic if her brother or even Spicoli kicked his butt just for good measure. Oh well! You can't win em all!All and all I give this one 6 out of 10 just for the scenes with Sean Penn. He deserved most of the credit for this movie. He made the movie for me. From start to finish, European Vacation was a lot better. "},{"Title":"Fast, yeah. High, check.","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, I missed the boat. Much like 1983's Scarface. I simply waited too long.Fast Times at Ridgemont High is as dated as they come, yet all the males (mostly, if not exclusively straight) remember this movie fondly. Heck, it was featured just recently in the most current American Dad episode. (Side Note thankfully, I just now saw this, so I knew who Jeff Spicoli (Sean Penn) was and could catch the reference.) So, it's an enormously influential part of the everyday heterosexual male's life.Is it because of the extensive female nudity? The surfer-dude anarchy/teachers N school sucks! attitude? How about the whole package show a movie that should contain male nudity, such as the boy's locker room or a guy masturbating, but don't because guys don't want to see that?Pause. Yep, that's what guys wanted to see. No sausages, only breasts. Well. You'll get that, plus so little more!Such as NO PLOT. Guys fooling around. A school year that passes before your eyes. Teachers that are a blind as politicians to the American voter's needs.What more do you want?Well, I want more. But, even being late to seeing this movie, roughly thirty years &#x96; argh, I need some resemblance of a plot line. Halfway through this movie I was trying to figure out what it was all about. And then when it ended, I said Oh! I now know&#x85;less than when it started.That said&#x85;the movie wasn't terrible. It was funny for the most part. It had a great soundtrack.Is it a movie I want to see again? NO. Is it because I'm not heterosexual? NO. Is it because I saw it 30 some odd years too late? NO. It's because I enjoy my movies with substance.That doesn't make this a terrible movie as it was a fun viewing. But it does make it a one-time, event film that would've been great for horny boys in the early 80s. Step into (EVEN) 1983 and we've already outdated ourselves. Haven't we? Whoa! Dude! "},{"Title":"Badly dated","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times at Ridgemont High is considered a classic 80's comedy. The 80's were a pretty low decade for cinema as a whole and this is not a classic even by 80's standard. The only interesting thing is to see a very young Sean Penn as a drugged out high-school student. The entire movie is about getting laid and tries to show how high school was/is in the 80's. There is not even a semblance of a plot and the direction by Amy Heckeling is quite irritating.The cast also includes a very young Jennifer Jason Leigh and Phoebe Cates - both of whom appear nude (a redeeming aspect to the movie...hehehe) and Judge Reinhold from the Beverly Hills Cop series.Better 80's comedies would include anything by Eddie Murphy or director John Hughes. This one is not worth wasting two hours over. "},{"Title":"this some repugnant sh*t!","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   This movie is really offensive. When I saw it a few years ago I thought it was very funny however viewing it now leads me to the conclusion that it is a morally devoid wasteland of unrealistic material.This film purports to be about what high school is Really Like, however its wild exploitation undermines this goal thouroughly. Jennifer Jason Leigh's character is apparently supposed to be about 15, and engages in a rather cute relationship with some geek that works at the movie theater. Well, how nice. This sounds realistic, and it is easy to identify with these characters. But wait! It seems the very young Ms. Leigh also likes to get screwed by creepy 25 year old guys who work at the mall and troll for young flesh and banged by a guy she has known for approximately .01 seconds in her poolhouse. Notice the duality? On one hand she is a normal, precocious 14-15 year old and on other she is a sexual deviant who has no shame and is thoroughly reprehensible. The reason for this behavior would be described by the filmmakers as reflecting the reality of High School, which is a goal that for some reason humanity has determined is worthy of an enormous amount of study and thought. Who cares? Leigh was 18-19 during filming, which justifies her getting naked just fine, however the justification for showing supposedly very young characters in graphic sexual situations with no other purpose than to be real is absurd and patently unrealistic.I'm no Christian Right extremist, but these characters that exist in this kind of moral vacuum just do not exist as they do in this film. Leigh's character having dirty sex and talking dirty sex and having an abortion is presented in the film as a normal right of passage for a young teenager. I honestly don't believe anyone I knew when I was 15 was having lots of sex, and if they were, it wasn't with strange random people while putting up a facade of being normal and innocent. This movie really makes my skin crawl, and hopefully won't be accepted by anyone looking for the elusive reality of high school. Want reality? Check out Ghost World or Dazed and Confused for characters that accurately reflect high school and its aftermath. "},{"Title":"Only historical","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of 80's comedies because they are so silly and light-hearted and strange. This is why I decided to view Fast times at Ridgemont High one night. I was expecting pure fluff, and that's not what I got.I wasn't born in 1982. I'll be honest, I graduated high school not too long ago, yet there was something so familiar in this movie that I wanted to run away from it. If you're a teenager or a young adult, you'll probably have seen extremely dumb movies such as American pie. You'll probably also have watched series made for teenagers in order to preach to them about serious matters like pregnancy. After watching this, I realized that it was the first movie of these two categories. I wasn't born in 1982, and what was in this movie doesn't seem outrageous or innovative to me, but I'm aware that it was at the time and that it created a genre. This is why I'm calling this movie historical.This movie is like many series and movies of the 80's and 90's that I've seen. A very silly and stupid cover hiding something that brings up deep topics. In that way, it's not a honest movie. It's so dishonest that it can lead us to believe that it's an exploitation movie. I'm still not sure if it is or not at this point. There was nothing funny about it in my opinion. I disliked American Pie, but I thought it was much funnier than this. The only reason I think a young person today would want to watch this is the nudity.I don't know how life in the 80's was and I'll never know. But I know what life in the 90's and the 2000's is, and I can tell you that many TV series aimed at teenagers used the same formula that's easy to notice in Fast times.. "},{"Title":"Was anyone else bothered by the way abortion was presented in this film?","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this film a few years ago in the late 90's as a teen, I was floored by the irresponsibility that the teenagers in the film had in their approach to sex, and then especially with Jennifer Jason Leigh's character's nonchalance at having an abortion. I am a male, and thus cannot comment from personal experience, but I would think that the decision of whether or not to have an abortion would be a slightly bigger decision than it is to her in the film? Her conversation with the baby's father is as such I'm pregnant. Whoa. I guess you're wanting an abortion? Yes. And I want you to pay half and drive me to the clinic. I also would think that the abortion itself would be more traumatizing than it is presented in the film; Leigh's character tells all her friends immediately what a b****rd that guy was for not driving her to the clinic. I don't consider myself to be sexist in any way, but I lose respect for a woman with such a nonchalant fatalistic approach to sex. Perhaps the book describes this better? I'm not sure. But I don't think the film sets a very good example.  "},{"Title":"Vomit inducing","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't know but this supposed teen comedy always made me a little sick to watch. It's fun to see some soon to be stars before they made it big but the content is not handled in a very fun way.Take the character of Stacy Hamilton. Either she is totally out of it or the screenplay didn't know how to service her character. She comes out looking pretty messed up by the end. I suspect that her character was merely meant to schock and break taboos. Like the director said Hey, look what you can show on film that you couldn't before. It's quite amazing that the director is a woman.There is of course Sean Penn. He is the only character that goes through something that is both funny and oddly believable. It is definitely the most funny performance of his entire career and he plays well with Ray Walston as Mr. Hand.The rest, Brian Backer, Phoebe Cates and especially Judge Reinhold are pretty terrible. Phoebe Cates does have an exceptional nude scene (wonder if Kevin Kline ever saw it?) and she is pretty cute to look at. Judge Reinhold gets humiliated all through to the end. Who wants to see a realistic robbery in a teen comedy? Oh, well. It gave James Russo something to do.So, mixed genres doesn't always a good movie make. But see it and judge for yourself. It definitely leaves an impression. "}{"Title":"There is no way to summarize this movie","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was a huge disappointment to me. I had heard great things and was expecting to see an amazing movie, how wrong I was. The movie had no plot, no conflict and no character development. Some people have said that even though there was not plot, it was still a good movie as it encompassed life in the 80's perfectly. I disagree. The lack of plot was a poor choice by the director and writer. It made the movie less enjoyable and much less believable. Without a conflict, there is nothing to keep you hooked on the movie and want to finish watching it, except the hope that it can only get better (which it never does). When there was a conflict, it was solved within the next couple minutes in a very non-satisfactory way. For example I'm pregnant What should we do about it I'm getting an abortion. you pay for half and give me a ride ok. And thats all that happened with that. It was ridiculous. The lack of character development was also terrible. Not once did I ever feel attached to one of the characters. There were so many little sub plots that there was no attention drawn to one character or set of characters. You did not ever really get to know any one of the characters.The movie felt like it was trying to copy National Lampoon's Animal House, but it did a horrible job of it. Sean Penn's character Jeff Spicoli seemed to be an attempt at John Belushi's famous Bluto. However, it didn't work. I cannot even begin to explain to you how bad this movie was in any sensical way. All in all, it is a movie that you probably should see in your life as it is, for some reason, a classic. HOwever, do not expect much (if anything) from the movie or you will be highly disappointed as i was. The only reason i rated it 4/10 is because there is an old Volkswagon Van (better known as the Hippie Van) and I want one. Without the Hippie Van, the movie gets a 2. "},{"Title":"Not that good in my opinion","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this movie, I really don't know why so many people like it that much. It was an OK movie with a few cute parts, but other than that, I didn't care for it that much. A lot of it is because I'd heard that it was so funny, but I personally didn't think there was anything absolutely hilarious in it, not even Sean Penn's surfer-dude character. However, I didn't grow up in the '80s and that may be why I don't think it was that great, but the people that did grow up then probably think it's better because they can relate to the movie much more.  "},{"Title":"Were All Early 1980s Movies This Stupid?","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie dealt with controversial themes for this time period. Abortion. Somethings that I cannot mention on this site. The funniest part of the movie was when the arrogant history teacher got revenge on the main character by showing up in his bedroom and making him learn all the things he should have learned in class during the school year. This was one of Forrest Whitaker's first movies. After winning an Oscar, I know he wants to erase this movie from his memory. Overall, this movie had a bunch of hyperactive, stupid teenagers. I rarely laughed during this entire movie. But some of the music in this movie was great. "},{"Title":"Painfully Bad!","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fast Times At Ridgemont High *Fast Times At Ridgemont High is considered a cult classic and a comedy. Where is the comedy? No, I'm serious, where is the comedy? The movie is more of a drama then a comedy. Plus this movie is really stupid and it is sometimes very hard to comprehend. At first I though it was me and watched the movie a second time and realized, no, it's not me, it's this movie.Judge Reinhold plays Brad Hamilton. He maybe the most awkward teenage character in a teenage movie. He works at a fast food restaurant but when he is hackled by a customer and decides to defend himself, he gets fired. As a result, he works at another food place witch is just as awkward and just as humiliating. Then he works at a store which he eventually becomes manager of. Maybe that is a good thing.Jennifer Jason Leigh plays Reinholds younger sister, Stacy Hamilton. She is the most saddest character in this movie and ever in a teenage movie. She has low self-esteem and she's easy. She lets Mike Damone, played by Robert Romanus, have his way with her and then gets pregnant, or at least thats what I got from it. She tricks her brother to drive her to meet her friends but as he drives away, she heads for the abortion clinic which Brad sees in his rear view mirror.Phoebe Cates plays Linda Barrett, Stacy's best friend, and the main subject of Brad's sexual fantasy. There is a scene where Linda teaches Stacy how to preform oral sex on a carrot. I got the impression that Linda is a bit of a whore. However she is in the only scene in the film that is worth watching. Brad fantasies about her where she takes off her top and kisses him. But other than that, the movie is dead in the water.Sean Penn plays the famous Jeff Spicoli. He is a very interesting character but is wasted in this movie. He has a bit of a confusing relationship with his history teacher Mr. Hand plays be Ray Walston. The relationship between the two is very shaky where it ends with Mr. Hand showing up at Jeff's house and forces him to review everything he was tough in this class. When the scene was over, I though what was the point of that.According to Fast Times At Ridgemont High, life is already a Cozmo soap opera at the age of 18. This reminded me of a similar movie entitled Crossroads with Britney Spears. Both films are not similar but they have the same message. Life is hard but it won't be like Fast Times At Ridgemont High or Crossroads. Fast Times At Ridgemont High is painfully bad and reprehensible. "},{"Title":"this movie sucks","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie lacks a solid plot. Sean Penn can't act worth a damn!! Even stoned this movie isn't funny granted it may have been when it came out but i'm not old enough to have seen it then. A good movie be it comedy drama action or otherwise, has to contain a staying power. Some people may find this movie relevant but really it is lackluster!! It is largely popular because of the pair of breasts that make a much unneeded appearance but really if you'd like to see a movie with toilet humor and a bunch of one-liners that could have been delivered by anyone living in the 80's then check it out. But if thats what you like then watch something that remains funny even today like Animal House, or even Porkys is better! That's right Porkys! "},{"Title":"pretty rubbish","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this is a film that American thirty somethings seem to rave about. It might have been a good movie when it was released but it has no plot, FAR too much dialogue and almost nothing happens.Basically the film follows the lives of students at Ridgemont High as they try to live and learn and survive school. Judge Reinhold stars and looks FAR TOO OLD to be going to school. Appearances by Phoebe Cates (who briefly appears nude), Jennifer Jason Leigh (who I still have no idea who she is) (also has 2 nude scenes), Forest Whitacker as a Jock, Sean Penn as a stoner, Eric Stoltz as one of his friends.The cast have all gone on to bigger and better things and films like this have been spoofed many times since.The film can't be sold on it's plot (there is virtually none at all), it can't be sold on the then pretty unknown cast, the music isn't very good for an 80's film and the nudity isn't enough to carry a generally poor film which hasn't stood up well to the passage of time. "},{"Title":"I pity and fear the mentality that can create such a film.","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is truly horrible. An entire generation of innocent teenagers believed that this movie portrayed what love was supposed to be like between teenage boys and girls. The girls in the movie were all portrayed as sexual objects to be lusted after and used for the pleasure of boys. The boys only had one thing on their minds and that was getting laid. You know, before this movie came out, boys were actually able to go on dates with girls without constantly trying to contrive a way to get into their pants. It sickens me that some perverted man would put out a movie like this and basically ruin the dating life of all the generations that came after. Had I only seen this movie as a teenage girl, I would have understood the intentions of boys. Of course, boys didn't always think this way. There was a time when a boy was ecstatic if he simply got to hold a girl's hand. This movie convinced boys that if they weren't trying to get laid, they were doing something wrong. Sex was treated very casually in Fast Times. One of the girls was a virgin and the other girls pressured her to go ahead and have sex. They acted like they had been doing it for years already. It just sickens me that teenagers were portrayed this way. What kind of a monster produces a movie like this and then puts it out there for the world to see? The ignorance in this movie was astounding. The kids were so stupid.I'm aware that most older folks have very fond memories of Fast Times but I can assure you that by today's standards, this movie would be less than a B-movie. The script was as bad as an x-rated movie. It was just so stupid. And I'm angry that my teenage years were spent fighting off the sexual advances of boys who all felt like they had to try to screw me because some stupid movie taught them to act that way towards girls.Cameron Crowe, I hope you are ashamed of yourself. Please warn your daughters that they need to be on the defense against horny boys all the time thanks to your movie.And, in case you thought you should watch this movie for the humor, trust me when I tell you that only an old fart would think this movie was funny. By today's standards it is extremely asinine and I didn't laugh one time during the whole movie. Society's standards for movies are just so much higher than they used to be. It's amazing that anyone EVER thought that this was funny, but sadly enough, they did. It just goes to show the kind of mentality that people used to have.It saddens me to think that we still have these same old farts running the world. Old people, your time is over. Young people are so much smarter, more compassionate, and have much more wisdom than you ever dreamed of having. Move aside, and let us run things now. Then, our government can finally stop destroying everything and actually begin healing the world.Do not watch this movie. "}]