[{"Title":"Stephen King meets George A. Romero!!","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"48 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow (1982) was a horror fan's dream come true. Two of the masters in their respective fields joining forces to collaborate on a movie. Several tales filmed in an anthology style based upon the E.C. Comics that the two enjoyed reading in their youths. With Stephen King writing and George A. Romero directing plus Tom Savini creating the gory special effects how can you go wrong? You just can't and the aforementioned duo delivers the goods.The story begins as a young kid is being punished by his overbearing and brutish father for reading trashy filth and is punished. During the night the tossed out comic book comes to life and plays out all the stories (in comic book form) with the Creepshow Ghoul' leading the way. Black comedy has never been funnier.All the stories are excellent and well directed. The set pieces are very well designed and are brilliantly executed. You have to love the lighting schemes. The cast is a mixture of new actors and classic ones. George A. Romero stated that he finally got to work with Fritz Weaver and Hal Holbrook and E.G. Marshall. Leslie Nielsen, Adrienne Barbeau, Ted Danson and Ed Harris co-star as well. A couple of Romero regulars such as his wife Christine, Tom Savini and who can forget Stephen King as Jordy Verill.Creepshow is a true modern day horror classic. I have enjoyed this as a child and I still consider this movie one of my favorite horror films. Sadly the two could never capture the magic they once had. Maybe they'll work together directly in the near future. This movie was near flawless in design. They set out to recapture the old E.C. Comics aura and they succeeded. Followed by a absolutely bad sequel. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George A.Romero(Dawn of the Dead,Day of the Dead,Martin)after huge success with Dawn of the Dead directed his another masterpiece-an anthology of five short stories called Creepshow.The script was written by Stephen King,and the special effects were made by F/X wizard Tom Savini(Martin,Maniac,The Prowler).The first story Father's Day is so-so-nothing special,but the zombie looks terrific;the second story The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril is the funniest,Stephen King steals the show as a Jordy,a goofy farmer,who finds a strange meteor;the third story Something To Tide You Over is my favourite-it's ghastly,creepy,funny and a little bit disturbing,again great make-up of the drowned zombies;the fourth story The Crate is the longest and goriest-there's a lot of suspense and plenty of gore mixed with black humour.Finally we are getting to the last story Creeping Up On You-an enjoyable story about cockroaches with some rather gross special effects.Overall I must say that I love Creepshow-surely they don't make them like this anymore.This is a REAL horror,not a teen-oriented garbage like Scream or Urban Legend.Check it out. "},{"Title":"Creepily Comical.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is a unique, funny, and creepy horror anthology from Stephen King and George A. Romero. The film centers around five stories - consisting of a murderous revenge tale of a father on fathers day ; a redneck (played by Stephen King himself) who begins growing a green substance on his body after coming in contact with a meteor ; a man who buries his wife and her lover up to their heads on the beach as the tide begins to come in ; a strange monster that lives in a crate that was discovered beneath a stairway ; and a Scrooge-like businessman who lives in a purely sanitized apartment that can't get rid of pesky cockroaches.Each of the stories displayed in this movie are a little bit corny to a certain extent, but they are still well done and are quite amusing. There is a very good cast, including Ed Harris, Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, Adrienne Barbeau, and E.G. Marshall, whom all give good performances in the movie. The whole movie is tied in with the classic E.C. comics from the 1950s, each story as if it were from a comic book. I thought that whole comic aspect was pretty unique, and I liked the stories in the film (The Crate is by far the best of them all, the one with Leslie Nielsen is my runner up for second place).Bottom line - if you are expecting some serious, intense horror movie, this is not for you. This movie isn't scary at all, I watched it when I was very young and it failed to even scare me then. Creepshow is a comical, campy, and well-done horror anthology. I only recommend it if you like this sort of thing, because it is more comic than horrific. Otherwise, it's really quite good for what it is. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A classic movie for all the sickos out there...","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"33 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think it's pretty clear that the amount of enjoyment you get out of this movie is directly related to how sick your sense of humor is. Those people with a fairly low tolerance for sick humor, such as myself, won't particularly like it, but people who thoroughly enjoy horror cheese like Tales From the Crypt should LOVE this. Now, even though I personally don't like this movie, I have to admit it is very well made. Everything is perfectly over-the-top the music, the gaudy colors, the makeup--it's all done to the point where it is totally ridiculous, which is what King and Romero want. And I must admit I did like the segment The Crate. How can you NOT love a giant ape-monster running around tearing people to bits? Sick, sick stuff, but enjoyable all the same.If you like gruesome black humor, this is the movie for you. Creepshow is shock schlock at its very best. And as an added bonus, it is not very well known today, so it can have a wonderful What the hell are you WATCHING!? effect on other people.8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Creepshow, Sold Out!","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was after Tales from the Crypt, however, Romero and King both where heavily influenced by these comics that they developed a movie that was sort of a satire/parody of Tales but in the same time a tribute to that comic book. In this movie there are four scary stories being told some written by Stephen King from his short stories and some written by Romero and SK. These stores, for that time, were pretty scary and freaked me out when they came in theaters. There are many great things about this movie that I enjoyed but there was, however, one huge things that I did not like about this movie. Regardless, it's about time for two horror geniuses to team up and do something good for a change.First off, the movie itself is about a comic book similar to Tails and the four stories in the movie come directly from the Creepshow comic books. The reason why that this idea works in not only the principle of bringing a comic book to life but the way it was shot, edited and lit. The camera angles had very defined and geometrical angels, similar to those that you would see in a comic book. The lighting when something horrible happens turns red, or if somebody is screaming the background turns to a shattered red background, thereby giving each scene a more comic book-like feel to visual picture. It had choppy edits and quick cuts, which we all know that comic books have. So we have a visual perspective of a comic, the overall pattern and texture of a comic and now we have the quick stimulus of a comic.Between each story there is a sub-story dealing with a young boy who finds the Creepshow comic book and how little by little he becomes more possessed by it. These intermissions also incorporate The Creep or our host for the evening. This character is by far the Crypt Keeper or the Vault Keeper to our mockup of Tales. Like the Crypt Keeper in the actual comic, he begins each segment with a scene setup and a conclusion, however he does not talk, he just blows around in the wind. With the beginning of each new story it starts out with a still scene of that story with heavy rotoscoping to make it look as if it is a comic book page, then fades out to a real-life still image and then begins. The same could be said about the ending. The clever technique gives the viewer a further illustration that this is a comic book come to life.Though this movie strikes it rich on my scare-o-meter there is just one thing that took me out of the movie just a little. I know what they where going at when they decided this concept and I understand it was a good idea but it doesn't work when it gets put on film. The campy one-liners, the cheesy sub-story and the lame screams. Of course its predecessor did the same thing, I don't think that it works as well on film as it does on paper. I think it was a nice try though.Overall I do believe that this is a horror/parody classic and that many horror fans, if not cult horror fans, would like this movie for what it is. I certainly enjoyed it, even now; I recommend this movie to anybody who loves the zombie king and the horror king. A movie worth buying a ticket for. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Horror Tales","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is divided in five stories, conducted by a leading segment where the stressed father of a boy that loves horror comic books throws his Creepshow magazine in the garbage. The wind changes the pages and discloses the tales listed below.Father's Day &#x96; While waiting Aunt Bedelia (Viveca Lindfors) for a dinner party, the greedy family recalls that she killed her own father seven years ago. Now her undead father returns from the grave as a zombie expecting to eat his cake. This segment is weak, and it is curious to see Ed Harris performing a minor role. (6).The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill &#x96; The redneck farmer Jordy Verrill (Stephen King) finds a meteor in his property in Castle Rock County and dreams on selling it for the local university and raising a large amount. However he is affected by the meteor and strange weeds grow-up on his body. This segment is the silliest and the greatest curiosity is Stephen King performing the lonely farmer. (5).Something to Tide you Over - Harry Wentworth (Ted Danson) is forced by the revengeful Richard Vickers (Leslie Nielsen), who is the former husband of his woman Becky Vickers (Gaylen Ross), to go to Comfort Point beach and to bury himself in the sand. Then he brings a Television and a VCR to show Becky buried in the same conditions. With the high tide, their heads are submerged for the pleasure of the insane Richard. However, on the next night, he is visited by a couple of zombie lovers. This dark and claustrophobic segment is the scariest one and the only flaw is the lack of previous development of the characters. (9).The Crate &#x96; When the janitor of a university finds a crate hidden below the stairs, he reports his findings to Professor Dexter Stanley (Fritz Weaver). They open the container and sooner Dexter finds that there is a hunger creature inside that devours the janitor and another scientist. When the disturbed Dexter tells to his colleague and friend Henry Northrup (Hal Holbrook) what happened, Henry sees the chance to get rid off his bitch wife Wilma Northrup (Adrienne Barbeau). This segment is the funniest, and the situations of Henry imagining killing Wilma are hilarious. (8).They're Creeping up on You! &#x96; The mean and selfish Upson Pratt (E.G. Marshall) lives in an expensive bug-proof penthouse and treats his employees like garbage. During a blackout, his fancy apartment is infested by coach roaches driving Pratt to a tragic end. This gruesome tale is simple but nasty, with many coach roaches. (7).The lead segment ends with the boy using a voodoo doll to provoke pain in his father.This is the third time that I watch these entertaining horror tales, now on DVD. I only regret that there are no sequels of these great stories. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Creepshow "},{"Title":"One Great Horror Movie!","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was ten years old the first time I saw Creepshow in the theater in 1982. I was overtook by the visual effects. The backgrounds are what make the film. My brother looked at the wrong newspaper for the movie, so I arived at the theater twenty minutes late for the movie. My heart raced and my eyes opened wide to the sight of a half-decayed man with a head on a platter. There were candles and icing on the decapitated head. The decayed man said in a disgusting voice,It's Father's Day...And I got my cake! No other horror movie ever effected me in that way. It was the most brilliant spectical I've ever seen in a motion picture. Creepshow is a very under-rated film.  I had to get that out.  "},{"Title":"Fan heaven as two horror greats come together.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George A Romero & Stephen King combine here to give us 5 joyously silly tales based on the style of the E.C. Comics that both men loved as youths.The film begins with a young boy having his comic collection thrown away by his father, this angers the boy and he plots evil revenge that segues into the five stories.Father's Day is the opening story and whilst it isn't short on the camp factor, it's a very inauspicious start, a zombie father returns to enact vengeance on his horrid family in the name of cake! Next up is The Lonesome Death Of Jody Verill, which sees Stephen King himself in the title role of a less than dumb hick who touches a fallen meteor and thus starts to turn into a plant monster. King has fun with the role but overplays it to dangerously annoying ham proportions, but it's a tidy fable with a cool ending. We then get to my personal favourite of the bunch with Something To Tide You Over, here we have a delightfully villainous Leslie Nielson burying his unfaithful wife and her lover Ted Danson in the sand up to their necks as the tide starts to come in, naturally there is a grizzly twist a coming.The Crate sees the arrival of Hal Holbrook and Adrienne Barbeau into the proceedings, a smart message of not opening crates marked with Danger, Do Not Open, and here we get a genuinely scary monster into the show. The final segment is They're Creeping Up On You which seems to be a favourite of many across the site, and although it has creepy impact for those scared of insects, it's not the crowning glory I was hoping for. We are then cut back to the boy and his thirst for revenge and the film finishes with a glint in its eye, more schlock and camp than outright horror, but still a great piece of 80s fun for fans to enjoy, 7/10. "},{"Title":"It's pretty good","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Despite some major problems (mainly contained in Stephen King's uneven and often heavy-handed script), this is still a pretty fun attempt to bring 1950s EC horror comics to the big screen. One of the best things about it is director George ('Night of the Living Dead') Romero's creative, vivid direction, that captures the bright color schemes and comic book framing to a tee. Each tale has a different horror theme usually tempered with some comedy and ranging from a rich patriarch returning from the dead to get revenge on his obnoxious family to a meteor that causes an outbreak of vegetation to a fanged, ape-like creature that's been locked away in a crate for decades. All five of the tales presented, despite some missteps, offer up good gory fun. Some of the acting is good, too, particularly Adrienne Barbeau as a heavy drinking, obnoxious faculty wife who gets what she deserves, Hal Holbrook as her hen-pecked husband and E.G. Marshall as a wealthy, obsessively clean old jerk who is savaged in his futuristic apartment by a legion of cockroaches. Talk about flesh crawling! Tom Savini's special effects are great, as usual. "},{"Title":"Where's my cake?!?","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a fun movie! Stephen King as Jordy Verril was surprisingly good(considering he sucks at acting in almost everything he's ever done), Leslie Nielson and Ted Danson killing each other were brilliant (you've come a long way, Becker), and the rest of the cast is just fabulous. As for the writing, it mas simply masterful, and we would expect nothing less from King. Five original, striking vignettes of people killing each other, getting killed, going crazy, and getting the crap scared out of them. Best of all was the directing, easily. Romero did a great job creating the pulp comic feel, with comic book panel segues, goofy dream sequences and flashbacks, and best of all, the jarring zooms with the red and blue lighting. It sounds stupid, but it works superbly. Everything came together on this film, and it shows. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Pure gold, Creepshow is truly my favourite movie of all time. A  priceless horror classic.","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm a fan of most film types, but I do like horror the best. Mostly 80's ones. I believe this film is responsible for my lifelong love of the genre- not just the films but also books and short stories. I love discovering the truly great ones. I believe everyone has a favourite movie, and if they don't, then they just haven't seen it yet. 10 out of 10 doesn't begin to cover what this movie means to me. A million wouldn't be enough. When I watch this movie, it makes me feel kinda happy! As a little kid, I would always seem to watch this around Christmas time. So this fun, but gruesome movie in which people get eaten alive and horribly killed, actually makes me feel all warm and fuzzy inside! It never scared me a bit. I always found it way too fun and enchanting to possibly be scared by it. There's just one thing I don't like. It's when some big scare happens and the colour of everything will change to some bright hue. I don't think it works, it looks silly. For me it takes away from the movie rather than adding anything. This movie is not for all the sickos out there That is such complete bullshit. You're thinking of the slimy likes of Hostel there. All the music is fantastic and is a huge part of why I love it. Three little cues in Lonesome Death Tide and Crate are from Night of the living Dead. All the scores set the various tones so perfectly in all the tales... I love Vivica Lindfors performance in the first tale. So funny, so bitter! The grave scene where she drunkenly rants at her dead father is both moving and funny. All those wonderful mannerisms she does with her hands. The most scary moment in the tale for me is when Bedelia arrives at the cemetery and imagines her father's voice. So creepy. The Grantham zombie is one of the best, scariest zombies of all time. The worms in the face, dirt-rattling voice, shambling walk. Love it. I've seen it tons, but still feel the sweet anticipation of the final scene. Yarg! Head cake!!! So over the top, so awesome. What the hell happened next is what I always wanted to know! This is a great tale. You can almost set your watch by it... The second is the most loopy and humorous tale. The one I like the least. I always thought of it as something to get over before getting back to the good stuff. It's not bad, just a little less fun than the rest. Stephen King was never the best looking of guys. I thought he played the goof-ball Jordy very well. Bingo O' Malley was funny too, in the surreal daydreams. Loved that meteor! With that weird ding-dong sound it makes. I love the weird warbly space alien sound that hums throughout. And the grass! I do love the grass itself. It's cool how they made it look all strange and glowy, rather than just ordinary grass(!) Space grass apocalypse!!! The whole tide coming in element of the third episode is quite claustrophobic, and very impressively done. The scene where Leslie Nielson returns to the beach to admire his handiwork is very eerie. There is something uniquely creepy about a cold deserted beach with a ghostly wind blowing. When poor Becky and Richard come back as sea zombies, you can still recognise Danson, but Ross is completely unrecognisable. They look brilliant, all puffy and wrinkled and drowned looking. It makes it all the sweeter when they get their revenge on Nielson! Die jerk!!! Tale number four is easily the scariest. Fritz Weaver's babbling always bugged me. I first saw Adrienne Barbeau in this, so whenever I would see her in anything else, I would always remember her as the drunkard harpy from hell-Billie! She is magnificent. I love the horrible pitch she does with her voice. Even the monster can't stand the sound! Her funniest line for me is one involving Flipper! I actually feel a little sorry for her when she gets eaten face first! And it does sound like the monster growls thank you Henry! You never know! I love the monster's lair. There is something so marvellously simple and creepy about an ordinary place/thing housing some terrible and deadly secret, and Stephen King knows this very well. I wouldn't bother with his short story version of The Crate though. Let's just say say they used the best parts of it. I just love mysterious creatures. This one's no mystery, though. I'ts the Abominable Snowman. Hello?! ARCTIC expedition! (Tazmanian Devil my ass) Fangtastic monkey devil. Obviously some kind of demon. The longevity's a dead giveaway, and the way that it can suck people up like a vacuum cleaner! Clearly crafted with such tender loving care. The ending is genuinely chilling, with the monster glaring up from the dark depths with those horrible eyes of ancient evil... From the murk to the deceptively bright and clean. Obviously, because it involves bugs, the final tale is the one that most gets under your skin. The cold clinical atmosphere and crazy bug music really gets you thinking of crawling things. I thought E.G.Marshall was terrific as a rich and mean old git who gets his apples. The moment when all the roaches burst from the dead Pratt's chest. That is one of the greatest horror moments ever. It's spectacular. Thank you George, for making my favourite movie, thank you Stephen, for dreaming it up with that brilliant mind of yours that understands the fun in horror so well, thank you Tom, for creating all your beautiful ghouls and beasts that so captured my imagination. Greatest horror anthology movie, ever. Bravo, gentleman, bravo. I have nothing but love for this sweet jewel of a horror movie, and I hope I expressed that well here today. Thank you for reading. "},{"Title":"Cheesy Fun from Two Horror Masters","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King and George Romero joined forces and brought us an anthology of short horror stories, tied together as stories in a 1950's style horror comic book. The film includes five stories, all written by King a deceased father returns from the grave for a special Father's Day reunion, a small-town simpleton dreams of riches when a strange meteor crashes on his property, a jolted husband exacts revenge on his cheating wife and her lover, a professor discovers a century-old secret hidden in a crate beneath the stairs, and a germophobic businessman's germ-proof apartment is invaded by cockroaches. The stories are all tied together as part of a comic book with some cool illustrations used as transitions between each tale.I was surprised by some of the good performances in this movie. My favorite would easily be Leslie Nielsen as Richard Vickers in Something to Tide You Over, the husband getting his thrills from torturing his cheating wife and her boyfriend. I enjoyed seeing Nielsen in a role that wasn't comedic, as I was used to. Instead, we get a glimpse of his evil side. Oddly enough, I also enjoyed Stephen King's cartoonish performance as the title character in The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill. The first time I saw the movie, I found him annoying. Since then, it's grown on me and now I enjoy his bit in the movie. We also get some good performances from Ted Danson and E.G. Marshall, though it's said Ed Harris was given such a small role. It almost feels wasteful.As I had mentioned, the entire movie is stylized to create the feeling of 1950's horror comics. This means we treated to plenty of gel-colored lighting, oblique camera angles, eccentric characters, and even some comic book framing/captions. It creates a fun style, but it tends to detract from any horror element in the film. If it weren't for the occasional walking dead or blood-thirsty creature, I would almost consider this more of a dark comedy. Regardless of the genre, the film is entertaining for a two hour viewing, though nothing special. Despite it's horror roots, there isn't too much objectionable content which makes it relatively safe for the younger crowd to enjoy too. I wouldn't consider this film a classic, but it's worth the time to watch it if you haven't seen it yet.My favorite segment, if I were to chose one, would definitely be Something to Tide You Over. Leslie Nielsen FTW. "},{"Title":"The Most Fun You'll Ever Have Being Scared! --- Really","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is a helluva lot of fun. It takes a cast of fantastic actors and lets them have fun with all kinds of horrific situations. The chemistry between all of the actors is wonderful and the acting by everyone, especially E.G. Marshall, is superb. Romero casts some of his regulars including John Amplas, Christine Forrest (now George's wife) and legendary make-up artist Tom Savini in small parts, but they are an excellent way to round out a magnificent cast.All of the stories are genuinely scary and funny at the same time, which is very hard to do. Father's Day takes a little while to get started, but once Father shows up (especially the way he shows up), it is damn creepy. The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill is the only story that is more funny than scary. Stephen King is awesome as the dumb, hickish farmer who starts becoming a plant. Something To Tide You Over also takes a little bit to start, but once it does, the atmosphere is frightening as hell. The Crate, which has the wonderful Adrienne Barbeau as a man's cynical, obnoxious wife, is probably my favorite. It features a very creepy atmosphere, a dark and gritty visual style, and a very scary monster. The idea behind it is sick and twisted, but the film handles it perfectly. I loved the ending to The Crate. It'll send a shiver down your spine. Last but not least, we have They're Creeping Up On You. This one hits home with the creepiness because I hate bugs, especially cockroaches. E.G. Marshall delivers some hilarious rants and has a great Scrooge Bah-Humbug attitude. The ending to this one is also a keeper.The make-up and special effects are top notch. Once again, Tom Savini proves why he's the best in the business (contenders include Rob Bottin, Rick Baker, and Stan Winston). The undead father, the drowned zombies, and the crate creature are astonishing. The plant effects and Upson Pratt's grisly end are also great. Tom Savini and crew, keep up the good work! Romero proves once again that he is one of the best horror masters out there, along with John Carpenter, Wes Craven, David Cronenberg, and Sam Raimi. His goal here is to provide us with a good laugh and a good scare, and he succeeds with flying colors.The Bottom Line This movie is meant to be a fun, comic book-like horror flick. It delivers everything great acting, fantastic special effects, and a few great scares make for the most fun you'll have ever being scared!!! "},{"Title":"One of the better horror anthology movies.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of my favorite horror movie anthologies.  All five stories are pretty good; some of course are better than others.  This one is also a lot better than Creepshow 2, which had only one really good story to it.  The first story is an ok story involving this old man killed by his daughter.  He comes back to life expecting a cake cause its father's day.  Nothing to surprising happens here, but it is still pretty fun.  The next one involves the story that has Stephen King as the main star.  This is probably the weakest one of the five, but it is worth a chuckle or two as King does a somewhat good job of playing a slow fellow.  This story involves a meteor that makes grass grow everywhere.  The next story is one of the best, a revenge tale with Ted Danson and Leslie Nielson.  Danson has been having an affair with Nielson's wife so Nielson takes him to the beach and buries him up to his neck in the sand.  He had done the same thing with his wife and the tide apparently kills them both...or does it?  The next tale is rather good as well as it has Adriean Barbeau in it as this obnoxious wife.  Her husband finds out about a crate that may take care of her though.  And the final tale is about a doctor or something, who is a bit of a clean freak.  He lives in a special apartment that is supposed to be germ free, but it apparently has a roach problem.  I don't even think he is a doctor, but he seems to be wearing a doctor's clothes.  All in all Creepshow is a pretty enjoyable flick. "},{"Title":"A GREAT 'starter movie' for young horror fans!","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember the day I saw Creepshow at the theatre when it first came out. I was fifteen-years-old and I loved it then as I love it now, because...it's ALOTTA FUN! Not brutally scary, so, kids love it; cleverly funny, so, adults love it; and, comic bookish, so, everyone loves it!To me, this is the 'perfect movie' for a horror fan to show to their early-teen to 'see' if the youngster likes scary movies or not (depending on the child, of course).It's presented in a comic book fashion which gives it an attractive element that kids will enjoy. It also has 'silly' parts, such as The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, played by none other than the writer and Master himself, Stephen King. It's family fun on Halloween night! To this day, I have no idea as to WHY this movie has an 'R' rating. Some 'TV shows,' which EVERYONE has access to, are actually more graphic, and, more serious...i.e. - The Walking Dead (also, one of my personal favorites); Z Nation; etc.As with 'any' movie or TV show, watch it first; then, do as you feel is right. I saw this at fifteen; my Son saw it at ten; kids nowadays probably see it at 6!?!? Considering what's now on television, this movie may even appear to a child as un-scary and passé - much like many of the the horror movies of the 1940s and 1950s were to my 1970s generation!?!?I LOVE HORROR MOVIES, and, this flick is one of my all-time favorites as it's 'not-too-tart and not-too-sweet, it's just right! It also brings me back to my teens when the most important subjects in my life were girls; sports; comic books; record albums (vinyl, of course); and, the latest HORROR MOVIE! )I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"One of the best anathology horror films ever!","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here's to writers, George Romero and Stephen King, producer, Richard Rubenstein and a talented cast for collaborating on this 1980's classic illumination of the popularly demented comic books of the 1950's inspired by the weird works of H.P. Lovecraft and bringing it to colorful life. This features five stories. Fathers Day, your typical vengeance from the grave tale, The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill in which Stephen King himself is turned into a mutated plant after a meteorite crashes on his farm, Something To Tide You Over with Leslie Neilson involved in a twisted revenge scheme that comes back to haunt him, The Crate has a prehistoric creature and a plan to get rid of a bitchy wife, and last but not least a million cockroaches terrorize a heartless businessman in They're Creeping Up On You.This combines excellent performances from a versatile group of genre actors with a brilliant use of color and dynamics to bring the campy and gory feel of the horror comics alive. The great cast includes, Adrienne Barbeau, Fritz Weaver, Ted Danson, Ed Harris, E.G. Marshall, Hal Holbrook, Tom Atkins, Viveca Lindfors and more. The stories are told with a witty and coherent script and lively pace, a perfectly fitting electronic musical score and a great wrap-around story brings it to a satisfying close. Tom Savini's talents go into the creature FX, and he has a cameo at the end... and hooray for scenes of this being filmed in my home town of Monroeville!! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Feel how hard your heart is beating, Harry? How fast?","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't believe this movie only ranks at a 6.6 on IMDb. Of course, even at the time of its release back in '82 there was skepticism toward it. Headed by horror legends George A. Romero and Stephen King, people seem to forget this movie exists to do one thing and one thing only celebrate the macabre and the sick. Note the title itself you douches consider their taste in film to be of the upper crust. Creepshow doesn't have the nihilistic undertone of Romero's usual work or King's expected psychological torture because it is meant to simply be a fun experience.If you're a horror buff, you know Romero has long credited the classic EC horror comics of the 50s (e.g. Tales From the Crypt) as his inspiration. This is basically the whole point of the film; to feel like a comic book brought to life. Hence, things are bound to be marvelously over-the-top in some regards. One of the best things about this film, to me its strongest aspect in general, is its visual style. It angles many shots as if they were cut outs from a comic, there is some awesome usage of hand drawn animation (I LOVE the opening credit scene) and there is some BAD-ASS use of extreme lighting shifts. To put this in perspective, one second the room is darkly lit but not out of the ordinary per say. Next thing you know the room and all its objects are bathed in a blood-like red, making the photography so well done in this picture.Another aspect you have to embrace in order to fully appreciate the film is its tone. As I said before, this isn't aiming to be cryptic and challenging like let's say The Shining (which King also wrote) or as realistic and seriously-toned as Night of the Living Dead. If anything this movie is a blend of horror and comedy. Thing is it's a brand of comedy most people to this day don't get the dirty guilty pleasure of black humor. A zombie who wants his Father's Day Cake, a hillbilly assuming a meteorite will fetch him a mere $200, a man feeding his nagging-boozed up wife to a snarling beast; the tales drip with not just blood but a comical yet stinging look at banal archetypes.And the cast, let me tell ya, is damn good. It's not like they're handing out Academy Award winning lines, but the acting is pretty well done. Tom Atkins is pretty great as the abusive father, Viveca Lindfore (Bedelia) was awesome and who can forget Mr. King himself as Jordy Verrill? Ted Danson, Fritz Weaver, Hal Holbrook (YES), E.G. Marshall and the always-stunning Adrienne Barbeau do spectacular jobs. My favorite performance would just have to be Leslie Nielsen. He was pretty awesome, let's face it.Topping all this off is one of my favorite horror film scores by none other than John Harrison. He also composed for Romero's 1985 film Day of the Dead. Synthesizers and pianos, not to mention an eerie chorus, the music is just great. And the effects work of Tom Savini, as always, astounds. From creating the walking dead (no pun intended), to vicious crated-yeti&#x97;beast to a horde of disgusting cockroaches, he excels in his line of work.Creepshow is a damn classic and should be eternally revered by all means. My only gripe is that the U.S. DVD is crap seeing as it contains no special features aside a trailer. I haven't seen a DVD with this little effort since Sony Tristar released those awful '50th Anniversary special edition' Godzilla DVDs. If you truly appreciate horror, and as I intend to do, buy yourself a copy of the Region 2 DVD which comes with behind the scenes material, commentaries and interviews with the masters behind the masterpiece. And trust me, Region 2 DVDs should play on most blu-ray and DVD players. My region 2 Godzilla DVDs perform just fine on both.Where's my Father's Day Cake? "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Horror  Anthology Films!","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hal Holbrook, Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, Adrienne Barbeau, Ed Harris, Tom Atkins and E.G. Marshall star in George Romero's 1982 horror anthology film featuring 5 creepy tales inspired by 1950's horror comics. Father's Day features a murdered man's corpse returning from the grave exacting revenge. The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill features a man who gets infected by a plant-growth substance from space. Something To Tide You Over features a madman plotting a sinister trap for his wife and her lover, but gets more than he bargained for. The Crate features a professor who discovers a hungry ancient creature and chooses his demanding wife for it's snack. They're Creeping Up On You features a rich snob with an insect phobia who gets terrorized by hundreds of cockroaches. This is definitely one of the best horror anthology films with a great cast, creepy score and cool effects by Tom Savini. Stephen King helped write this and makes an appearance along with Savini. King's son, Joe also plays the boy, Billy at the beginning and end of the film who gets even with his demanding father (Atkins). All 5 tales are good, but Something To Tide You Over is my favorite. I recommend this for your horror collection. "},{"Title":"Better than Tales from the Crypt!","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In what has to be the best horror anthology ever made, Horror Author STEPHEN KING & Horror film director GEORGE A. ROMERO team up to deliver five really fun & scary & at times, funny tales of horror!. What makes CREEPSHOW really stand out amongst the pack is in it's fun tribute to the classic EC horror comics of the 50's, with it's comic book banners surrounding certain frames of the film & then panning between one sequence to the next & having the film display comic book style opening credits & drawings, stencilled lettering encased in bubbles around the characters mouths GASP! HUH? every now & then, a very eerie & fun score, fantastic directing, fun characters, great pay-offs & a great troupe of actors & some of the best special effects to ever grace a horror movie, not to mention copious amounts of suspense & tension & CREEPSHOW remains a winner in every department! Now the question is, despite all the gloating I have done in this review, telling everyone how great this movie is, is this movie for you? well that all depends in the following questions I am going to ask you, if you answer no to even one of these, I will say no this is not a film for you & you should rent something else, okay let's begin Are you ready to see a young, blonde haired ED HARRIS meet the badly decomposing corpse of his rich grandfather, that was brutally murdered by his spiteful daughters, so they could obtain his inheritance? Are you ready to see Ed Harris getting killed by said corpse, who uses telekinetic means to crush him with a giant grave marker? Are you ready to see the late LESLIE NIELSEN bury not just any actor, but rather CHEERS own TED DANSON in the sand? if yes then are you ready to see TED DANSON & his equally buried in the sand lover, return as seaweed covered corpses out to do the same to LESLIE NIELSEN? are you ready to see the late E.G. MARSHALL attacked by cockroaches that rip out of his chest? how about horror director JOHN CARPENTER'S then wife ADRIENNE BARBEAU getting eaten alive by a monster in a crate? How would you like to see horror author STEPHEN KING turning into a walking moss plant after touching a broken meteor that crash landed on his farm? Are you ready to see TOM ATKINS get killed by his own stepson via a voodoo doll? If you answered yes to all of them, then let's begin with what the tales are about (as if I haven't revealed spoilers already) Story #1 Dubbed FATHER'S DAY, sees the gathering in a mansion of a wealthy, greedy & spiteful group of relatives of a murdered rich man whom wanted him dead so they could collect his money. Unfortuantly for them, it's Father's day a few years to the day they murdered him & he has returned from his grave as a badly decomposed corpse with a bad attitude to match in order to get the piece of father's day cake he never got when he was alive & to bump off the group of snobs. Tale #2 dubbed THE LONESOME DEATH OF JODY VERRILL sees horror author STEPHEN KING, playing a none to bright farmer who has the misfortune of having a meteorite fall from the sky & crash land on his farm. Figuring that the meteor will be a key to riches ($200 dollars!) he touches it & places it in a pail, letting the ooze from the meteor leak all over the ground, from which sprout green alien weeds all over the place & him into a walking moss plant monster! In SOMETHING TO TIDE YOU OVER, rich, abusive & cold blooded RICHARD AMES buries his wife neck up in the sandy shores of his private beach property & does the same to her boyfriend, who she has been seeing behind his back. Making him watch her die when the tied roles in & then allows the boyfriend to be killed in the same manner, only to live to regret that decision, when both of them return from the grave to make him suffer the same fate. In tale #4 which is the best tale of the bunch entitled THE CRATE, in which a university professor finds a flesh craving, cannibalistic monster stuffed inside a large crate hidden under the staircase of a university basement, that has a nasty habit of snacking on the staff & students, driven almost to the brink of insanity by the amount of nasty deaths he has witnessed at the hands of this monster, he seeks the help of his best friend, a unhappily married man to get rid of the beast, but the unhappily married man sees this as the perfect weapon to get rid of his mouthy & mean spirited wife, by feeding her to a monster. Lastly THEY'RE CREEPING UP ON YOU sees a cold blooded rich man get his just deserts when his fears of germs & bugs comes to life in his specially prepared germ free environment. And in the wraparound segment, an verbally & physically abusive step dad finds out that tossing his stepson's comic of CREEPSHOW, out in the trash is the last straw, since the boy enacts a violent revenge with the help of a voodoo doll with his name on it. TOM SAVINI appears in a cameo as a garbage man in this segment. Highly recommended to horror fans, an absolute must see! Followed by a truly excellent short film CREEPSHOW RAW, that extends the wraparound tale with MICHAEL MADSEN playing an equally loathsome step dad who gets fed to a creature that lives in the same boy's closet & that keeps trying to kill the boy every night & two less satisfying sequels (The third is really bad!) starting with CREEPSHOW 2**** stars "},{"Title":"Animation adds to the fantasy.  Memorable scenarios.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Possible Spoiler.  After having seen this on tv recently, I was reminded of just how great Creepshow is.  George Romaro created another cult classic equal to Night of the Living Dead.  This one is campy and fun though, but twisted with a healthy strand of horror. The scenarios weave quirky characters with their manic sense of justice as only Stephen King can do. Each story concludes in a heap of terror.  Most interesting is the use of animation, created masterfully by Rick Catizone.  It takes us from the reality of a child's world, to the stirrings of the comic book monsters he reads about.  The animation draws us in and blurs the line between fantasy and reality.  Rick's artistry creates a wide-eyed, tender child just as easily as he creates the Creep who tells the stories and the effect of color that both connects the scenes as well as the stories.  The cast is fabulous as well.  Each one addresses the challenge of black comedy in a superb way - never going over the top or flying just under the radar. You'll never hear  Henry! or Glub.  Glub. in the same way again. See it.  Enjoy it.  And don't forget  Never disturb the thing that lives in the crate under the stairs! "}{"Title":"Scary and Funny!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS I love this movie! It is scary and funny at the same time. In some parts I didn't know what to do scream or laugh.Clever tales include On father's day a man rises from the dead to get his father's day cake he never had. A 2 man cast where a meteor crashes on earth with a plant goo inside. Staring Stephen King.  A crate under some stairs at a college contain a blood thirsty monster.A man (Steve Martain) discovers the secret relationship between his wife and a friend and gets revenge...but that's not all he gets... And last and most disturbing another 2 man cast about a tycoon who lives in a germ free apartment where he plays God by firing everyone. Meanwhile he is being watched...by billions of cockroaches.  I actually stopped watching that episode and didn't finish watching it until days later. This movie is very good. It's cheap looking at times, yes, but can you do better? If so give me a call and we'll talk. The last episode grossed me out and I didn't sleep well that night. Every time I heard a skitter or some small noise I would jump. I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"mixed feelings","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Overall, this movie was not very scary to me.  I think if you read horror comics as a kid (I didn't), you'll probably appreciate it.  It is one of the more fun horror movies I've seen, as its tagline claims.  It's just not especially frightening.  The stories have a comic book feel to them, which gives the movie some style.  But overall, the stories just aren't that great.The first, Father's Day, is predictable and kind of silly, with one good jolt.The second, The Lonely Death of Jordy Verrill, is less horror and has more of a sci-fi feel to it.  Probably my least favorite, as it didn't seem to click with the other stories.Something to Tide you Over was solid.  The story was good, and Ted Danson and Leslie Nielsen did a good job.  This one was more creepy than the first two, a clever idea.The Crate was pretty good too.  This one provides some fright like the last one, again well acted.  This is the longest of the five tales.They're Creeping Up on You is decent.  It's very predictable, and not suspenseful.  But I liked this one more than the first two.  The main problem with this one is that it's a bit unnecessarily gross at the end.The bookend story served the movie pretty well.  I think on the whole, I would have to say this would've scared me a lot more when I was younger.  But it is stylish and not bad as horror anthologies go.  Worth a look if you like the genre. "},{"Title":"An interesting combination.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George Romero (director Night of the Living Dead) teams up with Stephen King, bringing to life this homage to 1950s' EC horror comics (Tales From the Crypt, Vault of Horror, etc.)Apparently Stephen King was neighbors with an EC comics artist while he was growing up. This artist also collaborated with the project, actually making the comic book used in the film. The boy that he drew for the book-ending stories looked exactly like Stephen's son Joe, who ended up playing the part in the film.The five stories showcased include all the staples from the comics and Stephen's writing style. Many peoples' favorite story will be The Crate an early Stephen King piece. This film is sure to produce a wide variety of reactions in its viewers.The atmosphere of the film is pretty intense. The music is a definite plus for the film. The main theme coincidently bears a striking resemblance to the (Egyptian?) Dance of he Dead. George Romero directs his only truly star studded cast with Hal Holbrook, Fritz Weaver, E.G. Marshall, Ed Harris, Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, Viveca Lindfors (& Stephen King).Its got humor, horror, passion play, revenge, tasmanian devils, life after death, millions of roaches and its sadisticly crafted by masters. I think it definitely deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"not bad, but not great.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Alright for a movie done by two of the greatest horror creators in movie history this movie is not the greatest. At least not the first skit (father's day) and the one where plant life grows everywhere. but the other 3 are really well done! and this movie is better then the second one. But both Stephen King and George A Romero have better movies out there. Its a cool concept having 5 stories in one movie, so if you wanna see something different, then its with the rental. Don't even get me started on those cockroaches Gross! "},{"Title":"Eat it up, kiddies...","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSWhat a fun movie this is. When I was little we had one of the first VCRs, and this was one of the first movies my dad recorded on it. Funny, spooky, gruesomeand harmless, and the best filmed representation of the EC Comics genre, until HBO put out the genuine Tales from the Crypt a decade later. Creepshow isalso the first collaboration of a trio whose names are caviar to scare fansGeorge Romero directs, Stephen King writes, and Tom Savini makes themonsters.A young lad (played by Joe King, son of Steve) gets told off by dad Tom Atkins for reading Creepshow, a worthless piece of s**t horror comic. The best kind, the kind that rots your brain and curves your spine, and all that. Anyway, Dad throws the rag into the garbage, but The Creep (a cloaked flying skeleton)retrieves it and tells us five grisly stories. In brief a murdered SOB patriarch claws his way out of the grave to do in the filthy-rich, swinish relatives who profited by his death (Father's Day); a slack-jawed yokel crap farmer handles an oozing meteor and develops a case of creeping crabgrass (The LonesomeDeath of Jordy Verrill); a maniacal husband drowns his wife and her lover, and is subsequently stalked through his beach house by two briny zombies(Something to Tide You Over); a drooling werewolf/baboon/hellhound gnawson the residents of a university campus, and provides a novel sort of marriage counseling (The Crate); and Manhattan's most bigoted billionaire goes eye- to-eyes with what seems like the entire cockroach population of the FiveBoroughs (They're Creeping Up On You).This movie is like a buffet, a buffet of the richest and most delectable junk food imaginable. The direction is sharp and witty, the comic-book sets and shotdesign and saturated lighting are beautiful (whenever a character bites it, a comic splash panel surrounds his/her horrified face; all that's missing is aBatman-style SPLAT!! or EURRRGGGH!!) and the performances are superblyoverblown. Sure, there are a few stale Twinkies in the batch, mostly in that second story. Stephen King spins a great yarn, but he's no actor, not by a long shot. Yet he acts here, and plays that slack-jawed yokel as a google-eyedmating of Gomer Pyle, Jethro Bodine and Harpo Marx. It's a painful clash with the rest of the movie, like a Grand Ole Opry number in the middle of The Magic Flute. But the other actors more than cover for it. Father's Day headlines two of the scariest old broads in the movies (and I mean that respectfully), Carrie Nye and the late Viveca Lindfors; fine actresses, fine screamers, and they know how to die well on camera. Leslie Nielsen is light-years from The Naked Gun as the leering, loony murderer of Tide. In Crate, Hal Holbrook and Adrienne Barbeau shine as the most dysfunctional couple since Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, and Adrienne's diatribe before she meets Savini's toothy hellbeastpuppet is so nasty, it's sublime. And E.G. Marshall closes the tale cycle in Creeping with a hilarious turn as a geriatric cauldron of resentment, whorealizes too late that even a penthouse as sterile and technologicallybugproofed as his is no match for a New York blackout. This movie also has the spookiest theme music I've ever heard, with the possible exception of PhilipGlass' Candyman score.There's a so-so sequel too, and if you like this one it's worth a look. But this is the one to get your hands on. Perfect for Halloween, and a riot anytime. Stars 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good...But Only If You Watch The Third And Fourth Story","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow is a film by Stephen King and George Romero which features five different tales. Before I first saw this film, I was expecting five really scary tales but in my opinion, only the third and fourth tales were any good.The first tale is about some father returning from the dead for his Father's Day cake. Nothing memorable about this one. Quite poor.The second tale is about a strange meteor that changes things into plants. It had potential but was nothing special really.The third tale is good and once again involves a guy coming back from the dead to wreak revenge. A good tale with Ted Danson and Leslie Nielson which has a few scary moments.The fourth tale-and the best one-is about some vicious creature in a crate. This is an excellent tale and along with the third tale, makes Creepshow a decent enough film.The fifth tale is about cockroaches and an unscrupulous businessman. Not too bad but nothing spectacular.So there you have it. If you buy or rent it, then my recommendation would be to watch the third and fourth tales only. "},{"Title":"creepshow is a very good movie","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My name is Brandon and I am 14 years old. i bought the Stephen king movie Creepshow at Walmart for $6.00 . the movie Creepshow I found very entertaining. this movie is a mini series. creepshow movie was made from the original creepshow comic book. the story started of as a father not letting his kid read his comic book. when his father throws it out it comes to life. i think this movie is both funny and scary at the same time. that is what makes it fun to watch. this movie has nice ending to it. i like how the movie shows how it came from a comic book. i think this is a very nice movie and i hope you like it to....................... "},{"Title":"One of the best and finest Anthology films ever","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Flipping through a comic book, s boy decides to read five tales from his favorite, Creepshow.The Good Stor(ies) Father's Day-Waiting around a huge mansion, a family await the arrival of another to begin their Father's Day celebration together. Visiting the grave of her husband first, his zombie is resurrected and begins to go on a rampage through the family members. Learning the reason for his return, they try to stop him from unleashing it. This is a pretty good entry. The resurrection of the zombie is a really great shock jump, the gnarled and rotting hand bursting through the ground near the grave-site attendant. The main zombie has a fantastic look, with a partially decomposing face packed with dirt in the crevices and wearing tattered remains that really sell the idea of it being dead for a while. The initial confrontation is quite creepy, as the fog-covered cemetery with quite hard-to-see headstones manages to get some fantastic mood out of it. There's some great kills, with a snapped head being the big highlight, and is overall a really entertaining story.Something to Tide You Over-Growing more and more impatient, an elderly tycoon confronts his wife's lover about his having an affair with her and spills the secrets about the relationship. Offering a chance to prove their love for each other, he puts them in a special trap on the beach before the tide comes to take them away. When he has his revenge, he believes he has finally rid himself of them. Returning to his home, he finds that their vengeance will come to play. This one is about middle-of-the-road in the film. The general concept is creepy enough, and the sequences on the beach are simply masterful. They're full of suspense and are quite different from the usual affair offered in these entries. The fact that it stays on them being buried for so long is a great site, making them seem more in peril than usual. The full reveal of the corpses is quite nice, as they look great and the make-up is spectacular. The revenge stalking scenes are absolutely brilliant, and the early set-ups with the monitors and shadows are excellent. The one thing that makes this drag out is that it takes a little long to get to its payoff. The conclusion is foregone, there's just a lot to get there before it happens. Watchable but won't be a favorite of the entries.The Crate-Finding an old crate, a college professor dreams of looking at it rather than spending time with his wife at a party. Believing something is alive inside, they find that it is a vicious creature stored inside. Hearing of this, he tries whatever he can to feed her to it. This is a really good one. The creature used in it is a great look, being vicious while also being realistically done. There's some fantastic gore in here, including some fantastic scratch marks on the body, a vicious gunshot wound and a lot of gore on the after-affect bodies. There's also some good jokes with the hallucinations about the wife, though the only thing that weakens this is that it's really drawn out to a long length. There's a sense of two stories going on at once, leaving it very much flipping back and forth between plots without really offering much, and in the end becomes a watchable entry.They're Creeping Up On You-Fearful of germs, a man lives in a secure complex on the top of an apartment building with no way to get in or out. Fearful of cockroaches getting into his apartment, he tries whatever's necessary to get rid of the bugs. When there's no way possible to get in, he realizes that they have massed in large numbers and overtake his apartment, forcing him to take drastic measures to defend himself. This is one of the best ones in the series. It's mostly shock value on the roaches and their massive numbers, which works. The site of them in every single location is an impressive site, and is based on a solid fear as well. The final shot, which is one of the most disturbing images and one of the goriest in the series, is a really wonderful shot. Not a whole lot wrong with it.The Bad Stor(ies) The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill-Witnessing a meteor crash, a lonely hermit thinks he can sell it off for lots of money. Trying to get it inside his house, it accidentally spills a blue liquid on the ground that he fails to notice. When a strange green plant grows on the ground in his yard and on everything in his house, he begins to get nervous about what was inside the meteor. When he starts changing himself, he does everything possible to reverse its effects. There's only a few thing worthwhile about this one. The make-up effects on the main victim are incredibly good, looking otherworldly and managing to look good as well. The thing that ruins it is that it's neither scary nor funny. The idea of it isn't that creepy and isn't played out as such, and with they're not being any real jokes beyond who the title character is, it's not that funny, making it immanently skip-able.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language. "},{"Title":"Great Dark Comedy!","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the best dark comedies ever made. Creepshow contains five of the most bizarre and twisted tales of horror - yet they are quite comically told. Worth watching if you enjoy odd-ball comedy and horror.I am not sure which of the five stories is my favorite because all of them are good. Father's Day and The Crate are pretty creepy and thrilling as well as sprinkled with some good black comedy. To me, The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill is the most comical story - just something about keeps me laughing just thinking about it. Something to Tide You Over is the scariest of all the stories for me (the idea of drowning *shivers*). And the last story, They're Creeping Up on You!, wins the gross-out factor for me. All in all we have a great mix of thrills, horror and comedy in this awesome classic movie.This movie is a long time favorite of mine. If you like the first Creepshow movie then I highly recommend the second film Creepshow II.10/10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Horror Films Ever Made. An Excellent And Unforgettable Horror-Comedy-Anthology Classic From George A. Romero And Stephen King.","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is one of the greatest Horror films ever made that combines amazing direction,a terrific all-star cast,hilarious and over the top Black Comedy,a great score and sensational special make-up effects. All of those elements make Creepshow an excellent Horror-Comedy-Anthology classic that is George A. Romero and Stephen King at their best.Inspired by the EC Comics from the 1950s,Creepshow is an anthology that tells five different stories of Horror that mixes together and combines monsters,insanity,macabre with a twisted sense of Humor.Creepshow is a brilliant and unforgettable Horror-Comedy Anthology classic that was a collaboration between Horror masters Director George A. Romero and Author Stephen King(who also wrote the screenplay and plays a role in the film)that was at the right place and right time for both Romero and King in the 1980s because together the two came out with Creepshow one of the finest and most memorable Horror Anthologies of all-time that helped pave the way for Anthology movies and Television shows of the 1980s and 90s such as Tales From The Crypt and Tales From The Darkside and is also movie that is a Horror classic the moment you watch it. While there were sequels to Creepshow none of the follow-ups were able to capture the greatness and quality of this movie. What makes Creepshow such an amazing and great Horror Film is that it takes the style and influence of the EC Comics of the 1950s and gives viewers a movie that has five stories that mixes terror and laughs with an over the top style that is straight out of a Comic Book and is done in a surreal and demented way and never stops until the very end and will keep viewers are entertained for 120 minutes. Each of the five stories(Father's Day,The Lonesome Death Of Jordy Verill,Something To Tide You Over,The Crate and They're Creeping Up On You)are all fantastic stories that are memorable and different from one another dealing with subjects such as revenge,death,monsters and insects in a scary and darkly funny way and with every story there is always surprises. Now when I say scary I don't serious scary but scary in a Comic Book way because when ever something intense happens there is colors red,green and blue in the background scaring viewers while making see the colors behind the characters grabbing the viewer with not only stories or the characters but also the visuals. Horror and Comedy are two genres that go together very well and the laughs and humor in Creepshow is hilarious and done with an over the top and nutty glee that is done in not only a Comic Book style but is also in a Stephen King style where the Humor is so wild and over the top almost to a level of madness and insanity. Romero and King balances Horror and Humor perfectly and tells the viewers to have fun. What is also great about Creepshow is the well known actors in the cast that is one of the most memorable casts I have ever seen in a Horror film or Anthology movie that includes Hal Holbrook,Lesile Nelson,Ted Danson,Ed Harris,Adrienne Barbeau,E.G Marshall,Tom Adkins and Stephen King and more. This was Romero's first big studio movie with a known cast and with the exception of some of Romero's Zombie films this is probably the greatest cast I have ever seen in a Romero film. While all five of the stories in Creepshow are amazing and incredible my favorites are Something To Tide You Over and The Crate because both are well-written and tightly plotted as well as insane and wacky with shocks and laughs that are done with a crazy and bizarre energy that keeps going and going and never slows down which applies for all the stories but Something To Tide You Over and The Crate stand out the most. The violence and gore in Creepshow is exaggerated,wild and at times pretty disgusting and at times not for the weak at heart but it's not as bloody or gory like Romero's Zombie films so the blood and gore is not be taken seriously. The ending in Creepshow is amazing,memorable and brings the movie full circle with a weirdness and offbeat Humor that goes with the rest of the film. A terrific ending.The cast is wonderful. Hal Holbrook is excellent as Henry Northup,a College professor. Adrienne Barbeau is fantastic as Wilma,Henry's drunk,loudmouth wife. Leslie Nielsen is wonderful as Richard Vickers,a wealthy psychopath. Ted Danson is great as Harry Wentworth,a rival of Richard's. E.G Marshall is outstanding as Upson Pratt,a businessman who hates Bugs. Stephen King is funny as Jordy Verrill,an eccentric farmer. Ed Harris is good as Hank Blanie,a husband out of his element. Tom Adkins is memorable as Stan,an abusive Father. Fritz Weaver sensational as Dexter Stanley,a scared professor. Carrie Nye(Sylvia Grantham),Warner Shook(Richard Grantham),Viveca Lindfors(Aunt Bedelia),Elizabeth Regan(Cass Blaine),Jon Lormer(Nathan Grantham)and Gaylen Ross(Becky Vickers)give good performances as well. Also, lookout for cameos by Tom Savini(Garbage man#2)and Stephen King's son Joe Hill(Billy).The direction by George A. Romero is terrific and stylish with Romero bringing a beautiful and atmospheric visual look to the film with close ups,tilted angles and a colorful backdrop. Great direction,Romero.The score by John Harrison is fantastic,offbeat,weird and matches the twisted tone of the movie. Incredible score,Harrison.The Special Make-up effects by Tom Savini are fabulous,realistic and is truly among his best work as a make-up effects artist. Amazing make-up effects,Savini.In final word,if you love George A. Romero,Stephen King,Horror films or Anthology movies,I highly suggest you see Creepshow,one of the greatest Horror films ever made and an excellent Horror-Comedy-Anthology classic that you will never forget. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"'The most fun you'll ever have being scared', indeed!","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Historical teaming of two genre legends, filmmaker George A. Romero and author Stephen King, pays tribute to the E.C. horror comics of the 1950s with this stylish, visually creative horror omnibus, which can boast superb production design, wonderful music, enjoyable Tom Savini effects, excellent comic book art, and a top notch cast including some distinguished veterans who really give their all to the production. It does go on a little long at just over two hours, but it's got some nifty stories, often revolving around just desserts, that pack a good deal of punch.In the wrap around segment, an overbearing, strict dad (an uncredited Tom Atkins) takes away his sons' Creepshow comic book, an act he will come to regret. Don't EVER take away a kids' comic book! Horror buffs will be pleased to note that Kings' own son Joe (now a successful author in his own right) plays the boy in question.Our first story is Fathers' Day, about greedy relatives of an ancient miser, gathering for a dinner, and interrupted by the old mans' rising from the grave. Starring Carrie Nye, a young Ed Harris (doing some memorable dancing), Warner Shook (Knightriders), Viveca Lindfors, Jon Lormer (The Boogens), and John Amplas (Martin). After you see what kind of nastiness Nathan Grantham gets up to, you'll be wanting your fathers' day cake too.King himself plays a luckless lunkhead named Jordy Verrill in The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill. He does a fine job of giving good idiot as Jordy lays his hands on a meteor only to start becoming walking vegetation while everything around him begins growing too.Something to Tide You Over is a total hoot, largely because of Leslie Nielsens' irresistible villainy. He plays a cuckolded husband who tries to take revenge on his young wife (Gaylen Ross, Dawn of the Dead) and her lover (Ted Danson), but things don't quite work out the way he'd hoped.This viewers' personal favourite is The Crate, a cool monster story about a beast inside a box that provides henpecked husband Henry (Hal Holbrook) with an ingenious method of finally dealing with his shrewish, obnoxious wife Billie (Adrienne Barbeau, who's an absolute blast). Also starring Fritz Weaver (Demon Seed), Don Keefer (The Car), and featuring Romeros' wife Christine Forrest in a small part.Things end on an appreciably gruesome note as evil millionaire Upson Pratt (E.G. Marshall) is inundated with loathsome cockroaches in They're Creeping Up on You. Marshall, often the only person on screen, is delicious and hilarious in the role.Creepshow, from start to finish, just delights in the trappings of the horror genre. It deserves to take its place among the best horror anthologies of all time, showing the audience a good time and maintaining a sense of gleefully macabre humour throughout. It's solid fright fare for this time of year.Look for the Tom Savini cameo in the concluding minutes.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"This horror movie got taste!","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When it comes to horror, Creepshow sells it well. All the stories shown sends chill down your spine, and the ending of them are satisfactory. After a tasteless father throws away his son's comics, repercussions resulted in full force. In Father's Day, old Nathan was demanding and belittling Aunt Bedilia(Vivica Linfords) , WHERE'S MY CAKE? She was a complete mess after she killed him. He would later rise from him grave and kill her and others for his cake. Well he did get him cake all right, by using Sylvia's(Carrie Nye) head! Now that's delicious. In The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill , Stephen King plays the local yokel who discovers a meteor, which turns out to be alien fertilizer. The price for trying to get out of a hole, just gets deeper and greener in a wild way. Something to Tide You Over, great all star cast Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson. Nice, very nice. All the other segments were great as well. I'm glad the father got his just desserts. The price for having no sense of taste. This movie has more scare factor than  Tales From The Crypt. Plenty of imagination is what it has more of. 4 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Creepshow","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is the best horror anthology next to the film version of Tales From the Crypt from 1972. There is an all star cast and a lot of black humour which make it a fun watch. The kings of horror - George A. Romero and Stephen King - created this. There are five stories in all, only one of them I found weaker when compared to the rest.The strongest of the stories for me was Something To Tide You Over. Leslie Nielson and Ted Danson star in this one. Nielson plays a millionaire whose wife cheated on him with Danson's character. In an act of revenge, he decides to bury the two cheaters in sand up to their heads and let the tide come in to drown them. Afterwards, he goes home only to find some ghostly appearances. Very suspenseful story and well done too. Great to see Leslie Nielson out of his usual comedic role, although there is black humour in this.The next best was The Crate where a professor (Hal Holbrook) lures his annoying wife (Adrienne Barbeau) to a mysterious crate in order to kill her. Interesting story and as always great work from Barbeau and Holbrook. Strong special effects done by Tom Savini seen whenever the crate monster attacks. The next is about a murdered man returning on Father's Day to have his cake. Probably the most comical of all the tales. The one that gave me the creeps was the story of the cockroaches invading the crank rich man's apartment. Very unsettling to watch the nasty roaches attack the miserable man during a city wide blackout. The weakest of all was Jordy. It's about a man (Stephen King) who touches a fallen meteor which eventually makes grass grow out of him. I don't know, the story was all over the place and I found it very slow.Overall, very creepy and comical horror anthology. A fun watch for everyone, not just horror fans.8/10 "},{"Title":"Perfect Collaboration","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen king meets George Romero & it's a bloody bottler! this film was always going to be good, not to mention it has a super cast including king himself as Geordie Verrell an infected meteorite contaminant who starts growing a furry green fungus all over him. Creepshow is based on horror comics & handled well with legend Tom Savini on effects & puppets. 5 short stories told in super comic book style with a terrific eeerie music score that really conjures up a gggreat atmosphere. it's got the walking dead, cockroaches, a revenge seeking kid, a cake seeking zombie, monsters & more fun than u can imagine. if there's a classic horror flick from the 80's that should be seen then this is it! "},{"Title":"Creepshow delivers the goods","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow (1982) is divided in five stories, and is inspired by the style of the 1950s EC horror comics. It's not really that scary, it's more comic and over the top campy fun but works very well.In Father's Day, undead father comes back from the grave as a zombie expecting to eat his cake. 6/10.In The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill &#x96; solitary farmer Stephen King (playing Verrill) finds a meteor and is affected with strange weeds growing on his body. 7/10 In Something to Tide you Over - Harry (Ted Danson) is forced by the vengeful Leslie Nielsen to go to Comfort Point beach and to bury himself in the sand. With Richard's former wife Becky, he is buried in the sand and in the high tide and their heads are submerged for the sadistic pleasure of Richard. Next night, the zombie lovers pay him a visit 8/10 In The Crate a janitor finds a crate hidden under the stairs, and inside is a creature that devours the janitor and another scientist. When Henry finds out about this, he thinks he can use this monster to eat his mean wife Wilma. One of the best and funny as hell 9/10.In They're Creeping up on You! Upson Pratt lives in an expensive bug-proof penthouse and is awful to his workers. There's a blackout and his nice apartment is infested by roaches driving him to a horrible end. 6/10 Overall, a good piece of 80's fun from King/Romero and under-rated. "},{"Title":"Where's My CAKE!!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is worth whatever you pay!!!! It's like watching a two hour TV show, since there are different stories.1.Father's Day-The movie start with a big bang. Father's Day is a classic zombie revenge movie, with one of the (at least that's what i thought) funniest lines ever! Where's my cake!!!! 2.The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill-Stephen King acts really stupid in this story,and i just loved every second!! 3.Something to Tide you Over-This one has one my favorite actors ever (Leslie Nielsen), and ever since i saw this, I've never been buried in sand again....4.The Crate-Of all the stories, this is the most campiest of them. The killer Sasquatch (as i call it) is epic, and just so freaking awesome to see! Not to mention the most bloodiest story of them all.5.They're Creeping on You-This one freaked out my family the most when they saw. Death by cockroaches is a serious awesome way to die... "},{"Title":"Deliciously wicked fun from two masters of Horror","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The late 1970s to mid 1980s was a particularly good time for the Horror genre. It's a time where we got some of the genre's finest. Great director's like John Carpenter, Dario Argento, Wes Craven, and George Romero were giving fans some real treats like 'Halloween,' 'Suspiria,' 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' and 'Dawn of the Dead.' The genre was hot and doing well both financially and critically, which can be said for the present. The difference was that most of the Horror films being made at that time were made by people who cared about doing good work and not just about making big bucks. There are still people like that in the business today, but the numbers seem smaller. Back then these films were made by people who were like kids in a candy store and it showed in the final product. 'Creepshow' is one of these movies.Pros Fun performances from a stellar cast. Fantastic make-up and special effects. Awesome score. Good and twisted sense of humor. Moves at a decent clip. Some really frightening sequences and images that'll stay with you. Strong writing. Has a real nasty streak. Nice job done on the illustrations.Cons The second story has it's merits, but is the least entertaining of the four and lacks in the scare department. Some things, like some of the hairstyles, date the film.Final thoughts I can't tell you how many times I watched this film as a kid. It sure made my childhood fun, watching movies like this. It may not be the best of it's kind, but it's a stunning piece of work none the less. It shows that a good Horror film doesn't have to be totally serious to be a successful one.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"My god damn doll doesn't work!!!","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was well happy to get my hands on this! Saw it years ago on some well worn VHS rental and remembered dozing while the back from the watery grave dead carried out the classic I'm in front of you now I'm behind you trick. Scared the living bejesus out of me, kicked my feet out in fright knocking my dog on to the floor! Luckily she's stuffed! Wicked stuff with a hillbilly Stephen King! * I was well happy to get my hands on this! Saw it years ago on some well worn VHS rental and remembered dozing while the back from the watery grave dead carried out the classic I'm in front of you now I'm behind you trick. Scared the living bejesus out of me, kicked my feet out in fright knocking my dog on to the floor! Luckily she's stuffed! Wicked stuff with a hillbilly Stephen King! "},{"Title":"Terrific Cast In Gorgeously Made And Deliciously Horrible EC Comics Portmanteau Horror Flick","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A father finds his son reading a gruesome horror comic. Disgusted, he throws it out in the trash during a storm, and five stories from it flash before our eyes; a murdered patriarch's revenge, a hapless hillbilly who touches a meteor and turns into a giant weed, a psychotic husband who plots a watery grave for his wife and her lover, a mysterious monster in an ancient crate, and a cold-hearted tycoon with a serious bug problem in his apartment ...George A. Romero, for me, is the great American independent filmmaker, whose movies are much admired, well-known and highly influential despite the fact that he's never been anywhere near Hollywood. Creepshow was his first reasonably-budgeted film, made by an incredibly talented crew and featuring a wonderful cast of great character actors, and it's one of his best. It might not have the stark gravitas and social reflection of some of his work, but it's a a treat from start to finish for two reasons; it's the only movie to deal with the forgotten horror comics of the squeaky-clean fifties (William Gaines published Tales From The Crypt, The Vault Of Horror and The Haunt Of Fear between 1950 and 1955) and it's the only real original movie script written by Stephen King, the most consistently brilliant and enduring American writer of the last thirty years. The collaboration of these two great horror heavyweights is a gleeful exercise in adrenalised nastiness, but is also rendered with such loving craftsmanship it becomes a grotesque beauty. No other movie for me has captured a comic-book look so stylishly, with gorgeous split-screen panels, art-lettering titles, splash-panel backdrops, beautiful animation (by Rick Catizone), frame wipes and all manner of endearing tricks. It also pulls off the hardest thing in a multiple-stories movie - each little tale is brilliantly self-contained and distinct (a revenge tragedy, a goofy comedy, a hard-edged pulper, a monster mash and a gross-out) but all flow together seamlessly with an overarching setup. Romero's genius touch is to have different editors (with different styles) for each individual story, whilst Michael Gornick's fabulous photography melds the sequences together. I love them all. Father's Day has a fantastic creepy setting and an adorable old trouper turn by Lindfors as Batty Old Aunt Bedelia. The Lonesome Death Of Jordy Verrill is a hoot, thanks to a Star Turn by King (in his only major acting role) as the unfortunate rube who tangles with a weird meteor, and is chock-full of hilarious quips (Anita Verrill didn't raise no idjits !). Something To Tide You Over is a nerve-wracking screamer, a sort of Dashiel Hammett meets M.R. James mini-thriller. The Crate is the centrepiece; a lovely creepy monster story (featuring a fabulous creature by Tom Savini) with outstanding performances by Holbrook and Barbeau as a browbeaten academic and his shrewish wife. They're Creeping Up On You is a gloriously offensive comeuppance yarn (an EC tradition) about a Howard Hughes-like misanthrope who treats people like insects only to find himself inundated with cockroaches. The cast all seem to grasp the scary / funny / gross tone of the piece perfectly, even the more minor players (O'Malley for example is hilarious in several small roles in the second tale) and the prologue/epilogue features nice bits by Tom Atkins (who is unbilled) as the Dad and Joe King (Stephen's nine-year-old son) as the vengeful boy. The movie's other key element is the brilliant score by John Harrison, a series of driving piano motifs, ghostly choral voices and craftily layered synthesiser chords which instantly send shivers down my spine right from the first shot onwards. Harrison really only scored two movies (this and Romero's subsequent Day Of The Dead) but both suites are outstanding - aside from the brilliant title music which perfectly sets the tone, check out the many scenes in this where the music drives the tension forward - Hank's grisly demise in the family plot, the montage of CCTV cameras in Richard's beach house, Henry gingerly mopping up the blood in the lab in preparation for Wilma's arrival, lots of others. Romero deftly weaves all these threads together into a unique and memorable horror masterpiece. Followed by a run-of-the-mill sequel in 1987 (directed by Gornick); that can be skipped, but do not miss this gloriously horrible ode to a quirky but important little corner of literary history in the best humorous grand guignol traditions, a wonderful collaboration between two of the most talented and important artists of our time. "},{"Title":"For your next schlock horror night...","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So I'm watching this movie, right, I'm like maybe 12 or so and I'm cruisin along really enjoying and then The Crate comes on. Now, ordinarily this would have passed me by...but we happened to have a crate sitting under our back stairs that looked eerily like the one in this film. I found myself watching the movie with my mind now wandering...did it move? Did I REALLY hear something MOVE in there?? I never went near that crate again...probably contained old clothes and blankets...but maybe Fluffy was in there too! He reminds me of my ex-girlfriend's cat...go near that little monster and he's purr all nice and dainty, and then try and CLAW your FACE OFF...Also, I'm perturbed (and not just coz I wanted to use the word perturbed) that most of the reviews here seem to dislike the Jordy Verrill story...I loved it, and was thoroughly freaked out by it as a kid...I mean, think about it, it's actually the MOST believable story of the bunch (not that ANY of these stories should be taken seriously) but I mean, meteorites hit earth all the time...it stands to reason a little one could make it through our atmosphere carrying a weird plant-plague...I'm just sayin...Unlike a lot of reviewers on here, I actually can't decide which story is my favourite...I just like each of them for different reasons. I really still enjoy the Tide one, because as a kid the idea of being buried in sand like that...watching the tide come in...thoroughly freaked me out. I also loved Hal Holbrook employing some deliciously sadistic marriage counselling to rid himself of one heck of an obnoxious wife...Get this on the play list for your next schlock/camp horror night...and you yanks count yourself lucky coz while it may be available in every bargain bin over there, it's a little hard-to-find in Australia...besides my friend's well-worn out to the point of snapping at any second VHS copy...bring on a special edition DVD.And double-bill it with Creepshow 2...it's not as good, but the Lake story is awesome! "}{"Title":"Excellent trip down horror's memory lane","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow represents the union of 2 of the 1970s American horror scene's shining stars &#150; Night of the Living Dead director George Romero and Carrie/The Shining author Stephen King (who wrote and also appears in the film). As such it has often been viewed by horror fans as something of a disappointment, perhaps due to the light and almost comedic tone of a lot of the film. However if taken on its own merits this is a fine horror film, and compared to most other anthology-style horror films (i.e. the U.K.'s Amicus' Tales from the Crypt or the later and inferior SK film Tales from the Darkside) it is exceptional. This film was designed to introduce the younger generation of the 70s/80s &#150; my generation &#150; to the humorous and grotesque horror aesthetic of Bill Gaines' late and lamented E.C. comics horror stories from the 1950s &#150; which were in themselves really just the latest descendant of the cherished Grand Guignol tradition in horror, done with an ironic American twist (for instance one of E.C. comics' most famous stories featured a baseball game played at midnight on consecrated ground with human body parts as the equipment and bases). In this purpose it has succeeded admirably, and I would trace seeing this film as a child as one of the formative experiences in my young life. King and Romero were expected to produce a film that was the ultimate in new horror, but instead they produced an homage to the horror of their childhoods, and in so doing produced a film with perhaps more staying power than most of their other efforts.Of course when I return to the film it doesn't quite have the same appeal, but there's plenty here for adult senses of humor as well as some genuine horror and gross-out moments. The film has 5 episodes, which are framed by the story of a young boy who is infatuated with horror comic books but whose father is a fundamentalist who throws them in the garbage. The episodes in the film represent stories in the comics, and by extension the fantasies of the angry adolescent rebel. The first story is the weakest &#150; it deals with a dead patriarch whose corpse rises from the dead for a bit of revenge against his children and disco-loving in-law (Ed Harris). This story mirrors the ordinary King/Romero aesthetic and contains the least humor and originality of any of the episodes.The second episode is more intriguing, but still a bit spare on actual horror. Richard (Leslie Nielsen) is a man whose jealousy reaches psychotic proportions as he buries his wife (Gaylen Ross) and her lover (Ted Danson) in the sand and watches them drown on his private television security system. The story here lacks substance and ends quite abruptly and pointlessly, but it's fun to see comic stalwarts like Danson and Nielsen flexing their horror chops, and both acquit themselves quite admirably.The third finds the film at its most whimsical &#150; Jordy Verrill (King) is a mentally challenged Maine farmer (he lives in close proximity to the Capital of King Country &#150; Castle Rock) who discovers a meteorite on his property. His fantasies of a big payoff for the discovery slowly shift to nightmares as the meteor sh** causes plants to grow with alarming speed over everything &#150; including unmentionable body parts. Some scenes here are really inspired, such as the sequence where Jordy talks to his minister father's ghost in the bathroom mirror. This part of the story successfully mixes humor with horror and even tragedy as we are struck by the pathetic plight of this man whose first and only brush with an extraordinary event ends in tragedy.The fourth story is the most involved both in terms of plot and horror elements. Henry (Hal Holbrook) is a small town English professor, consumed with murder fantasies of her excessively unctuous wife (Adrienne Barbeau) but spending most of his time hanging out with his chess buddy Dexter (Fritz Weaver). When Dexter witnesses a lab assistant's murder at the hands of a mysterious creature found in a box from a19th Century arctic expedition, he sees the opportunity for perverse escape from his dilemma with his wife Billie. The horror scenes here are the best in the film, and we never really get to see the entire monster so it remains an object of terror despite the fact that most of its victims don't deserve our sympathy.The final story is the most gruesome &#150; reportedly this film had to be moved from earlier in the film to the end because some audience members literally ran out of the theater when thousands of cockroaches begin to swarm in the tiny hermetic apartment of billionaire recluse (E.G. Marshall). This sequence is short and nasty, but it represents a certain level of gross-out horror that forms a central part in the staple of American horror, and very few films possess scenes quite as revolting as some of what we see here. Again the victim does not deserve our sympathy and that undermines the horror to some extent.All in all, the film succeeds at creating a unique experience for the audience, transporting older members into a nostalgic reverie and giving a great gift to the younger viewers &#150; it enables them to laugh in the face of the horrific. While it does lack something in character and while the plot of many of the episodes is almost painfully predictable, it delivers its shock values often enough and with enough panache and style (Romero frames many of the sequences exactly the way that comic book scenes were displayed) to make it worth cherishing. "},{"Title":"Either you get it or you don't","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Back in High School some friends and I wanted to rent a scary movie.  I saw Creepshow and told them that they had to see it.  Someone asked whether it was scary or not and I said Well, it scared me as a kid.  So for the next two hours I sat by watching an immensely entertaining film while most of my friends laughed at it and blamed me for choosing a stupid movie.  The point of this story is that this is NOT a scary film nor does it try to be.  It is a campy comic book movie and if you don't want to have fun don't bother with it.  Come on people when someone screams bright red or blue comic book style backgrounds are put in.  Do you really think that is meant to scare you? The movie does have some creepy moments but for most adults it is really about funny horror and some very cool effects.  I personally rate this a 9 of 10.  It is completely unique and one of the best films by either Romero or King. "},{"Title":"Greatshow!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing Creepshow so many times,it gets greater and greater.Stephen King and George Romero have made quite a film,5 tales of horror that will surprise anyone,Father's Dayis one of my favorites.Nathan Grantham, who's a wealthy man with a daughter,treated her like garbage,have her boyfriend murdered in a hunting accident.On Fathers' Day,Nathan Grantham kept shoutingWHERE'S MY CAKE?,Bedelia got fed up and bashed her father's head in with a marble ashtray,7 years later when Aunt Bedelia visits her father's grave,he comes out of the grave and saysWHERE'S MY CAKE?,Nathan Grantham strangles his daughter on his way for revenge and cake.He does get his cake at the end by ripping off the head of Sylvia.The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrillis a funny tale,Stephen King is Jordy Verrill who sees a meteor land in front of his yard and goes to see it,he then touches it and later on starts to change into a weed person,Jordy always believed that his luck is bad,he ends up killing himself hoping his luck will be in once.Something To Tide You Overhas Ted Danson as Harry Wentworth who is seeing the wife of Richard played by Leslie Nielsen.who decides to bury his wife Becky and Harry up to there neck in sand,while Richard records this on video.Later on Richard takes a shower and hear's a noise,he opens the door and sees Harry and Becky standing there full of water back from the dead.The 2 want Richard to come to the beach to bury him in sand to see if he can hold his breath.The Crateanother one of favorite tales is about a janitor who finds a crate under the stairs which has been there for a long time,he calles Professor Stanley to check the crate out,they decide to open it and Mike the Janitorsticks his hand in and ends up getting eaten by a tasmanian devil like creature.Professor Stanley gets freaked out and runs up the stairs and runs into Charlie Gereson,a grad student who helps Mike the Janitor and has a hard time swallowing what he's saying,so he goes down stairs to see the blood,at first he thinks it's the Professor who did it but goes to look at the crate and finds a shoe,then he decides to measure the bite marks.The creature ends up sneaking up on him and Charlie gets eaten.Professor Stanley goes to see Henry,his friend,who has a wife always nagging him a lot and daydreams about offing his wife.Henry gets an idea how to get rid of his wife and the crate.There Creeping Up On Youis about a millionaire named Upson Pratt played by E.G. Marshall who really hates bugs and germs,later he has lots of cockroaches in his penthouse and get him in the end.Creepshow is a well written movie and a superb cast.I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"20 years of mind-bending horror!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow...simply put, an achievement in early 80's horror!  Stephen King's vision is vividly brought to life by cult film legend George A. Romero. The fact that such prestigious actors as Ted Danson, Leslie Nielson, and Ed Harris star in such a film that was so ahead of its time makes it more enjoyable.  Personally, I found the scene in Father's Day when Nathan Grantham comes to life and kills his daughter so believable.  I only wish that there could be a reunion of Stephen King and George A. Romero to make a Creepshow 3 for this new generation.  I only imagine that it would compete with movies such as The Lord of the Rings trilogy.   "},{"Title":"Oh, I can hold my breath for a long, long time!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~With George Romero directing and Stephen King writing (and starring in the most hilarious story, The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill), Creepshow has become a minor genre classic. The flashy comic book style really adds to the uniqueness of the movie. The entire film is one big tribute to William M. Gaines and the EC comics that I love so much. Every story is ingrained with elements of humor and horror. The strongest of these stories being The Crate. I love the plot and I love the monster, but the reason this story is my favorite is because of Hal Holbrook's daydreams of killing his wife. It's morbidly good fun. Holbrook leads a great cast in this story, including Adrienne Barbeau (as the annoying wife) and Fritz Weaver, who are both perfectly over the top. The best casting however, is in Something to Tide You Over. Leslie Nielson and Ted Danson in serious roles! Brilliant, just brilliant. The worst story is, without a doubt, Father's Day. It's only good for a laugh (Ed Harris disco dancing). The one story that absolutely turns my stomach is They're Creeping Up On You. Thousands of cockroaches erupting from E.G. Marshall's flesh is just something that I can do without. Let's not forget the wraparound story. Not only does it have Tom Atkins and Tom Savini (two of my favorites), but it has the scariest little kid ever (which I just found out is King's son)!! I hope you rot in hell. All in all, a perfect anthology. Note for genre buffs Watch for the marble ashtray as it makes an appearance in every story. "},{"Title":"Always a must view.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow was created in homage to the horror comic books of the 1950's, such as Vault of Horror. In fact, the movie opens with a story about a pre-teen whom gets into an argument with his father over such a comic book. The father calls the book garbage, punishes his son, and throws the book outside.  The wind begins to pick up, and the pages of the book are blown open, so that we can progress through the stories contained within.Each mini-story within the movie is introduced by the wind swept pages of the discarded book, and the animated panels seamlessly meld into the live action scenes through the clever use of exaggerated colors and strong shadows.Five stories are portrayed here, featuring the walking dead (two stories actually...), cosmic fertilizer, an ancient gorilla like beast, and vengeful roaches. Most people say the final story, the one involving the roaches, is the most disturbing because it's the most likely to happen in real life (although, admittedly, in a scaled down form.)The acting is above average for a horror film. Hal Holbrook and Adrienne Barbeau invoke feelings of sympathy and disgust, respectively, in The Crate. Ted Danson has a small role in They're Creeping Up On You, and works well opposite Leslie Neilsen's maniac. Stephen King and E.G. Marshall round out a great cast. Yes, I said Stephen King!It's also a nice ending when we see how that pre-teen exacts his revenge on his bull headed father. Very smart to separate this story into two parts (the opening and ending sequences), because if it was played straight through, it would lack it's punch. I always stop and watch Creepshow no matter whenever or wherever  I catch it on TV, and I heartily recommend it to all! "},{"Title":"Eh and Blah","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Famous horror writer Stephen King and &#145;legendary' zombie director George Romero team up to bring us a series of film shorts in a single package entitled CreepShow.  As a fan of Stephen King, I have to say, he's written much better material than what's presented here.  The scripts may have worked had the film possessed an audio/visual style that made up for it.  Romero, highly acclaimed but ultimately a style-less director with a few sporadic moments of glory in his films, puts the nail into the coffin with his usual display of mediocrity.  And this time around, it has no saving points his Dead films have.   The end result is very disappointing.  An `eh' script with `bleh' direction.  Is there comedy and over the top elements?  Of course, but nothing works.  Many parts are supposed to be humorous but aren't, segments that aren't supposed to be humorous are . . . overall, it's just a mess.  The music has nice touches here and there, but beyond that I can't recommend renting either CreepShow or its sequel.  A distinct step down from Tales from the Crypt . . .  and that's saying something.      "},{"Title":"A loving tribute to the horror genre","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think it's fair to say that CREEPSHOW is one of the greatest horror anthologies in the history of cinema, and perhaps the greatest of all American variants. It helped pave the way for the long-running horror anthologies TV series of the '80s and '90s like TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE and TALES FROM THE CRYPT, and it reminded audiences - who were drowning under a sea of slashers, lest we forget - that horror could be creative and fun.There are five tales here, with a fun and goofy wraparound story that pays homage to the film's comic-book roots. Clearly George Romero and writer Stephen King are having a lot of fun playing with genre staples. The first episode is a nice zombie outing, featuring a youthful Ed Harris and some funny dialogue. The second story is an out and out comedy riff on Lovecraft's THE COLOUR OUT OF SPACE; King's performance is a hoot. The third story is the most serious of the five and features Leslie Nielsen in an unusually villainous performance and Ted Danson the object of his hate; a more psychological horror yarn, this one, and effective for it.The fourth episode is the creepiest and best plotted. It involves a dusty old crate and its sinister inhabitant, and it benefits from the performances of central cast members Hal Halbrook, Fritz Weaver, and the delightfully irritating Adrienne Barbeau. The last story is the most simple and sees E.G. Marshall battling against a host of cockroaches, and is the most memorable of the lot thanks to some exceptionally gruesome special effects work. It's also my favourite, being the monster lover that I am. "},{"Title":"A Consistent Anthology","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Our RatingsWes-5 Cobra-6 John-5 Every anthology will have some that are hit and miss. This is pretty consistent. It's a fun watch, filmed competently. - JohnA nice group of stories.The image of the crate stuck with me when I was a child and it's still effective every re-watch. - WesOverall, all five stories are pretty good. Not great, but pretty good. - Cobra "},{"Title":"Horror anthology","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With direction by George Romero and writing by Stephen King you are getting the best of the best in this horror anthology of six stories in Creepshow.Of the six four are concerned with vengeance of one sort or another. The other two are one man shows and really good ones about people being overwhelmed by extraordinary circumstances.Author Stephen King heavily made up plays this hillbilly rustic who gets the bad luck of having an encounter with a meteorite. With him it's like that old song on Hee Haw, if weren't for bad luck I'd have no luck at all. Seems as though contact with the stuff inside the meteorite turns everything into plant life.The best is for last though and it couldn't never have been made while Howard Hughes was alive. The story concerns eccentric billionaire E.G. Marshall who lives hermetically sealed like Hughes with an overriding fear of our six legged creature. After having endured an attack of bedbugs in my dwelling two years ago I kind of related to what Marshall was going through. His fear is cockroaches and in the end he gets his comeuppance from same. If your taste runs to black comedy you can't help not liking Creepshow although you may find the other segments better than my favorites. "}{"Title":"The horror-compendium makes a comeback...too bad these tales are joylessly rendered","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five short stories by Stephen King (three originals and two self-adaptations), presented by director George A. Romero in the style of EC Comics. Neither Father's Day, nor The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, Something to Tide You Over, The Crate or They're Creeping Up on You! contain the pleasurable horrors to be derived by an old-school comic book--these twisted tales are just too ungainly; however, several of the performances are good, particularly Leslie Nielsen's in Tide. Better than 1985's Cat's Eye (which Stephen King also had a hand in), but not as well-produced or as polished as Landis and Spielberg's Twilight Zone The Movie, released in 1983. Followed by Creepshow 2 in 1987, wherein Romero adapted the King stories but didn't direct. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Perfectly Over the Top!","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If there's a better team to recreate the E.C. Comics on film, I haven't seen it. In the movie Creepshow, George Romero and Stephen King have created perfectly over the top renditions of 5 tales from the E.C. Comic series. It's a rather adventurous collection and contains a little something for everyone I believe. It is very well made and everything has a purpose from the gaudy, clashing colors to the crazy lighting and make up, and all the way up to the rather top- notch and eclectic acting. Brief Synopses and Descriptions1. Father's Day (Ed Harris) - While awaiting their Aunt Bedelia's arrival to their Father's Day dinner party, a family regales itself with stories of how their aunt killed her father 7 years prior. But on this day, they're gonna wish Aunt Bedelia had made him his Father's Day cake instead. He'll have his cake and eat it too! What glorious make up they had for this one. 2. The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril (Stephen King) - A bit of comic relief, this tale is about a lonely country bumpkin who discovers a meteor that ends up having very curious effects and consequences. This one is short and sweet. It's very colorful and imaginative as it leaves you feeling sorry for the guy by the end haha. 3. Something to Tide You Over (Leslie Nielson) - When a vexed man finally exacts his revenge against his wife and her not-so-secret lover, they'll be up to their necks in trouble. A somewhat shocking and well drawn-out twist at the end, but this one will certainly have you holding your breath haha. 4. The Crate - When a janitor finds a crate under the stairs of a college containing an ancient creature with a veracious appetite, Henry Northrup sees this as an opportunity to finally break off his relationship with his wife, Wilma Northrup. This one is a very enjoyable ride to sit through. It's filled with suspense and a mild coating of dark humor throughout. It's hard to tell who the bad guy is in this one haha. 5. Creeping Up On You (E.G. Marshall) - A rich man with an aversion to insects gets his comeuppance from cockroaches. This one has some rather grand special effects and leaves us with an ending to die for. It all adds up to one hell of a classic that you'll find yourself coming back to over the years. So kick back, don't take it too seriously, and be ready for a good time! "},{"Title":"Buried alive the most memorable of all","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy is punished for reading comic horror Creepshow. The Creep invites him to five tales. In Father's Day, the old patriarch Nathan Grantham was killed by his daughter Bedelia. During a family gathering, Nathan is resurrected and takes revenge while getting the cake. In 'The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill', Jordy Verrill (Stephen King) is a dimwit farmer who finds a meteorite and is soon overcome with extraterrestrial plant life. In 'Something to Tide You Over', wealthy Richard Vickers (Leslie Nielsen) takes revenge on his wife and her lover Harry Wentworth (Ted Danson) by burying them up to their necks in the beach. In 'The Crate', college professor Henry Northup (Hal Holbrook) is informed of a deadly creature inside of a crate and he sees an easy way to get rid of his hateful wife Wilma (Adrienne Barbeau). In 'They're Creeping Up on You', ruthless business Upson Pratt (E. G. Marshall) has sealed himself up in his high tech apartment due to his germophobia. There is a blackout and his apartment is overrun by cockroaches.The first two tales are forgettable. The third one burying alive Ted Danson is not. It is the most compelling tale in the whole movie. It works on every level from the acting to the writing. The fourth one has a couple of interesting actors and the last one is creepy as hell. I'm not that afraid of bugs but people who do would really get unhinged over that one. The wrap-around story with Billy could probably be better. I'm sure they could have found a better actor than Stephen King's son. Teaming up horror icons like George A. Romero and Stephen King doesn't guarantee anything but this one worked out great. "},{"Title":"Intentionally Campy.  A Clean and Fun Light Horror Classic","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'The Creepshow' is a 50's retro-styled horror comic book come to life. Think Tales From the Crypt, and you've got the idea. It's a very well packaged, fun collection of stories with a great cast.The movie opens with a scene of a little boy being punished for reading a Creepshow comic book, which probably wasn't all that uncommon back in the '50s. As the kid pouts up in his room, a ghastly figure appears at the window beckoning the child to join him, and thus becoming our host for the evening's entertainment.The naysayers will say it comes across as campy and corny, or that it's not scary, etc....Look, Stephen King and George Romero wanted it to be silly and corny, that's what comic book's were/are. In this regard, they nailed it. In classic comic book fashion, a lot of scenes are framed in retro comic book style graphics, with even the occasional caption thrown in for good measure, as they cut away from a scene. And the acting is superb throughout, as professionals like Ed Harris, Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, E.G. Marshall, Hal Holbrook, Adrienne Barbeau, Fritz Weaver and even Steven King all make appearances. I always laugh when I see the young Ed Harris in the first story, already sporting a receding hair line as a young man.While I agree that this movie isn't really that scary, I found the fourth story, 'The Crate', to have it's fair share of suspense and is easily the scariest story of the bunch. The third story, 'Something to Tide You Over', which features Nielsen and Danson, I found to be particularly creepy as Nielsen lures two lovers, one which happens to be his wife, to a secluded beach which he ironically calls 'Comfort Point' and buries them up to their necks in the sand. Waiting for the tide to come in. And that's not even the worst part. He sets up cameras and monitors in front of each lover so they can watch each other drown. Of course, he's also able to watch the action from the 'comfort' of his beach house, where he doesn't lack for enthusiasm.One last thing. For short stories, there is genuinely really good character development which lends itself to some pretty funny scenes and lines, albeit some can be somewhat subtle. Watching Ed Harris dance always makes me laugh. And Leslie Nielsen is, well, Leslie Nielsen, and really portrays his demented character to perfection. And some of the scenes when Hal Holbrook fantasizes about killing his wife, Adrienne Barbeau, are just flat out hilarious. As is she as she constantly belittles him in front of everybody.I've given this movie an 8 because it's entertaining and fun. It's not the scariest movie. It was never meant to be. Yes, it's kinda of campy and corny. Which is exactly what it's supposed to be. If you can just enjoy 'The Creepshow' for what it is and not what it isn't, most likely you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Accomplished its goal...","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The theater was packed the day I saw CREEPSHOW and the crowd, for the most part, seemed to really enjoy it. I did, too- up to a point. At the time, I felt that it was just a tad too safe in its approach to Horror. I was familiar with the EC comics to which King and Romero were paying homage, but I went in expecting some pushing of the envelope. Here we had two of the biggest names in the Field of Fright joining forces and what we ended up with was what I felt at the time was watered-down Horror. I've since come to appreciate it a bit more for what it is- a successful attempt to recreate the feel of the old Horror comics (pre-code), but what it ISN'T is too original. "},{"Title":"Romero vs King","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King was only 7 years old when he found his fathers horror book collection starting him on a road he is still on. He was hooked on the genre, he devoured any scary story he could get his hands on, in books, in comics or films. He was fascinated by the creepy, sometimes surreal pictures and events. Its highly likely that Creepshow's horror anthology stories steamed from this childhood obsession. King wrote the script and one of horror's great ambassadors, George A. Romero directed the feature which is a great mixture of creepy, scary horror and comedy. The problem though with anthologies is they will never be a standout experience like a feature that is coherent it still gives us moments short and sweet like comic books. King thought in short skits, but the director George A. Romero would have liked to draw on 50s comic books, so the two were mixed in the five stories plus the extra story that brings the five together. He wanted the whole comic book feel to be predominant so that they used orange filters to film the first scenes, sending it to the lab for development they received it back with a note There was something wrong with the picture. We fixed it. &#x85;. And they had to film the whole thing again. Five tales of terror are presented. The first deals with a demented old man returning from the grave to get the Father's Day cake his murdering daughter never gave him. The second is about a not-too-bright farmer discovering a meteor that turns everything into plant-life. The third is about a vengeful husband burying his wife and her lover up to their necks on the beach. The fourth is about a creature that resides in a crate under the steps of a college. The final story is about an ultra- rich businessman who gets his comeuppance from cockroaches. The film itself isn't bad. The direction is good. But the quality, as per usual with an anthology is different with every skit. The scripts and the quality of the 3rd and 4th are quite good. The 1st is average. The 2nd is garbage, the one King is in and because they are really children's stories, you can't really take them seriously, even thought there are some bloody scenes between the episodes the comic book panels, the effects, the rubber monsters are max only scary for kids. The stories in Creepshow despite their childishness are undeniably creepy with their older era atmosphere. Of course there are a lot of similarities with the famous Tales from the Crypt or the Tales of the Unexpected. The characters always start off with a typical day that ends up being filled with terror, today's movie goer wouldn't find the twist unexpected, but the bizarreness is still captivating. The stories are laced with black humor and all end with morbid messages that make you think and entertain you with a little terror. The major roles are played by the likes of Leslie Nielson, Ed Harris or even Steven King himself. And though its definitely not perfect, the well put together anthology is like a bedtime story from the horror greats, which probably won't make you leave the lights on at bedtime but will entertain for 2 hours. King and Romero tag team brought us two sequels, of which the second is a pleasant surprise &#x96; worth watching &#x96; but the 3rd is unfortunately almost unwatchable. So anyway this film gets a 7/10 from me. https//www.youtube.com/user/Videodromeblog "},{"Title":"Two horror giants make a classic!","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first collaboration between filmmaker George A. Romero and writer Stephen King resulted in this five part anthology movie and was made as a tribute to the popular E.C. Horror comics of the 1950's. The movie has a fun wraparound with a father (Tom Atkins) scolding his son (Joe King, Stephen's son) for reading the 'Creepshow' comic book and throws it away. The first tale 'Father's Day' Has crazy old Aunt Bedilia (Lindfors) visiting the grave of her wealthy old man whom she killed in a fit of rage many years ago on father's day. She recalls the events of that day at his grave until his corpse come's back looking for revenge. The second story is 'The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill' starring writer King himself in the title role of a man with bad luck that gets worse after a meteor lands on his property. In 'Something to Tide you Over' Richard (Nielsen) is a wealthy man who puts his cheating wife (Gaylen Ross) and her lover (Ted Danson) through a terrible death only to have them come back from a watery grave to seek revenge on him. The fourth story is 'The Crate' which has hapless puppet Henry (Holbrook) being constantly embarrassed by his overbearing wife (Adrienne Barbeau) when a colleague (Fritz Weaver) discovers an old crate at the University they work at. The crate contains an ancient monster that kills several people which hatches a devilish idea in Henry of how he can get rid of his wife for good. The final story is 'They're Creeping up on you' which tells the story of cranky old millionaire Upson Pratt (Marshall) who is having problems with cockroaches in his upscale building. This film is loads of fun minus the stupid and boring second story. This has classic storytelling by King and excellent filmmaking by Romero who frames things to look like a comic book and uses overblown colors to achieve this effect as well. If it has a problem it's the two hour running time, which might be one story too many. The Jordy Verrill story could have been deleted and this would have been perfect. The movie is loaded with a veteran cast who look like they had a lot of fun making this movie. And that is what 'Creepshow' is, a lot of fun! It gets scary with great jump scares, gory, bloody nasty and chilling, everything a horror movie should be. Tom Savini adds to his already legendary makeup effect resume with Fluffy the crate monster and a truly memorable corpse from Father's Day. At the time this was made, Romero was one of the biggest names in Horror cinema and King was the pinnacle of Horror writing so this movie's collaboration was two powers coming together and the results are classic. "},{"Title":"5 short tales of terror derived from the short stories of Stephen King and Directed by Master of horror George A Romero","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's rare that one should encounter a film the meets every standard of good horror. Most horror films either end up being entirely humorous or staunchly serious. However Creepshow does a brilliant job at demonstrating both the genre of horror-comedy and the more serious element suspense. This film is not much in terms of a psychological thriller so don't go in expecting to see a certain depth to the terror, however what this film does it does extremely well. Namely it is fast paced a horror comedy thrill ride that can generate equal amounts of gasps and laughs through a quintet of scifi and paranormal stories that keep you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Creepy Campy Fun!","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is a collection of five short stories and while all are interesting in there own way some are delivered much better then others.I thought the film actually starts with the weakest two stories with Father's Day andThe Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill. These opening two were more focused on the comedic side of the story rather then any deeper story telling and for what they are they are fine but when compared to the other three stories they fall a bit short of the others quality. Something to Tide You Over stars Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson and I thought this one was well done. It sets up a good revenge storyline and it's delivered well. The Crate was possibly my favourite of all the shorts on here. It's about a nervous professor and his over bearing wife and how a rare discovery in the university could actually help him deal with her for good! it's both funny in parts and I felt had the best rounded story of all those on here. They're Creeping Up on You! is also good and it's all about the main characters hatred and fear of the outside world as he looks down on the city from his high rise apartment block in the city. This one certainly got the creep factor up (if you don't like creepy crawlies you might be a bit squeamish about this one!). I felt it was more a social commentary more then anything else and again it's well done. When you look at the movie overall The whole is greater than the sum of all it's parts in my opinion. Some of the stories hit the heights but as mentioned I felt the first two aren't quite as good when compared to the others, but in these anthology type films it's personal taste and you will prefer some to the others. The performances are all generally good and watch out for a great comedic Stephen King performance in the second story. The makeup and effects are again what you would expect and it's a good fun ride. Horror fans should enjoy this and even casual viewers should find something to like in the five tales. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Horror Anthology","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fun anthology movie from horror greats George Romero and Stephen King as an homage to the classic EC horror comics of the 1950s. Many of these comics were previously adapted by Amicus in films such Tales From the Crypt and Vault of Horror. While those films were good, the great black humor of EC comics was largely missing. Romero and King get that part right and in that sense, Creepshow is a more faithful adaptation of EC comics than the movies from the '70s, even though these stories are all original King tales and not from the comics.There are five stories plus the linking story in this anthology. The first story is called Father's Day and is about a wealthy family that gathers every year on Father's Day to remember Uncle Nathan a mean, evil man who was killed seven years earlier by his daughter Bedelia (Viveca Lindfors). Ed Harris and Carrie Nye play two of the family members. This is a slight but enjoyable story that kicks the movie off well.The next story is The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verill and is probably the most divisive of the stories, as it's a comedy piece that stars Stephen King. The story is about a deeply stupid hayseed farmer that finds a fallen meteorite on his farm and thinks it's his ticket to fortune & fame. After he cracks it open, however, he and the farm are quickly overrun by some kind of alien vegetation. King, whatever else he is, is not a good actor. When I first saw Creepshow as a kid, this was hands down my least favorite of the stories. Over the years my dislike of it has softened into a grudging admiration for the cornball comedy that it is. It's still the weakest story of the film, though.The third story is Something to Tide You Over, about a millionaire (Leslie Nielsen) who buries his wife's lover (Ted Danson) up to his neck on the beach as the tide comes in. As he drowns he's forced to watch a video of how the wife suffered the same fate. The two come back from the dead to seek revenge. As a kid this was the story from the movie that I remembered most. Perhaps that was because it had the biggest stars. It's a good story and I've seen several reviews single it out as the best in the film.The fourth story, and my personal favorite, is The Crate. It's about a college professor (Fritz Weaver) who finds a Yeti-like creature inside a crate hidden in the university basement for over 100 years. He shares this find with a colleague (Hal Holbrook), who has an abusive and obnoxious wife (Adrienne Barbeau) that treats him like garbage. Holbrook decides to use the creature in the crate to get rid of his wife problem. This is a great little story. I enjoy the concept of an old expedition that found some Yeti-like monster. Plus, the performances from the three principal actors are great. Barbeau is the worst wife ever and you really root for poor Hal Holbrook here. This is also the longest segment in the film.The fifth story is They're Creeping Up On You, about a miserly mysophobic billionaire (E.G. Marshall) who lives in a hermetically sealed apartment controlled with electric locks and surveillance cameras. The apartment is invaded and overrun by cockroaches, much to Marshall's horror. This is a disgusting story that will gross many of you out. Don't watch it unless you have a strong stomach for bugs and bug guts.The prologue/epilogue story that links the other tales is about a young boy (Joe King, son of Stephen) who has an abusive father (Tom Atkins). The father finds his Creepshow comic and throws it out because he doesn't want his son reading such crap. It's an enjoyable story despite a disturbing realism to the abusive father. The way it ends is deliciously dark. Although the Living Dead movies are Romero's bread and butter, Creepshow is my favorite film of his. I can watch it over and over. The acting, writing, makeup effects, music, and direction are all terrific. I'm a big fan of horror anthology films and this is right up there near the top of the list. "}{"Title":"A great anthology from horror masters King and Romero!","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror greats Stephen King and George A. Romero came together to bring us this highly entertaining collection of five creepy tales in the tradition of the old horror comics from the 50's! In addition to the five stories, there is also a wraparound segment featuring a young boy who tries to read his beloved Creepshow comic book as his abusive father (Tom Atkins) repeatedly takes it away. The stories themselves range from either really great, mildly amusing, or just plain mediocre. I'm gonna review each one of them separately.Father's Day - Aunt Bedelia (Viveca Lindfors) murdered her own father seven years ago. On Father's Day, his vengeful corpse returns from beyond the grave to torment her family of rich snobs while asking for his cake that he was promised before death. Other than a cool looking zombie, this segment is pretty weak compared to some of the others. The final frame gives it a few extra points, but other than that I'm glad that this is the first story so we can get it over with. 5/10.The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill - A dim-witted hillbilly named Jordy Verill (Stephen King), finds a fallen meteorite that he plans to sell and make a small fortune for himself. A slimy substance from the meteorite gets all over him and his house. After a few days go by, a strange weed begins to grow from the substance and eventually covers the entire farm including Jordy himself! This segment is slightly better than Father's Day but King's over the top acting and the fact that the title gives the ending away pretty much ruin it. 6/10Something to Tide you Over - Harry Wentworth (Ted Danson) and his girlfriend Becky Vickers (Gaylen Ross) are kidnapped and taken to a beach by Becky's vengeful ex-husband Richard (Leslie Nielsen). Richard buries them up to their heads in the sand and succeeds in his revenge plot as the tide comes in and they both drown. Unfortunately for Richard, Harry and Becky return as waterlogged zombies that stalk the murderous ex-lover in his house. This is by far the greatest segment in this entire anthology. The acting from Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson is great and very believable. The slimy seaweed covered zombies were very creepy and made for some intense and scary scenes. I can tell that King and Romero put the most effort into this one. 9/10 The Crate - Henry Northrup (Hal Holbrook) is sick to death of his overbearing and constantly nagging wife Wilma (Adrienne Barbeau). She treats him like crap, and he constantly fantasizes about killing the bitch. Meanwhile, the janitor of a university has found a mysterious crate in the basement and accidentally unleashes the previously sealed away monster that was inside of the crate. The monster eats people and is very hungry. Professor Dexter Stanley (Fritz Weaver) tries to stop the ravenous creature as Henry sees it as a perfect opportunity to kill his wife. This is the second best story here and definitely the funniest. I found it hilarious how Henry hates his wife so much and wants to feed her to a man eating monster. The scenes where he imagines himself killing her and everyone cheering are a riot as well. 8/10.They're Creeping up on You! - Upson Pratt (E.G. Marshall) is a rich and reclusive tyrant who lives in a somewhat futuristic looking penthouse. He treats his employees like crap and is generally mean to everyone he talks to. He is deathly afraid of bugs, however, and his fear becomes a reality as cockroaches invade his fancy apartment. This segment is mostly just gross as opposed to being actually scary. The main character is very unlikable so it is rewarding for him to get his just desserts in the end. Overall, this story is mostly forgettable and could have been way better. 6/10.Fans of anthology films, comic books, or horror movies in general should appreciate this great anthology from two of the greatest horror masters. See this movie mainly for Something to Tide You Over (which they should have saved for last) and The Crate but know that you'll also enjoy the other spooky tales as well as the intricate wraparound segment. All in all, with the five stories combined, this film would average out into a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A decent horror flick","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five different tales which include, horror, comedy and suspense. I was a little surprised about how good the effects, the zombie costumes, and other horrifying creatures, for being the 80s, i say it was pretty remarkable. I wouldn't say all the tales were amusing though, some of them were pretty boring and pointless while the other half was quite amusing, the motives for killing in some parts were just unmotivated or unknown which felt a bit uninspired and partly bad writing. There's this intense classic 80s horror movie synth/electric music, which is always exciting to get an earful of. As far as the scenery goes, it was in most parts, excellent, a satisfying old horror movie atmosphere. And I can honestly say that it was suitable actors who performed just right for their role, adapting to the either horror or comedy, i think they gathered a good bunch of actors. "},{"Title":"Three Out of Five Ain't Bad","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow (1982)*** (out of 4) George A. Romero and Stephen King teamed up for this tribute to the old EC Comics and while it's uneven in spots there are certainly enough good stories to make it worth watching. As with any anthology film, each story is just going to be so different and each offer up its own strengths and weaknesses that you can't help but feel somewhat uneven. I think the best stories are numbers two and three. The second deals with a farmer (King) who has a meteor crash in his back yard. When he picks it up he gets a chemical on his hand and begins to turn into a weed. The third has Leslie Nielsen playing a jealous husband who decides to teach his wife and her lover (Ted Danson) a lesson. The King segment has the writer doing a terrific job with his performance and the story too is quite funny, tragic and sad at the same time. The third story has some really great performances and especially Nielsen who goes over-the-top in a fun way making for a great villain. The first story, Father's Day is a good revenge pic that features a young Ed Harris. The Crate has the one and only Adrienne Barbeau and Hol Holbrook dealing with a nailed up crate with something inside. To me this here is the weakest story. While it contains some fine performances I think the story itself is just a little too boring and it was hard getting caught up in anything going on. The final story has E.G. Marshall dealing with some pesky cockroaches. This one has a few campy good moments but I think it's another less-than-stellar story. Romero does a great job on each of the stories and he certainly has a very good eye for the comic touches in the stories. I also thought Tom Savini did more good with the special effects and especially the creatures from the third story. Overall, CREEPSHOW isn't a masterpiece but the first three stories are strong enough to make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Stephen King Fun","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King was a fan of Tales from the Crypt and had the idea to make an anthology of five of his stories patterned after that pulp magazine from the 1950s. The first is Fathers Day, where a woman, Bedelia, arrives at a family reunion with the various relatives of her father, Nathan, an overbearing man who she killed with an ashtray, after years of abuse. She stops at his gravestone and mocks the dead old man. She spills whiskey on the ground, and it brings her daddy back to life with revenge on his mind. He kills off his greedy heirs, one by one, and King gives it a funny ending. The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill stars King himself as a dumb ass hillbilly who sees a meteorite land on his property and decides that he will get rich from the rock. He picks it up, and later on a strange green fuzzy algae like substance appears on his skin. He jumps into a bath tub, but the water causes it to grow. Another twist ending is provided by Steve. Something to Tied you Over is the third segment. Richard Vickers is a rich man who discovers that his wife is cheating on him. He buries Becky and her lover, Harry, in the sand up to their necks, and tells them that if they can hold their breath for a long time, the tide will loosen the sand, enabling them to escape. He sets up cameras and watches from a beach house. Another surprise is in store from King. The Crate is next, a custodian at a college finds a crate under a staircase that is 148 years old. He tells a professor and they pry it open. Inside is a small version of a creature that looks like bigfoot. Well, sleeping beauty devours the custodian, while the prof escapes. Another teacher at the school hears of the beast and lures his loud mouth wife, Wilma, to the crate, where she arrives at her Waterloo. He reseals the crate and sinks it into a lake. Will Bigfoot survive? The last one is They're Creeping up on You. Upton Pratt is a rich, germ phobic, Howard Hughes type, living in a sealed apartment with electric locks and cameras everywhere. The power goes out in a black(out in New York City and we all know what comes out in the dark, especially in the Big Apple; that's right cockroaches. Avoid this one if you are at all squeamish about bugs. King has a very warped sense of humor, and it shows in Creepshow. An entertaining 8/10. "},{"Title":"Creepshow- A horror fans dream!","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow, as the summary says, is a horror fans dream. We have George A. Romero directing, Stephen King writing, and Tom Savini doing the special effects. You couldn't ask for anymore. It's not one but five short stories combined into a great movie that doesn't hold back. The first of the stories is about a cranky old man who comes back from the dead to get revenge on his family, and get some fathers day cake. It isn't the best, but it gets things started. The second story is about a goofy farmer who finds a meteor that spreads some sort of plant life to everything it touches grows some sort of vegetation until it consumes everything in sight. Making plants into an epidemic is genius and creative. Pair that with Stephen Kings over the top, comedic performance and you get a pretty fun story. The third story is about a man who finds out his wife is cheating on him, so he buries her and the lover up to their necks in sand on a beach so the tide can come in and drown them. After they drown, the return as wrinkle faced sea people ghosts that take revenge on the man. Leslie Nielson, known for his comedic roles, plays a vengeful evil mastermind, and it's pretty fun to watch him in this role. The third one is about a crate that contains a monster. I won't say much about this one, but it's one to satisfy. The fifth one goes for shock value and is about a man who becomes the target of a roach army. This one is both creepy and disgusting, so just a fair warning on that. My personal favorite though, would have to be the crate, because i always have loved a good monster story. Check this movie out, cause it's great. "},{"Title":"A well balanced movie of selected horror short stories for the wide public.","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A well balanced movie of selected horror short stories for the wide public.Even if you are not into the Horror genre you will like this one, as it comes with a few gore. The focus is not on splatter but on tension.I saw this one as a juvenile and was interrupted by my mother in the scene when the guy fights the bugs reminding me not to watch such a crap. A little bit like the story of the movie at the beginning when the boy gets interrupted by his father when reading the horror comics.So I decided after 20 years to watch it again. And I was not disappointed. In fact I was surprised how entertaining the movie is. Some stories are better thought out than others and some could be used as template for full 90 minutes movies. Specially the one entitled The Crate.Some actors did afterwards some really good movies like Leslie Nielsen (The naked gun) or Ed Harris (The Abyss). Director George A. Romero did a very good job. He could almost resist entirely to his urge to produce mainly Zombie movies. There is only one Zombie scene. "},{"Title":"Spooky stories (some more, some less)","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow from 1982 presents five black comedy horror stories.Its director is the legendary George A. Romero and its writer also legendary Stephen King.The cast consists of some famous names.Ed Harris plays Hank Blaine in The Father's Day.Stephen King himself portrays, in a rather hilarious way, Jordy Verrill in The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill.The late great rubber face Leslie Nielsen plays the psychopathic Richard Vickers in Something to Tide You Over.Ted Danson plays Henry Wenthworth in the same story.In The Crate we see Hal Holbrook playing Henry Northup.Adrienne Barbeau is his wife Wilma.Fritz Weaver plays the part of Dexter Stanley.In They're Creeping Up on You E.G. Marshall plays Upson Pratt.Some of the stories were so-so, some of them worked very well.I liked the one where Leslie Nielsen buries Ted Danson up to his neck on the beach.Not that I have anything against Ted Danson.I also enjoyed The Crate very much.Fritz Weaver and Hal Holbrook confronting that monster is a real thrill.So Creepshow gives you the creeps just about enough. "},{"Title":"Most enjoyable","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is the first of the Stephen King anthology movies.Directed by George Romero, this collects four King short stories from the Night Shift era and tells them within the format of one of the EC horror comics of the 50s. The stories are all very much that kind of thing - short, pithy, punchy, and with tongue very much in cheek.The comic framework extends to the bookend sequences for each episode, which is animated. King, who so often cameos in filmed adaptations of his work, is here given the central role in one of the segments, and does a decent job as the gormless and ill-fated Jordy Verill.This is a decent set of stories and an entertaining, if unexceptional, movie. "},{"Title":"Good show","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A few months ago I labelled Stephen King as an incompetent screenwriter after seeing Sleepwalker's. Vile, twisted, and written with a moronic sadistic attitude, there is no fun to be had there. Ten years earlier there was Creepshow. Had I seen this first, I would have judged King differently. Creepshow is a delightful source of b-movie camp. Creepshow is not one horror story but five. In the tradition of horror comics from fifty years ago, We are entreated to the weird and wacky, totally laid back without an ounce of grimness, and a great sense of absurd humor.This one is fun "},{"Title":"...if you go in knowing that the film is sort of gimmicky, it's a great two hours to spend reminiscing on those horror comics of your youth.","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is a series of short stories, in the vein of television shows like Tales from the Crypt. Each installment features a new story and new characters that are tied together as a comic book, in introducing and concluding segments at the beginning and end of the movie. Notably, George A. Romero directed the flick and it was written by Stephen King, a conjoining of two horror icons who work together to produce these frightful shorts. I'll break it down episode by episode.First, we start off with a lead-off segment, about a boy's explorations of a trashy horror comic and his father's extreme (and when I say extreme, I mean ridiculous verbal expulsion) disapproval of said picture-book. What got me from the start was the pumpkin in the window. But it does start the intrigue flowing, which is important.Father's Day - This segment is not one of the stronger ones - the plot is the basic zombie-revenge formula, where the only thing working for it is the absurdity of the father jonesing for his cake. It's entertaining at best, and at worst grating, because the story doesn't feel fleshed out enough. The viewer is given bare bones as to what is going on, leaving to the imagination why the whole family is sitting and waiting for the aunt and why no one cares enough about anyone to actually worry about their feelings. It's humorous, but not a very hearty meal - we get the dessert before the dinner (in this case, cake).The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill - It's not a very suspenseful story, but it's not meant to be. What Jordy Verrill does is take a potentially serious, frightening experience and make it hilarious. King seems to be a natural at redneck characters, and he brings Jordy Verrill to life. I love the comic book feel in this one, especially the dusky, lonesome night on the farm and the lush greenery of the fake weeds. Jordy Verrill captures the attention like Father's Day couldn't.Something to Tide You Over - ...Tide You Over is much creepier than the last two shorts, and also much darker and less comedic. Nielsen's over-the-top character presents the audience with a great acting session, as Richard broods in the mentally-insane-who-laughs-crazily bunch of kooks. I like the atmosphere that this segment presented, as seeing Danson and Ross struggle against the water that's rushing up to their face gives a frightful claustrophobic feeling. Later on, after all the harrowing events have ended and Richard is faced with the two lover zombies, the tension kind of turns on its side and dissipates. For the most part, though, this story really captures the serious horror that the film is both depicting and mocking. The only thing I could have used was some more introduction to the characters, since the reasons for Richard's dementia and his torturous desires are a bit elusive.The Crate - The Crate is one of my favorites in this film, since it's a bloody, comedic mess. There are a bunch of creepy moments, because the audience's expectations are toyed with whenever someone gets close to the box. I love the red lighting every time violence happens, even if it has no meaning. The only thing that I really didn't like about this tale is the fact that the beginning meanders far too long. Granted, it gives exposition on the abusive wife, but we can see this throughout the whole film, especially with the extensive murderous dream sequences, and so it feels like the beginning is just too stretched out.They're Creeping Up On You! - It's a simple premise, but a really disturbing and creepy one. They're Creeping... actually makes your skin itch, what with all the roaches running around and how ruthless Upson Pratt really is. There's no sense of remorse for the man - all through the movie, we have the feeling that he's getting what has been a long time coming. The way he treats his employees and even his doorman shows he has led a really spoiled life, and now his spoiled attitude is going to get the boot. There are plenty of gross-out scenes for those who hate insects, so it's good,scary fun.As a whole, Creepshow works. There are a couple of duds, but most of the time it manages to entertain, spook, and have you laughing at the same time, which is really what one wants from a movie that tries to mimic the '50s horror comics. It's supposed to be corny, and it obviously is, but if you go in knowing that the film is sort of gimmicky, it's a great two hours to spend reminiscing on those horror comics of your youth. "}{"Title":"Long","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An well-done horror-movie when it is the most funniest. Leslie Nielsen acts very well in his role. Stephen King acts very well too.Creepshow have five stories. The music in Creepshow are very well-done. The director George A. Romero is very well to direct.Creepshow is the nest best horror-movie George A. Romero have done! The best film in Creepshow is the fourth and is about a crate with a monster which scare people in the environment. Hal Holbrook is in the head-role and acts very well. He have a mean role in Creepshow. It is very bloody short-film.If you like horror-movie with much humour you must Creepshow! "},{"Title":"A delicious attempt at B Movie that stuns, tickles and makes you cringe","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow should be heralded, if for no other reason, that it does precisely what the film makers wanted it to do. It's an incredibly dark, comical, violent, blood soaked disturbing collection of horror shorts that you would expect from two writers like the incomparable Stephen King (the greatest writer of the 21st century in my opinion) and zombie legend George A. Romero who directs the whole thing. Creepshow is the furthest thing from serious you could possibly get. The entire thing is a complete lark and yet is so disturbing at the same time. All five stories are the type of stories you would kill to hear around the campfire. Bring in a cast of really terrific actors and you've got 2 hours of a good time watching these stories unfold. Being the early eighties the film pulls no punches when it comes to gut wrenching horror and blood splattering like crazy and profanity spewing from their mouths. That being said the stories do get better as they go and by the last story (which is one of the best) you are chilled to the bone. Since I don't usually review anthologies like this I will break them down into sections.Father's Day---Not the best story but kind of sets up the type of situation you're in for. No particularly stand out performances in the crowd but a really creepy zombie in the form of the father back to exact revenge for not getting his cake. Also check for a young Ed Harris as well who looks great! The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill---This one is kind of becoming one of my favorites and most of that is due to the one man show that is the master of horror himself Stephen King. His performance is deliciously over the top, hilarious and disturbing, and just the entire skit is him dealing with touching some sort of meteor juice and waiting for his impending death. King holds this one together all by himself and it's a classic not to be missed!! Something To Tide You Over---One of the more serious skits of the film and one of the best acted too. Leslie Nielsen in a...deadly...serious role as a scorned rich husband who seeks to exact revenge on his wife and her lover. Nielsen is brilliant and devilishly disturbing. His final words of the film still ring out I can hold my breath a long, long time. Ted Danson is also terrific as the lover Harry Wentworth who looks awesome back from the dead as a zombie. Same with his co-star Gaylen Ross even though she gets very little lines as an actual person. A classic segment!! The Crate---I thought this portion was more Stephen King than any of the other ones. It felt so much like a creation of his mind. It's tense and disturbing and although I thought the monster from this segment was the poorest of all the effects in the film, there was some great performances. Hal Holbrook is terrific as day dreaming tired husband Henry who is at the end of his rope with his drunken, annoying, screechy wife Wilma played with terrific satire by legendary actress Adrienne Barbeau. Fritz Weaver is also really great, one of the best performances as Dexter Stanley, the crazed finder of the monster in the crate. Out of all of them The Crate is Stephen King at his best.Finally you'll be left feeling creeped out and brushing yourself off with They're Creeping Up On You---This is the shortest of all the films I believe but really hits home and closes the series very well. Veteran actor E.G. Marshall is amazing as germophobe and business tycoon/monster Upson Pratt. He lives in a disturbing apartment of solitude, sealed, and protected from any germ or bug as he rules his companies with an iron first via an electronic phone panel. Basically as you might guess this segment is about bugs, so many bugs that Pratt will be completely taken by them. Now whether or not the bugs exist or they are a figment of his disturbed mind is for you to decide but even if bugs don't bother you...you'll get a shudder.Horror fans can't not see this classic collection of stories. I mean everything just sort of ends like a good ghost story novel but the brilliant hand made special effects, the truly terrific cast, the direction of a master and the writing of the King of Horror (not to mention an amazing performance) will leave you begging for more Creepshow. The darkest comical film I've ever seen possibly. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Still as Fresh as it was 25 Years Ago","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The cinematic equivalent of a concept album, Creepshow combines the considerable talents of Stephen King and George A. Romero with an amazing ensemble cast in a series of horror stories connected by their appearance in a comic book entitled Creepshow. The stories have the exact feeling of horror comic stories - the very loose attachment to reality with plots strong enough to allow suspension of disbelief - characters which are archetypal adults endowed with all the characteristics kids typically do not like about adults - and monsters which reside both in people's imaginations and the real world. All of the stories are predictable, but its the journey, not the destination that matters.There are five stories. Each of these are about equally entertaining. Father's Day is about the return of a murdered father to claim his cake. Stephen King's greatest acting performance ever is the highlight of the second story The Lonely Death of Jordy Verrill. Its a solo performance of a classic King tale - Jordy Verrill, an uneducated bad-luck dirt farmer finds a meteor one night and starts dreaming about how rich he will get when he brings it to the local university. but he doesn't count on what the meteor contains. Leslie Nielson and Ted Danson spar in the third segment (my least favorite) about adultery, gold-digging and the consequences of possessive/obsessive personalities. Most people seem to enjoy The Crate, the fourth segment, most. Adrienne Barbeau and Hal Holbrook make this story about a disgruntled husband, his troubled colleague at the local college, his abusive alcoholic wife and an apparently immortal Yeti which has been sealed away in a crate for 150 years. The final segment, featuring a great performance from E. G. Marshall, is about a hypochondriac paranoid billionaire who is so afraid of germs that he spends all of his time in a sterile vacuum sealed apartment... which seems to have developed a roach problem.The directing is typical Romero - very nicely visualized and shot. The editing and pacing are superb. Only Something to Tide you Over dragged a bit for me. the acting is perfect for what this movie is supposed to be - campy as hell, somewhat tongue-in-cheek, and not all that serious. And the script is perfect - hardly surprising given its credentials.Creepshow is still a treat after 25 years. You can't take it seriously, but if you enjoyed horror comics such as Tales from the Crypt, or like Romero's work, or are a Stephen King fan, you will like this one. "},{"Title":"A Very Unique Horror Comic-Style Movie","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was very interesting, and very different than a lot of other horror movies of its time. Romero and King team up to make one of the most unique movies I have ever seen. This movie was more of a weird you out movie than a scare movie. This was like an 80's Horror-style Sin City in some aspects. 5 Separate stories in one. However it was also a style of its own, with the prologue and epilogue, and the style of changing stories by turning the page, showing a comic piece and zooming in on it and watching it turn to an actual movie, it was very very interesting. The 5 stories were well organized as well. The First segment,Father's Day Was pretty good, however it was a little slow at times. This was probably the most basic of the stories. The second, The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill was very good. It was funny and creepy at the same time. Stephen King plays Jordy Verrill and does a great job. The third segment, Something to Tide You Over was my personal favorite. Leslie Nielsen really surprised me by playing the insane Richard Vickers, and he did it very well. The fourth segment was the dumbest one, The Crate. The animal, Fluffy looked stupid and the story was very debatable. It just wasn't all that great. Then the last segment; Theyre Creeping Up on You made me crawl in my own skin. It made me itch like crazy and everything. But thats what it was intended for I suppose. THis is a great movie, fans of odd movies should watch this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pleasurable Junk Food","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The opening is ersatz-Spielbergian suburbia, except here the boy wishes his father dead after his horror crap comic book is thrown in the garbage. On to the quintet of stories, antiquated pulp horrors thawed out by Stephen King. Creepshow is knowingly agonizingly stupid. Even within the context of each story segment, it's ridiculous. How, for example, does a beast that's been confined in a crate for a hundred years or so up and decide once it's been confined again by a survivor of its wrath to break free of its confinement when it could've done that during the restlessness I'm sure it must've felt for that long century without food, which it drivenly turns humans into?Is it a ridiculous comedy? Surely. But even within the organic conditions of silly screwball films, there is some sort of sense that is made within the screwball universe. Here, logic contradicts itself later. But aside from that peeve, Creepshow is a sumptuous entertainment. Stephen King, the eyebrow- raisingly prolific horror writer, churns out some fluff on which Romero can work his campy flesh, gore and monster effects.Creepshow is singularly an entertainment and also emboldened as an entertainment because it has the effect that ice cream or a whole bag of chocolates has on you, which is an excited craving, a great pleasure of no nutritional value, and ultimately not wanting anymore and not wanting to even think about it for awhile. I watched it at the house of girlfriend of a friend visiting from out of town. And the campy, fun, indescribably cozy atmosphere of it made it a joy.And might I add that Adrienne Barbeau has one of the most indulgently sexy bodies I have ever seen. I couldn't go one minute with her on screen without feeling immensely insatiable for her. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nothing to do, I do not agree with the opinions expressed in narrowing site. The Votic is too small for a film genre, is a comic film but good for the 80s. Funny the atmosphere, is a fair translation of comics, can be fine. The first episode has its charm. I am not a big fan of horror movies because I find most sadistic enough but this film is good and that's OK. It 'a movie I saw a lot as a child together with a poltergeist trip to the borders of reality is unpleasant, it may be fine even if the special effects were those who were. The first episode is mythical, the film has its charm. It reminds me of the very films that do not know the stories of the crypt films are sympathetic to laugh. I prefer pi These films rather than those of squalid Dario silver. "},{"Title":"A great spectacle of awesome mini-films","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow was one of those movies I judged by the case, and that was poor judgment on my part indeed. When I saw the case, I thought it was a crappy visual effects movie that I was gonna have to dig real deep into the story to appreciate it and enjoy it. When I saw the first segment, I actually fell in love. This five film movie overwhelmed me with almost every story. The only segment that I absolutely cared nothing for was The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verill which brought my appreciation for the film down. Other than that, I absolutely loved how each story had it's own unique, likable plot. I'd say my favorite segment was The Crate. It was so entertaining and fun, and the storyline was the most interesting. Then it was Something To Tide You Over with an incredibly fun performance by Leslie Nielsen, who I have loved as a comedic actor but was pleasantly surprised to see in a horror. After that it was Father's Day which even though it was a bit iffy here and there, it still had a nice, creepy atmosphere and a different storyline than there has been before, I think, and before my least favorite, They're Creeping Up On You comes in. That segment, while being my least favorite of the four I enjoyed, actually seemed like it was the most effective for some reason, because it was the most believable and therefore the creepiest of the tales, even though I just didn't enjoy it more than the other three. This film is undeniably great in my honest opinion, and I think that people should take pride in it for holding up so long when there were tons of horror classics released around the time it was created. Stephen King is awesome and he proves it again with this amazing thriller that after I watched it, I thought the visual effects weren't crappy at all and I was very satisfied with it's outcome. "},{"Title":"well, well, well","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" well, the first story, of Fathers Day, i thought was OK, it just seemed like an interesting idea, but not well executed, it was slightly boring to be honest, and lacked an ending. I guess I just expected more. Its okay for the starting story, it means it hopefully gets better. The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill was probably the weakest of the lot, and not because Stephen King was performing it. The story, was just, weak. Their was no terror, no comedy really, it was just like a little sketch Stephen King produced cause he had a spare 10 minutes. The effects were very good, credit where its due. Too bad the story didn't reflect it. Something To Tide You Over doesn't seem to be a favourite, yet I preferred this one. It had a great story, based in mostly reality, which I feel makes it more terrifying and scary, Leslie Nielson played a villainous role, which I admit was new to me and I thought was very good, and of course, the cuts as the water gradually got closer and closer just made it better. Great improvement on First story. The Crate was most likely the longest and their main story, and it played like it, it was definitely probably the best of the lot, I have seen similar stories before, but I still thought the execution was. there was nothing obvious about The Crate, and built up very slowly, and suddenly, out of nowhere, the Beast attacks. It is also a story of reaching your end, like The second Professor, who is so desperate to leave his wife he actually fantasises about murder, and with The Crate, gets his opportunity. Some well played performances I felt from the two main actors and the Monster looked amazing. They're Creeping Up On You was very interesting, I admit, I don't like bugs very often, so I didn't watch this entirely, suddenly finding reasons to flick over, or look under my duvet. Yes, I am a coward, so be it. But the images were very frightening, their would be sudden shots just of the bugs, and it was very freaky. I admit, I was expecting to find a giant bug controlled them, but for once, they didn't go that route. Nice little bit to end on. And the little intro and outro's concerned a little boy forbidden to read his favourite Comic, Creepshow. So why not get a bit of revenge with a doll? Hehe. To be honest, while not a Box Office Legend or guilty of wining Oscars, its a nice chill-out movie to relax with, recommended. "},{"Title":"Campy Comic Book Fun!","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What do these have in common Dead people coming back to life, alien weeds, a monster living on a college campus, and cockroaches? The answer? Those are things featured in five stories in CREEPSHOW, a fantastic homage to the horror comics of the 1950s.George A. Romero (1978's DAWN OF THE DEAD) and Stephen King (author of CUJO) teamed up with makeup artist Tom Savini (FRIDAY THE 13TH) to make this horror film that features an almost all-star cast. The cast features Ted Danson, Hal Holbrook, Ed Harris, E.G. Marshall, Viveca Lindfors, Leslie Nielsen, Adrienne Barbeau, and even Stephen King himself.An interesting bit of trivia The marble ashtray (which plays a major role in CREEPSHOW's first story) is featured in all five of the film's stories if you look closely. (thanks to the IMDb) "},{"Title":"~ Let the Show Begin ~","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King and George A Romero, horror's finest, collaborate to churn out arguably the best horror movie ever made. ~ A miserable old millionaire returns from the grave to seek revenge against his greedy offspring ~ a jealous husband rises from the depths of the ocean bent on destroying his wife and her lover ~ frozen for almost a century, an arctic beast escapes from an old crate and terrorizes a college campus ~ a comet loaded with a verdant virus sweeps across the land, covering everything in its path, including a backward farmer (played here by Stephen King) ~ and an army of cockroaches terrorize the life out of a stuffy billionaire businessman ~ Romero has hit the mark with his inclusion of picture-in-picture multiple scene framing. The juxtaposition - and movement of - these frames on screen is effective in that the viewer could be simultaneously watching a film and reading a comic book.A cool and creepy horror film that recaptures the 1950s E.C. Comics with cinematic perfection! Features a young Joe (Hill) King (star of the wraparound story and cover of the subsequent graphic novel) reading his very own copy of Creepshow, immortalized in comic book literature and the horror hall of movie fame.That's why God made fathers, babe. That's why God made fathers.Matthew J Lee-Williams, Review, UK. "}{"Title":"The greatest horror anthology of all-time. A very memorable classic!","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I must say that 1982's Creepshow is without a doubt one of my favorite movies, I've watched it countless times over the years. It's well stored in my memory I know it line by line and scene by scene the thrills, chills, suspense, and fun that happens with an all-star cast it has is unmatched in quality. And the fact that two masters of horror with George A. Romero directing and Stephen King writing the stories this tag team really scored a gem here that will live on as a classic.The film starts off with a nice little prologue actually King's real life son stars as a little boy who is just punished after his dad finds him with a Creepshow comic book, then the film shifts briefly to a colored live action cartoon when the comic book is thrown outside the pages are blown open by wind a cool stormy night and that introduces the viewer back to the stories in real color, yet it was a nice brief glimpse of some cool animation.First up the film starts off nice and neat with Father's Day a well paced and nicely timed story of revenge. It centers around a rich and spoiled family of wealth who have a hidden secret involving it's oldest living member Bedelia Grantham(Viveca Lindfors) who seven years earlier smashed her ungrateful father's head in with an ashtray just because he gave her problems over a father's day cake! Yet as you see in the story the real reason as a family member told was that Bedelia sought revenge after father Nathan had her beau killed. So upon Bedelia's arrival to join the family the unexpected happens at the cemetery visit and soon one by one her father is on his way to getting his father's day cake! Good revenge tale and look for Ed Harris who has a small part in this segment.Second segment is The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verill which stars the horror master novelist himself Stephen King. Here King plays Jordy Verill a lonely hillbilly and country farmer type who one night sees a flashing meteor hit his yard. Qucikly he thinks by examining and exploring this he can earn money by taking his find to a local college, yet after being to curious he finds that this object likes to grow and grow more and more green! Before you know it his whole farm and house is green including himself as he turns to a moss man and human weed! Sad and tragic ending for a lonely and likable guy.Next is my favorite segment Something to Tide You Over because of it's star power and setting at an oceanside beach involving a messy love triangle. Leslie Nielsen here is in an uncommonly cruel role yet it works as Richard Vickers who finds that his wife Becky has been cheating with a younger and more handsome man Harry(Ted Danson before his Cheers fame) so Richard decides to take matters into his own hands and not divorce court! By driving Harry out to the Jersey shore and burying up to his neck in sand, and then free of charge he gets to watch Becky soak in the tide while he must face the roaring tide current himself face first! The segment takes a twist in the end as Richard must face the sand and tide face first after he's visited by two sea monsters with revenge on mind. Well done my favorite.Then the longest and most drawn out segment The Crate had star power too with Hal Holbrook as a college professor who's married to a witch of a wife the cruel and outspoken Wilma(the sexy Adrienne Barbeau) who meets the new zoology professor Stanley(Fritz Weaver). At the dorm a new discovery is made of an old ancient type box that seems odd and mysterious. Yet the suspense turns to gore and blood as an ancient beast like creature comes out with a vengeance. Some funny moments are provided yet the beast attacks are the most bloody and probably make this the most gruesome segment.Last but not least They're Creeping Up On You stars legendary character actor E.G. Marshall. Marshall is Upson Pratt a cold and cruel hearted corporate company man who will do anything to get ahead no matter how many people he stabs in the back. Marshall does this role so well as his character is such a bigot and racist, yet one little problem he's got a bad phobia of germs and his apartment has a big problem of roaches! Remembering this episode from a kid it's comical as this segment had the most cursing and bad language yet it fit E.G.'s character so well. Finally this cold hearted guy meets his end as he's warmed up by an army of roaches! This episode could be the most realistic of the five as this incident could happen to anyone, but probably in a scaled down form.So that's it as you can tell by my in depth comment on each I know this film well and have seen it a lot from childhood to adulthood. One of my favorites that is staying a lasting classic. Creepshow is blended so well with comedy, suspense, revenge, and great acting with super stories it just worked so well when King and Romero teamed up in 1982 the wrap around even ends nicely with the little boy getting his revenge. I wish more movies today were made like this. Creepshow stills holds up today in the modern movie world as a classic. "},{"Title":"Completely entertaining.","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Movies based on Stephen King writings are pretty hit and miss. This collection of five short horror tales absolutely hits the mark. Many of King's celluloid failures can be attributed to poor direction and casting. With Creepshow, we have a skilled director (Romero) and a wonderfully layered cast of older and up-and-coming actors. The film is intended to look like a comic book in terms of angles and lighting, but it doesn't go over the top like say, Dick Tracy from 1990. The film is genuinely frightening, suspenseful, funny, and gory when it needs to be. The film begins and ends with the story of an abusive father and the revenge taken by his son after the father throws out his comic book containing these five stories. The stories are all somewhat different in tone and structure, but they are all at least somewhat effective.The first story entitled Father's Day is kind of on the goofy side. There really isn't a whole lot to it, and it kind of serves as a warm-up act. The focus of the story is a deceased patriarch rising from his grave and demanding the cake he was denied when he was murdered by his daughter on Father's Day. Look out for a young Ed Harris who gets crushed by an enormous headstone. There are some scares in this one, but it's more silly than anything else.Stephen King is the star of the next story entitled The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill. In it, he plays a hillbilly who comes in contact with a meteorite that lands on his property. After touching it with his bare hands and burning his fingers, he attempts to cool it off with a bucket of water. The results are somewhat funny, and nothing is particularly frightening about this story. King is a hoot, but the way he eventually dies is actually kind of depressing. Poor guy! The third story entitled Something to Tide You Over is one of the best. Leslie Neilson plays a sadistic rich man out to torment his wife and her lover (a young Ted Danson) by burying them up to their necks on the beach while the tide comes in over them. Even though Neilson is playing a dirty SOB, you can see the lighthearted side of him just dying to come out. It's really a pretty neat story, though rather predictable. The ending is decidedly unsettling.The Crate is next, and it's a long one compared to the others. The terrific cast including Hal Holbrook, Fritz Weaver, and Adrienne Barbeau are very good, but this one needed some tightening. The payoffs are quick and gory, but it takes maybe too long to get to the conclusion. This episode has some very tense moments, as well as some very funny ones.Finally, we have They're Creeping Up On You. This one is perhaps my favorite. It has E. G. Marshall playing a Howard Hughes type germophobe living in a supposedly germ-proof penthouse. Trouble is, there seems to be a cockroach scurrying across the floor or counter in every scene. We get a sense for just what a creep this man is by hearing him conduct business over the phone and make various demands of those who work for him. He is a really foul-mouthed chap whose world comes crashing down once the power goes out in his building. The final scene is absolutely disgusting and has to hold some kind of record for most roaches ever on one set. This segment is quick, funny, and very creepy.The work as a whole is worth at least 9 of 10 stars. Don't miss it! The Hound. "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool. Good Special Effects","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is a collection of five horror short films each having an emphasis on some specific type of fear or phobia. If you are afraid of being buried alive, bugs(especially cockroaches), monsters, or death, you probably shouldn't watch this. I found it to be pretty neat. Nothing too special, but pretty cool. If you liked Tales from the Crypt, this is sort of in the same vein.I won't say too much else about this movie because i can't really say anything that hasn't been said before. However, I will say that the second story entitled THE LONESOME DEATH OF JORDY VARRILL has one of the creepiest ideas ever. Imagine a meteor landing in your backyard and you decide to touch it and before you know it your home, your stuff, and your body quickly starts getting messed up with some sort of outer space substance and you eventually get so covered with the stuff and can't see or hear and then die in a lonely plain full of nasty green alien stuff. I think that it's one of the creepiest deaths ever depicted on film. "},{"Title":"Actually Scared Me!","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nowadays you don't get a good horror movie, but this... this... movie actually kinda scared me. You got to horror masters, that both have classic movies and they're both writing in this. Its got 5 little shorts and each of the are... well creepy... just as the title suggests Creepshow. Overall a good movie, and pretty scary. I'd definitely go see it. A good movie to show youngsters too, because it'll creep out your little brothers and sisters, I saw this at young age as well, and it stuck with me and even when i watch it now at an older age its still pretty scary. Its got good angles, good make up, and pretty good sound track, which is very important in a good horror movie. Good movie. A must see if you like horror movies. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With a flood of substandard horror films, and remakes, coming out year after year it's nice to look back into my DVD collection and time after time I always come back to Creepshow. Not only is it directed by horror legend George Romero, but it's actually a movie that does justice to Stephen King's writings. The stories are simple, but oh so effective; A zombie comes back to life, a plant grows on a hick, more zombies come back to life, a monster lives in a crate, and a rich guy has a bug infestation. All quite simple, but that is the beauty of Creepshow. The way that the stories are told and how King and Romero turn them into living cartoons, in the vein of the Tales from the Crypt comic books, is so much fun to watch and the actors, including Leslie Neilsen, Hal Halbrook, and E.G. Marshall, look like they are having so much fun portraying their characters and that's the difference between horror movies now and this movie; the actors are having fun acting like lunatics. Aside from the acting you can't forget the music, which is probably some of the best horror movie music next to the original Halloween soundtrack. If you took the music away from this movie and put in a standard John Williams-type fare, this film would lose so much. Just the music cues in Father's Day and The Crate alone are enough to raise the hair on the back of my neck. So, in case you haven't seen this movie it is a gem that gets overlooked in the horror remake and sequel culture that we are in right now. 10-10, and if I could give it more I absolutely would. "},{"Title":"One of my top 5 all time favorites.","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is really something to this film. It has charisma, something lacking in so many horror films. It is extremely grizzly in some scenes, but it never loses its style and charm. OK, its zany and immature in some ways, however, that lends a friendly vibe, making Creepshow seem innocent in the way the old Grimm's Fairy tales were.I love this scary movie. It has zombies, and monsters, and creepy crawlies, yet it also has quality actors, interesting story lines, and a wacky comic book style that will appeal to fans of movies like Tommy. The best thing about this movie is that its perfect for spooky sleepovers and you can find it for like 3 bucks online in good condition. "},{"Title":"It's the morality-play thing","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not scary...unless you're claustrophobic, in which case the Ted Danson/Leslie Nielsen sequence will bug you out. (Yes, Ted Danson and Leslie Nielsen in a George Romero movie) I of course am an absolute freak about Romero, who is an artist AND a moral philosopher. This is no masterpiece that's for sure, but it succeeds in its project of capturing the spirit of the old EC horror comics. It's not just the visual sense, or the way people stand there stupidly waiting to be eaten/dismembered/squished with their mouth hanging open. It's the morality-play thing, which is so intrinsic to these comics and so little remarked upon. The henpecked husband, the dumb rube, and the eternally rotting patriarch are just perfect renderings of this aesthetic, and the movie puts on a very subtle ironic distance from the more problematic aspects of these types while staying faithful to the originals. "},{"Title":"Fun Cinema","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First off, Creepshow is nothing but totally pure,unadulterated fun cinema.There's something wrong with anybody that doesn't get a bang out of this.Directed by George Romero, and written by horror mastermind Stephen King, Creepshow is sort of molded after the old EC horror comics.In my opinion, Creepshow is carried and made enjoyable mostly by two of its five yarns.Hal Holbrook does a fine job in The Crate, which was the fourth out of the five yarns. My two definite favorites of the bunch,though, are Something to Tide You Over and They're Creeping Up on You.These two are the classics that make Creepshow really,really fun.Whenever this flick is shown on standard television, that last sequence is always omitted.In my absolute favorite story of the bunch, Leslie Nielson was Ingenious in Something to Tide You Over, as Richard Vickers, a jealous husband who disposes of his cheating wife and her mate, Harry Wentworth, (Ted Danson) with much planning and in very,very unique fashion.I loved the guy in this film, he was just a treat! EG Marshall finishes things off in They're Creeping Upon Youas a an uncaring, wealthy misanthrope who lives in a germ proof penthouse apartment but gets infested with cockroaches that seemingly cannot be traced to any source or gotten rid of.He even ends up finding roaches in a Raisen Bran-type of cereal he was consuming.This final segment also has Marshall firing off some cut-throat,yet comical remarks. "},{"Title":"Why Most Horror Anthologies Suck...And This One Doesn't!","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To have a good horror anthology, you MUST have the following ingredients --Original or source material that's halfway decent.--A talented cast that can do more than just act their way out of a paper bag.--A director who has at least some knowledge of how to maintain a consistent tone throughout the movie.VERY rarely does any horror film, (or any film, for that matter) hit the magic 'trifecta.' CREEPSHOW happened to luck out in all three areas, and then went on to excel in so many more ways than that.Basically a blood-spattered love letter to William Gaines' notorious '50's comic serials like TALES FROM THE CRYPT and THE VAULT OF HORROR, lifelong fans George Romero, Stephen King and Tom Savini joined forces to make what is basically the best collection of its kind. Better still for the whole project, is how they managed to sign on some great actors who were, in turn, staunch fans of Romero who'd been dying to work with him and LEAPED at the chance!!! Based on original material and short stories by The King, CREEPSHOW is deliciously packaged in a ghoulish wraparound tale that a lot of us can relate to. A macho tool of a father (Tom Atkins) severely chastises his son (King's real-life son, Joe), when he catches him reading a copy of the deliciously diabolical CREEPSHOW comic book and throws it out. You think Daddy overreacted a bit? Wait until you see him get his, as the horrific host of the book's spooky stories, The Creep, comes to leering life and invites us to watch the torrid tales of terror unfold before our widened eyes...FATHER'S DAY Lucky Henry (Ed Harris) gets to spend some quality time with his girl-fiend Cass and her rancid relatives, (Elizabeth Regan, Warner Shook and a great turn of trademark bitchiness by the late Carrie Nye). The greedy, grasping Grantham family is celebrating the seven-year anniversary of the death of their nasty patriarch, Nathan (Jon Lormer) on Father's Day, at the hands of his unstable daughter, Bedelia (Viveca Lindfors.) THIS Father's Day, however, will mark the unexpected, UN-dead appearance of the guest-of-honor...who wants to have his cake and BLEED it, too...THE LONESOME DEATH OF JORDY VERILL The Author Himself takes on the role of a redneck who would make the hillbillies from DELIVERANCE look like Rhodes scholars. Jordy makes contact with a small meteorite, resulting in deadly consequences...Let's just say he's one nincompoop who turns stupidity into a 'growth' industry...SOMETHING TO TIDE YOU OVER Before THE NAKED GUN and CHEERS would make them household names, TV and movie vet Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson star as Richard, a pathologically possessive husband and Harry, the man sleeping with said husband's wife (DAWN OF THE DEAD'S Gaylen Ross), respectively. Nielsen's character devises a diabolical punishment for the cheating lovers that he feels suits their crime, never dreaming that one grim turn will deserve another...THE CRATE The longest and best of all the episodes. Hal Holbrook stars as a college prof with the Shrew From Hell for a wife, (Adrienne Barbeau, playing it marvelously against type.) As his BFF, Fritz Weaver can only offer his sympathies, but a crate underneath some stairs in his lab is about to pose one helluva problem for him and several doomed people...and an ultimate solution for his harried friend...THEY'RE CREEPING UP ON YOU The final episode and the one that had people talking - and GAGGING - after the movie, stars the late, great E.G. Marshall. He sinks his teeth into a virtual one-man piece about evil industrialist and 'germophobe' Upson Pratt, who considers everyone else to be nothing more than useless vermin, like bugs to be squashed under his heel. But if you think that every dog has his day, wait until you see what REALLY 'bugs' Mr. Pratt...And there you have it, as the conclusion to the wraparound story brings CREEPSHOW to a satisfying end. Every department was firing on all cylinders here, with photography, acting, a marvelous score by regular Romero associate John Harrison, and direction as OTT as it should be when a comic book comes to life on the screen.No Oscars for this one, of course, but it's great fun for what it is. Just go with it and have a good time... "},{"Title":"I love the animation","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my top 5 all time favorite movies. About the animation It is about as cool as it gets.. grim, black, almost 'Satanic'.. I also love the animation in Creepshow 2..Does anybody know if there are films which feature this style of evil animation? Does anybody know the name of the animator who did the drawings for Creepshow 1? I hope for a Creepshow special edition, like most of the fans.. and I hope they include bonus animation material that may have been deleted.. that would be incredible! Nuff said, -Mike "}{"Title":"Classic EC Comic Collaboration","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" CREEPSHOW is one of the best comic book movies ever and Romero was ahead of his time in terms of lighting and framing scenes like colorful panels.While the stories are a bit uneven and some lack the prerequisite karmic brutal justice, there's something enjoyable in each one, whether it's the skeletal Father coming from the grave; Stephen King's fun, bizarre redneck performance; Leslie Nielson in top rare bad guy form; a waterlogged Ted Danson ghoul; and the great Crate tale with fine acting from Hal Holbrook, Fritz Weaver and especially Adriene Barbeau. The final story has EG Marshall in a solo field day as a bugged bastard who gets exactly what he deserves. Maestro Tom Savini's make-up is wonderfully inventive, the synth score is quite effective and the film has a fantastic EC comics sensibility.This is well worth owning, one of Romero and King's best films. Happily, it was a box office hit in the day too. Sadly, the result was CREEPSHOW 2. nuff said. "},{"Title":"repetitive prop appearance","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the first tale (Father's Day), the murder weapon (marble ashtray) is given the spotlight while the murder is being described. Then, it makes an appearance in each successive tale. (Jordy Verril) It appears on the desk next to the cash box at the Dept. of Meteors. (Something to Tide You Over) It appears on the night stand in Richards bedroom. He even sets his drink down right next to it. (The Crate) It appears on the desk in Henry's study while he is writing his note to Wilma. (Creeping Up On You) It appears in the bathroom as a soap dish. And, it even makes another appearance on the dresser in the little boy's room in the final scene while he's playing with the voodoo doll. "},{"Title":"A lot for a creep to love","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of Romero's best, referencing gruesome horror comics as well as the horror anthology films that became a monster-movie staple in the 70s. While movies like Tales From The Crypt and The House That Dripped Blood were inspired by comic books, Romero was unique in that he tried to emulate their visual style as well, using garish lighting techniques and even more over-the-top acting.Naturally, besides Romero's direction, it is Stephen King's ideas that also make this work. King understands the bizarre quality of the E.C. comics, which often were simply morality plays that warned the reader that swift, horrible death would come to those who did wrong, especially if we were talking about revenge from beyond the grave.In Father's Day, the long-deceased patriarch of a clan of wealthy snobs crawls out of the grave as a rotting corpse to murder the greedy relatives who conspired to keep his murder a secret. Something To Tide You Over finds revenge visited on all parties involved in an adulterous relationship; first the jilted husband murders his wife and her lover in a horrible way, then the dead man and woman return as zombies to drag the husband to his death as well. The Crate features a harassed husband getting rid of his shrewish wife by feeding her to a convenient monster. They're Creeping Up On You has E.G. Marshall as a greedy Howard Hughes type millionaire who finds his meanness visited on him by a horde of cockroaches. Only The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill doesn't involve a question of morality; the only crime that Jordy could be convicted of is first-degree stupidity. His hairbrained scheme to sell a crashed meteor for $200 goes awry, and he winds up fatally covered in alien vegetation.Another important element of the movie is the amazing cast they assembled for this. Most of the performances are really, really good, with the standouts being Adrienne Barbeau as the wife you love to hate in Crate, Leslie Nielsen's jolly, revenge-obsessed characterization in Tide, and Viveca Lindfors as loony Aunt Bedilia in Father's Day.The monsters are fantastic, too, especially the Crate creature. If the dummy of E.G. Marshall at the conclusion of Tide seems just a tad fake, the sight of hundreds of cockroaches streaming from inside of it is enough to give anybody the creeps. "},{"Title":"Creepshow","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Distributor Warner Bros. DVD Plot Stephen King and George A. Romero conjure up 5 shocking tales each with the style of a 50's comic book. A murdered man emerges from the grave, a meteor's ooze makes everything grow, a professor selects his wife as a snack for a crated creature, a scheming husband plants 2 lovers up to their necks in terror, and a millionaire with a phobia of insects becomes the prey of a cockroach army. All topped off with special effects from Tom Savini. Let the CREEPSHOW begin.Audio/Video Excellent quality DVD from Warner Brothers.Extras Theatrical Trailer Final Thoughts This is a cool horror gem from the early 80's. Pick up the DVD now. They sell for really cheap. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Just call me Billie, everyone does.","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King and George Romero combined their talents to create the 1982 horror/comedy anthology Creepshow. They do an excellent job of giving the whole movie 50s/60s pulp magazine feel to it. Short stories, vibrant colors, and a nice wrap around sequence contribute to this feeling. Like those pulp magazines, Creepshow is divided into segments or short stories &#150; five to be exact. While some are more entertaining than others, none are unwatchable.1. Father's Day &#150; A murdered man returns from the grave to get his cake. The special effects are the highlight of this segment. It may not be as scary as I would like, but it's reasonably entertaining. Rating &#150; 6/10.2. The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill &#150; A man gets a little to close to a meteorite and finds himself being transformed into a plant. This segment is played for laughs, but unfortunately, none of them work. Stephen King stars as Jordy Verrill. This vignette might have been better with a real actor instead of King. Rating &#150; 4/10.3. Something to Tide You Over &#150; A man uses the tides to do away with his cheating wife and her lover. If this segment weren't so predictable, it would be among the best. Tom Savini's makeup is the real star of this segment. Rating &#150; 6/10.4. The Crate &#150; A henpecked professor uses the contents of an old, forgotten about crate to help him with his problems. This is easily the highlight of the movie and would have made a nice feature length movie by itself. Adrienne Barbeau and Hal Holbrook star and are both great. The creature effects and design are a winner. Rating &#150; 8/10.5. They're Creeping Up On You &#150; A man with a cockroach phobia finds his home inundated by cockroaches. E.G. Marshall is good enough in the portion of the movie, but I find it dull. This vignette does have a great set design, though. Rating &#150; 4/10 If you average the ratings I've given the individual segments, you'll come up with my overall rating of a 6/10. As you can see, I find Creepshow very hit-or-miss. If the entire film were as good as The Crate, it would easily be on the list of my favorite horror movies. "},{"Title":"It Will Creep You To Death","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was a perfectly balanced movie of Stephen Kings' writings and George A. Romeros' special effects and great directing when making this movie.These five stories on the movie was scary,spooky,and very disgusting creatures they became.First monster/creature was a Father who die and it was father's day and the relatives wanted his money.So because of becoming selfish and cruel he came back from the grave and killed them all.Next was a meteor that landed on a old mans' house and this stuff inside it caused him to become a giant walking plant monster.After that was a couple that was visited by a man who made them burier themselves and then they drowned.So then their ghosts came toget him and to burier himself and see how long he could hold his breath.Then the next story was about a man who found a crate and inside was a monster that ate people and he decided to dump it on the river,but the crate opened and know he will get his revenge.The last story was a man who hated people and cockroach so he got a house that kept away roaches.But it attracted a full house of crouches and the tables have turned,he was now killed.And a great ending when a kid that got a voodoo doll of his dad and try-ed to kill him.His was real strange imagination that this two horror people had,together crates one great horror movie that is grouse than you imagined. "},{"Title":"Long Live Creepshow","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is the first to have me scared and laugh at the same time. To have five stories and a wrap around plot line that resembles a classic Tale From The Crypt comic book is sheer brilliant. Stephen King (master horror writer) starring in his own movie and George A. Romero (master director) directing with Tom Savini (make up guru) on make up is also brilliant especially adapting comic feel to real acting. The first story of the gory corpse coming back to life getting revenge for Father's Day cake is a direct horror masterpiece. Funny To See Ed Harris In This Early Role He Protrays. The second story of Jordy Verell being over run with space weeds was good. A bit slow story wise, but still good nonetheless. Not To Mention How Stephen King Himself Made The Lead Character His Own, Technically It Is His. Third story involving two lovers getting killed only to comeback and drown their killer could have been acted a bit better and more creature time is what could have made this one better. Seeing Leslie Neilsen and Ted Danson In This Story Was Weird, Funny But Weird. The Crate, fourth story, is the best of all the stories especially with the monster monkey killing its victims with no remorse and leaving no evidence. Leaves you thinking, what if the creature escapes and comes back. Story and make up along with great directing make this classic creature horror at its best. Tom Savini Did Magnificent Work On The Make-Up Effects Here. The fifth story no surprise since bugs are the real killers here. Rich snob hates bugs, bugs kill snob, bugs win the day. Left me fearing bugs for three months. In the end, Creepshow is a classic horror film that should not be missed by any horror fan, though tame by today's standards it still holds thrills and chills up and down your spine. "},{"Title":"A great flick for Halloween!","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As just any movie, perhaps a 6/10. But it's that time of year, it's October 30th, one day before the ghost and ghouls are unleashed from the pits of hell to walk amongst us for one day! The Creep Show is a great movie, definitely a classic and should be enjoyable to most. The entire movie is dated to the 80s time frame, and that period will be unmistakable. A multitude of well known movies stars (some still very popular, some dead!) are featured in the 5 stories of hell unleashed in which you are about to partake.It's fun and creepy. It'll scare the kiddies, and give adults a thrill. I know I've seen The Creepshow 2, but honestly if I remember right this one is worth viewing again verse seeing the 2nd one.Perfect for All Hallows Eve....mmuuhahahahahahhahahahahahh 10/10 for Halloween 6/10 for the rest of the year "},{"Title":"PERFECT! GREAT! EXCELLENT!... and triple that!!!","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow has got to be one of the best movies that contain multiple short stories. It's only downfall, I think, was The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, the only comical story in this series of horror stories. The rest of the stories couldn't be better. My favorite was Father's Day and then They're Creeping up on You. I loved E.G. Marshall as Upson Pratt. The Crate creature was done with well design and actually looked very of similar to the one in the (comic) book. Aside from the fact that it had a real crappy sequel and now even a really bad 3rd installment (why don't these people just stop already?), Creepshow has real talent. From the actors to the ghouls that terrify them, Creepshoe has real class. You don't see movies like this anymore. Thank GOD the sequel didn't bring this original great piece of film goodness down with it like so many others. Can anyone say 'A Nightmare on Elm Street? Perhaps 'Friday the 13th? people have the tendency to only see the sequel or one of the sequels to a movie and if it sucks they have no interest in seeing the original. the original Creepshow has an ensambled cast of very well know and established actors. In Creepshow 2 I had no idea who I was watching, with the exception Stephen King as a truck driver in the story 'The Hitchhiker'. I just can't believe Stephen King would honestly be a part of this mess. Unbelievable. But if you are a true fan of horror, Creepshow is your movie. If you just want something FUN to watch, Creepshow is your movie. It you want to be entertained until the very end, (guess what?) Creepshow is your movie. Lined with great characters such as Leslie Nielson (in a serious roll), E.G. Marshall, Adrienne Barbeau, Hal Holbrook, Ted Danson, and even Stephen King, Creepshow is pure entertainment right down to the very end. And the cartoon skeleton was pretty neat too. "},{"Title":"A great achievement in movie making.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I live in a small town in the Uk called Skelmersdale. Way back in March 1983 I saw a poster for Creepshow advertised at my local cinema, (which has for sometime now ceased being used as a cinema and is now a bingo hall.) At the time (1983) the film ET was widely publicised over here. However I had never heard of the film Creepshow anywhere not even in the general media until I saw the poster at the cinema advertising it. I liked the look of the poster so thought Id go and watch the movie the week the cinema started to show it. There were 2 films shown at the time with the film Screamtime as a support film followed by Creepshow which was the main film. After only a few minutes into the film I could hardly believe what I was seeing. Live action turning into animation then back into live action when the stories from the Creepshow comic book started to unfold. I couldn't keep my eyes off the screen and whilst watching the movie I could not understand as to why this film was never given any publicity over here. I was becoming so absorbed in the movie as I was on the edge of my seat in the story The crate that when Henry was chaining up the crate with Fluffy the gorilla still inside I thought it was gonna break out of the crate and get him. I was also very impressed with the use of colour filters in the story to minimise the gore factor as it was passed a AA certificate over here. Also the continuity factor as between each story pages from the book are shown with readers letters and adverts etc and you briefly see an ad for a voodoo doll where the order form has been cut out from the comic,as this comes into significance at the end of the movie where the young boy (seen at the start of the film) extracts revenge on his father for throwing away his precious comic book. I noticed the sound in the cinema was quite low and I had slight difficulty hearing parts of the film, even though there were only about 5 patrons including myself in the cinema at the time. After the movie was finished I headed home and could not take my mind off what I'd seen. I knew I had to go back and see it again before the end of the week before the cinema stopped showing it. I couldn't wait to tell my pals about it but alas most of my pals didn't have the same feeling for the film that I had (and still do). The only story in my opinion that was quite week was The Lonesome Death Of Jordy Verill but overall this did not prevent me from making a second visit to my local movie house. George Romero has made some great movies especially the zombie trilogies,and deserves a handshake but for directing Creepshow he deserves an even BIGGER handshake. Full marks to the cast and crew for the production of this movie. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece of terror","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm still to this day not sure if this is more of a comedy or a horror movie. Either way this is a great film that needs to be in the record books. This movie not only shows the creative side of both King and Romero but it also displays a thrilling horror movie in 5 fun ways. I thought that the best story was that of Stephen King himself was a character. It was also very exciting to see Leslie Neilson as a bad guy. He usually plays in comedy's or spoofs. But this was a delight to see some of his earlier stuff as well. This is definitely a movie to check out and buy. I think its only like 5 bucks at target or something. But if your looking for a scary movie that isn't filled with pornography, shotty story lines, lousy actors, or just blood and gore effect than you need to check this one out. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of terror","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm still to this day not sure if this is more of a comedy or a horror movie. Either way this is a great film that needs to be in the record books. This movie not only shows the creative side of both King and Romero but it also displays a thrilling horror movie in 5 fun ways. I thought that the best story was that of Stephen King himself was a character. It was also very exciting to see Leslie Neilson as a bad guy. He usually plays in comedy's or spoofs. But this was a delight to see some of his earlier stuff as well. This is definitely a movie to check out and buy. I think its only like 5 bucks at target or something. But if your looking for a scary movie that isn't filled with pornography, shotty story lines, lousy actors, or just blood and gore effect than you need to check this one out. "},{"Title":"They don't make movies like they used to","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm just finished watching Creepshow, A Horror Movie made in 1982 directed by George A Romero and with a screenplay by Stephen King. I put the two names together and started thinking. We have a director who appears to be on a roll after making Dawn of the Dead the highly successful sequel of the smash hit Night of the Living Dead And then we have the screenplay written by Steven King, A horror book writer who at this point is so drunk and coked up that he's pumping out book after book that sells millions and millions of copies. And I instantly knew that we had a winner. When I read in Fangoria that Special effects master Tom Savini did work on this film I just couldn't take it and I went on one of my weekly raids at the video store. and my title says it all. They really don't make movies like they used to. The plot line is based off of a comic book series of the same name and they stretched it out over 5 Stories that I feel all had the right length, time, gore, point to story, and even a little humor thrown in. Very well done and a must see for all true horror fans. "},{"Title":"A great way to spend an evening.","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This video contains five short stories (based on EC comics horror-type tales), all involving horror of some kind or another.The first concerns a tyrannical father who returns from the dead to avenge himself after he never received his Father's Day cake. Then there is the story of a murderous businessman who, having drowned his wife and her lover by burying them up to their necks in sand on the beach and leaving them to drown when the tide comes in, is visited by the pair of them when they return from the dead for revenge. Other stories involve Stephen King starring as a man who turns into a plant. Then there is a story which concerns a mysterious beast in a crate, and a tale of a man who has daydreams in which he kills his overbearing wife in various inventive ways.This compilation of stories, combined by between-story glimpses of a horror comic book, never fails to be anything but entertaining. "},{"Title":"Excellent horror movie, but what does the Creep say?","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This isn't really a review so much as it is talking about what the Creep says before each story. When we see the title of each segment, we see a written paragraph from the Creep, but then we pass it by before we can read it. Watching this on tape, I paused at each title sequence and wrote down what is said.Heh, heh! Greetings kiddies, and welcome to the first issue of Creepshow, the magazine that dares to answer the question Who goes there? (FATHER'S DAY) Heh, Heh! Hello again kiddies...My last story was so grim it even frightened me! So I decided to head for the hills...you know the other side of the mountain where the grass is always greener...heh heh... which brings to mind another tale.(Here there is a picture of the Creep watering a plant.) THE LONESOME DEATH OF JORDY VERILL Heh, heh! Hello again kiddies! My last story was so grueling I thought I'd take a vacation...A little trip to the seashore. Of course, this reminds me of another awful ancepote. But the tide's coming in, so I'd better get started. I call this one...SOMETHING TO TIDE YOU OVER Heh, heh! Welcome, kiddies...I don't know about you but I'm feeling a bit edgy! Maybe I'm still feeling the effects of our last story, or maybe it's just because I haven't been out in a long time. That's it! I've got that boxed in feeling, Heh heh! Which reminds me of another tale in my lurid lexicon. A little fem fable called...THE CRATE (At the end of The Crate, there is another quick blurb from the Creep) Heh, heh! You can't drown your fears that easily, Henry! On to our next tale...Heh, heh! Well, kiddies...it seems you caught me moonlighting! Let me tell you, this job is enough to drive you bugs! The li'l suckers hide everywhere! Take it from me, kiddies, you've gotta stay alert, because...(Here we see the Creep with a safari hat standing by a spider web; odd, since the last story has nothing to do with spiders.) THEY'RE CREEPING UP ON YOU! "},{"Title":"Creepshow is quite possibly the best movie ever.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, at least to me. Creepshow was released in 1982. I saw this movie when it came out. My parents took me to see it because they had no babysitter. I came out of the movie unable to sleep for about three days. It was incredibly scary to a two-year old. I still remembered the movie as I got older and purchased my first copy on VHS. Still loved it. The cast, which is a very interesting one, keeps things flowing incredibly. Among the great names included here are Leslie Nielsen (who has a brilliant turn as a less-than-good guy), Ted Dansen, Gaylen Ross, whom horror heads may remember from the original Dawn Of The Dead, Adrienne Barbeau of The Fog fame, and a young Ed Harris, whom would go on to star making turns in Apollo 13, pollack, and many more. Young talent abounds, and Tom Savini's makeup and effects are top-notch. The superstar team of George A Romero and Stephen King, as director and writer respectively, is nothing less than perfect. One could hope that these two will work together again sometime. If you're looking for a horror movie that doesn't take itself too seriously, then Creepshow is the movie for you. If not, well there's always mainstream... "},{"Title":"Damion Crowley Review of Creepshow  How Creep It Is!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Purchased the DVD and rewatched the movie for the first time in a long time, and it is a movie that preserves its high quality surprisingly well.A collection of short horror stories, based on the old EC horror comics format, Stephen King and George Romero and Tom Savini seem to be have a lot of fun with this gore fest.  The live action stories are briefly threaded, prologued and epilogued with comic book style panels and art. The stories are all very entertaining and picture a lot of early performances by now moderately popular actors, and some actors on the verge of retirement.  The graphic were OK for the era, and most of the comedic elements of the horror are comedic on purpose. The stories are well written, and the odd balance between fear and hilarity is walked by the players and audience alike.  Despite camp appearance, there is genuine horror in this movie and the cartoon-esque direction and comedy accentuates this almost perfectly. The only real complaints to be had are the remarkable similarity in story themes (two zombie shorts, two tales of being overtaken by something minute but unstoppable, plus one about a mysterious beast).  The specific target audience that the movie is written for will probably also limit its appeal.Using the whole number rating, I'd have to give it an eight, but if I could I would give it a 7.8 on IMDB.Damion Crowley "},{"Title":"GOOD GOD, WHAT A CLASSIC!!","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this film so much its painful.  I first saw it when I was about 6 (maybe even younger)and I have loved it ever since.  I'm a huge George Romero fan (the dead trilogy is a work of art) and this beauty certainly doesn't disappoint.  I can't decide which story is the best, both Something To Tide You Over and The Crate scared me to bits when I was younger though. The moment in Father's Day when the corpse of Mrs Danvers falls against the window makes me laugh so hard I almost foul myself.  This truly is the greatest anthology movie ever made (the sequel was good but it didn't have the same magic as the first).  When will they release it on DVD in the UK? Oh and before I go I have just one more question.....WHERE'S MY CAKE???!!! BRING ON CREEPSHOW 3!!!  "},{"Title":"Buy it, Watch it, Love it","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is so much that can be said about this movie that may offend some or intrigue some.  First, I would definately put this movie in the Horror top ten.  It's got everything, suspense, gore, comedy, comic books, Tom Savini. What more can a movie ask for?  This is the best venture from Stephen King because it does not take itself too seriously.  The only thing I can say for anyone who has not seen this is the final story in the movie definately puts the CREEP in creepshow. I rate it 5/5. "},{"Title":"Creepshow so campy, it's good","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you have a couple of hours to kill, and you like horror that doesn't take itself too seriously (or seriously at all, by the looks of it), Creepshow is the movie for you. After watching this film for the first time in 10 years, I never realized how many stars were in it! Ed Harris, Adrienne Barboa, Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, and Steven King (if he wrote it, you KNOW he's in it!) are just a few of the stars that grace this good-natured, campy horror flick.I endorse Creepshow. I will admit it isn't an epic, but it is definitely fun, above all else. I mean, where else will you see a corpse creep out of a grave exclaiming, I...want...my...CAKE!? "}{"Title":"The best of both worlds...","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say about the pair that brought this movie into existence.  You have writer Stephen King and director George A. Romero.  The best in their respective fields, if you ask me.  This feature is divided into five different tales of horror, in the style of 50's comic movies.  First, you have Father's Day, which is about the ultimate return of a scorned father.  This is probably my second favorite segment.  It stars Adrienne Barbeau and Ed Harris.  It's all about a father sent to the grave for being menacing, meddling, and over protective.  Then he returns to receive a special Father's Day wish.  Second on the list is The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, starring none other than Stephen King.  This segment has no other cast whatsoever, and let's King show his true acting ability.  He has cameos of a wide range of characters, but this one is probably the funniest.  He is a bumpkin who discovers a meteor and automatically schemes a way to get rich off of it.  But being a little dimwitted, he touches the meteor and contracts some kind of chloro-virus off of it.  He is then forced to live his dying evening getting trashed on vodka and orange juice, watching professional wrestling, and playing back past moments in his life.  He meets his ultimate end by placing a double-barrel shotgun to his head repeating Just this once......  Next, you have Something To Tide You Over.  This is the most star studded tale of them all.  Starring Leslie Nielson, Ted Danson, and Gaylen Ross (from the timeless classic Dawn of the Dead).  This is all about a husband who finds out about his wife's affair and decided to put it under him, literally.  He gathers them up, burying them to their neck in sand, and leaves them for the tide to do them in.  Little does Leslie know that he will be getting a few uninvited guests late in the evening.  This one is my favorite, by far.  Was surprised to see Nielson pull off a serious role, after all the Police Squad and Naked Gun movies.  Next, you have The Crate, a tale of a professor with a very nagging and obnoxious wife.  He is working at a college and discovers a crate in a crawlspace that has been long forgotten about.  He and the janitor decide to take a peek inside, and the janitor pays with his life for his curiosity.  Then the prof. gets the wise idea of getting his wife down to meet the specimen.  Last, and least is They're Creeping Up On You.  A story of a very wealthy and paranoid shut-in.  He has a phobia of almost everything and can't stand to touch anything that isn't sterile.  His paranoia leads him to believe that he is infested from floor to ceiling in insects.  You get to witness the worst fears coming to life on this poor soul.  But, if you read into the story, it is very well deserved.  Overall, this is a great movie.  A lot better than part 2.  All stories are based on a collection that King released in '80 or '81.  Romero read these and was ultimately inspired. And to make this package complete, Tom Savini does all the make-up special fx, and even has a cameo as a garbage man.  A lot of people think that this is a major ripoff of Tales From the Crypt.  But I have to say that it was loosely inspired by the comic series.  But all the stories are King perfection.  Don't miss out on this one.  I rate it 4/5 for the men behind the camera and the dark comedy value of it.  You can usually find this one in a bargain bin for about 4-6 bucks.  Be sure to pick this one up. "},{"Title":"Take this for what it is, and it is excellent","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many Stephen King fans are accustomed to being disappointed in the films based off of his novels, so it is refreshing to see a film that he wrote that is entertaining.  NO, this is NOT a scary horror movie, but it is for horror fans and is very enjoyable.  The Crate actually is a very good story, Adrienne Barbeau is so awesome...aww that nagging voice...anyway....  this is a very tongue in cheek type movie, and Stephen King did NOT have bad acting (in my humble opinion), he just did as he always has, made a cameo in a movie he wrote.  And now I recommend that after you watch this, you put in Creepshow 2, and pay extra attention to The Raft, and The Hitchhiker......ooooooohhhhh soooooo goood..........  DON'T TAKE THIS STUFF TOO SERIOUSLY FOLKS3/5 stars "},{"Title":"Take this for what it is, and it is excellent","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many Stephen King fans are accustomed to being disappointed in the films based off of his novels, so it is refreshing to see a film that he wrote that is entertaining.  NO, this is NOT a scary horror movie, but it is for horror fans and is very enjoyable.  The Crate actually is a very good story, Adrienne Barbeau is so awesome...aww that nagging voice...anyway....  this is a very tongue in cheek type movie, and Stephen King did NOT have bad acting (in my humble opinion), he just did as he always has, made a cameo in a movie he wrote.  And now I recommend that after you watch this, you put in Creepshow 2, and pay extra attention to The Raft, and The Hitchhiker......ooooooohhhhh soooooo goood..........  DON'T TAKE THIS STUFF TOO SERIOUSLY FOLKS3/5 stars "},{"Title":"4.5 Stars!!!","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a must see.  The only stories that I did not care to much for was The Lonesome Death of Jordy Veril and Something to Tide You Over (corny) but Leslie Nelson was good in his parts.  Overall, the movie is good and watchable.  I own this movie on VHS and I have watched it like a million times. "},{"Title":"Great Movie..Possible spoiler","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I agree with the reviewer who commented on Creepshow the Crate. Tell it to call ya Billy is my favorite line in this episode.  "},{"Title":"Great horror comic book-like flick","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you enjoy reading comic books like Tales from the Crypt, then this movie is for you. The teaming up between George Romero and Stephen King is like the horror film industry version of George Lucas and Steven Spielberg(both teamed up for the Indiana Jones Saga).The 5 short stories are wonderful and has that horror comic book feel. The direction were nice, coming from Night of the Living Dead director George A Romero.You will never forget stories like The Crate and They're Creeping Up To You. Once you've see it, you'll admire the great work George and Stephen has done.A well job done from two creative horror guys. Bravo! And let me say, this movie is recommended for those who enjoyed the Tales from the Crypt comic books back in your childhood days. You won't be too disappointed with this movie.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"No stars out of four.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Five tales of terror from the masters of horror Stephen King and George A. Romero adapated from the popular comic book. The tales involve revenge, a deadly beast, a comet with unusual powers, and killer bugs. Even though it tries to remain true to the style of the comic, this is a fatally over long effort with some nasty humor and plenty of over the top acting. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This video is worth a one time rent. It is recommended for people who like classic horror and sick of fake computer generated monsters. The movie is composed of five short horror stories. The first ,third, and fourth stories are good. The third one is the best of the bunch and most scariest . It stars Ted Danson and Leslie Neilsen. Please skip the second story as it completely sucks, not scary and just plain weird. The fifth story is only scary if you hate bugs. The cartoon/comic book drawings that shift into the reality scene of each story and at the end back is really annoying and makes it less scary. Last be warned that there is so much excess profanity and useless cursing in each story that it surprised and disgusted me. "},{"Title":"Fun tales","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George Romero and Stephen King did a good job with coming up with short stories.Fathers DayA murdered man comes back from the grave to claim his belated Fathers Day cake.  My least favorite of the film, it's well acted but sluggish.Lonely Death of Jordie VerillAn idiotic farmer foolishly touches a fallen meteor than starts to grow into a moss man.  Something to Tide You OverLeslie Nielsen finds out that Ted Danson is banging his woman so what does he do.  He burys the two lovers up to their heads on the beach, just in time for the tide.  The Crate Two men open an ancient crate, but little do they know what evil is lurking on the inside.  Their Creeping up on youA millionaire with an insect phobia is naturally invaded by an army of cockroaches.  Creepy indeed.The Crate and Tide You Over were my two favorite tales.**1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie Creepshow has five different stories from a comic book that come to life. Stephen King and even his kid are in it.  A child has a very violent comic book which his dad throws away. The Creep brings it to life.  The first story, Father's Day is about a zombie who is seeking his cake that his daughter, his own murderer, never gave to him.The second one, The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrel (or something)has Stephen King himself it it! He plays a Lunk-Head farmer who finds a meteor that grows plants on whatever it touches. The third, Something To Tide You Over is about a very rich man who a beautiful wife...who has been with another man. The husband gets revenge...then it hits him in the face. The fourth and goriest one, The Crate is about an old crate that has a wolverine like monster in it.  The final story and for some strange reason my favorite, They're Creeping Up On You is about another filthy rich man who lives in a germ-free appartment. He is just like me. He HATES roaches. The evil man soon discovers that roaches are pouring in from the sink, the walls, everywhere! He also discovers that he can't kill them. (Ick!)  Creepshow is a very good movie. While the last story is a bit Yucky I still love this movie. I highly recommend it.  "}{"Title":"Pulp Fiction","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow is a unique horror film that any 1950's pulp comic book fan would appreciate. Told as 5 separate tales, Creepshow uses the comic book as a platform from which to tell the tales.The acting is not going to win any awards, but some of the stars to appear (ie Stephen King, Leslie Neilsen and Ed Harris) are rather interesting.In the same way Indiana Jones has a kind of fairy tale, adventure series feel to it, so will Creepshow take you through some bizzare situations and leave you with the typical punch or twist endings that horror comics of old were noted for.Good rent, you can watch a few pieces at a time and come back to it later. Fun movie to watch with friends.  "},{"Title":"The best you can get......","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I like this film. You have a good plot, and that is not only to scare you, but make you afraid of your enviroment. Of course, I think that of the stories, there was one that seemed familiar to one of mine and that as the story of Stephen King involving a object out of space. This sounds a lot like my story, The Colour out of Space, but beware. The best one is the one that can really happen, and that includes a roach story, that will horrify you and make you fear of your surroundings. "},{"Title":"Bizarrely fun to watch","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Synopsis Unsettling, cartoonish adaptation of classic EC comic series, with five stories as the film's backdrop. The first one tells that of a patriarch returning from beyond the grave, rotting corpse and all, in search of that one delicacy he desired to have the day he was murdered. The second is of a vengeful husband whose murder of his spouse and her lover, has an unlikely backfire on him. The third is famed author Stephen King as a dumb as nails farmer who picks up a meteor from out of space, only to discover that it wasn't such a good idea. The fourth is the story of a college professor who discovers that the thing hiding under the stairs may be the perfect antidote to getting rid of his wife. While the fifth features an evil businessman whose ultra-clean tendencies are of the obsessive compulsive kind, discovering his apartment is infested with thousands of cockroaches.The Review Very unsettling, this film is a precursor to Tales From The Crypt, the cable series. It features a stellar cast ranging from the likes of veterans Leslie Nielsen, EG Marshall, and Hal Holbrook, (who all appear in different stories) to familiar faces as Ted Danson and Adrienne Barbeau. Ed Harris is in the film as well as an ill fated boyfriend. It's a truly bizarre film that isn't so much as scary, with the exception of Holbrook's story, but campy. It's very much a comic book like film with melodramatic performances that make it so fun to watch. Grade B "},{"Title":"Fun, but uneven.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow is a fun, but uneven horror anthology. Father's Day is the first and weakest, The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill is a bit better, Something To Tide You Over is decent, The Grate is my personal favorite, and then finally They're Creeping Up On You is the second best. Overall, Creepshow is a fun, but uneven horror anthology. **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Fun horror anthology.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****A collaboration between George A. Romero and Stephen King on five short tales of terror probably would have led to expectations of a genre masterpiece.  After all, Romero directed two films that have been acclaimed as absolute horror classics by both critics and audiences (I don't think anyone else can boast that claim) and Stephen King has written some compellingly frightening novels in his time.  Well, Creepshow's no masterpiece, but whoever said it had to be?  This one's flawed and could have cleaned up some of its mistakes rather easily, but it makes for an overall fun late-night film.As in the case with many horror anthologies, they tend to have a wrap-around story that bookends the movie.  This one's pretty lame, featuring a boy (played by Joe King, son of Stephen King) receiving a scolding from his father on Halloween night because he's been reading a horror comic.  His father throws the comic away, just as a thunderstorm brews up.  And thus begins our five stories.The first one is Father's Day, which begins in a not-so-good fashion.  A rather wealthy family is awaiting the arrival Aunt Bedelia (Vivica lindfors), who's out visiting her father's grave as she does every Father's Day because of her guilt over killing him.  She just could no longer stand his constant verbal abuse and senility.  In true Romero fashion, Dad comes bursting out of his grave, and exacts his vengeance on his family.  This story gets better as it moves along, building up to a creepy and suspenseful climax, but it disappoints a bit in its final rushed and semi-campy scene, but the story's overall not bad.  You can see a young Ed Harris, too, as the unlucky guy who just happens to be married to someone in the family.The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verill is the next story.  It's a little funny to see a title give away its ending, and this title actually sounds a bit tragic.  I've even read this movie's comic book adaptation, and the tone of this tale seems to be played rather seriously, which is unlike the entire tone of this segment on film.  Stephen King plays the titular character, a hick who touches a meteor, and with unpleasant results.  This one's full all-out camp, and it's pretty damn awful, making this the worst segment of the entire film.  It is good for some laughs, though, and Stephen King's overblown acting could be endearing in an inverse manner.The third tale is called Something to Tide you Over and it's a significant improvement over Jordy Verill.  Ted Danson stars as a man who's having an affair with a rich man's (Leslie Nielsen) wife (who in some brief scenes is played by Gaylen Ross of Dawn of the Dead).  Anyway, let's just say Nielsen's not happy about it. To give anything more away would probably kill a bit of the suspense.  Suffice to say, Romero and King do a fine job of building up the momentum.  The final scenes are a let-down, however, sacrificing the suspense and scares for a goofy laugh.  Thus, this is about on par with Father's Day (maybe a bit better since it's not nearly as rushed).The fourth segment is easily the best and also, thankfully, the longest (it's around 35 minutes long, a bit over a quarter of the entire movie).  Entitled The Crate, Hal Holbrook plays a college professor with a bitchy wife (played by then John Carpenter's wife, Adrienne Barbeau)(there's even a scene where she speaks to Romero's wife, Christine), and he's always having angry thoughts about killing her.  At the same time, another professor and fellow friend played by Fritz Weaver meets with a janitor who's discovered a mysterious crate underneath the stairs.  The crate is dated back to 1834 and was brought over after an arctic expedition.  They open it up, only to discover something hideous lurking inside.  This story is easily the scariest and most suspenseful.   One scene with a student heading towards the crate itself to pull a shoe out to examine it is a good nail-biter and the pay-off is chilling.  The creature effects are only so-so, but the suggestive moments (such as the sight of the eyes and arms alone) will send chills down your spine.  The final scene to this story is the most frightening in the whole film.The last story is called They're Creeping up on you, and it stars E.G. Marshall as a cruel and wealthy man with a fear of germs and insects.  What do you know, roaches start invading his apartment in the thousands.  This one is pretty obvious from the start, which is never a very good thing, but it does you make wonder how Romero pulled off all those convincing looking roaches.  This story's mediocre, but its final scenes are gruesomely icky and creepy.Afterward, there's the end to the wrap-around story.  This one looks like it could go somewhere, but ends on a sudden abrupt note.  But it's not like anybody really cared about this part of the film in the first place.  Do look out for make-up effects man Tom Savini as a trash disposer.  This guy's got some natural fun and charisma in his acting (not here of course, but in Dawn of the Dead and From Dusk Till Dawn) and I'm surprised he hasn't starred in more horror flicks.Creepshow has some problems that all the stories suffer from.  Romero obviously wants to keep this movie in vein with the comics its inspired from, but his addition of scene transitions a la page flipping is annoying and his use of different lighting during the scare scenes are a distraction.  Plus, when the characters scream you see a comic-style background that hinders the scene a bit.  The movie as a whole doesn't have as much of a polished look and feel to the big-budget The Twilight Zone The Movie, but it's about as enjoyable as that anthology and it offers some fun chills and spills, making it a film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Just as good as in my high school days...","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie in my high school days in 1986, and I found it very entertaining, especially Something to tide you over. I reviewed it all some months ago (year 2001) with the eyes of a grown-up, but with as much fun as in my younger years.Warning! Please do not let your younger sisters or brother watch this alone. They might not understand the irony intended. "},{"Title":"Good campy fun(small spoiler)","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Stephen King and George A. Romero team up to pay homage to the horror comicbooks from their childhood and at the same time, they give us a great treat. From Father's Day to They're Creeping Up On You this movies delivers laughs and scares the whole way through. Stephen King(who's know for his fatally bad acting) delivers a great, goofy performance as Jordy in the Lonesome Death of Jordy Verill and Leslie Nielsen(who knew he could play a character that was this cruel) is wonderful in Something to Tide You Over. And as I leave you let me share my favorite scene in the whole movie with you. It is the final scene in The Crate. Henry is watching as a creature is about to have his bitch of a verbal abusing, alcoholic wife for a snack; and he finally gets one on her as he say's this Relax honey; offer it a drink and tell it to call you Billie  "},{"Title":"One cool movie","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Just to say this movie won't scare you per say but it sure is fun.  If you're looking for a horror movie that will make you have a good time and not freak you out.  This the movie to go for I rented it not thinking it would be any good but just because it had Stephen King attached and it really surprised me. "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The pairing of writer Stephen King and director George Romero works brilliantly in Creepshow, for fans of either horror master. Back in the late 80s, many of the old E.C. Comics (Tales from the Crypt, The Vault of Horror, etc.) were re-released in conjunction with the airing of HBO's Tales from the Crypt series. That series failed to deliver what Creepshow did faithfully.The film is an anthology of four tales of terror, mixed in with just the right amount of humor-- that made E.C. Comics great; not to mention are trademarks of both King and Romero. The one possible exception to this is the short in Creepshow that stars Stephen King himself-- entirely comedic, it disrupts the feeling of the rest of the film. Regardless, Creepshow comes off visually just like a comic book, which probably turns a few people off.Fans of Stephen King, George Romero, or horror films cannot afford to miss Creepshow. Everyone else, unless they can remember the E.C. Comics, should probably steer clear of this film because they just won't understand it.Recommended. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best of the eighties horror film","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George Romero is a great director. His Creepshow is a pure masterpiece in its genre. This mixture of gruesome humour and scary atmosphere contains a great deal of monsters among the best of the eighties. If you like the living dead and other fluffy creatures, this film is for you. The actors are great, the screenplay quite efficient and the music absolutely amazing . As for the director's work, well, it's a real tribute to American horror comics. BRILLIANT. "}{"Title":"OUTSTANDING!","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best horror films ever made.  I would rate this 9/10.  The only reason I don't give it a 10 is because one story (The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill sp?) is not nearly as good as the others.  But all the others are simply terrific, and the filmmakers wisely saved the best for last.  They're Creeping Up On You is perhaps the most hysterically repulsive horror short story I've seen.  I have probably seen this whole movie at least 20 times, and I'm sure I'll see it at least another 20 or so, too.  FABULOUS! "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. It is nicely made out to look like a comic-book. The stories are good. The only one that i didn't like that much was They're creeping up on you. It didn't really have a good storyline. My favorite story would have to be Something to tide you over. I can hold my breath for a long time! I recommend this to anyone that enjoys a good horror movie. "},{"Title":"Romero delivers...","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unique, classic.  Fine performances across the board help bring Romero's over the top comic book vision to life.  Hal Holbrook, Adrienne Barbeau, Ed Harris, E.G. Marshall and Leslie Neilson all bring home the goods.  Musical score is phenomenal. Romero's best. "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CREEPSHOW was one of my favorite horror movies growing up as a kid. Looking back I can see why it's a colorful, scary yet funny, live-action comic book which is a good thing since it's an homage to the EC comic books. Naturally, some of the stories are better than others...especially The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill starring Stephen King himself as a back-woods bumpkin who gets more than he bargained for when a meteor crashes on his property, and the most talked-about story The Crate. Other movie notables are Ed Harris (who actually has hair!!!) making an appearance as a disco dancing fool and Leslie Neilson as a down right nasty husband. The movie was done on a small budget so take the special effects with a grain of salt. In the end this is a satisfying little movie that is great to watch around Halloween. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Great stay-up-late Saturday night fright film","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this on cable back in the mid 80's and was glued to the TV from the very first story. This flick had more spirit to it than did the sequel, which I never cared for. The best stories here for me were Something to Tide You Over, The Crate, and Father's Day. Boy, that Leslie Nielsen can sure play an EVIL character when he wants to in Something To Tide You Over. I love the creepy music in this particular story, it really creates a mood of dread, of something gone terribly wrong. Father's Day was a lot of fun- the type of story that can make you jump, then you immediately start laughing. The Crate had good performances by Fritz Weaver, Hal Holbrook, and Adrienne Barbeau and the monster was pretty frightening! Like others have already said, this movie is a comic book on the big screen and it will be on my all-time favorite horror movie list indefinitely. Now, if Romero and King will just reunite for Creepshow 2000! "},{"Title":"Funny and twisted at the same time","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't even remember when I first saw this movie, but I know I've seen it at least 100 times, and every time I love it.  There's something really strange about Creepshow that I can't quite put my finger on.  The best way to describe Creepshow is like a comic book horror tale.  What probably makes this movie so good is that it's funny and twisted at the same time. Especially Leslie Nielsen's character.  My favorite stories are Father's Day, the comet, and the Crate.  "},{"Title":"A movie that has it all--well, all it aims for, anyway.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow has been one of my Top 10 for years. Sure, it's not a weighty exploration of the meaning of life... just a fun, stylish movie whose elements mesh together beautifully. The music, visuals, dialogue--and of course, the incredible cast--make it a show I can watch again and again. The sequel is enjoyably trashy, but the original is Art.  "},{"Title":"One hell of a scary movie.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George A. Romero and Stephen King have made a perfect pair for Creepshow.  A tremendously scary horror film.  The story is that of a comic book and has five tales.  The dead returning, revenge, space, monsters, and bugs.  The last one, about cockroaches is one of the scariest moments I have ever witnessed.  The others are also excellent, if not so scary, except for The third, about the asteroid.  It stars Stephen King and is too badly acted to be effective.  RATING = 9 of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies in history!","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is the most brilliant horror movie and contains pure old school horror from beginning to end. It contains five different horror tales. I think the first tale was the best one which included Ed Harris, a mad father rising from the grave and a really sick ending. The second story was kind of weird, but entertaining and included a sick sense of humor and Stephen King as a Redneck. Third story was brilliant with zombies and Leslie Nielsen as a sadistic bastard. Fourth story did in fact scare me when I saw it last year. It was about a gorilla thing in a crate and contained scenes of strong bloody violence, not for people with a bad heart. This movie had been perfect if it wasn't for the last story which was extremely boring and idiotic. I highly recommend it. It is no doubt George A. Romero's best movie after Dawn Of The Dead. "},{"Title":"Wonderlful movie;one of the best from the 80s","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was one of the greatest horrors I've seen yet,and I'm a loyal fan to it.I first watched it with my friend PAul,and my cousin Cristina in the summer of 2004-5 and it was trippy,and brilliant.The script was nicely written,the stories were very creative and the effect blew my mind.Creepshow is a horror anthology,that centers around five stories in a comic book,owned by a kid named Billy.Billy is one of the main stars in it,although he doesn't get much screen-time.The opening shows how much Billy hates his father,who in turn,hates the comic book.Stories Father's DayFather's Day is about a family,who is celebrating father's day.It's also the time they tell the story about how one of them,Aunt Bedillia murdered her father on that day.One by one,they start to disappear,and be killed off by a dead vengeful grandfather,who wants his cake.Lonesome Death of Jordy VerrilThis story takes place in the middle of nowhere.probably in the country.a broke,lunkhead farmer named Jordy comes across a meteor that crashed in the field.He thinks it will bring him lots of money to pay off a bank loan.But when he breaks it open,he blames his bad luck and heads inside.As the hours go by,he realizes that something is...growing on him.Something To Tide You OverThis is a very interesting story.This doesn't have a specific location,but it mainly takes place on the beach.It's a tale about a couple who is being harassed by someone named Richard(I think he was an ex or a mental friend)who buries them to their necks along the shoreline.The bad news is...that the tide is coming in.The CrateThis is the longest,but the best of the five.It starts off with a janitor at a college who finds a crate underneath the staircase.He calls one of the professors,Dexter,who helps him figure out what it is.Meanwhile,Dexter's friend Henry is facing a battle of his own.His bitchy wife,Wilma who he fantasies about killing.It becomes a back to back thing,with major suspense.When they investigate on the crate they find that someone...or something is inside it.They're Creeping Up On YouThis is a very good tale,that also deals with paranoia on some level.This is about a multi-millionaire who lives in a penthouse apartment in a busy city.He hates everyone and everything,including his employees and customers.He is also a germophobic and has a nasty fear of bugs.His fears and overall,being a dickhead comes to bite him in the ass in the end.The movie ends with Billy getting the last word and revenge on his nasty father with a voodoo dolls he gets from the comic book.This movie is incredible.What's left there to say?? 10/10 "}{"Title":"Creeps to a crawl before getting good","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is almost too much of a good thing George Romero directing a Stephen King screenplay influenced by ghoulish classic EC comics like 'Vault of Horror' and 'Tales from the Crypt,' complete with animated sequences between the tales (and even some cartoon-style frames during the episodes themselves). Romero, who has cut his teeth on horror more grounded in realism, does well with keeping the material interesting and fun, with a few exceptions. The first 30 minutes of Creepshow are comprised of 'Father's Day' (about a tyrannical patriarch returning from the dead) and 'The Lonely Death of Jordy Verrill' (about the titular hick's run-in with a comet that unleashes otherworldly foliage), stories so one-note they bring the rest of the movie down (had they been cut, the end result would have been stronger). Things really don't kick into gear until the excellent 'Something to Tide You Over,' wherein wealthy sadist Leslie Nielsen (in a deliciously black-comic turn) decides to get even with his cheating wife and her lover in a particularly chest-tightening way, leading to a clever ending. In interviews, King has alluded to the metaphorical aspects of Creepshow (in keeping true to the EC Comics), and part of the fun is watching with playfully sadistic delight as the third-act ironies/twists play out. 'Tide' is followed by 'The Crate,' in which the titular item and its live contents dispose of several characters over the course of a night; Hal Holbrook is great as a beleaguered doormat of a husband, and Adrienne Barbeau hits the nasal, naggy notes of his tyrannical wife, 'Billie.' The final segment, 'They're Creeping Up on You!' is essentially a one-man show about rich, germ-fearing, frazzle-haired Upson Pratt (EG Marshall in a wonderfully vulgar performance) as his all-white penthouse is besieged by cockroaches. The latter 3 tales are unquestionably the best of the lot, with richly developed characters and stories (despite the relatively short run times); while 'Father's Day' and 'Jordy' may have been intended as warm-ups to the more substantive stories, they practically deaden the pace before it gets a chance to pick up. But, seeing as how the other 3/4 of Creepshow are rock-solid, I can't very well not recommend it. "},{"Title":"I want my cake you dirty bitch! I'm going to have it!","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George Romero directs, Stephen King writes, and Tom Savini makes the monsters. That's a combination that many horror fans would know and love.Creepshow is a collection of five stories taken from comic books and each stands on its own. They are not particularly scary, but they are good stories and have some fine actors.Adrienne Barbeau (The Fog, Escape from New York) plays Wilma Billie Northrup (segment The Crate) and is a real pain in the a**. Super job! I am not generally a Leslie Nielsen fan, but really enjoyed his performance as Richard Vickers (Something To Tide You Over).The4re are so many here, everyone can find a favorite. "},{"Title":"And Every Creeping Thing That Creepeth Upon The Earth Shall Be An Abomination. Leviticus 1141","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (Mild Spoilers) Five creepy stories make up the movie Creepshow with the first having to do with this old and vindictive miser Nathen Grantham, Jon Lormer. Nathen comes out of his grave and does in his relatives on of all days Father's Day. By brutally murdering them for not baking him a cake seven years ago, also on Father's Day, but instead having his skull cracked open by his all I can take of this abuse daughter Bedelia, Viveca Lindfors, with a marble ashtray. The same ashtray that for some unknown reason is seen in every one of the five episode's in the movie.We then have a story about this bumbling farm boy Jordy Verril, Steven King. Steven comes upon a meteor that landed on his farm and in him trying to get it out of it's crater gets infected by whatever is on or in it. The green looking fungus turns the poor sap into what looked like the Alfalfa Man. Jordy being slowly overtaken by the strange and grassy fungus from the meteor, that itches like hell, is forced to take a warm bath. That only increase the growth of the vegetation that infected him turning him not only into a green thumb but a walking hedge grove! In a last act of desperation Jordy blows his brains out to keep from ending up a brainless vegetable, like a person on life-support, for the rest for is life.The third installment in Creepshow has funny man Leslie Nielsen playing the not so funny Richard Vickers. Richard get's both his wife Becky, Grylen Ross, and her lover Harry Wentworth, Ted Danson, buried up to their necks in the sand outside his private beach house and gleefully watches, on a close circuit TV monitor, them drown when the ocean waves reaches high tide. Richard had a big surprise coming later in the movie when both Becky & Harry looking like see-weed people paid him an unexpected night visit. The two walking seaweeds give old Richie a taste, his lung filled with sea water, of his own medicine.There's then the story of Prof.Henry Northrup, Hal Holbrook, who's floozy and abusive, what would you ever do without me Henry, wife Billie, Adrienne Barbeau,has just about drove him insane with her continually questioning, in both public and private. Putting down Henry's abilities as a man of substance as well as family bread winner and of all things as a man in bed, now that's really hitting below the belt. Henry soon sees his chance to get rid of the ball-busting Billie once in for all. It's when Henry comes upon this crate that was delivered to the collage that he works for some 147 years late from the Arctic Circle. It turns out that the crate has in it a primate-looking monster who hasn't had a good square meal in almost 150 years. Henry tricks the very boozed up Billie with this BS story about his friend and fellow collage professor Dexter Stanley, Fritz Weaver. Telling Billie that Dexter raped and almost killed one of his admiring female students, Dexter had earned the enviable reputation of being the big stud on campus, and that she's in the collage basement needing help! Bellie more interested in a good gossip story about Big Dexter, whom she seemed to be secretly turned on by, drives over to see what happened only to end up being attacked and eaten alive by the hungry monkey looking-like creature. Henry now a free man can go back to playing chess and enjoy life without the monkey on his back, Billie, ever bothering or humiliating him again.The last and creepiest of all the episode's of Creepshow has to do with this creepy and germ and bug obsessed billionaire Upson Pratt, E. G Marshall. Pratt locked himself up in his germ and bug free penthouse while he destroyed those whom he dealt with in the world of finance, and those who worked for him, lives just to amuse and entertain himself. Pratt had notice that his pad in being invaded by a few cockroaches that drives him crazy. Having the exterminator called over to rub, or spray, out the annoying roaches the city is all of a sudden hit by a major black out. This has to happen with poor Pratt locked in his penthouse and isolated from the rest of the world with only the roaches as company. multiplying by the millions the roaches overrun Pratts place and even him locking himself up in his private panic room, to wait out the storm, the roaches never the less break in. The creeping hoards do to him what he's been doing to everyone else, in his unscrupulous business practices, over the years Bust Him! "},{"Title":"Let me tell you of a tale&#133; of horror, no comedy.","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Have you ever wondered what would happen if you put the talents of two horror heavyweights together? Well, director George Romero along with horror writer Stephan King have churned out an anthology inspired and told in the campy style of the 50s EC comic strips. Which, there are five short stories told and they're framed around a story of a boy getting his Creepshow comic thrown out by his grumpy father. The stories provided are pretty much a real mix bag of oddities ranging plain to unfunny, but there are a couple of creepy, and clever tales added. It probably could've cut down on one of the stories though, as it starts off rather slow and uninteresting, but when it comes to the third tale (the best of the lot) it does seem to get more fun, grisly and campy onwards. But as a whole it's more of a comedy than anything overly horrifying with a very nostalgia dose of cheesy and over-the-top 80s horror. Also you got oodles of recognizable faces popping up and F/X maestro Tom Savini's make-up effects that give it a little more credit. The whole format of the film combines comic strip interludes and editing frames to achieve its ghoulish feel. But at times it felt like I was watching a TV movie, as the production was kind of shabby and the overused score in certain stories was plain unbearable.So here are the 5 stories -Father's Day A family meets for dinner on every father's day to pay their condolences to their dead father/grandfather, who was actually killed by his unstable daughter 7 years ago. Then, with a sudden surprise his body rises from the grave and knocks-off his money hungry family, while in the search of father's day cake he was suppose to receive before his death.Had its moments of gruesomely cheesy horror, but more often I just found it painfully annoying and I didn't care for any of these mundane characters. I wanted all of them to die and die again&#133; yep, even the painstaking father! Ed Harris makes an appearance and decides to have a dance. Now those moments were scary! Amusing in patches, but rather unsatisfying.-The Lonely death of Jordy Verrill Jordy is a not-to-bright farmer comes across a meteorite that has found its way on his land. Thinking that we get some big doe for it, supposedly $200 he decides to put it in a bucket. Not so long after touching it, some sort of fungus has started growing on his finger, and soon later everything is covered with this fungus - from his yard, house and including himself.Definitely, the worst of the bunch. Lacking in every department from scares, humour and entertainment. It being rather irksome and charmless didn't help the progress of the film either. Also it felt rather out-of-place, as this stretched out idea is more senseless when compared with the rest. Stephen King plays Jordy and no wonder why he kept his day job.-Something To Tide you over A millionaire husband finds out his wife is having an affair and so he confronts the guy who she's having it with. They both tried to convince him for the divorce, but he won't let that happen as she belongs to him and so, he decides to exact revenge on them by seeing how long they can breath under water.My favourite and the most memorable out of the lot. This well thought out account goes more for a sedate outlook and somehow it manages to work with splendid performances by Leslie Nielson and Ted Danson. The tight pacing works a treat in building the nail biting suspense and the threatening atmosphere. The rewarding story is also the most unique and nightmarish of the bunch.-The crate under the stairs At a social gathering involving collage professors, an English professor is continuously put down by his heartlessly obnoxious wife. One of the professors gets called back to the university to open a crate, which has been there since 1849. After opening it a really hungry monster eats anyone who comes close and the professor goes to get help from his pal the English professor. Though, the English professor uses this opportunity to get revenge on his wife.Vastly risible black comedy that plays up the campy novelty with some bloodthirsty moments and fiery attitude in the silly set-up. Great performances from Hal Holbrook as the placid English Professor and Fritz Weaver as the Zoology Professor. But it's Adrienne Barbeau as the bittering housewife who steals the film's thunder. The monster looks sufficient enough and there's substantial use of lighting and composition in the intense attacks. The film's climax is the perfect murder. Definitely, my second favourite and the longest running story of the group.-They're creeping up on you A very wealthy, but tyrant old man is a recluse who lives in an apartment that's completely sterile and germs-free. Well, that's what he likes to hope. But soon enough that idea is thrown out of the window, as now he has a cockroach problem&#133; a real bad one too! The numbers soon become overwhelming, even with all that squashing and spraying. Nothing can prepare him for what's going to happen.The grossest and most blood curdling of the lot with it playing on a widespread phobia. This one just knows how to rub you up the wrong way with the waves after waves of creepy crawlies just appearing everywhere. It also provides an ironic social commentary involving the old man getting his up and comings for his treatment of his workers. The humour is here too, but more so in a very cheeky vibe. The final sequences are just plain skin tingling and very horrid.Well overall, it's a tolerable effort. Nothing to go wow over, but it did its job. To sum it up it's a mildly enjoyable offering! "},{"Title":"6.1?  are you f**king kidding me?","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This definitely has to be one of the most misunderstood horror classics out there i mean a 6.1 score? Geez this movie gives exactly the kind of experience you should be expecting,a original adaptation of the famous EC horror classics. I guess since George Romero and Stephen King teamed up people set the bar way too high plus i think most people wont understand the strong humoristic undertone this gem oozes out.here are five short stories in this which all are quite amusing in there own original way 1. Fathers day, the always nagging Nathan was killed by his daughter.Now he rises back from his grave cause the man wants his fathers day cake. 2. Lonesome death of Jordy Verril, hillbilly Jordy ( Stephen King ) discovers a meteor in his backyard.When he accidentally breaks the meteor in two he and his farm are infected and taken over by weeds. 3. Something to tide you over, Two drowned corpses take revenge on the man responsible for there death. 4. The Crate, A crate with the date 1834 on it is found underneath the stairs of a university. Hmmm there has to be something weird in there. 5. There creeping up on you, A crazed business man believes people aren't different from cockroaches... whoops hes right!so basically this movie has enough to offer you if you know what to expect, a good cast of well known actors such as Lesley Nielsen, Adrienne Barbuea, Hall Halbrook Ted Danson and such. It has two great masters of horror directing the whole thing, and stories that have an eerie 80's twilight zone kinda feel to them.If your a Stephen King or a George Romero fan you wont be disappointed, but if your looking for an original horror/dark comedy movie you'll have a blast as well! "},{"Title":"More fun than scare.","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember reading the Creepshow comic book as a little kid. It scared the crap out of me and I couldn't sleep for nights. Luckily enough, I'm no longer afraid of apes with fangs or weirdos who dig down people on the beach, so I must say that I enjoyed this movie a bit. It suffers from flaws though, mainly cheesy FX, and the stories are a bit uneven. One is really good, some is mainly filler and one is really boring. The crate was the story that really scared me as a kid, and it's still the best. I don't give that much for the other stories though, The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill is without doubt the worst; slow, boring and unexciting.All in all this is good enough to watch though, and you know, you just might like it.5/10  "},{"Title":"Some good segments some bad","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow tells 5 segments of horror stories. Some are great like Something to tide you over,and The Crate Father's Day is okay And The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril,and They're creeping on you aren't even scary just stupid. This movie has some good scary stories. We have a great cast. Father's Day 3/4 The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril 1.5/4 Something to tide you over 4/4 The Crate 4/4 Theyre Creeping on You 1/4 "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Five tales of terror based on the comic book are brought to the screen by George A. Romero. The best tale stars Hal Holbrook as a verbally abused husband who tries to take revenge on his overbearing wife (Adrienne Barbeau) by luring her into a crate which contains a monster. This colorful adaption features an excellent cast and a fine eye for detail and a good ear for memorable dialogue. Horror master Stephen King has the lead role in one tale. Rated R. "},{"Title":"a great 50's comic book adaptation","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow is one of my favourite movies. For me it is a great classic masterpiece that can be hardly seen nowadays among theese teen garbage horror films as it was said in some of the user comments here. I love everything that Stephen King has written, it is impossible to compare his books to the movie adaptations made of them, the books and the stories are thousands and millions of times better, but many of the films are interesting and good though. George Romero is another genius in the genre, I adore the zombies and flesh eating corpses he creates... So I give Creepshow(1 and 2) 10/10 points...STEPHEN KING THE MASTER OF HORROR!!! "},{"Title":"Spend an evening of nothing but the chills.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's not exactly a 100% horror film, but CREEPSHOW stands out due to the series of bone chilling stories it offers, making good use of a stormy, rainy evening. Stephen King fans will not be bored with this anthology, with the possible but partial exception of The Crate. The use of humor is a big plus thanks to performances by Stephen King (as Jordy) and Leslie Nielsen, who actually stole the show by keeping Ted Danson's head alive above the sandy beach, along with the most popular line I can hold my breath...for a loooong time!!!. Expect the unexpected because it's far more interesting that way! A very well done masterpiece of the macabre. But approach with caution on the sequel! "}{"Title":"A great Stephen King and George Romero film.","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is a great film with 5 awesome tales of horror,great cast,great special effects,and great makeup effects by Tom Savini,who plays one of the garbage men at the end of the film and played The Creepin Creepshow 2.The movie stars out as a father named Stan,played great by Tom Atkins(Halloween III,Night Of The Creeps,and Lethal Weapon),who is yelling at his son,Billy,played by Stepthen King's son Joe King,who has a horror comic book.Stan doesn't want Billy to have something like that,Stan throws it away.Billy is angry,but has a smile on his face when he sees The Creep.Father's Dayis a great tale about a mean,rich man named Nathan Grantham,played by Jon Lormer,who wants his Fathers Day cake.Bedelia,Nathan's daughter,was treated like crap all those years by her father,Nathan Grantham has Bedelia's boyfriend murdered,making it look like a hunting accident.One Father's day,Nathan Grantham is crying WHERE'S MY CAKE!!,Bedelia snaps and bashes her father's head in with a marble ashtray.The Grantham family,led by Aunt Sylvia,played by Carrie Nye,have dinner on Father's Day,with Richard Grantham,played by Warner Shook,Cass Blaine,played by Elizabeth Regan,and her husband,Hank Blaine,played by Ed Harris(The Right Stuff,The Abyss,and China Moon).Bedelia comes for dinner,she goes to visit her father's grave,and sits,but Nathan Grantham comes out of his grave and wants his cake,he strangles her.The night gets more bloody,Hank goes out to the graveyard,he trips and falls,a gravestone falls on his head and is crushed.Nathan is the cause of it,he is on his way to the mansion for his cake.Sylvia goes to look for Hank and goes to the kitchen to find their maid,Mrs. Danvers dead and sees Nathan's decaying corpse and saysI WANT MY CAKE!!and snaps her head around.An hour later,Cass and Richard go to look for Sylvia and Hank,they end up in the kitchen and see Nathan Grantham with Sylvia's head on a platter,,lol,,literally,,Nathan Grantham saysIt's Fathers Day,I got my cake,HAPPY FATHERS DAY!!! A great tale,the late Viveca Lindfors(Stargate)plays Aunt Bedelia superbly.The Lonesome Death Of Jordy Verrillis about a hick who has not so great luck.Jordy,played awesomely by Stephen King, sees a meteor land on his property,Jordy gets and idea to take it to the nearby college to get money for it.Jordy touches the meteor and gets burned,he pours water on it to cool it off,it splits in half,Jordy realized he messed up and calls himself a Lunkhead.Jordy decides to glue it in the morning.Later on Jordy starts to go through a change,literally,cause of touching the meteor,he can't stop it and is forced to make a drastic decision by killing himself,Jordy hopes his luck will be in once,he dies alone.Something To Tide You Overis a tale about a man named Harry Wentworth,played by Ted Danson(Cheers,Becker,and Three Men And A Baby),is seeing a lady named Becky,she is the wife of a control freak named Richard Vickers,played greatly by Leslie Nielson(The Naked Gun films),who owns the beach nearby,which Richard calls Comfort Point.Richard takes Harry to the beach where Becky is and sees only a hole.Richard makes Harry jump into the hole and buries Harry up to his neck in sand.Richard brings a TV and VCR,he shows Harry what has happened to Becky,she is buried in sand just like Harry is and is dealing with the tide.Richard is recording all what is happening to Becky and Harry.Richard leaves and the tide comes in and Harry is in trouble and drowns.Later on,Richard does think everything is OK,but Harry and Becky show up and are zombies,they have Richard come to the beach and Richard gets a taste of his own medicine.The Crate is an awesome tale.Mike The Janitor,played by veteran actor Don Keefer,drops a coin and rolls underneath the stairs and sees a crate,it says Arctic Expedition 1834.Professor Dexter Stanley,played by Fritz Weaver,and his friend Henry Northrup,played great by Hal Holbrook(Magnum Force,The Star Chamber and Wall Street),have to put up with the nagging Wilma,a.k.a. Billie,played superbly by Adrienne Barbeau(Escape From New York,The Fog,and Two Evil Eyes),Henry daydreams about whacking his wife.Dexter gets a call from Mike the Janitor about the crate,Dexter goes over to Amberson Hall at the college to see the crate,they open it up,Mike sticks is hands in the crate and gets bit by a tasmanian devil like creature inside the crate,Mike is dead,Dexter is freaked out and runs up the stairs.Charlie Gereson,played by Robert Harper(Twins),sees Dexter freaked out,he tells Charlie about the crate.Charlie thinks he is on a toot,but goes down to see it.Charlie at first thinks it is Dexter who did it,but sees the crate underneath the stairs,Charlie sees a shoe,wants to measure the bite marks.Standing behind him is the creature,Charlie tries to get away,but the creature grabs him and takes a bite,Charlie dies,becomes the creature's next meal.Dexter goes over to Henry's home,tells him about the crate.Henry goes over to Amberson Hall after drugging Dexter.he has plans to off his wife,leaves her a note at home,she comes out and he deals with her,takes the crate to Ryders Quarry to dump the crate.Henry and Dexter play their usual game of Chess.Things are great for the 2.At The bottom of the quarry,the creature gets out of the crate.They're Creeping Up On Youis a super tale about a mean rich tycoon named Upson Pratt,played great by the late E.G. Marshall(The Defendants and Superman II),who hates bugs.Upson Pratt is a heartless man who lives in a pent house that gets invaded by a zillion cockroaches and really bug the crap out of him,,,lol,no pun intended.The final showdown between Upson Pratt and the cockroaches come to a close,Upson Pratt is bugged,,lol,,literally.The ending is where where the pick up where the left off from the beginning.Two garbage men find Billy's Creepshowmagazine and they both like it,they see stuff you can buy from the book.Stan and his wife have breakfast,Stan is having pain,it is caused by Billy with a voodoo doll,which Billy purchased from the Creepshowmagazine,teaching his dad not to throw away his comic books.I give this movie two thumbs up and 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Grisly good time for all horror & comic book fans","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CREEPSHOW (1982) ***1/2 Hal Holbrook, Adrienne Barbeau, Fritz Weaver, E.G. Marshall, Leslie Nielsen, Carrie Nye, Ted Danson, Ed Harris, Viveca Lindfors.  Stephen King and George Romero teamed up for this great valentine to E.C. Comics/Tales From The Crypt with a quintet of horror tales with macabre humor and some truly unsettling scary moments.  Tom Savini's make up is right on the money.  Best of the lot is The Crate.  Perfect viewing on Halloween. "},{"Title":"A faithful adaption...","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...of the old E.C. Comics stories.  A bunch of unlikable people do unspeakable things to equally unlikable individuals, and then get their own comeuppance.  Nicely visualized and directed, perfectly capturing the style they set out to pay homage to. "},{"Title":"I was not impressed.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Five short stories by horror master Stephen King are arranged here in comic book form and directed by George A. Romero, famous for his legendary &#145;Dead' trilogy.This film seems to have a rather large following but I personally fail to see why. Each story has an overabundant amount of cheesiness to it in a similar vein to the short segments of &#145;The Twilight Zone' movie of the following year, perhaps we see where the Zone took it's inspiration from. However, the stories are just too goofy to be taken seriously and many become confusing or just plain tedious.Ted Danson and Leslie Neilsen starred in the only story that I really had any interest in and even they failed to save this movie. There isn't really much that can be said about this movie because of the way it is presented unless every story is analysed which could just spoil the movie for those that want to see it. I will say that this is certainly not Romero or King's best and is probably only worth watching for fans of camp horror. Creepshow is a below average horror movie with both bad effects and good. The segments are pretty boring with the exception of &#145;Something to Tide You Over' and this movie should probably be ignored by casual fans. My rating for &#145;Creepshow' &#150; 4/10. "},{"Title":"Underwhelmed","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You'd think with so much talent involved on this project that the end- result would have been better. I like the idea of short horror stories tied together to make a film. I'd actually like to see more of that...but maybe not anything that resembles this.Perhaps it's just that the film really shows its age, but it's campy, has poor special effects, and just felt cheap.Some of the stories were quite unique; take for instance the Tide You Over story with Leslie Neilsen. I enjoyed that one despite the bad special effects at the end.The story with Stephen King playing the main character shows why Stephen King is probably best behind a desk or behind a camera.Overall, this film is rather lacking in anything that would earn it a higher rating. This movie had potential but fell way too short. It's too campy and too silly for adults, but too vulgar in parts for children...so it misses any audience. "},{"Title":"Decent, not great","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie isn't great, but parts of it are very enjoyable. I liked the intro. The first segment, Father's Day, is actually one of the better ones. It's simple, short, and satisfying for horror fans. The second segment, The Lonesome Death of Jody Verill, isn't quite as good. It benefits from a fun performance from Stephen King, but it doesn't really know if it should be funny or serious. The ending has the kind of tongue-in-cheek irony that is distinctive in King's stories, but I didn't like it much. The third segment, Something to Tide You Over, is the most suspenseful one by far. It's very simple, but it's actually hard to watch. The ending is a little obvious, but it works okay. The next segment, The Crate, is the longest, and the real reason to watch the movie. It is the most original and entertaining of all of them. It provides grotesque horror, subtle but creepy visuals, an unpredictable and suspenseful plot, and it even becomes a character study. It's really good, head and shoulders above most horror films in their entirety. The last segment, They're Creeping Up On You, I did not watch because I knew what it was about, and I knew how it ended. Even without watching it, I can say that this particular segment does provide the kind of justice that separates Creepshow from the more mundane people-killed-at-random horror movies, but, in my opinion, it accomplishes this in an unoriginal and unsatisfying way. That's just me, though. I have a friend who liked the last segment, so to each his own. I probably would have given this movie a 6 or a 5 if it weren't for The Crate. I loved that one. "},{"Title":"I want my cake","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1954, Dr Frederic Wertham published his rabble-rousing thesis 'Seduction Of The Innocent', citing comic books as a cause of illiteracy, juvenile delinquency and sexual subversion according to Wertham, Batman and Robin clearly batted for the other side, while Wonder Woman was little more than a bondage-happy lesbian.If Wertham's accusations led to a congressional hearing, most damagingly, for EC comics publisher Bill Gaines, it also spelled the beginning of the end for EC's lurid horror titles, such as 'Tales From The Crypt' and 'The Vault Of Horror', with the self-censoring Comics Code Authority ruling comic books could no longer use words like terror or horror on their covers.Naturally, this didn't stop a generation of young Americans guzzling them down. And the faster Mr and Mrs Romero confiscated young George's corrupting EC comics, the sooner he'd smuggle them back. I'd go somewhere with them and listen to some Alan Freed! the Creepshow director chuckles.When Romero and Stephen King had the idea of framing their EC comics-inspired anthology with period-style artwork, they knew just who to call Jack Kamen, whose lurid, controversial illustrations had burned indelibly into the minds of many an impressionable teenybopper. "},{"Title":"An almost perfect horror anthology.","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Heh, heh! Greetings kiddies. Welcome to Creepshow, the awesome anthology film that first scared the hell out of me 26 years ago, and was responsible for turning me into the horror movie freak that I am today!Directed by genre great George Romero, this loving tribute to the classic scary E.C. publications of the 50s opens with a horror-loving kid (played by Stephen King's son, Joe) having his copy of the titular comic thrown in the garbage by his overbearing and disapproving father. Outside, the wind whips open Creepshow's putrid pages to reveal five terrifying tales of the macabre.Scary story number one is called Father's Day every year, on Father's Day, rich, old, eccentric Aunt Bedelia returns home for a family reunion, and to visit the grave of her dear old dad, whose brains she bashed in with an ashtray. This year, however, dotty Bedelia gets a surprise when dear old daddy rises from his grave, with a hunger... for cake!Setting the tone of this fun film perfectly, this first tale features marvellously hammy performances from Viveca Lindfors as Jim Beam-guzzling Bedelia and Carrie Nye as raspy-voiced Sylvia Grantham, plus a wonderfully mouldy zombie courtesy of FX maestro Tom Savini (who lends his expertise to all of the stories). This is grisly schlock-horror at its finest.Best scary moment Zombie hand!Most disturbing thing about this episode Ed Harris disco dancing!Tale number two is The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill a boss-eyed, goofy hick (played by Stephen King) turns into a walking space-weed after investigating a meteor that lands in his yard.The only weak link in the whole film, this is one tale that should've been left on the cutting room floor.Scariest thing about this episode Give me a minute, will you...Tale number three is entitled Something To Tide you Over Cheer's bartender Ted Danson and Gaylen Ross (from Dawn of the Dead) play a pair of adulterous lovers who suffer a watery fate at the hands of mad millionaire Richard Vickers (a brilliant turn by Naked Gun star Leslie Nielsen), but who return from the dead to exact a fitting revenge.A brilliantly atmospheric story, with good use of a remote locale and some great scares, this is perhaps my favourite of all of the stories.Best scary moment The bit where Nielsen locks himself into a room, only to discover that nowhere is safe from vengeful, seaweed-covered zombies.Most disturbing thing about this episode Nielsen's green velour tracksuit.The penultimate tale is The Crate whilst searching for a coin that has rolled under some stairs, the janitor at Amberson Hall, Horlicks University, discovers a mysterious, old crate, nailed shut and wrapped in chains. Believing the box to be of some importance (it is stencilled with the words Arctic Expedition and dated June 19th 1834) he calls Professor Stanley, and the two of them prise the crate open. Big mistake!Relentlessly scary, with some great gore effects, this one is memorable for it's marvellously toothy monster, and a great turn by Adrienne Barbeau as the obnoxious wife of Professor Stanley's best bud, Henry Northrup.Best gore effect Grad student Charlie (not yet 21, but looking at least 35) having his neck chewed on by 'Fluffy'.Most disturbing thing about this episode Adrienne Barbeau's portrayal of bitchy Billie.The final tale in the comic is They're Creeping Up On You E. G. Marshall plays Upson Pratt, an obnoxious, germophobic, multi-millionaire recluse who treats people like bugs he squashes them without a second thought. However, he gets his comeuppance when his hermetically sealed apartment proves to be less than effective and becomes over-run with cockroaches.An excellent performance from Marshall, and a delightfully grisly payoff save this otherwise rather dull story.Best gore effect the one at the end, of course!Most disturbing thing about this episode Upson Pratt's name and his kerazee hair.The film finishes with a suitably creepy ending in which the mean, old dad from the beginning of the film learns the hard way that trashing comic-books is not the done thing!Brilliantly directed, with some great animation, excellent comic-style scene transitions, suitably garish lighting, and a very atmospheric piano score by John Harrison (no relation), Creepshow is unmissable horror entertainment. "},{"Title":"Two  Horror Masters,  King and Romero,  join forces  in this tribute to E.C. comics","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a homage to pulp E.C. comic books from the 50s, adapting an anthology which presents creepy looks and grotesque events at the horror genre. With writings by Stephen King and teaming up George A. Romero, both devise a gruesome terror tales. Stephen King mingles efficiently the spirit of ¨Vault of horror¨and ¨Tales from the crypt¨. The film is constituted by four scary stories. King even plays a redneck farmer who cultivates a rare meteor but gone wrong and create fantastic consequences. Viveca Lindfords and Ed Harris as a heirs when abruptly appears a living dead. Besides the perennial Leslie Nielsen confronting a ghoulish Ted Danson. And Hal Holbrook with a unbearable spouse Adrienne Barbeau alongside a strange monster. Finally, a man with an insect and germs phobia, played by E. G. Marshall as a Howard Hughes-alike , closed into flat, and suddenly bursting by hundred roaches.The picture packs gory scenes, morbid humor with some jokes, creepy images and is quite entertaining though some moments is heavy-handed. Eerie and frightening stuff appointed for juvenile public from two masters of the terror genre and delight all enthusiastic of the terror vein. Followed by a sequel(1987) directed by Michael Gornick, cameraman of this one. Rating. Acceptable and passable , it will like to terror moviegoers "},{"Title":"Not bad. . .but I expected better","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Legendary director George A. Romero and fantastic horror author Stephen King teaming up should have produced amazing results. And while Creepshow wasn't bad by any means, I thought that these two would produce something better.The movie consists of five short films and another short little one at the beginning and end. I'll just talk briefly about the beginning and end segments. It wasn't anything special for the beginning segment, but the way it ended was pretty good in my mind. Onto the others. . .Father's Day, the story of murdered father who comes back from the grave, sounds like a good story but I really didn't find it that great. Largely forgettable.King himself stars in The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill. Acting is certainly not his forte, but I guess he wasn't too horrible in the role of the country bumpkin. The dream sequences were mildly amusing, but overall it's not very interesting and is pretty depressing by the end.Something To Tide You Over is where it really gets good. Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson both give great performances in the story of what happens when woman leaves his husband for another man. I was hooked with this one from the very beginning to the end. By far this is the best one.The Crate is also good. Sure, the monster could have looked better (obviously they were going for cheesy here), but there are some great kills here and the story of Professor Northrup and his wife Wilma (and his fantasies about killing her) is particularly interesting.Creeping Up On You isn't that interesting, but the ending sure delivers. Not much more to say for an otherwise uneventful story.Overall, two really good stories, and three others that aren't that bad, but not particularly engaging. If you're a big horror fan, I'd still recommend checking it out. "}{"Title":"A anthology masterpiece!","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One night, an angry father (Tom Atkins) notices that his son (Joe King) is reading a horror comic book and throws it away in the trash. It all leads us to five scary tales such as Father's Day which deals with a dead millionaire who comes back from the grave to get his Father's Day cake like he always wanted, A goofy farmer (Stephen King) discovers a meteorite's ooze makes everything especially himself grow plants, a crazy man (Leslie Nielsen) buries a man (Ted Danson) and his lover up to their necks on the beach to torture them, a Professor (Hal Holbrook) who has been harassed by his nagging wife (Adrienne Barbeau) finds an old crate with a monkey-like creature inside it and finally a rich man (E.G. Marshall) is under attack in his apartment by swarms of vicious cockroaches.A brilliant horror comedy anthology inspired by the infamous E.C. comics from the 50's like Tales from The Crypt and Vault of Horror. George A. Romero along with Stephen King have crafted a very original and unique horror anthology that has grown to become a cult favorite over the years due to it's great comic-book fashion style and dark humor, the film has a feel at times like a comic book with animated frames and animated segments that inter-cut sometimes during the film. Tom Savini's make-up and creature effects are really effective and nifty, the acting is quite good especially from the cast and there's plenty of twists in every story.It's a winner in my books! "},{"Title":"Comic book horror that captures the style","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Having never read a single of the E.C. comics that this anthology film is inspired by, I can't really comment on whether or not this hits the mark. The stylized presentation fits very well. The editing does nothing to hide that these stories come straight from comic books... in fact, it rather seems to dwell on it, indulge in it. This effect isn't overdone(as was the case in Hulk), but rather serves the film well. The plots are fairly well-written(though I felt the fourth tale to be overlong), if never really deep or insightful. The character writing is quite good, though; I didn't really find one single character to be anything less than credible(though there were times I couldn't figure out what they were trying to do, until it was shown or they said it out loud). The pacing is fairly good, most of the stories aren't too long(apart from aforementioned fourth one, The Crate, which takes about twice as long as the others, at around 40 minutes running time, whereas most of them are just about 20 minutes). The basic idea of each segment seems to be to set up some unappealing characters, have them do awful things to equally 'bad' people and then get what's coming to them. Secluded areas and a low count of characters seem to be common traits, as well. I guess the reason these work is that many people would like to see things like the stuff that takes place in the novellas to these people(and their kinds do exist, which is presumably why we so easily accept not only them but their fates in the stories) in real life, to the same types. The acting ranges, but most is pretty good. Whoever thought Leslie Nielsen could act? The special effects are fair, though more often than not, you see too little to make out what's going on. Mostly, they work well, though. The lighting is pretty good, if over-dramatic at times, and too limited at other times, again making it difficult to tell what happens on-screen. The cinematography varies, but most of it is on the good side. For some reason, much of the film felt low-budget to me... it were as if the budget was enough for one full story, maybe a few of them, but not all five, and instead of scrapping the ones they couldn't afford, they made all of them and just took the money they needed from the rest, at the expense of the overall quality of, well, all of them. The production values and shooting style seem to reflect this... surely Romero, of Trilogy of the Dead(or The Dead series) fame knows how to make the most of a small budget? This looks so much cheaper than anything I've seen him do. Maybe he took on too much work by directing all five segments? In any case, the result is still worth watching. Apart from possibly The Crate, I enjoyed all the stories to some extent. I recommend this to all fans of horror, George A. Romero and/or Stephen King. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Mixture of Good and Bad","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow marks the collaboration of George Romero and Stephen King (Who also stars in the 2nd story, The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill).The 5 stories range from the incredibly creepy to the incredibly boring. The weakest link would have to be King's contribution of Verill, which had a lot of promise, but just seems to fall flat to the point that you are glad when it's over.The best is a tie between The Crate, in which a professor (Hal Holbrook)finds a solution to his marital problems in the form of a crate, which has a rather vicious surprise inside. The other is They're Creeping Up On You, in which a hateful germaphobe/millionaire (E.G. Marshall), who considers people to be nothing but bugs, has a rather slight infestation problem with various species of cockroaches. This one may be hard to watch if you have a thing against bugs.The remaining 2 (Father's Day and Something To Tide You Over), work pretty well, especially some interesting turns from Ed Harris, Ted Danson and Leslie Nielsen. The wrap-around story involving a boy and a mean dad is slightly predictable (And also star's King's son Joe).The film still can give you the shivers (Especially the one with the bugs, which I can't ever watch again in life!). "},{"Title":"The most Hollywood-like feature from George A. Romero","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In five shocking tales in the style of the Classic's E.C. comic books. The first tale is Father's Day, a murdered man comes back to life from his grave to get his father's day cake and revenge. The second tale is The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, a meteor comes to earth and the meteor is effecting a man that makes everything grow green. The third tale is Something to Tide You Over, a mean-spirited husband, who kidnaps his wife and her lover to buried them up to their necks in terror. The fourth tale is The Crate, a professor selects his mean alcoholic wife as a snack for a creature trapped in a crate. The fifth and last tale is They're Creeping Up on You, a male violent millionaire with a feat of insects is become a prey of a cockroach army.Directed by George A. Romero (The Living Dead Series, The Crazies, Martin) made a stylish and a fun dark comedy horror film. This is Romero's most Hollywood like feature for this talented independent filmmaker. The film features a great cast likeHal Holbrook, Andrienne Barbeau, Fritz Weaver, Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, Carrie Nye, Ed Harris, Viveca Lindfors and E.G. Marshall. NovelistStephen King appears in the second tale with a hilarious performance. This was Romero's highest grossing film until Land of the Dead (Which underperformed at the Box Office). This film features One of the Best Make-Up Effects Work by Tom Savini (Dawn of the Dead, Friday the 13th, Monkey Shines). Which Savini appears in a cameo also.DVD features an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.801) transfer and an fine-Dolby Surround 2.0 Sound. DVD only feature is the Original Theatrical Trailer but watch carefully for certain scenes that never appears in the film. Romero was forced to cut his original 130 minutes cut to 120 minutes. Cutting the logical point of certain tales, especially Father's Day. Warner Bros bought the film and also producing the fifth tale. This film is inspired by the work of Tales from the Crypt comic books. There is a rumor that Warner Brose has created a false Widescreen version for the film by taking the Pan & Scan version and making look like a Widescreen version for the DVD. I didn't even notice the difference between the Pan & Scan and the Widescreen Version. This independent film is followed by a sequel but not as memorable and big as the first film. Stick with the original film. Screenplay by Stephen King (Cat's Eye, Maximum Overdrive, Silver Bullet). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"A classic horror flick to watch on Halloween.","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A classic film with 5 stories and an opening/closing story also(That's right...6 stories!) The first segment, Father's Day is about Aunt Bedilia(Viveca Lanfors) who killed her father and goes to his grave every summer, but this summer he's not staying dead. Segment 2, The Lonely Death of Jordy Verill, is the comedic story. It's about Jordy Verril(Stephen King), a simpleton farmer, finding a meteor with gunk in it. He touches the gunk, only to realize it make plants grow and he starts becoming a plant. Segment 3, Something To Tide You Over stars Leslie Nielson as a mean guy who buries his former girlfriend and her new boyfriend(Ted Danson) up to their necks on his personal beach, where they will drown. Things don't go as planned. Story 4 is the 40 minute classic, The Crate which is about a janitor who finds a crate on a college campus and has a teacher help him with it, only to find a horrible monkey-like creature lived in it. The teacher is so horrified he gets his friend Henry(Hal Holbrook) to go over there. Henry then calls his mean alcoholic wife, Billy(Fritz Weaver) to come over so he can feed her to the beast. The fifth, and final story is about a mean old man (E.G. marshall) who's afraid of bugs, but gets a cockroach infestation. The opening and closing are about a boy, Billy who's dad is getting mad at him for reading Creepshow comics, so he orders a voodoo doll. Tom Savini, the makeup artist has a funny cameo as a garbageman.my rating-A...95%. rated R for some gory violence and language. 118 minutes.See it! Stephen King and George Romero wrote and directed this masterpiece of not quite modern horror. This film has a good 70's feel to it. "},{"Title":"King's Crowning Glory -- Hilarious Horror Comics Spoof!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King serves up 5 bite-size episodes of creepy stories reminiscent of the 1950s horror magazine craze. The introduction and conclusion, a side-plot in itself, are nice wrapping for the individual stories in between. One story has Hal Holbrook as a long suffering college professor who is given a once-in-a-lifetime chance to be rid of his attractive but foul-mouthed, boozing, gutter-snipe, b**ch of a wife (marvelously played by Adrienne Barbeau). Another great episode involves an eccentric elderly millionaire with a phobia about roaches who has to face his greatest fear (literally).Although horror is not one of my favorite genres, I do enjoy watching Creepshow occasionally. This is probably the only horror film I've ever seen at a theatre, and it was worth it. Since the 1982 release I've watched the film several times, always looking for those favorite scenes. -- Look for cameos by Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, and Stephen King himself. "},{"Title":"Terrific Anthology Chiller. ***** out of 5","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George Romero and Stephen King bring you a fright flick filled with deliciously dark fun and thrills. I couldn't think of a better movie to watch during the hours of 12 and 2 am. There's a book end story dealing with a little boy and his love for the EC comics that the film is based on, when his tyrant dad throws them away, the Creep comes to pay the boy a visit. The stories in between couldn't be more entertaining.Among my favorites are the birthday cake story, the lonely death of Jordy Veril, and the story featuring Leslie Nielson. But as I said before, they're all terrific. It'll make you cringe, it'll make your hair stand on end, and it will make you laugh out loud. That's all this movie is about. Good fun. The score by John Harrison is very creepy and quite fitting. The entire film is filmed in an excellent comic bookish fashion. Very stylish. Real effort went into this picture.Check this one out. This is a true horror film. "},{"Title":"Creepshow","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A mish mash of horror tales from George Romero and Stephen King done in the vein of the old E.C. horror comic books. The stories range from pretty well done (They're Creeping Up on You) to pretty poor (The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill). The special effects in the Father's Day segment are really good, and the effects in The Crate segment aren't bad either. It should be noted that Tom Savini created the effects for the movie. The acting is varied as well. It is interesting to see a very young Ed Harris dancing like an idiot the the film's first segment. Stephen King's acting in the second part isn't so good, but Leslie Nielsen and E.G. Marshall pretty much make their segments work. The movie also has some cameos from Joe King (Stephen's own son), Christine Forest (Romero's wife), and Tom Savini as a garbageman in the movie's wrap around story. Creepshow is a decent, if forgettable foray into anthology horror for Romero and King. "},{"Title":"ROMERO AND KING COLLABORATION!?!?! COULD IT GET ANY BETTER???!!!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alright, I have five words to say about this film GEORGE ROMERO AND STEPHEN KING. That should be all that I would have to say about this film, to tell you that it is a killer movie, but I will go on anyway.CREEPSHOW, is the funny and frightening anthology movie that will have you scared to death and laughing all at the same time. You get the brilliant direction of George Romero, and an excellent script from Stephen King. And on top of that, you get the awesome f/x from horror makeup master Tom Savini!First, we have 'BIRTHDAY CAKE', the hilarious and mildly gory tale about a walking zombie grandpa that wants his cake!Then, we have 'THE LONESOME DEATH OF JODY VERRILL' starring Stephen King himself!Next, we have the very demented tale, 'SOMETHING TO TIDE YOU OVER' Hard to believe that such a demented tale can start funny-man Leslie Neilson.Then, we have the story that is guaranteed to scare you if you watch it in the dark, 'THE CRATE' Starring Adrienne Barbeau! And last, but most certainly not least, we have 'They're Creeping Up On You' The story about bugs, where Savini shows that he can make absolutely ANY kind of death happen on screen. Great Acting, A Great Script, Great Direction, and Awesome Special Effects! See it! "},{"Title":"Creepshow Is Tongue In Cheek Black Humor Fest","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George A. Romero directs five stories penned by horror master Stephen King in this anthology. Appropriately entitled Creepshow, the stories vary in quality as in any other anthology. The first segment, called Father's Day, stars Viveca Lindfors, and Ed Harris also has a brief appearance in it. This segment sets the black humor tone for the rest of the stories. The stories have as much black humor as they do horror. In Father's Day, a father seeks revenge on his family members in grotesque fashion. The second story, The Lonesome Death Of Jordy Verrill, stars Stephen King as a hard luck hillbilly, who comes across a fallen meteor; the meteor proceeds to turn King into the worst imaginable green thumb. This story is marred by King's poor acting, silly story, and just boring pacing. It's easily the worst of the bunch. The third story has Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson in Something To Tide You Over. This story offers nothing new or imaginative to the cheating spouse, revenge formula. It's better than the King segment however. The two best segments are the last two. The first one is called The Crate. The quality is head and shoulders above the other stories in this one. It's funny, horrific, imaginative, and stars Hal Holbrook, Adrienne Barbeau, and Fritz Weaver. It's about a hen-pecked husband, a shrewish wife, and a best friend. The concluding segment with E.G. Marshall is sure to creep out anyone with a fear of bugs; it's called They're Creeping Up On You. The stories are sort of a homage to the E.C. Comics from the 1950's. King's son Joe plays Billy in the wrap around story, which loosely ties the film together. Romero make-up man Tom Savini is one of the garbage men at the end. All of the stories are more funny than scary, with the exception of the last one. It's an enjoyable, fun way to pass the time. **1/2 of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"This Place Is Creeping Me Out.","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A little better than most in the genre, Creepshow ends up working some of the time because of fair writing by Stephen King and adequate direction by George A. Romero. But really the huge names save the day in this anthology series of a film as five short stories of horror will sicken and at times disturb. Most of the film is tongue-in-cheek though, but that is not saying that Creepshow is very funny. Based on the somewhat popular comic strips of the 1950s, the tales are all hit-and-miss. The Ted Danson/Leslie Nielsen entry is easily the most memorable section by a cinematic mile. Some of the other big names include Ed Harris, Hal Holbrook, E.G. Marshall, Viveca Lindfors, Adrienne Barbeau and even Stephen King takes center-stage in one of the deranged tales. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Mixed bag for George Romero","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A homage to the D.C. Comics of old, this series of short vignettes will probably bore a lot of today's horror fans who expected Romero to bring back his cannibal zombies.  Sorry kiddies.Of the five stories here, my favorites are Something To Tide You Over with Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson and The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill with Steven King and They're Creeping Up On You with E.G. Marshall.  They all reminded me of all those old NIGHT GALLERY re-runs I used to see on TV back in the 80s.  Nice plot development and twists to them along with special effects makeup by Tom Savini.  I loved the scene where the roaches are bursting through E.G. Marshall's chest.  Neat.The Prologue; Father's Day and The Crate I could have done without, though.  Weak and even though The Crate had some blood and a little gore in it, it barely held my interest.All in all a mixed bag.  I heard CREEPSHOW II is worse but I'll still check it out and get around to reviewing it, someday.  5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"GOOD CAMPY FUN","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i recently bought this movie in the 5.99 bin at wal-mart and was pleasantly suprised all over again.my initial introduction to this film was the original comic back in the very early 80's.  shortly after i saw the movie and found it quite enjoyable as a well-done camp/cult flick.the teaming of King and Romero make for a great, fun, comic style horror movie.  very silly in some aspects and definately not a serious horror film, it still manages to be somewhat frightening and fun at the same time.very original for it's time and some good performances by an all-star cast, get some popcorn, grab your girl, and put this movie in for a night of fun, drive-in style horror.8/12 out of 10 for fun/silly/bloody horror "},{"Title":"A combination of the best and worst of 80's horror.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow is kinda like Tales from the Crypt for the 80's. Some of the stories are quite good and some of the stories are horrible. The two really worth watching are The Crate and The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill. The rest of the stories are poorly executed and pretty corny. This movie is best watched on Halloween with a lot of friends and the lights out. Tom Savini's effects are a little dated by today's standards but still manage to scare. Bottom Line At it's best it's a campy horror classic, at it's worst it's cable TV garbage. Watch only the good stories and you'll be ok.   "},{"Title":"Some good segments some bad","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow tells 5 segments of horror stories. Some are great like Something to tide you over,and The Crate Father's Day is okay And The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril,and They're creeping on you aren't even scary just stupid. This movie has some good scary stories. We have a great cast. Father's Day 3/4 The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril 1.5/4 Something to tide you over 4/4 The Crate 4/4 Theyre Creeping on You 1/4 "},{"Title":"Creepshow!","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow is a good multi segment horror movie!I don't want to spoil any thing for you but My favorite story of the film is The Crate with Adrienne Barbeau!It really a awesome story!If you like horror films especially one with several stories then you'll love the horror fest that is known as Creepshow!! "},{"Title":"Would have been good 50 years ago...","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is nothing immensely wrong with the Creepshow stories, but there is nothing great about them either.  The introductory segment at the beginning is probably the best, as the actual stories fall short of anything particularly horrific, scary or otherwise.  As short films go, I preferred The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, just for atmospheric content.  There were fantastic actors in the Crate, but the story itself was formulatic and weak.  Something to Tide You Over was pretty good, Father's Day was mundane and They're Creeping Up On You was a great concept - and was helped by the thousands of 'extras'. The main problem was that the film in its entirety has not aged well, it is most obvious in Fathers Day and The Crate that the early eighties had quite an impact on the production design and dialogue, which is all too apparent twenty years later.  Still if you are a horror fan, I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"Decent enough","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George Romero's Creepshow is a loving homage to the EC comics of the 1950's. It's a gleefully ghoulish romp, consisting of five tales of revenge and just deserts. Otherworldly vengeance, a monster in a college basement, and a horde of cockroaches are the highlights of this anthology. Romero clearly had a good time with his treatment of the material. I can just picture him in the director's chair, wringing his hands with an evil grin. However, the film is too obvious and heavy-handed for its own good. In fact, some of the suspense is diluted by knowing what's going to happen next. For example, the third segment is gripping in parts, but towards the end I lost interest; it's obvious that this guy is going to get what he deserves. Nonetheless, there are some genuinely intense moments, despite it all.From an acting standpoint, Leslie Nielsen and E.G. Marshall come off best. Nielsen is best known for the spoofs of his later years, but he successfully portrays a sadistic ex-husband, all the more sinister for his chummy demeanor. You'd be surprised at how well it works. Marshall is a modern-day Scrooge, a ruthless millionaire whose fears get the best of him. Despite his vindicative nature, he nonetheless generates sympathy for his gruesome fate. Stephen King himself stars in the second tale, as a dimwitted farmer. He's not a great actor, but he plays the script very well. However, Ed Harris is wasted in the first tale, the weakest of the bunch.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by Warner Bros. "},{"Title":"A Fine Addition to Any Horror Collection","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Without a Doubt one of the Best Horror Movies EVER Made. It Has A Few Tales That Will wipe the Smile off Anyone's Face. It Compares to Night of The Living Dead and is way Scarier than Scream. Recommended to Any Horror Fan over the Age of 10 (Extremely Gory). Perfect Movie from The Masters of Horror. "},{"Title":"One of the first horror films I´ve seen...","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George A. Romero´s Creepshow is another film that truly means something special to, because it was one of the first horror movies I´ve ever seen!!! I was about 10 or 11 years old when I watched it at a friend´s and it was really unforgettable experience to me! This film is full of dark humor and macabre jokes, but not too much frightening, though! Untypical for the genre numerous stars like Ed Harris, Leslie Nielsen, Hal Holbrook, Ted Danson or E.G. Marshall were casted. The nicest extras by the way however are the appearances of well-known actors from other Romero-movies like Gaylen Ross (Dawn of the Dead), John Amplas (who was outstanding in Martin, but also in Day of the Dead) and last but not least special F/X-legend Tom Savini. Perhaps the best episode-horror movie ever made..!  "}{"Title":"Where's my cake?","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really like this movie. It's gory, downright creepy and has great acting. Leslie Nielsen fans take note, he puts in a really good turn here as a vengeful husband who's a tad too vengeful. Five stories here and each one is good in it's own right. The last story, They're Creeping Up On You, is probably one of the most uncomfortable moments in film history. Waterbugs do not do it for me and this particular chapter of the movie piles them on like squirming hors d'ouvres. Great casting here and Adrienne Barbeau is always a pleasure to watch. Ted Danson puts in a little appearance as well as Ed Harris, Hal Holbrook, E.G. Marshall and Mr. King himself. This movie is cool simply because it never takes itself too seriously, going so far as to mimic the Tales From the Crypt comics that obviously inspired this film by framing certain scenes in comic book style panels. If you're a horror buff and this one escaped you (which I'd find surprising), do yourself a favor and check it out. I'd say it's a few steps shy of being a classic, which all in all is still pretty good. Besides, there's nothing like seeing people get what they deserve and this flick definitely delivers on that note. Rating **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a pretty good movie, it has 5 stories and one has Leslie Nielsen which I might add is the best of the 5. All but 1 of the stories is good I kinda thought the last one sucked but this is well worth seeing, and it's even got some pretty good comedy along with gruesome horror, 7/10 "},{"Title":"Comics Come To Life","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great look back an an era of Horror comics that are long gone. Stephen King remembers as do the people who put this film together. Cartoonish color and angles, over the top performances (especially by King who, as a treat, does one whole story acting all on his own) and wild stories will delight any horror fan out for light entertainment. A fun look back at a fun era. "},{"Title":"The greatest horror/anthology movie of all-time. A horror classic to watch over and over.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know that this makes the fourth comment that I have done for Creepshow let me explain why. The first two had misspelled words and the grammar just didn't make sense. The third one was just to short. I must tell you that I grew up with Creepshow. Believe it or not Creepshow has influenced my life. After many viewings maybe 100 to be exact I still continue to enjoy Creepshow more and more. So in honor I will dissect each segment of Creepshow in detail.A nice prologue opens Creepshow you remember the little boy getting slapped in the face after his father finds the Creepshow comic book, after tossing the comic away outside into the windy night the pages open and here we go with tales of terror.The first story Father's Day is only average with revenge being the main concept of the story. After a rich old man dies from a hit to the head from an ashtray, years later at a planned dinner that his remaining family of inheritors planned the revenge party begins! First with the rising out of the grave the whole family goes one by one. It's Father's Day and I got my cake! Hey who said you can't have your cake and eat it to! That is a head cake! Great revenge story and a good way to start Creepshow off.The second segment is probably the weak link of Creepshow. Stephen King stars as Jordy Verrill a country hillbilly who's just trying to get by when a comet or meteor lands in his yard. I must say this story is just plain stupid everything from the King character to the growing green moss and I must say that King and his acting abilities are much to be desired they don't correspond with his writing abilities. The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill is summed up as a snoozer.Now the third and best story of Creepshow has to be Something To Tide You Over and several reasons can support my claim. The talent of the actors helps this segment rise above others. And you can tell that Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson had a great time. Both did not have a chip on their shoulders and they did not look at it as if by doing a horror film they were stepping down a notch or anything. The setting with the mood and atmosphere of Something To Tide You Over is also very relaxing the beach breeze and crashing sound of the waves, I feel that I'm once again on a Florida beach, though the segment was shot mostly in Pittsburgh with the beach and ocean scenes shot at The Jersey Shore. And the story is so interesting and to see comedy star Leslie Nielsen in an uncommonly cruel role surprises and entertains both hey Leslie can be good at being mean! With Nielsen burying his dishonest lover and Ted Danson in the sand facing the tide to be perished at sea. Then Danson and his lover return as dead sea corpses to bury Leslie at sea to end with the best quote in Creepshow and any horror film for that matter I Can Hold My BREATH A Long, Long Time... Danson was just getting ready to showcase his talent at this time and it's always nice to look back and see him in this role before his days of success on Cheers. And Nielsen was already known from his Airplane films. Watch this segment careful due to the star quality and the beach setting simply the best story of Creepshow.The Crate I did not enjoy because of the long length and the college setting. Sure I glad that Hal Holbrook finally got to rid that nagging wife as Adrienne Barbeau was a great verbal abuser to Hal. The only thing I get out of The Crate is that a legendary monster type from another country is shipped to a college to eat humans, but what the monster symbolizes beats me. The Crate is the second dullest story next to The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill no meaning and the length of the story really hurt The Crate.The last story brings back lots of memories it's the now late E.G. Marshall in They're Creeping Up On You for one the cuss words by E.G. filled me up with laughter as a kid and it does the same now. Marshall plays a cold arrogant tycoon who has a little bug problem in his apartment. A major cockroach problem to be exact! If you are a person with compulsions this story may frighten you believe me a million cockroaches crawling everywhere!Back to the prologue ending with the kid who's really the son of Stephen King has a voodoo doll and stickpin it's he will learn to throw away my comic books, ready for another shot dad ha! ha! ha! I say if you don't know by now Creepshow is by far the best horror/anthology movie of all-time. It's all present the all-star cast, the terror and humor and good story settings. I know upon release in 1982 Creepshow wasn't that popular but with countless airings by basic and premium cable and more modern times and with young viewers who got a chance to see it many times the popularity soared. From the first time 14 years ago to this day I still cherish Creepshow. I watch it when I want I own a VHS videotape copy. These five horror stories from the '50s EC comics are now immortalized classics. And the masters of horror George A. Romero and Stephen King helped make it a classic due to the musical score, cinematography, and the casting. These stories have a moral that bad people who do bad things receive comeuppance. Watch whenever and anywhere no matter what the time make sure you get a chance Creepshow is a must view always. "},{"Title":"The best of the horror/anthology movies","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Creepshow is without a doubt the best horror/anthology movie I've ever seen. I'm a big fan of horror/anthology movies where you get three, four, or five different tales of terror. Twilight Zone The Movie, Cat's Eye, and Tales From the Darkside The Movie are some of the horror/anthology movies that I've liked to date. But Creepshow is the best. Now just forget about Creepshow 2. The first movie is the real deal. Night of the Living Dead director George Romero and horror writer Stephen King collaborated together on Creepshow, which brings five terrifying stories of sheer horror in the style of the classic '50s comic books. Plus there's plenty of comedy and humor. I liked all five segments in Creepshow, although the first two segments (Father's Day and The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill) I only liked marginally. They're good, but not great. Ah, but the best stuff comes in the last three segments (Something To Tide You Over, The Crate, and They're Creeping Up On You). They're scary, and very funny. And the cast seems to be having a ball with the material that they're given. It's fun to watch Naked Gun star Leslie Nielsen in a villainous role (in the segment Something To Tide You Over), and the two funniest performances are turned in by Adrienne Barbeau (TV's Maude) as an obnoxious drunk in The Crate; and by the late E.G. Marshall (TV's The Defenders) as a mean-spirited but wisecracking old businessman with an insect phobia in They're Creeping Up On You. These two characters cracked me up, and they're a pleasure to watch because I've always enjoyed their work in other movies and on their TV shows. Creepshow also features early film appearences by Ted Danson (right before TV's Cheers) and Ed Harris (long before his Oscar-nominated roles in Apollo 13 and The Truman Show). Even King himself stars in one of the segments (The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill). Hal Holbrook, Fritz Weaver, Carrie Nye, and Viveca Lindfors round out the cast. Creepshow is an anthology movie that's full of scares and laughs which helps to make it a very entertaining horror/comedy.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Horrific fun. Creepy tales to make you tingle.","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George Romero and Stephen King team up to recreate the  ghoulish fun of classic pulp horror comic books. Creepy stories shot with a comic book color and feel. Super neat! Loads of fun to watch.A few of the stars lending their services Ed Harris, Hal Holbrook, Fritz Weaver, Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson, Adrienne Barbeau, E.G. Marshall and even Stephen King. "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic! Setting the Standard.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  1982's Creepshow is truly the greatest horror movie ever made. Creepshow would later inspire the horror series Tales From the Crypt. Crafted perfectly from the old 50's EC comic books all five Creepshow stories have bad people getting comeuppance. I first saw Creepshow in 1987 on Cinemax, and over the years from 1991 to present viewed the film about 30-35 times on TBS, TNT, and home video etc. I finally purchased my own copy in 1997. The first story Father's Day is a great revenge story. The second story with Stephen King as a stupid country hillbilly is crazy and tragic, King is a great writer, but I can't say the same for his acting abilities. The third and best story with Ted Danson, and Leslie Nielsen in an uncommonly cruel role show what comes around goes around. I can hold my breath a long time! The Crate is long and dull. The last story with E.G. Marshall getting his comeuppance from cockroaches is funny! A horror movie to watch over and over a must see it's the best! "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic! Setting the Standard.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  1982's Creepshow is truly the greatest horror movie ever made. Creepshow would later inspire the horror series Tales From The Crypt. Crafted perfectly from the old 50's EC comic books all five Creepshow stories have bad people getting comeuppance. I first saw Creepshow in 1987 on Cinemax, and over the years from 1991 to present viewed the film about 30-35 times on TBS, TNT, and home video etc. I finally purchased my own copy in 1997. The first story Father's Day is a great revenge story. The second story with Stephen King as a stupid country hillbilly is crazy and tragic, King is a great writer, but I can't the same for his acting abilities. The third and best story with Ted Danson, and Leslie Nielsen in an uncommonly cruel role show what comes around goes around. I can hold my breath a long time! The Crate is long and dull. The last story with E.G. Marshall getting his comeuppance from cockroaches is funny! A horror movie to watch over and over a must see it's the best! "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic! Setting the Standard.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  1982's Creepshow is truly the greatest horror movie ever made. Creepshow would later inspire the horror series Tales From the Crypt. Crafted perfectly from the old 50's EC comic books all five Creepshow stories have bad people getting comeuppance. I first saw Creepshow in 1987 on Cinemax, and over the years from 1991 to present viewed the film about 30-35 times on TBS, TNT, and home video etc. I finally purchased my own copy in 1997. The first story Father's Day is a great revenge story. The second story with Stephen King as a stupid country hillbilly is crazy and tragic, King is a great writer, but I can't say the same for his acting ability. The third and best story with Ted Danson, and Leslie Nielsen in an uncommonly cruel role show what comes around goes around. I can hold my breathe a long time! The Crate is long and dull. The last story with E.G. Marshall getting his comeuppance from cockroaches is funny! A horror movie to watch over and over must see it's the best! "},{"Title":"comic fun","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the few comic horror films from the 80s, this really delivers fun and silliness.  Nothing else should be expected with King at the helm, most of his books or short stories having some sort of humor along with the violence.  Here we go inside a thriller comic book and have the characters come to life so to speak, complete with cartoonish backgrounds and animated captions.  First up a mad cadaver knocks off a bunch of richies in a mansion looking for his Fathers Day cake; then a dummy farmer (King, in a perfectly goofball performance) touches a meteor and begins growing weeds all over himself; followed by my favorite, Leslie Neilson in one of his rare bad guy performances, burying his wifes lover Ted Danson on a beach to drown; story 4 is an overlong tale of a wacko monster that gets loose from a crate. Holbrooks line toward the end is worth the wait Just tell it to call you 'Billie!';  and the final story is a definite lets end things with a bang as oldster Marshall deals with a stadium load of cockroaches.  A story thats guaranteed to make many gag at the sight of...well, lets spare you of the details here.  Theres also a good wrap-around story dealing with a meanie dad and his vengeful little son.  So overall a very entertaining group of tales for horror lovers.  And five years later a sequel, that most hated but I loved, came along. "}{"Title":"Romero rules!!!!!","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George Romero is so cool when it comes to directing movies. His films always entertain. Creepshow is a comic book come to life and downright scary too. "},{"Title":"I Have Changed My Mind Considerably On This","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is what many would consider the ultimate anthology stories written by Stephen King and directed by George A. Romero. Of course, if you consider King and Romero to be hacks, this may scare the dickens out of you. I rest somewhere in the middle some King is good (The Shining) and some Romero is good (Dawn of the Dead)... and that really sums up this picture -- some of it is quite good. The rest, though, I could take or leave.There are five stories presented here. Three would have sufficed, but we got more. There's a downright silly story about a birthday cake. I mean, I guess if I was drunk I'd like it, but I wasn't. There's a story about a crate containing a mysterious beast. That would be awesome if the beast wasn't made so goofy by the effects crew... why does it have to be so childish if the raft scene in Creepshow 2 is considered so darn scary by many?The segment that stands out for me and is easily the most memorable is the beach scene with Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson. The exact plot is a little mysterious, which adds to the suspense. Why is Nielsen so evil? Why has he kidnapped the woman? Is he a powerful mob boss? Some of this is revealed, some not so much. The whole idea behind this is great... the only problem comes in the twist, where things go from macabre to comical. Romero and King have it in them to make a truly scary film and they squander it.The short segment with King as the buffoon? Just dumb, dumb, dumb... that's all I can say. Now, if you're looking for something silly, this may do the trick for you. But it's not one of the better stories of the film -- a clear hillbilly version of The Blob, with King not doing as well here as in Creepshow 2.The final segment, with the germophobe who is infested with roaches... fantastic. His white, spotless cleanliness contrasted with his purely dark and evil soul is a nice touch, and for anyone who has a fear of bugs, this is going to creep you out and have the film live up to its name. This also happens to be the one segment that is not really silly in any way, which is what I wish we had gotten more from in this film, even if it was based on a comic book.I recently (August 2010) had the pleasure of screening this film at the Portage Theater in Chicago. This changed my outlook on the film quite a bit from below average to more than above average. Some scenes, particularly the bug scene, work better on a big screen or with an audience that reacts. And, to be fair, the film was meant to be corny and silly, so I should not fault it for presenting its intentions. Maybe not what I would prefer (I'd suggest Tales From the Darkside), but they delivered what they promised.What would really make a strong film is if Creepshow and Creepshow 2 were combined to make a best of compilation... ignoring Creepshow 3. In my opinion, the second is better than the first in many ways, so adding the two better segments (Raft and Hitchhiker) to the first while taking out two of those segments, you would have a really impressive horror anthology. As they're not really connected, there's no reason to watch them in order or piece them together in any real way. If you liked 2, come back for 1... or mix and match. "},{"Title":"Tacky, absurd, funny horror anthology has its moments...","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It all depends on your sense of humor, but this is meant for horror fans who like their fright sprinkled with laughs as the absurd takes priority over logic. It's the kind of horror anthology you'd expect from writer Stephen King, who also plays a nerdy hillbilly in one of the five sequences.LESLIE NIELSEN stars as a man who plans a wickedly cruel demise for his wife and her lover (TED DANSON); E.G. MARSHALL is a man who is so germ conscious he has his entire apartment turned into the ultimate clean environment only to have it overrun by cockroaches; and ADRIENNE BARBEAU and ED HARRIS have fun with their roles as a sparring couple (think Virginia Woolf), a history professor and his nagging wife, while he plans a way to get rid of her.That's the sort of horror tales told here and, frankly, they rate higher on the laughter scale than they do registering fright.For Stephen King fans, it's the kind of thing they'll want to see and it probably delivers enough twists to keep them satisfied. What helps is that the style is strictly out of Mad Comics. "},{"Title":"Ghoulish Mediocrity","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many years ago, a friend of mine recommended this movie to me, and to say the least, he thought it to be a fantastic cinematic experience. He loved it so much that he actually paid to watch it again, shortly after his first visit. If you were aware of what a frugal person my friend was you would think this to be an exalted event indeed. On his recommendation, I was quite excited to view Creepshow - 'The most fun you'll ever have being scared'. Imagine my disappointment upon watching it. A poorly executed anthology of tales, bar one, slightly above mediocre exception (a tale of betrayal and revenge, involving Ted Danson popping his head out of the ground), this was a rather damp squib. The worst of this ghoulish cocktail is an atrocious episode with Stephen King himself, (the surely embarrassed writer) transforming into a plant, after a confrontation with a meteor. Well, I for one would prefer to eat mushy peas through a sweaty sock, rather than endure that dire drivel again. The other three tales, involving a decrepit old ghost chasing some cake, a slim tale about a creature in a crate, and one with EG Marshall (and his stunt dummy), being consumed by cockroaches, are hardly enough to lift the eyelids. Romero does try to make a fist of it with a rather neat comic book visual style, splicing the tales together with a subplot involving a young boy and his Creepshow comic book. Alas, its not enough to save the mostly vacuous and tepid tales on offer. Not the directors finest hour. 'The most fun you'll ever have being bored'. Perhaps! "},{"Title":"This horror omnibus ain't up to much","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen King's films don't often translate to the silver screen well, and pretty much everything that Romero has touched outside of his famous 'Dead' trilogy and the brilliant cult gem; Martin hasn't been up to much - and Creepshow does nothing to change either of these facts. Creepshow is another horror omnibus stemming from the eighties, only this time we are given five tales of terror in a distinctly comic book style. The comic book style tries to capture the 'magic' of horror comics that were popular in America in the 1950's; but for me, all the style does is give the film a kiddie sort of a feel. The stories aren't very good either, with all five lacking in imagination, logic, coherency, adequate events to fill the running time or a combination of two or more of these elements. Previous and later films have proved that the omnibus horror style can lead to some good horror. Classics such as Black Sabbath, Dead of Night and many of the films that Amicus made in the seventies show this best - but the eighties provided some good ones; and this isn't one of them.The first tale gives you a good impression of what sort of film you're in for. This distinctly under-imaginative segment features a lame story and some even worse 'special' effects, both of which recur throughout the flick. Story number two could have been good, but it's the effects again and this time the acting that lets it down. We get treated to a tale that is very much in a comic book style - but it's never interesting enough to be good. Leslie Nielson lights up the film for the third story. It's odd to see him in a 'serious' role, but once you've gotten over that - even this segment isn't much above the average. The fourth segment seems to be the centrepiece, with a massively overlong running time and a story that can't fill it. It's a shame, because finding a monster in a crate is about as camp as it gets...but Creepshow manages to make even that boring. As bad as tale four is, at least it's not as dull and pointless as the climatic story. It's obvious that the film was trying to be a little bit clever by sneaking in a psychological tale at the end - but this is neither the time or the place, and the overlong run time throughout Creepshow will have numbed you too much to really appreciate this story by the time it appears. On the whole - a shame, but this isn't very good at all. "},{"Title":"Not scary and not much fun","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A rubbish collaboration between Stephen King and George Romero that harks back to the freaky stories of EC Comics but fails to provide the same atmosphere. Only the adverts we see in the comic book bumpers are fun; the stories themselves are predictable and not especially scary.The first story is 'Father's Day', featuring Ed Harris, in which a murdered man returns from the grave to avenge his death. Ho hum. Next up is 'The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill', a contender for the cutting room floor in which King himself plays a hillbilly farmer who turns into a plant. Third and best is 'Something to Tide You Over', with Leslie Nielsen taking scary revenge on Ted Danson. It runs a little long, but hey. Then there's 'The Crate', in which Fritz Weaver opens up a box containing an unconvincing monster that eats people. Despite a fun turn from Adrienne Barbeau, this is dull stuff. And making no impression at all is 'They're Creeping Up on You', with E.G. Marshall getting bugged by cockroaches. I seem to be in the minority in that I prefer the sequel. "},{"Title":"CREEPSHOW (George A. Romero, 1982) **1/2","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This five-part (or six, if you count the bookends) horror anthology is on the same lines as the earlier (and much classier) efforts of British horror specialists Amicus and looks forward to TV's TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE (1984-88), AMAZING STORIES (1985-87) and TALES FROM THE CRYPT (1989-96) series. The first two stories here - featuring Ed Harris and Viveca Lindfors in one and screenwriter Stephen King (mugging mercilessly) in the other are rather lame, but the rest are quite nicely done the third episode with Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson gives the nascent white-haired comic a chance to be sarcastically sadistic and arrogantly defiant to the suitably ironic end; the fourth story is arguably the best and features a good cast as it tells of henpecked college professor Hal Holbrook who takes Fritz Weaver's incredible discovery of a prehistoric killer ape in the college basement as an opportunity to dispose of his loudmouthed, alcoholic wife Adrienne Barbeau!; the last segment, then, is basically a one-man tour-de-force by veteran character actor E. G. Marshall as an egomaniacal billionaire who has his state-of-the-art apartment unceremoniously invaded by his pet hate, bugs! This being a George A. Romero/Stephen King/Tom Savini collaboration, it can hardly fail to feature fashionable gore and elaborate make-up effects - the marauding corpse of Lindfors' father still after his cake; King's transformation into a plant-thing after coming in contact with a meteorite; the sea-weed infested corpses of Danson and his drowned companion as they visit Nielsen at his house; the prehistoric ape and the bloody mayhem it leaves in its wake; and, most gruesomely perhaps, Marshall's chest bursting and, for no good reason, what seem like thousands of bugs creep out! Also the film pays tribute to its comic book origins by employing visual embellishments typical of such media and which only adds to the fun. Romero seems to have liked the whole anthology format as he not only wrote CREEPSHOW 2 (1987) but would soon team up with Dario Argento for their Edgar Allan Poe two-parter, TWO EVIL EYES (1989; also featuring Barbeau and Marshall), which I've yet to watch myself... "},{"Title":"I never saw such rotten crap in my life, where did you get this sh*t? Great comic book style anthology.","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow starts as an angry father (Tom Atkins) throws his young son's (Joe King, Stephen King's son!) comic book copy of Creepshow away, however Bill won't be denied his fix of ghoulish stories...First up is 'Father's Day' where at an annual family reunion horrible relative Nathan Grantham (Jon Lormer) comes back from the dead to get what's owed to him...Then it's 'The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill' where a strange meteorite crash lands on farmer Jordy Verrll's (Stephen King) land, he thinks he might be able to make some money out of it but the meteorite also brought something else with it...Next it's 'Something to Tide You Over' in which a man named Richard Vickers (Leslie Nielsen) extracts a cruel revenge on his cheating wife Rebbecca (Gaylen Ross) & her boyfriend Harry Wentworth (Ted Danson) but it backfires...'The Crate' is about a college janitor (Don Keefer) who finds a dusty old crate under some stairs which contains a shocking surprise...Finally it's 'They're Creeping Up on You' in which a rich businessman named Upson Pratt (E.G. Marshall) has a bug problem, a big bug problem that could well turn out to be the death of him...Directed by George A. Romero I thought Creepshow was a fantastically fun horror anthology. The script was by none other than Stephen King who also starred in 'The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill' & has that great darkly humorous feel about it that many of the best Tales from the Crypt (1989 - 1993) episodes do & the similarities don't stop there either, each story is around the 25 minute mark, each one has a decent enough twist ending although at 2 hour in length it perhaps runs for one story too many. My personal favourite story was 'The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill' as I thought it was the most original & had the best ending as well. I'd put 'Something to Tide You Over' as my least favourite because it drags in places & seemed like a routine revenge thriller with a standard 'bad guy getting his just deserts' ending which you can see coming well before it arrives. The character's are all larger than life stereotypes but you need that when there's such little time to develop them & the trick is to make you care for them within that short space of time, Romero & King do a good job of it & they all serve their purpose well enough & they are quite well fleshed out. The opening & closing wraparound segments also work well as a little mini story in itself.Director Romero does a good job here while he was still capable of turning in a good film, I love the comic book look & feel of Creepshow as it suits the material perfectly, I love the colour schemes & the effect where he flicks between scenes like someone is turning the page of a comic, certain scenes are accompanied by comic book style borders & have boxes which contain three or four different images at once & 'The Next Day...' type text. This is as close to a comic book as you can get I suppose, there's some decent gore here, there are bullets through heads, bitten necks, slashed faces, decapitated heads, thousands of cockroaches literally explode from someones chest & there's plenty of blood splatter & other make-up effects.With a modest sounding $800,000 budget Romero has made five mini films & each one is pretty impressive, it's well made with good special effects from Tom Savini & nice production values. The acting is OK with several very familiar faces amongst the cast including Hal Holbrook, Adrienne Barbeau & Ed Harris.Creepshow is a terrific anthology tale based horror film featuring monsters, voodoo, murder, zombies & alien grass so what more do you want? It's right up there with the best of them, definitely well worth a watch. Followed by a not quite as good sequel Creepshow 2 (1987) & more recently an as yet unseen by me Creepshow III (2006). "},{"Title":"Classic Anthology, And One Of The Best Ever Made At That","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a classic anthology and one of the best!. I enjoyed almost all of the stories, and a couple of them were quite creepy, plus it has fantastic performances all around!. The effects are very good, and i loved the opening it was really cool. It's very well made and written by Romero and King, and the last story is quite ugly, plus, that kid at the beginning was creepy and effective,and i also loved the cool animation!.1st Story Father's Day. This is an excellent story, that has a few creepy moments, and some very cool scenes, with a very cool moment, when Bedelia's father rises up from the grave,it's well written, with a great bunch of characters! (I WANT MY CAKE!) A2nd story Lonesome Death Of Jordy Verrill. This is a mediocre story, and definitely, the weakest of the bunch, it's not that funny, and Stephen Kings Ham's it up, it had a few amusing moments, and it was completely watchable, it's just not that funny, and was rather, pointless C-(barely almost a D) 3rd Story Something To Tide You Over. This is the best story in my opinion it's suspenseful creepy, with outstanding performances from Leslie Nielsen, Ted Danson and Gayleen Ross, plus the makeup effects were really good and the ending, was actually kinda creepy, it's very original and i just loved it!, one of the best stories ever!. A+4th StoryThe Crate. The Crate is a very good story, that's pretty creepy, with an outstanding, but very annoying performance from Adrienne Barbeau you'll hate her!.This is the story with the most blood shed, and all the characters were great, plus, i loved the ending!.B+5th Story They're Creeping Up On You. This is a pretty good story, with thousands and thousands of very creepy cockroaches, this one got under my skin, and made me feel a bit uncomfortable, it has great performances, and a lot of creepy mood.B+.There is a bit of gore. We get a head bashed in,severed head,bloody gunshot wounds to the head,with blood spurting and other gunshot wounds,bit off arm,quite a bit of blood,ripped off neck,and cockroaches bursting from someone's belly (gross).The Acting is AWESOME!. Elizabeth Regan was decent here, but kinda got on my nerves, she was decent looking as well. Carrie Nye is excellent here, i loved her accent, and found her character to be very interesting. Ed Harris is good here, and cracked me up a little bit, he is a great actor!. Viveca Lindfors is good as the old broad, and added class to this. Warner Shook, annoyed me, and found him to be too stuck up and snobbish for my opinion. John Lormer, is awesome as Bedelia's father, he was great!. Stephen King, is way too over the top and hammy for my tastes, he's not an actor, although he did amuse me in a couple scenes. Leslie Nielsen is AMAZING here as Richard, he really is an an awesome actor,there are no, funny lines, he's all serious and kinda creepy and it was cool to see that! even though i love him as a comedian (Leslie Rules!). Ted Danson is awesome here, he gave an engaging show, and he had some cool lines like Leslie! he is an awesome actor!. (Danson Rules). Gaylen Ross is GORGEOUS and is great here, even though she didn't have to do much, but it was great to see her!,where is she now?.Hal Holbrook is awesome here as the main lead, he is a great character actor, and he brought quite a presence!. Adrienne Barbeau is outstanding here, but i hated her character, she played one of the most annoying unlikable characters i have ever seen!, she was great!. Fritz Weaver is very good here as Dexter, and was very likable and convincing. E.G. Marshall is great here, i loved him, he played the grumpy old character well!.Overall this is one of the best anthologies ever made, and it's a must see!, a classic. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Not the Best Stephen King Adaption, But Not Terrible.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Creepshow is a very unusual horror movie, which is divided into stories which are placed in the movie like comic books. The weird thing about the film is that it will show a Creepshow comic book, and it will go onto a story with real actors in it. I was suprised to see Leslie Nielsen in the movie along with Ted Danson. The movie wasn't great, but was entertaining. I give Creepshow an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"So-so","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George Romero directed and Stephen King scripted this five part horror film.Romero directed this as a homage to EC horror comics of the 1950s and does a very nice job. Unfortunately King's stories are overlong, dull and pretty obvious. Father's Day, about a murdered man getting his revenge, is enjoyable and has a good jolt in it with a fun performance by Viveca Lindfors. Also a young Ed Harris (with hair!) pops up. The Lonesome Death of Jody Verrill is horrible--really dull. It's all about Verrill (Stephen King acting like he's on Hee Haw) having an unfortunate encounter with a meteor. Bad acting, unfunny script, lousy special effects--just terrible.Something to Tide You Over (about two murdered people coming back from the dead for revenge) is OK with two dramatic turns by Ted Danson (!) and Leslie Nielsen (!!).The Crate about a monster with a bad attitude is great--funny, gory and scary. The best out of all of them.They're Creeping Up On You has a good performance by E.G. Marshall as a man with a severe bug phobia. An OK horror film with very good, inventive direction by Romero. If only the film had been shorter (it's too long at 125 minutes) and the stories better. "},{"Title":"Creepshow","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Mixed bag of horror vignettes that receive a  mixed bag of results. The goal is to scare, but at  most times it looks as if it's meant to be funny.  "},{"Title":"in equal measure creepy (hence the title) and wickedly funny","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A collaboration made in hell! I kid, but really this is one of the best examples of what can come about, much as would happen a couple of decades later with Miller and Rodriguez, when two creative juggernauts in their respective main genres put their heads together, most notably with comic books. Both writer and director were influenced by the EC comics of the 1950s, Romero maybe more than King, and it's a highly stylized, high-wire example of it being a romp, a satire, a live-action cartoon, and a gore-fest all interspersed. It also features a handful of some awesome character actors for the segments. Each segment has its strengths, maybe a few weaknesses as well (it IS so much into escapism it teeters on the edge of being too campy for its own good). But it provides a great fix if you're looking for some quick doses of Romero's visual mania and strengths (this time with extra budget for special effects and wilder lighting set-ups) and King's un-yielding need to scare the crap, or freak out, his audience however possible.But what's interesting some twenty-four years after Creepshow was first released, is not even how the segments- at least from my POV- hold up pretty well even in today's overridden computer effects world, but how its often even funnier than it is scary. As would be the case with any comic book, unless if it's a deep and dark graphic novel, there's bound to even be just a bit of unintentional humor. The stories in Creepshow more or less deal with very wicked people, sometimes pretty well off, and with more than a few deeply held personal grudges that come back to bite them in the ass, often in the form of zombies and monsters and what-not. My two absolute favorites, if I had to choose, were the Jody Varill segment and The Crate. The former could have almost been a Looney Tunes cartoon if not for what happens at the end of the segment; King himself plays the lead character, a hapless country bumpkin who finds a meteor that's hit on his farm, which he touches and then soon becomes, along with his farm, a big pile of literal moss. King shows here he's terrific with playing such a one-note stereotype, and the 'wishful thinking' moments where he brings the meteor to just that specific section of college is some of the funniest stuff King's ever written.The latter, the Crate, features old pros Hal Halbrook and Adrienne Barbeau as a on-the-rocks married couple, him a professor and her his overbearing alcoholic wife. When his colleague finds a crate from the 19th century, and an insane baboon-like creature that will only stay in the crate whilst it eats its victims, he tells Halbrook's character, who then proceeds to plot a certain task he's envisioned for years. This segment represents a good balance in some genuine thrills and the dastardly humor; I couldn't help but laugh when I saw Halbrook's visions of his wife's demise, as well as the creature itself, about as campy in its creation as possible. The other segments are pretty good contenders as well, with the Leslie Nielson Something to Tide You Over segment cooler with its story than its overall execution, the first story involving the dead husband rising from the grave amusing if not altogether scary or funny. And finally, EG Marshall goes in very rare over-the-top form as a corporate antagonist who has a certain distaste for cockroaches- this one is actually very terrifying, even as it serves up more than it can really handle after a while.The whole form of Creepshow is visually cool too, as cuts sometimes dissolve as if through a comic-book, one frame moving over for the next, and little framing devices like jagged edges around the characters in close-up, distorted angles, twisted lighting, it's all there. It may not be altogether great, but it's got a lot of stuff that as a movie geek I really admired, as Romero and King took their homage as almost an excuse to throw in the kitchen sink with everything else. It's delirious, it's stupid, it's witty, and it basically displays, for better or worse, two contemporary horror heroes having lots of fun, as it also passes along to the actors too. "},{"Title":"In a café in Hawaii, I saw a German poster for this movie!","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Most horror movies should just do this be completely campy! Whether it's a man coming back from the dead to get his cake, a farmer experiencing some strange things after a meteor crashes in his yard, proof that the ocean doesn't kill people like we think, a crate carrying a deadly secret, or an insect-phobic miser about to get his comeuppances, they do everything really cool here. Running it like a comic book no doubt helped. Starring Viveca Lindfors, Stephen King, Leslie Nielsen, Hal Holbrook and E.G. Marshall.And yes, there was a German poster in a café in Maui of all places! The things that we see in life... "},{"Title":"okay film,","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know a lot of people loved this movie. Personally, I did not. I did not think it was bad, but I thought it could have been better. I liked the crate. It had a cool monster and decent gore. This movie is worth seeing, just do not expect to be treated to excellent special effects like in THE THING (1982). "},{"Title":"The movie that started one of the best TV series Tales from the Crypt","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My mom brought home 10 D.V.D's a couple of months ago. And she gave me this movie called Creepshow, and said that it was cheep and she knew that I liked horror movies, so she bought it for me. And I wasn't expecting anything. I thought it would be a cheap movie that was stupid. I was in shock. I actually enjoyed Creepshow. And realized that this is what sprung up Tales from the Crypt With great stars that made it in life. I was happy. Not one of the best, but it will be a classic to horror fans for a life time.7/10 "},{"Title":"Stephen King and George Romero team up to make a spectacular cinematic horror event, and instead they come up with this.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although very faithful to the comic book series from which it was adapted, Creepshow delivers five mediocre stories of goofy horror. All five of these stories are transferred from the comic book to the screen virtually scene for scene, but the end result is nothing more than disappointing.If you were ever wondering why Leslie Nielsen became a terrific comedy actor rather than a horror move actor, watch Creepshow and you'll know. Stephen King, in a weird tale called The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, displays good reason why his professional acting career never took off. Ted Danson delivers yet another all around pathetic performance in a story called Something to Tide You Over that simply should never have been removed from its happy home in the pages of a Stephen King comic book.Probably the biggest problem with Creepshow (besides the ridiculous acting offered up by everyone involved) is that it should not have been made into a motion picture. It was good as a comic book, but suffered badly in the transition to the screen. The fact that it is associated with Stephen King and George Romero probably made it worse, ironically enough, because people just expect so much from them that a flop like Creepshow seems to be that much more disappointing. They should have left it alone. King and Romero wasted their talent on this one. "},{"Title":"Saved only (and barely) by stories 3, 5 and Tom Savini's make-up.","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm aware of the fact this film has a very loyal and devoted horror movie fan base, but you can count me out. Perhaps because I never actively experienced the glorious high point years of Bill Gaines' E.C. comics, but I just don't think it's a brilliant idea to shoot an entire film with the deliberate intention of making it look like a comic book coming to life. Previous cinematic interpretations of the exact same comic book series, like Amicus' omnibuses Tales from the Crypt and The Vault of Horror, were much more effective simply because they focused on the sinister content of the stories as well as on atmosphere and set pieces. Creepshow largely puts the emphasis on comedy &#150; and, as we all know, horror & comedy rarely ever go well together &#150; and an overload of irritating cartoonish imagery (frames, hectic color patterns, whirly lines, text balloons, etc&#133;) that only raise weak impressions of childishness and accessibility for mainstream audiences. Not coincidentally, the two segments I enjoyed the most are those that featured the least gimmicks and cartoon characteristics. And still these two finest Creepshow stories barely just rise above mediocrity, as their plots are unoriginal, overlong and underdeveloped. Number three stars Leslie Nielsen as a sleazy and rich husband who inventively buries his wife and her lover (Ted Danson) to their necks in the sand and then patiently waits until the flood tide drowns them. Of course, the vengeful lovers inexplicably return as watery zombies to settle the score. It's a clichéd and totally unsurprising tale, but Nielsen is a joy to behold as the over-the-top killer. The fifth and final story is also worthwhile, albeit highly derivative. It stars the underrated E.G. Marshall as a boisterous and merciless business tycoon who lives all isolated in a big city penthouse because he's terrified of germs and vermin. But since he's such a mean person (who just caused one of his employees to commit suicide), naturally his tidy white apartment becomes overrun by eerie cockroaches during a power failure. I'm biased because I love insect-horror, perhaps, but this was the only segment that somewhat sent shivers down my spine. The other three segments are hardly even worth mentioning, except maybe in order to accentuate how lamentable they are. We have a family patriarch zombie coming out of his grave during father's day because he wants cake (funny, isn't it?) and a tale about a 147-year-old baboon going on a murderous rampage because someone opened the crate he was in. Adrienne Barbeau stars in this horrendous tale, but her terrific performance deserved a better script. The worst and absolute most pointless story shows respected author Stephen King struggling with extraterrestrial mucus that gradually takes over his body. The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, as this chapter is called, is the complete opposite of funny and King's monologues are indescribably annoying. Also, no offense Mr. King, but you're a horrible actor. Creepshow probably was a fun project for Stephen King, George A. Romero and a long list of eminent cast members to collaborate on, but you can hardly call it a genuine classic in the horror genre. As usual, the finest contribution comes from Tom Savini, as his make-up effects are highly imaginative and much gorier than the overall tone of the movie suggests. "}]