[{"Title":"Documentary, w/o latter day interpretation","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I saw The Atomic Cafe in a theater when it was first released.  Someone exclaimed derogatorily as they walked out on it.  But I thought it was brilliant.  Sort of a sub-genre of documentary, this one had no commentary, narrative or explanations for the material presented.  No retroactive interviews with those who were there.  It relied 100% on archival materials.A few years back, I visited the Trinity Site (here in New Mexico) on the 50th anniversary of the first test of the bomb.  Quite a few of those who were somehow involved back then and still living turned up for the event.  So I did get to hear some hindsight comments.  Definitely different than what was being said back then, and such commentary could have really changed the picture.This is a rare approach, and therefore thought provoking. One can argue that the choice of material, editing and music track impose some interpretation, and there may be something to that.  Although it's unlikely that one could turn the story into something really different unless latter-day, hindsight interviews were added to provide a different spin.Being a Baby Boomer, I was born during the times depicted in the movie, and have some early memories of them.  For those who were alive in that time, it's fascinating to see how it tweaks your memory.  I, for one, didn't think deep thoughts about the duck and cover drills at school - it was just another thing that got us out of our seats, like fire drills and recess.  But it does tweak memory, to bring back things not thought of for many years.  Interesting to consider how one's own memory is incomplete, wanders, can be influenced, etc.  (Now, re-read Orwell's 1984.)Brilliant, and disturbing.  Interesting to consider in light of current events (spring 2003). "},{"Title":"Alarming","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" An ostensibly tongue in cheek documentary about the nuclear age of the late 40's and 50's, juxtaposing the horrific realities of the arms race with cheery misinformation(and simplistic redbaiting) doled out to the public by the US government and private sector. The overall effect is chilling-for every scene of hilariously misguided propaganda and dismissal of nuclear danger(an army film cheerfully assures a fictional fallout victim that his hair will grow back in no time) there's scenes of Pacific islanders affected by fallout from remote nuclear tests and US soldiers getting debriefed on the minimal dangers of witnessing a nuclear detonation a few miles away(with goggles on, to be fair). Not an objective documentary by any means - not that it should be - the filmmakers excoriate the duplicity of the government and the mock the complacency of the public with equal zeal, but there's a certain absurdist charm to the whole affair.   "},{"Title":"Horrifying and hilarious.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A great look into the ultra-paranoid mindset of the Cold War which I lived through. It is truly amazing how such madness (paranoia and intolerance of someone who dares to exercise REAL freedom of speech, of which examples are clearly shown) was accepted in those times.The Bert the Turtle sequence cracked me up. I REMEMBER doing this Duck and Cover idiocy! When I was in grade school, we had Civil Defense drills we were taught to leave the classroom, go out in the hall, face the wall, lean against it and cover our faces with our folded arms. Never you mind that the wall that was behind us consisted mostly of window glass! A shockwave hitting it would have blasted the shards into our backs. It would have looked like the St. Valentine's Day Massacre!A great film.  "},{"Title":"Duck and cover","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I could watch this movie again and again. If you remember the days when we were all terrified of impending nuclear war with the Soviet Union, this puts your half-remembered anxieties and prejudices in perspective. There's rare archive footage of the first nuclear bombs being primed and detonated. There's stomach churning archive footage about the execution of the Rosenbergs for espionage. And the now hilarious footage about how civilians should protect themselves against the bomb.  Makes fun of politicians and broadcasters, and leaves you feeling that you've learned something and that you won't be fooled again.  "},{"Title":"fascinating","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  For anyone who enjoys a real sense about times in history that they have not lived through, this is an excellent film.  I had no idea how the dawning of the atomic age changed American culture.  For an interesting continuance of the paranoid atomic era, check out Bowling for Columbine.  Both Atomic Cafe and Bowling for Columbine discuss the Culture of Fear that is America.Some of the content in the Atomic Cafe is completely shocking, which serves its purpose as a poignant exposé into one of the darker periods of America's (if not the world's history).  A must see.  You'll be glued to the screen. 10/10 "},{"Title":"shockingly entertaining","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The fact that this is true makes this short film scary and worrying...but doesn't stop it from being very entertaining and funny. The pieces of real life propaganda are amazing and it's often hard to believe that it's all true.However remember that all of the snipets of film are cut and pasted together with music added over the top, so everything you see isn't exactly as it seems... it's propaganda on propaganda...and highly entertaining. A must see for any one interested in American History, Propaganda, or just wanting a good sorry laugh.  "},{"Title":"Duck And Cover Everyone!","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" With no narration other than that provided by historical clips, this movie justly states how ludicrous the idea of nuclear war was, and is. The producers of this film spent years going through declassified governmental film archives to find some of the most chilling, and hilarious, footage ever taken. It also tells how the US government screwed over the Bikini Islanders, and has some fine coverage of the spoon-feeding of propaganda to the US public through the 40's and 50's.A great movie for just a laugh, or for some interesting historical perspective on a unique time in the recent US past. I loved the clip of the guy who invented a lead-lined suit, put it on his son, and then had him try to ride a bike. Could we have possibly been this gullible just a few decades ago? Can you say duct tape and plastic sheeting?Duck and cover everyone! "},{"Title":"History Repeating","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Watching Atomic Café is like witnessing history repeating, since the scenes are a compilation of bits and pieces from pre-existing films taken from government and education films from the '40s and '50s. As a compilation film, Atomic Café has resulted in a totally new film that is much richer and more meaningful than the sum of its parts.Atomic Café, will be more understandable if we are familiar with the roots of its historical material. As a history film, Atomic Café takes us to experience three levels of time. The first is the internal time, the Cold War, communism versus the free world, when propaganda about the atomic bomb was made to persuade the people that only nuclear weapons would protect them from the Evil Empire. The period of the'Nuclear Free' movement comes next. And thirdly, the present time, when the world is changed but has to face the same irony that still is just as relevant today, the fear of weapons of mass destruction.In the beginning, the film appears to be a straightforward history of America's development and use of atomic weapons. Historical footage is used to add credibility to the information presented. The power of the bomb is demonstrated by showing dramatic footage of the Trinity test; interviews with Bikini Islanders, and preserved eyewitness congressional testimony of atomic bomb veterans. The impact of the weapon is documented through footage of the bomb victims. The intention is not to make us become objective about certain issues, rather it 'is designed to make us question the nature of the information presented' (Freeman Reading Packet, 108).The film uses unique techniques. It is like a collage that 'sacrifices the conventions of continuity editing and the sense of a very specific location in time and place that follows from it to explore associations and patterns that involve temporal rhythms and spatial juxtaposition' (Nichols, 102). It is all about editing raw material and splicing segments? of military training films, civil defense films, archive footage, interviews, newsreel material, and fifties music. Many sequences are edited to show the most ridiculous side of the duck-and-cover drills and how naïve the Americans were at that time. To make it more derisive the film shows how the military training films were so amateurishly acted and misleading, such as the scene about the beauty of the H-bomb. I believe that the filmmakers have made their point in choosing all the footage for the film. Perhaps the intention is to challenge and deprive the intended message of the original footage.If we take a look in more detail, Atomic Café chooses and juxtaposes its various elements to support its point-of-view. One of the examples is the continual references to radio receivers. Perhaps it is a symbol that is used to invoke the idea of the power of mass media. The intention is 'to sensitize us to the danger of uncritical media consumption' (Freeman Reading Packet, 110). It is so ironic to see how people in the '50s could be so passive that they believed in every single thing that they heard about the atom bomb on the radio. We can see from the footage how people became so afraid and escaped to their shelter after hearing that a bomb was launched. Perhaps fear had taken such control of these people that the more frightened they were, the more they were easily persuaded.I guess it would be a great mistake to ignore the political message that is contained in the film. Maybe for some viewers this is just a gimmick about the Cold War and things that happens during the '50's. But really, Atomic Café gives us an historical perspective for reconsidering the effect of the issues of war, nuclear warfare and weapons of mass destruction. "},{"Title":"nicely nicely","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  rather than using a biased narrative or a series of carefully constructed evidence, the atomic café lets its subject matter speak for itself.  what results is a montage along the lines of a cultural mix tape, some fotage remixed and edited for effect, others shown in their entirety. The subject matter is the atomic bomb and while some of the archived footage is tedious, others that splice footage of radiation poisoning into a series of don't panic public service announcements.  There are some genuinely funny segments too, like the announcer who takes a moment out to state that in the midst of all the communist propoganda flying around, he's proud he is that he owns 2 lovely shopping plazas, which he proceeds to shamelessly advertise.  And of course, the classic Duck and Cover videos shown to schoolchildren worldwide in the mid-50's.  The soundtrack of forgotten country, lounge, and rockabilly tunes about hydrogen bomb fears is stellar as well.  But the culmination and as well as the most powerful moment comes when a simulated Nuclear attack on the US combines footage from all of the previous segments into a harrowing collage of post-war hysteria.  "},{"Title":"an extraordinary, if flawed gesture of truth. (spoiler in penultimate paragraph)","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Is it only possible to counter propaganda with propaganda?  Three American film archivists, discovering a trove of American material from the Cold War era - US Army Information films, newsreels, advertisements, radio broadcasts, government shorts, songs, cartoons etc. - decided to make a compilation film from it.  The result is stunning, horrifying, comic, unreal, revealing an entire nation, the most powerful and influential nation in the world, the centre of modern democracy, home to many of the brightest minds in the world, giving way to collective insanity.  And all over one of America's most far-reaching inventions, the atomic bomb.'Atomic Cafe' details three stages in America's relationship with the bomb. Firstly, when only the Americans had it, there is a distinct smugness, as President Truman, barely able to suppress the joyful giggles, thanks God that it fell into American hands, and not those of 'our' enemies.  Because America is so sensible and impartial, and would never do anything silly with it.  Like blow up an entire idyllic Pacific island, misjudge meteorological reports and contaminate many nearby islanders, as well as a Japanese fishing vessel whose dodgy produce is then sold throughout Japan and - ha! - imported to America.Like bomb two entire Japanese cities.  This is perhaps the most chilling section of the film - the rest just shows Americans in demented fearbliss. One of the pilots of the Enola Gay describes the mission with terrible, cold, euphemistic, mathematical, military, precise jargon, reducing a barbarous act that killed hundreds of thousands, maimed many more, contaminated whole generations, and destroyed the psyche of a nation, to a theorem,  successfully demonstrated.  The filmmakers have this charming absraction soundtracking footage of the actual human cost.  Another knuckleheaded pilot slavers at the aesthetic pleasure the mushroom gave him, words that would be echoed in the later glorious war against Iraq.Curiously, in the face of suppressed public misapprehension, it is the visual wonder of the bomb's effects that are repeatedly asserted, as if the atomic bomb is just one big firework, bigger and better because it is American, a military-sponsored cultural experience from a nation that was in the process of jailing some of its best minds.  We're only three years from 'Top Gun'.The execution of the 'treasonous' Rosenburgs is another shameful American farce crowds of 'ordinary' Americans baying for blood as enthusiastically as their recent German enemies (the Rosenburgs were, of course, Jewish). The execution itself doesn't quite go to plan, as Ethel survives the recommended dose of electricity - one visibly shaken reporter seems to regret the medieval brutality of the exercise, but still manages to condemn her righteously (the propaganda invokes religious imagery a lot to justify itself).All this merry-making changes when the Russians 'pinch' the bomb. Complacent superiority gives way to panic.  The moronic anti-Red propaganda shown here would be funny if we didn't know how many lives it ruined under McCarthy, Nixon and all their cronies.  Particularly piquant scenes include a good-old-boy American town enacting the consequences of a Soviet takeover, or the newsman who stops to advertise two fine American shopping malls, excellent examples of non-Soviet Western capitalism.  The third stage is the final descent into lunacy, as the inevitability of bomb apocalypse results in new housing estates with built-in bomb shelters, and boy scouts being encouraged to jump off their bikes and hit the pavement in the even of a nuclear blast (thanks for the tip!).'Atomic Cafe' is a valuable record in the rare visual recording of a nation actually becoming a superpower.  America's vaunted role of world policeman coexists with a vicious isolationism - one priest (!) recommends families having a weapon in their bomb shelter to ward off any undesirable 'needy strangers' who might need help (I take it the Good Samaritan parable is cut from American bibles); the patronising of both Europeans and Pacific islanders reveal America entering its own imperial Victorian age.  The film is also a brilliant piece of sociology, about the construction of gender (the male power in the home as metonym for the male power in government) and family (the radio broadcast of the Rosenburgs' execution is cut with Lynch-like shots of beautiful suburbia), politics, commerce, media-power.This is an essential guide to anyone who needs a background to film masterpieces like 'Written On The Wind' or 'Bigger Than Life', although, as a documentary, it cannot compete with them as insights into what it was like to live in the 1950s - just because the government treated its subjects as idiots doesn't necessarily mean they were.  The last line in the film, after a nuclear blast has ravaged America, is 'Let's wait for orders from  the authorities, and then we can relax'.  'Atomic Cafe' shows that asylum America got the authority it deserved, and the brief flash of Reagan in the archives suggests that it wasn't a mentality that had just gone away.It is a shame, then, that the film is tainted by its own processes, distorting the evidence to produce a single viewpoint, just as those silly films did.  The filmmakers cannot trust the audience to see the inherent ghastly idiocy of the propaganda for themselves; they have to lead us with a heavy hand.  Like authority.  It intercuts footage with ironically disparate soundtracks (eg the proto-'Blue Velvet' effect I mentioned above); at the climax, 'Cafe' lunges into a Walpurgisnacht of American craziness, full of speeded up editing and 'zany' sound effects.  Having watched so many of the films, maybe Rafferty-Loader-Rafferty got used to the idea of power. "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's It's the end of the world series. Love that bomb!!","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Atomic Cafe (1982) was a fascinating movie about the government propaganda films that were produced and widely distributed during the fifties and sixties. In preparation for the stockpiling of these nuclear weapons, the U.S. government was more than ready, wiling and able to calm the nerves of it's citizens by using television and film. The film covers everything from the beginnings of the atomic weapons program until the late sixties when it wasn't chic anymore to try and sedate the masses with tons of useless information.When watching this movie you get to experience the era of dunk-and-cover and homemade fallout shelters. You also witness hapless soldiers marching into a detonated H-Bomb. The G.I.s wear radiation detection equipment showing how much exposure to the lethal fallout they were exposed to. I felt like doing this review in commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the destruction of the civilian city of Hiroshima. You'll also learn from this film (thanks to U.S. government films) that after spending over a billion dollars, Truman and company wanted to see their weapon in action and see if it was money well spent. No matter what happened between diplomats, that bomb was going to dropped to matter what and Hiroshima was a virgin target and President Truman was all smiles (scary).If you want to see some stuff that'll raise the hairs on the back of your neck then you'll want to grab a copy of Atomic Cafe!Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Make Up Your Own Minds","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" THE ATOMIC CAFE is one of those few rare documentaries that doesn't have a narrator or a framing figure . All it consists of are clips in a chronological order of the history of the atomic bomb and of the early stages of the geo-political situation of what became known as  The Cold War  which was the direct result of the bomb . There's two ways of looking at this . One is the subject matter is a little bit dry and absurd and the second point of view of view is that the audience are allowed to make up there own mind and it's somewhat refreshing to see a documentary that doesn't involve someone bludgeoning the audience over the head while sticking their opinions down their throat in a painfully smug and snide manner . You can tell this wasn't made by Michael Moore One wonders what life was like in a pre-nuclear age ? I remember the cold war in the 1980s and the paranoia of that era was chilling , so much so that for people of my generation still refer to the 1984 BBC docu-drama THREADS as the most terrifying thing they have ever seen . That said it could also be argued that if it wasn't for the bomb then a conventional war that would have surpassed the death toll of the second world war might have broken out between 1945 and the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . Reagen in The White House and Brezhnev in the Kremlin ? Not really a recipe for peace and the fact that nuclear weapons are so terrible to contemplate probably focused the minds of world leadersBeing an American documentary all the clips are from an American point of view with an exception of a clip that's almost certainly from an early edition of PANORAMA from the BBC . This is a pity because I would liked to have seen what sort of propaganda if any the USSR was producing at the same time . That said the old cliché of  Americans don't understand irony  is evident as someone praises the virtues of American freedom  because we have shopping malls that are full of food and clothes and most families can afford cars  . I think someone is confusing system of government with economics .As I write this in 2014 China has shopping malls full of food and clothes and the Chinese people can afford to drive cars . The difference is there's no democratic system of government in China so democracy and capitalism are not the one and the same thing , but I guess that clip is to illustrate the inherent absurdity of propaganda ? Likewise we get clips of real life footage of American servicemen being used to test the effects of being caught in an atomic blast  There's nothing to worry about  and of relaxing should your city be caught up in a nuclear war . Did someone say  Absurd ?  One very interesting point that is often talked about by the CND mob is in relation to the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki as in  Why didn't the Americans drop the bombs in a remote unpopulated area of Japan to force their surrender ?  I've often thought that myself and am unable to give a counter argument to that question . Here we see an interview with Paul Tibbets the pilot who dropped the bomb on Hiroshima who goes in to some detail - it's because these cities were untouched by arial bombing and the American government wanted to study the effects on a bombed city after the war had ended . Some people might think this is amoral or cruelly cynical but you can make up your own mind as to morality during wartime and THE ATOMIC CAFE does allow the audience to think for themselves no matter what the opinions of this documentary's producers are . In that respect it's very refreshing "},{"Title":"Magic Mushroom Clouds","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I'm not rating the videos within the film with a ten out of ten; they are disturbing, inaccurate propaganda used to keep US citizens unaware of the horrifying effects of nuclear fallout and the bomb. During the Cold War many countries lived in fear of the bomb, and with the internet today, online communication and truths being exposed, we know enough not to be fooled by propaganda... right? Well, I'll tell you one thing, all that go green environmental anti-pollution stuff all over movies, TV and the news right now is all propaganda.What Atomic Cafe does with these old videos of nuclear testing, mushroom clouds and the portrayal of Japan and Russia as evil monster countries is gather them into a shocking and powerful collection of real propaganda that was seriously aired on the radio and on TV during the 40's and 50's.One of the more disturbing ones is where a cheerful man casually dresses his little boy in a safe-suit and tells him to hurry and not be late getting to the air raid shelter!, waving goodbye with extreme nonchalance as his kid rides off on a bike. Atomic Cafe shows the corrupt politicians and soldiers in power, some seriously messed up cartoons done for children on the bomb, the racists who discuss the natives of Bikini Island as if they're sub-human and too dumb to understand the destruction of their once-beautiful island, and then there's the disturbing song and full-color cartoon about radioactivity blowing commies into the ground. A woman claims communism is better in a hypothetical situation and is then degraded by three men (feminism wasn't even a movement back then).To understand just how sadistic, disturbing and frightening these video clips are, you'll have to watch this movie yourself. Just remember that this was all from an era where science was the new solution to all issues, and that things today are very different... and be very, very grateful you live in an era of technology but also very wary of what other propaganda is right in front of your eyes in the modern society. "},{"Title":"Let the government run it's business and let me run my own.","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" No pun intended but this film is a blast. I only recently became aware of it and promptly decided to order it up via my local library. For someone like myself who lived through most of the era represented in these archival clips, it's a wistful, melancholy trip down memory lane. Like so many others growing up in the Fifties I remember quite vividly how we'd practice those duck and cover drills and stockpile canned goods in a secure room at school in case we found ourselves under attack by those pesky Russkies. The film instructively takes us on a chronological journey from the end of World War II through the Cold War paranoia of the Fifties and Sixties showing how the threat of nuclear war was to be taken seriously, or at least as seriously as the government would have us believe. You know, even as a kid I had a pretty good idea that kneeling next to a wall and covering my head with my hands would make me a goner if the real thing ever happened.One of the more surreal moments offered here was that near rabid clergyman exhorting families with a fallout shelter to deny access to outsiders lest they imperil their own safety. It brought to mind that 1961 Twilight Zone episode 'The Shelter' which pretty much laid out the same scenario with some modification. In the story, a family man who built and supplied his own fallout shelter was besieged by his neighbors to allow them entry when the dreaded siren heralded a nuclear attack. The story demonstrated just how ugly people can become when faced with their own mortality; it was one of Rod Serling's better scripts.In terms of sheer absurdity (and there were numerous examples), the suggestion that doubled me over had to do with providing a bottle of tranquilizers for an extended period in a bomb shelter. How else to contend with the paranoia and boredom of being cooped up while waiting for an emergency to be over. Which would be good advice if you had the foresight to locate your shelter at least twelve miles away from ground zero because otherwise you'd be toast. By the way, a bottle of a hundred would be about right.For those of you interested in this type of stuff, the copy of The Atomic Cafe I watched came in a two DVD set from Docurama Films. The bonus disc features yet another eight government propaganda shorts from the era including 1951's 'Duck and Cover' with Bert the Turtle, and what looks like a must see - 'Self Preservation in an Atomic Attack'. For a more in depth treatment of the Bikini Atoll nuclear test, I'd recommend the 1988 documentary Radio Bikini. "},{"Title":"Now, I am become death, the destroyer or worlds","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Newsreel and archive footage covering the post nuclear age from 1945 to 1960 and how Americans coped with it. The documentary start with the first atomic explosion on July 16, 1945 in the desert outside Alamogordo New Mexico that ushered in the atomic age. It was within less then a month that the atomic bomb was dropped on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki thus ending the Second World War and hopefully war itself in just how destructive those weapons of mass destruction are. That was soon to end with the US monopoly in being the only nation with nuclear weapons broken in the summer of 1949 when the Soviet Union detonated an atomic device in the wilds of Soviet Siberia. It was then that it became obvious that a major spy network in the US and UK were involved in stealing the secret of the atomic bomb and handing it over to the Russians.The documentary The Atomic Cafe goes into detail in how the Cold War with the Soviet Union developed with the paranoia of a Soviet nuclear attack on America causing many Armeicans to build fallout shelters as well as stock up with cans and dry food as well as water in order to be able to survive a major nuclear attack. In fact the only Americans who suffered from the tragic results of an atomic bomb explosion were the tens if not hundreds of thousands of American servicemen who were used as guinea pigs in the dozens of unclear tests conducted by the US Government from 1951 to 1957 in the Western United States desert who came down with radiation sickness that ended up killing, from cancer, ten of thousands of them! That's about as much losses suffered by the US Military in both the Korean and Vietnam wars!We get to see how the American people were programed through newsreel US military and US Government educational or propaganda films in how to survive a nuclear attack in the, among many, silly cartoon of Burt the Turtle telling us telling us that the best way to survive a nuclear attack is to just to Duck & Cover just before the bomb explodes. Later were told in a government documentary that if a 20 megaton nuclear weapon explodes on a major US City it would wipe out every living thing, human animal and plant life, within a 12 to 15 mile radius of ground zero. So much for Burt the Turtle's excellent and well thought out advice of ducking and covering in the event that a hydrogen bomb explodes practically on top of our heads!The film has a number of historic event that took place between that time in American History notably the arrest conviction and execution the the infamous Rosenbergs, Julius & Ethel, who gave the secret of the atomic bomb to the Soviet Union. As well as Senator Joe McCarthy who's wild and unsubstantiated accusations of Communists in the US State Department helped the real Communists, who were anything but visible in what they were doing, from being either hurt or exposed them. The documentary ended on a light note with the famous Vice President Richard Nixon and Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev's Kitchen Debate that almost came across like the Abbott and Costello Who's on First comedy routine! It looked like Khruhchev seemed to get the best of Nixon by showing how misinformed he was on the theories and virtues of Communism and which is why it would end up being the economic system that would triumph in the end. As history later proved Nixon turned out to be right with Communism in the Soviet Union ceasing to exist in a scant 30 or so years into the future. But by then Nikita Khrushchev wasn't around to see it! "},{"Title":"Quirky Look at the A-Bomb","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The movie's a quirky documentary assembled from news clips from the '40's and '50's, showing how Americans learned to live with The Bomb if not exactly love it. It looks like the clips are selected with the idea of justifying The Bomb's existence, and then soft-pedaling its destructive power. Of course, the black humor lies in showing that destructive power in the leveled cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and then contrasting that with anemic defensive measures like the infamous Duck and Cover. Naturally, some sort of civilian measures became necessary once the Soviets came up with their version of the A- bomb making nuclear war a real possibility.As a result, politicians and the Pentagon had a big challenge convincing the public not to seek nuclear disarmament as one way of dealing the problem. So, we see efforts to demonize our former ally, the Soviets, plus our own disarmament advocates, in pretty crude terms. Then there are efforts to calm public anxiety through counter-measures, such as bomb shelters and gas masks, along with Duck and Cover. Also, there's considerable grim humor in the way commercial culture trivializes the threat by naming drinks and cafés after The Bomb. After all, what would pack a bigger advertising wallop than a few thousand tons of exploding TNT.Anyway, the movie uses irony and black humor to convey a pretty good sense of an anxious period.(In passing-- Even though we've managed to dodge the nuclear bullet for 60-odd years, it's best to keep in mind that fateful day in 1962, when only a Soviet submarine commander's refusal to press the nuclear button stood between us and a real test of Duck and Cover. For confirmation of this little known fact, Google soviet submarine commander cuban missile crisis, or vasili arkhipov for details.) "},{"Title":"How We All Learn To Stop Worrying And Laugh At The Bomb","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" there are many famous and great documentaries, 'Harlan County', 'Taxi To The Darkside',etc, that inform us and provide us with valuable knowledge into events and help to deeply impact our thinking. 'Atomic Cafe' isn't that kind of documentary. It doesn't really tell us anything we don't know or provide us with information that isn't already out there. what it is, however, is one of the most entertaining and clever documentaries you could possibly imagine. one IMDb reviewer, who is also a filmmaker, even went as far as to say he liked this better than his own documentary.it's really something when you can take a subject like this and make it into a thing that is screamingly funny, enjoyable fun, without seeming ironically morbid in the process. the film never leaves you with a sour, bitter taste, but with a sense of awe and amusement at the messy predicament mankind has gotten into. everything about it is fascinating, and dare i say, even a little magical. not the bomb necessarily, but just the way the film puts things into it's clever, fun perspective. the film takes a negative subject and turns it into something that is good and cathartic for the viewer. instead of feeling depressed or negative after the film, a viewer is probably more likely to feel strangely elated,empowered, and a bit braver when facing world crisis. i'm not saying we should just laugh at everything bad, but a little humor always helps.the film is done without the help of any kind of narration which leaves the viewer free to make their own conclusions and decide their own feelings on the subject. not that it isn't skillfully done. the montages are excellent, especially the final montage which is timed to Mussorgsky's 'Pictures At An Exhibition'.this is a documentary everyone should see. it helps you cope with the idea of a bomb(or bombs), and helps you laugh at the things that seem like mankind's darkest hour. note this makes a great double feature viewing with either 'Dr. Stangelove' or '5,000 Fingers of Dr.T'. "},{"Title":"My Generation was the first to have nightmares about A-bomb as young children....","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" With the current regime threatening the nuclear option in the middle east, I hope that this documentary sees a new audience. I remember finding a pamphlet showing what would happen if LA was bombed. In our circle, we would have experienced some physical affects, but not immediate death. As a 6 year old reading that I thought of my grandparents who lived in the inner circle. The stilted, self-satisfied voice-over readers, and the juxtaposition of real bomb footage and stranger than fiction instructional films is surreal. The duck and cover segment, well, we had to do that at school. Surely we are not operating under the same misconceptions that a nuclear strike is sanitary. This is really a historic document. "},{"Title":"US government lies to the American people...shocking...not","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I recall seeing this movie when it was first released as a Freshman in high school in a cool movie theater in my home town. I'm really grateful for its existence since the only kind of movies I was being shown in school were the usual corporate propaganda films that this movie exposes. The irony was not lost on me that even though decades had past, nothing had changed in trying to indoctrinate the youth of America with the same old half-truths and outright lies. It was also the first time, but certainly not the last, for me to hear a US president knowingly tell a bald-faced lie to the American public without flinching.A very sobering document of the nuclear race of the 1950's which not only resonated in 1982, but, still resonates in 2006.Sad, isn't it... "},{"Title":"This documentary is da bomb (pun intended).","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" We've all seen the footage of Hiroshima getting nuked. We've all seen footage of other nuclear blasts. We've probably even seen some of the propaganda films from the '50s about what to do in the event of a nuclear blast. The Atomic Cafe ties them all together masterfully. It starts with Hiroshima, and goes on to show Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, the Bikini Atoll, a meeting between Nixon and a Soviet leader, and other such stuff.I guess that I might as well put in my two cents. Around the 40th anniversary of the Cuban Missile Crisis, I asked my Russian teacher if she remembered it. She remembered being shown a movie in school about how to help a person affected by nuclear fallout; in short, the USSR was as guilty as the USA (although we certainly put them in a hyper-defensive position). As for the Rosenbergs, I know their son Robert, and he always explains what the government did to his parents. On the 50th anniversary of his parents' execution, he noted that the War on Terrorism has replaced the Cold War.The overall point is that watching this documentary, it's almost impossible to believe that people took this stuff seriously, but they did. And we still live with the Cold War's effects today. "}{"Title":"What you don't know, won't hurt you...","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A great documentary on a terrifying subject Nuclear war and the lack of information of it. At times I found myself chuckling at some of the footage, sometimes I sang along to the tunes present in the film, yet, without a doubt, I was overtaken by fear. Fear of knowing that our government fed its citizens wrong information. It made me wonder what else the government is keeping from us? Will we see a documentary, fifty years from now, called Germ Cafe? I hope not. If you can, please watch this movie. There's enough dark comedy in this film to make it easy to watch. Without this element of humor, Atomic Cafe would be too depressing and nerve wrecking to view. Just remember to Duck and Cover. A recommended film concerning this subject is Dr. Strangelove, or how I learned to stop worrying and love the bomb.  "},{"Title":"scary","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  the scariest part of this movie I think is the fact that it is all real footage, put out as propaganda by the us government. the only thing scarier than that would be the things they tell you to do. like, if you keep your mouth closed a nuclear bomb can't hurt you. it defantly dosn't make me feel patriotic. if you like this movie, see Dr. Strangelove. "},{"Title":"Mind-blowing documentary","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie presents all of our nuclear propoganda without comment. As the movie progresses, I found myself astounded by what we were willing to believe. It's all very well put together and presented very clearly. It's highly entertaining on its own twisted terms. And it's horrifying because it's all true. "},{"Title":"I Laughed, I cringed, great work.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Both the funniest and the most unnerving film I can ever remember seeing. Funny, because of the beliefs, taboos, outlandish lies and misinformation, scary because it's true, documentary footage from not all that long ago... "},{"Title":"Cold War Paranoia","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you are considering watching this one, be alert to the fact that it is a documentary composed virtually entirely of old black and white news clips and civil defense films. Anything you find in it - humor, dread, amazement - you will be supplying yourself.As with any documentary, choices have been made as to what to include. They are meant to guide us in a particular direction. That is inevitable, and not a failing of this particular piece. If it did not have a point of view, it would be dreadfully dull. Your particular reaction, though, will depend on your pre-existing mindset.So, the film is loaded with clips that make people of the past look preposterous. Soldiers are seen staring down nuclear blasts, authorities are shown giving misinformation, and bomb shelters provoke a storm of confused political messages (they may keep you safe, says the good Reverend, but don't let in that lonely stranger if it might compromise you!). Schmaltzy tunes of the past that treat the subject casually are given the Let them eat cake treatment, as in, how DARE anyone treat this SERIOUS threat lightly. The film is actually quite moralistic in a backhanded sort of way, in a Jonathan Edwards enough of this frivolity, get down on your KNEES and fear the bomb manner.The documentary over-reaches, however. This was brought out in 1982, and clearly was catering to fears brought about by Ronald Reagan's 1980 election. He was seen by many of his opponents as a dangerous cowboy just itching to blow up the world. Crazy to think that now, of course, given the fact that he did not blow up the world the first, second, or hundredth chance that he had, but that was the mantra. The images depicted are all from the mid-1940s to the early 1960s, but they even manage to work in a quick shot of actor Reagan himself from those years.If you want to be smug, as the filmmakers are banking on, and react, as they wish, with weren't they all such idiots, well, fine. But consider this at one point in the film, someone is asked how far you would have to be to be safe from a nuclear blast. Twelve miles, he responds grimly. Then, apparently as the sane response, someone else is shown saying even more grimly that you basically would have to be on Pluto to be safe.Sounds awfully familiar. In 2011, the Japanese government said that to be safe from the Fukushima meltdown, you needed to be, what a coincidence, twelve miles away. Meanwhile, the Americans said you had to be much further away. It's so much easier to sit back and laugh at people thirty years later, isn't it.There is a lot of just plain odd stuff. Richard Nixon, at the depths of infamy at the time of this film, is practically the film's star (heavy?), even though his connection to anything nuclear throughout is forced and tangential (his Kitchen Debate with Khruschev is included just to give him some more negative air time). Just illustrates conclusively the political orientation of the film.There are some surprises. Lloyd Bentsen, later Democratic Party darling, is shown stridently supporting the use of nuclear bombs in Korea (one shudders that this actual mad bomber almost became Vice President and, later, Secretary of Defense). President Eisenhower, though, is shown as a very thoughtful man who apparently appreciates the dangers at hand.Some scenes are shown to make fun of the stay inside, duck and cover advice. Close the windows to protect yourself. So hilarious, who could survive a radiation scenario, right? Well, that is exactly what the residents of Japan are being told to do right this minute. Hahaha, so funny. But doing simple things like that are, in fact, what people are still advised to do if they wish to increase their odds of surviving a nuclear attack. Under the right conditions, say a large enough distance from a blast, it quite actually could save your life. But so much easier to laugh at the notion that closing a window will deter the effects of a hydrogen bomb.Of course, bombs in those days were much, much less powerful than they are today or, for that matter, were in 1982. Some of the advice given in the 1950s that was appropriate for that time obviously is outdated. But easy to make fun of people then based on what we face now, isn't it?Those were the early days of educating people about nuclear events, and there was a lot of misinformation, hyperbole, guess-work and so forth, all given the wise-guy send-up of the malicious tool out to make fun of people. The anti-Soviet attitudes are widely ridiculed, and, given that all-important hindsight, rightly so. And certainly, the complacent idea that nuclear wars are somehow OK is the film-makers' real target, and who is going to deny that (well, maybe Lloyd Bentsen if he were still around). The filmmakers are stacking the deck just a might too heavily against people of the past who sincerely were groping for answers before it just became a fool's common knowledge that there is no surviving radiation and you are better off just running outside and standing out in the open to hasten your doom if the worst happens.Just all right as a documentary. Obviously, widely missed the mark with me as either an exercise in comedy or satire. More interesting as insight into the evident cold war paranoia of those who made the film (and their sad, misguided fear of Reagan) than as any kind of insight into the times depicted. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of detournement","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A documentary made entirely out of clips from newsreels and propaganda films during the height of the Cold War, punctuated with peppy music of the era (including the gospel song Jesus Hits Like An Atom Bomb and the jazz tune Atomic Cocktail). What is so disturbing is that you come to the conclusion that the US Government KNEW that nuclear war wasn't survivable, and that much of these propaganda films were made to lull the populace into a false sense of security!Duck and Cover indeed!This film balances between historical documentary, political commentary and black humor. Worth watching, if just to see what we were led to believe. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Documentary","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  There's a book called The Greatest Films Ever Made by the Editors of Entertainment Weekly. They gave me the honor of being named the 6th Best Documentary of all time. Yet, I like the Atomic Cafe better than my own title (The Voyager Odyssey if you must know. This documentaries captures everything I remember about growing up in the 50's. It begins with the Trinity Test and takes the viewer through the effect that the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had not only on the Japanese, but on the Americans and Soviet Union as well. Told using Public Domaine US Propaganda Films and Army Training Films (one even starring Joseph Cotton) it documents the paranoia and insanity of that period. In one memorable shot troops are shown entering a hot zone immediately after an atomic explosion, while their colonel assures them it's safe. What it doesn't tell is that in the early days of the Cold War, the Russians were rather impotent. While we built the DEW (Distant Early Warning) line of radar stations in the arctic, expecting hundreds of Soviet Bear Bombers to travel over the pole through Canada to blast our country to smithereens, it turns out the Soviets only had four working bombers. How did they convince us otherwise. At the 1954 Mayday festivities, they flew their four bear bombers past the American deligation, continued out of eye shot, then flew them past the officials again and again. We were faked out and spent billions. This is documentary telling of the most difficult type since there is no narration. Is it a better documentary than my Voyager Odyssey? That's a matter of opinion. I just am not about to give back my award. 9/10 "},{"Title":"shocking, horrifying, and absolutely riveting","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The documentary The Atomic Cafe is a carefully-edited film composed entirely of newsreel footage, military- and defense-industry propaganda, and authoritative, cheerful narration.  It is also billed as a dark comedy by some of the critics on the video box, but the movie itself--about the disinformation and manufactured paranoia spread by our government, military, and corporations during the creation and testing of the Atomic Bomb--is a horrifying, riveting, and extremely clever commentary on hypocrisy, mental manipulation, and the speculation that is so often passed off as truth in this country.  Freedom of speech is only presented as acceptable when it coincides with the ruling party; actors in army propaganda films embarrassingly reading off of cue cards; the antiseptic 1950s vision of the nuclear family in their cozy fallot shelters; the absurd, frightening claim that fallout from an A-Bomb is only about as harmful as a nosebleed.  And, as can be expected, country music is the official cheerleader for all that happens on-screen.  These are very powerful images that made my mind reel--especially considering I wasn't even alive during the Atomic Age--and made me wonder about disinformation then compared to disinformation now.The execution of The Atomic Cafe is exceedingly clever--the since-dismissed hypocrisy of the images presented are shown for what they were--manufactured fear, a reason to hate, and a tried-and-true method of keeping the population in place.  I couldn't help but recall Michael Moore's documentaries and Jello Biafra's commentaries in watching this film.  It has an eerie resonance, especially considering the outright lies and scheming being fed to us under the guise of national security in the wake of September 11, that makes it not only sobering and terrifying, but bleakly prophetic, as well.  The Atomic Cafe is an informative true-life horror film that caught me completely off guard.8/10 "},{"Title":"The Atomic Café was a blast to watch.","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The idea of combining film from various sources to make something new is a controversial issue. Some people thinks it's stealing; while other people believe collage films like this, are masterpieces of film novelty. In my opinion, I'm one, for the latter argument since many of these propaganda films, TV programs, army and military training films, advertisements, film strips, newsreels, cartoons, government archival film, documentaries, civil defense films, anti-nuclear footage, public service announcements, educational films, and commercial stock footage are in the public domain. So I really doubt, any of this, is considered as stealing in the modern term. Then, there are those critics that says, that films like this, undermining the original message, in which, the original film footage was trying to tell. While, it's true, I haven't saw, many of these film archives on their own, before in my life; so, I wouldn't know, what their original intention were really about, however, I do love, the way, this movie consistent edit all of those found footage from disparate sources into one film to prove that life in the 'Atomic Age' was somewhat comical, despite the era being ride with paranoia, anxiety and misapprehension. I saw, 'the Atomic Café' as a funny, but also an eerily look into the nostalgia of 1940-1960s Cold War. The film's satire shines best, and most vividly in the clever image splicing of the cheerful 1952's animation film, 'Duck and Cover', with that the misinform 'Army Training Videos', which state out, soldiers and Bikini islanders would be alright to return to destructive bomb sites, without getting much radiation. Its shows, how inexperienced and naïve people still were, after ten to 20 years after the horrors of the nuclear bombing of the Japanese towns of Hiroshima & Nagasaki, during World War 2. I know, it's a bit hypocritical to laugh at people from yesteryear, when we still, repeating some of the same mistakes, in today's world, but some of the examples, I brought up, here, are just too hilarious, not to give a few chuckles. The movie is just way too entertaining. In my opinion, I thought that directors, Jayne Loader, Kevin Rafferty and Pierce Rafferty and their team of film editors and researchers did a great job. After all, this movie was made in the early 1980s; where old film footages isn't as easy to find, as it is, today's work. There was no internet, back then, to share film files with; every film archive had to be search and noted for similarities. I heard, that makers of The Atomic Cafe sifted through thousands of feet of Army films, newsreels, government propaganda films and old television broadcasts to come up with 86 minutes of material for their movie. That's pretty impressive at the time. It's also remarkable that all of this, is presented without any new talking narration, or talking-head interviews to push the narrative along. Even, the vintage songs match, the era in which this movie, is trying to portray. It was very whimsical and yet so razor-sharp accuracy. No wonder, why this movie took five years to make. I just surprised that this documentary wasn't nominated for Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature in 1982; because it should had. If the movie had any faults; it's the lack of seeing what the views of the Soviet Union was going through, during that same era. I know, Soviet Union film footage and newsreels is hard to come back, at that time; but just think, if this movie had some of those. It would make a more well-rounded film. I would love to see more scenes like the 1959's Kitchen Debate, between Vice President, Richard Nixon & Soviet Premier, Nikita Khrushchev or something similar to that. Another fault of the film is the movie doesn't talk much about the early 1960s Cold War attitudes. I think, those events would still, fit with the nostalgia cold war tone of the film. It would be nice to see them, to cover the U-2 incident, the Berlin Wall Build up, the Cuba Missile Crisis and the Space Age. My only guess, in why this movie, didn't show that, was because, those events were too tense to make fun of. However, in my opinion, it would still work. After all, this film, did showcase, some dark events like the Korea War, the trials of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, and others. So, I don't see, no reason, why they couldn't add those 1960s events in. Despite that, the Atomic Café did serves up a revealing, somewhat informative hot cup of Cold War history. Overall Atomic Café was da-bomb! The film was immensely enjoyable. I recommended watching to anybody who is a Cold-War junkie. It will warm your heart. "},{"Title":"The atomic bomb is our friend","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Comprised of extraordinary newsreel footage, propaganda movies, classroom scare films (the notorious Duck and Cover with Bert the Turtle rates as an absolute riot of jaw-dropping idiocy), and military training pictures from the 1940's and 1950's, this genuinely alarming, yet still absorbing and often darkly amusing documentary paints a damning portrait of government duplicity and civilian complacency as Uncle Sam and the media alike spoon feed the gullible American public all kinds of gross misinformation about the severe after effects of the atomic bomb as well as go out of their way to present the communist nation of Russia as a dire threat to the American way of life in order to justify the necessary existence of nuclear weapons. The chilling footage of the actual devastating consequences of radioactive fallout offers a startling contrast to all the outright lies told by assorted cheery authorities and so-called hopelessly clueless experts throughout. Further galvanized by a neat array of catchy'n'jaunty songs, with a wondrous wealth of dark humor bubbling just underneath the deceptively merry surface, and an admirable dearth of narration (the numerous clips tell their own frightening story about the shocking uneasiness and irrationality beget by rampant paranoia all too well on their own), it's both hilarious and horrifying in equal measure. "}{"Title":"The Atomic Cafe (1982)","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Completely free of narration, commentary, or intertitles, this documentary presents archival footage from the Cold War era expressing all the facets of nuclear paranoia and the government's feeble attempts to pacify it. Mostly comprised of bits from newsreels and education films (with occasional nuclear-related songs of the time on the soundtrack), the material is alternately hilarious and horrifying, preying on the public's gullibility and need for a voice of authority, no matter how absurd the message. Thirty years after its release, the film is still relevant (everyone got their duct tape ready?).8/10 "},{"Title":"The Atomic Cafe","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The Atomic Cafe is composed of footage from the early years of the Cold War. America and Russia square off as atomic bombs threaten both. We see Paul Tibbets near the beginning of the film. Tibbets flew the Enola Gay which dropped the bomb on Hiroshima. The jubilation following World War II was short-lived. Hawks wanted to nuke North Korea. The film is a Who's Who of mid-twentieth century politics. We see Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon, Lyndon Johnson and Ronald Reagan. There are Albert Einstein, Douglas MacArthur and Joseph Stalin. Even Bert the Trutle logs in. His shell makes it natural for him to duck and cover. The DVD box sports a picture of a kid riding his bicycle in an effort to outdistance the mushroom cloud over his shoulder. "},{"Title":"Just like jumping in a way-back machine.","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Travel with us now if you will to the mid 1950s, when it wasn't only fear we were to fear, but the atomic bomb and the grinding pelvis of Elvis Presley. This is a nice documentary made up of a collection of American propaganda films and material from newsreel archives. Various nuclear-themed clips from the 1940s and 1950s. Building of the atomic bomb and the devastation it left in Japan. Thoughts of the H-Bomb and how it would/could be used. Washington's Communist witch hunt and the notorious trial of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Actually a well pieced together history of our lives and fears. Footage of the Bikini island test; atomic mushroom clouds and footage of school children learning to Duck and Cover. Sometimes humorous; sometimes dour...Atomic City to Nagasaki. Educational look at the dark side of Cold War America. Appearing through archive footage Dwight D. Eisenhower, Paul Tibbets, Richard Nixon, Harry S. Truman, Lloyd Bentsen, Val Peterson, Lyndon B. Johnson and Hugh Beaumont. "},{"Title":"Class room use","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I just ran this film for a high school Social Studies class. Part documentary, part propaganda, part satire. I, too, remember duck and cover civil defense drills mixed in with fire drills. It is particularly interesting to consider this film in a post-9/11 world and think about the messages in the current news media and our security-phobia today. The more things change...the more they stay the same. I saw this film in 1982 when it was released, and it hasn't lost any of it's impact. It is entertaining, informative and a little frightening. There is an aura innocence as well as something sinister captured at a time in the history of the United States. "},{"Title":"Scandalous, Sobering and Shrewd","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Compilation films rest somewhere flanked by documentary and experimental, comprised entirely of newsreels, training films, home movies and other archive footage. The general intent is to displace archive materials from their initial circumstances so as to redefine what they show, which frequently trusts the logical overlap between the inborn standpoint of the initial excerpts and its revolutionary reprocessing, a bringing of political character to concealed connotations. The result is what many consider a black comedy, but the humor is largely incidental, Much of it coming from we the modern audience's reaction to the footage from decades ago, not to mention the use of obviously party-line songs from the time to complement the ideas on screen.This scandalous, sobering and shrewd work of compilation verite is directed, or edited rather, by Jamie Loader and Kevin and Pierce Rafferty, and is a dark lampoon of the disturbing propaganda bounding the government's attainment, enhancement and trial of both the atomic and hydrogen bombs. The film is an craftily marshaled patchwork of authorized madness, hauled from a wide-ranging collection of propaganda films initially made to placate the American people by deflating the ramifications of nuclear consequences.Despite the independent and tutorial intentions behind such government films as The Magic of the Atom, other films like Duck and Cover were made to comfort the people that they could be protected in a nuclear holocaust, that the resilient and prepared would endure. Some of the most tragic scenes in the movie watch grade- and high-school kids taking part in civil defense programs. Girls in home ec show their canned goods intended for post-nuclear survival, and it's plain on their faces that they've no inkling of how they'd endure nuclear war, and not much expectation of doing so. Kids are instructed by adults in shots from educational films, and it must scarcely have been comforting to hear about your chances in a nuclear war.By assembling all these archive resources the filmmakers take us on an excursion so despicable and mirthful that it'd only have been made feasible via misinformation. This half-decade collaborative effort from the three directors opens with the atomic explosion that consummates the Trinity Test, and which paves the road for the bombs released over Japan. The film interlaces transitions without the aid of any voice-over narration. Instead, it adjusts in and out of radios and TV programs, poetically mingling events together through associative cutting. One such edit cuts from what seems like a Navy periscope lens to the square tube of a television screen in an American home. The correlation incites us to ponder the impression of being watched, subconsciously underlining the filmmaker's observation that those in control cannot be believed. Such edits take the audience through the crucial moments and scenes that shape the increasing phobia of communism, reaching a pinnacle with the start of the Korean War, and Truman's warning he'll use the atomic bomb afresh.The annotations of a cartoon clip illustrating a small man being enveloped by mixed hands maintains when people are mystified they'll heed any voice that can identify their problem and advise a treatment. What seems like an induction of communism seamlessly transitions into footage of Eisenhower being elected into office. The suggestion that America is governed by totalitarians is involved when Eisenhower's speech about America's godly wealth coincides with a montage showing the growth of consumerism from tube tooth-paste to TV dinners. This inspired sequence fittingly frames the United States' whole case for the atomic bomb as its single defense against a Soviet menace to fries and hamburgers.As in Stone's JFK, Eisenhower again cautions the people about the relocation of power from the simple, modest musket and canon all the way to the hydrogen bomb in one life span, apparently contending how the developments in science have surpassed the sensory and scholarly aptitude of most Americans. However spoken certainties feel vulnerable to the far-reaching bombardment of visual propaganda this cult classic hurls at us. This just shows the film's genius for discarding academic certainty to emphasize the incongruity and skepticism needed to manufacture counter-propaganda, evading filters with the purpose of taking on beliefs.The candid or verite moments the film shows partiality towards are hinted by the insertion of such upfront moments as Truman caught smiling before the news cameras before giving a grim address about the A-bomb. Such flickers of reality or moments caught live, like footage showing the trouble a man has saying stethoscope while reporting Ethel Rosenberg's execution, are conflicting with the impression of government as a foolproof establishment impervious to censure.Maybe the film's declining the people any facets besides the truth of their unwariness is more connected with The Atomic Café's deduction of the public from its philosophical recipe. But to justify the filmmakers, one must understand that the distress of the materials they've assembled occupies the concern and standing of the atomic bomb itself, which, unlike other civic matters, has turned a 180 in the last 50 years.By amassing misinformation or fabrications renouncing the truth of nuclear war, this, one of the most incisive, embittered and horrifying looks at propaganda, McCarthyism, American paranoia or the self-induced threat of annihilation, exposes our deficiency of challenge to the apprehension produced by political propaganda and the party-line discord that followed. Whether Americans of the era didn't have the capability to challenge or rebuff this propaganda is a contentious fact. "},{"Title":"quietly disturbing implications","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" (To counter the comment which plays this film off against Atomic Cafe and deems this title 'pointless')Radio Bikini documents, using some of the 18 tons of film shipped to Bikini by the US Navy to record Operation Crossroads, or as we know it, the Bombing of Bikini Atoll by air and undersea atomic bombs explosions.The remarkable lengths the navy went to capture the exercise is impressive. The direct gaze into the event via full Technicolour all seems counter to the half truths and mixed messages deliberately put out to the American public as the experiment preceded.Perhaps the single most disturbing issue which is not explicitly presented but alluded to in the final moments of the film, is that 22.000 navy sailors were deliberately sailed into ground zero and directly exposed to strong doses of radiation for a good number of days. This was despite public announcements expressing an interest in preserving the health of the US navy subjects and the issuing of protective clothing only to a few scientists. Meanwhile the sailors swam, sunbathed, hung out in the highly radio active wreckage and unforgivably used ground zero sea water to replenish their on-board drinking water converters. Sailors who became sick in ground zero were experimented on in hospital back in San Fransico and after discharge many 1000s must have died horrendous and disturbing deaths later on in their lives in the manner of the interviewee used in the film. The film is about the Bikini operation from beginning to end. Unlike Atomic Cafe, it's sticks to a specific subject and story and it's approach is sober and historically rooted rather than general, absurdest and scatter gun. It needs to remain focused because history must yet establish the culpability & intent to cause harm to 22.000 navy sailors by their own US Navy command and this is the main outstanding question of the film. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, funny, and occasionally frightening overview of the cold war told through propaganda film clips","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The Atomic Cafe became a cult favorite when originally released and its easy to see why. Its method of telling the story of the early years of the cold war through vintage government training films and propaganda was an original method, but could have easily failed. Fortunately, its completely successful, because the makers of this film find the right balance between clips which are accurate representations of the nuclear family mindset of the era and also provide plenty of campy laughs. However, despite the constant hilarity of the surreal absurdity of the clips, its often quite frightening to think how deadly serious this was taken at the time.The film tells the story of the Cold War in chronological order, which was a good decision. It begins with an overview of the Hiroshima bombing and arms race (which is quite depressing to watch) to the nuclear scare which lead up to the Bay of Pigs. The film appropriately alternates between tones of irony and deadly seriousness. Its a rare documentary that both educates and entertains the viewer. Its actually rather a shame it came out in 1982, because Reagan would eventually restart the Red Scare just shortly after it was released. The Atomic Cafe is mandatory viewing. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Bizarre world","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" When I viewed this video all I kept thinking was, I actually lived through this. It's on target and shows just how bizarre the world was at that time. I've read many who have said it was at times boring, but for my generation, it was anything but. Imagine being 12, being at home after school, and watching cartoons....instead of watching commercials on Wonder bread, we were watching commercials on how to ...in an event of a nuclear strike...to run to the nearest shelter and continue to wipe off the nuclear fallout.In '62, during the Cuban missle crisis, my dad was busy building a bomb shelter in our backyard. It's still there though he made it into a workshop after the crisis was over. Someone else has since bought the house and workshop but I doubt they know the origins of the workshop, even though there is still a pipe for water in the middle of the structure. I still can't imagine 5 people living in a shelter roughly the size of 12feet by 12 feet for 30 some odd years. In retrospect, I think death by radiation would have been easier.As I've said...it was a bizarre world then. . "},{"Title":"Soundtrack","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Couldn't find the soundtrack? We've spent almost 15 years on finding it!Atomic Cafe's soundtrack is great! 10 times better than the film itself. The soundtrack was never re-released since 1982 due to some copyright problems. Here you download high-quality rip-off of it in one .rar archive (86.5 Mb) You'll need to delete all spaces from the following URL www.badongo.com/ file.php?file =Atomic+Cafe,+soundtrack +-OST-__2006-02-08 _OST_Atomic_Cafe .rar Hope you enjoy it and please, don't start flame about copyright issues. Just don't. Please. Just listen to this music you won't find anywhere. Especially -- in legal stores. "},{"Title":"A remarkable demonstration of what happens when a society must make up the rules as it goes along","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  If there were such a thing as an anti-documentary, it would probably look something like this.  As it is, this movie is remarkable enough a montage of clips from documentaries, training films, and newsreels made in the early days of the atomic age.The Atomic Cafe is a startling demonstration of what happens when a society wakes up one day to discover that it possesses atomic weapons and, not having the slightest idea what to do with them, makes up the rules as it goes along.  By turns amusing, infuriating, disheartening, and frightening, it manages to make its point entirely without narration, content to let the editing-and the original films-do so on their own.   "}{"Title":"Duck and Cover","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is an excellent documentary regarding the development, use, and impact of nuclear weapons during WWI. Very insightful. It is quite a commentary on how society viewed the new technology without an understanding of its radiation effects. I especially enjoy the part where the describe 'duck and cover' and how the students used to have to duck when they saw the flash. Now we know just ducking and covering will not save you from the radiation, but there they say there are three things to watch for flash, heat, and radiation. It is also interesting to view the impact created through the development of the Cold War era and its lasting implications for our own world today. Consider Iran for example. By viewing this documentary, you will have a clearer understanding of how the atomic bomb has done and can do. "},{"Title":"In defense of Bert the Turtle","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"         May I say something in defense of the much-maligned Bert?   While people have condemned other classroom flicks (like those wonderful driver ed films) for giving too much gory detail and depending on scare, Bert's fault seems to be that he gave away too little.       Yes, if a kid is in a classroom 200 yards from Ground Zero, forget it, he's cooked.  But if the Bomb fell several miles away, ducking and covering will reduce his exposure to radiation and to flying debris.    Not being privy to Soviet targeting information, the schools had no choice but to show the film to first and second kid alike.       Yes, you could follow up Bert with a more sophisticated film when the students are about ten or eleven (and probably have come to despise Bert anyway.)    But for first or second graders, the Turtle was doing a necessary job well.                    "},{"Title":"Making Propaganda Out of Propaganda","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" For the record, I'm sort of a nutjob and against all forms of atomic energy, so you'd think this movie would be right up my alley. But actually I found it quite offensive. This movie suffers from what I like to call nowism, a distinct present-day phenomenon in which the past is viewed through current-trend glasses, and people of past eras are seen as ignorant, naive, and downright stupid. Nowists excel at taking things out of the original contexts of their times in order to do little of productive value but ridicule the past ironically for their own amusement.I see this film, The Atomic Cafe, as one of the first and finest examples of the nowist agenda. People, especially the middle class and members of the military/industrial complex, are demonstrated (admittedly through their own film records) to be nothing but idiots, warmongers, and sadists. Is this montage of spliced news serials and army propaganda films a true representation of the people of the Atomic age? Of course not. For one thing, the powerful medium known as television was just being invented back then, and these television broadcasts, while appearing primitive and apparently buffoonish, in retrospect are demonstrations of the affects of television as a simple-minded medium. This does not mean that the people in charge of our nation, or even the common soldier or man on the street, had a mind that can best be reflected in the television broadcasts of their day, that we may watch and snicker at in our day. On the contrary, the corny dialogue must be taken with a grain of salt. People are complex creatures, and a person confronted with this new device called television, be it on the street or reading from a script, will not act as they really are. When this film lampoons the media of the past, it unintentionally lampoons the crisis of that time. This film captures the hysteria of the atomic age, yet fails to recognize the imminent and very serious threat all believed was an inevitable result of the cold war mutual destruction. This fear may seem funny to us now, but at the time it was a serious matter.Artistically, the splicing of propaganda videos and instructional tapes and news reels is handled very well, (though anyone who's had to sit through a Michael Moore documentary may groan at the ironic atomic-bomb-themed country music used as the overture). Artistically, I think this is a very capable film. It takes a great deal of talent to splice up a gigantic mass of stock photography and make a cohesive narrative out of it all. But this talent is sadly misused in creating this snickering, snide, snarky, smarmy, one-sided propaganda vehicle. A montage of fast food joints is spliced over Eisenhower giving a riveting speech about America. Mutilated Japanese victims are spliced over a voice-over of one of the A-bomb pilots. The Rosenbergs, arguably the greatest traitors of the era, are shown with unexplained yet palpable sympathy. Why? Why any of these things, except to show Eisenhower to be an idiot, a pilot to be callous, the Rosenbergs to be innocent. But why? What explanation is given for any of these arguments? Nothing but the same tricky ploys of the visual medium those old stock propaganda filmmakers thought they perfected years ago, now ironically used against them. And there can be no new criticism of The Atomic Cafe it brings nothing new to the table. It has no new content. The old is its only content, and only to be ridiculed. Like a VH1 I LOVE THE ___ episode, it is an indestructible silent windbag, because it reflects back upon itself.Yes, sometimes people in the past seem funny and stupid, LOL, but what can be learned by the common nowist superiority complex, demonstrated in The Atomic Cafe, that is informing the people of right now? "},{"Title":"Interesting, but after a while it tends to drag...","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The Atomic Cafe is an interesting documentary that strings together US government propaganda films and archival footage from atomic era. Starting with the first atomic test through the Cold War, this film weaves these clips together into a history lesson. I appreciate how the clips were not just tossed together willy-nilly but actually were done chronologically and logically. At first, clips tend to talks very naively about the atomic bomb--showing solders watching the test blasts with minimal protection. Then the film focuses on fears in the West about communism and the Soviet Union.So why is my score relatively low? Well, this film is a great example of too much. At about an hour and a half, the viewer is left numb--overwhelmed by too much. I think the film would have been better had it been shorter as sometimes more is not better. I found my attention drifting after a while and it was tough sticking with this one--even though it was clever. "},{"Title":"Disturbing to the core of your being!","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I would not highly recommend seeing this film. Not because it does not tell the truth about this era in our history, but because of the mash-up production quality of the film. It is a low budget, poorly produced film. There are parts of the film that make no sense whatsoever and it is hard to determine the point the film makers are trying to convey.This film is not for the weak hearted as there are scenes of those who died as a result of nuclear effects and scenes of people just after the blast with severe burns on their body, which is gory to say the least. Parental guidance is STRONGLY advised for anyone under 13 years of age.On a brighter note, the film does a fairly good expose' of the downplaying of the eminent danger in the wake of a pending nuclear attack. There are a few moments of hilarious scenes which don't relate very well in our post modern culture. Other times there is a I'm sure there going to do that, like really, get out... I gave this film a 5 only because of the fact it could have been cut together a LOT better and the production staff could have scripted it better and done a better job of compiling a more directed approach and delivering a message to the audience. I still don't know what they were trying to say. It almost looks like a bunch of home movies strung together. "},{"Title":"The Propaganda Café","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" After seeing this documentary The Atomic Cafe by the three directors, Jayne Loader, Kevin Rafferty and Pierce Rafferty in 1982, I found that this film is interesting and unique. Personally, I think it is hard for me to figure what the genre is. It is hard for me to figure out what kind of movie it is. It contains lots of clips of documentaries and propaganda short films, animation, and some other feature films. This makes this movie quite unique. The three directors use all kind of footage from propaganda military film, cartoon clips and from various old movies which are related to atomic bomb to keep the narrative story continue. From the beginning of the historical background to the effects on atomic bomb which most people are afraid of after world war two and cold war. After seeing this film, I think this movie can be relevant to the tragedy 911. Though the movie talks much about the atomic bomb, I think the terrorism can be the next subject which American people are afraid of in the contemporary time. For my personal opinion, the three directors still as usual choose one side of the atomic bomb issue - they make this movie more like propaganda for US government. In the movie, fewer sequences are about the harsh result in Japan when throwing the A Bombs, and during cold war, the movie shows most sequences that the US government decides to use and develop more A Bombs, and then in the later time all American people's life is deeply influenced by these decisions and policies. Their reaction in the early 50's till 80's sort of makes people laugh - simply the new generations think that all those are quite far away from them. I think it is quite ironic and this movie in certain degree is still propagandistic for the past. "},{"Title":"Amazingly Overrated...","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"   The Atomic Cafe has got to be the most over-hyped documentaryof all time.  While AC is an ironic, often humorous, and sometimes horrifyingtake on the atomic age (cobbled together from Defense  Department footage and archives of civil defense films), itsover-stated reputation is more a result of the time in which it wasproduced, rather than the film standing the test of time. Since the concept of Mutually Assured Destruction has all butdissolved (at least for now), what passed for irony in 1982 doesnot necessarily pass for irony today, and in this respect, the filmshows it's age. Perhaps what is most ironic in viewing this film in 2003, it seemsmany of the civil defense pieces shown (and ridiculed) in TheAtomic Cafe have more relevance today in the age of nuclearterrorism, than in the Cold-War era of M.A.D.   Seen in thiscontext, survival from a massive nuclear onslaught by the RedMenace is laughable -- but, survival from a single (or limited)nuclear terrorist act is plausible.  Perhaps ironically, the Duck andCover and home fallout shelter pieces in this film have somerelevance today -- ironic indeed.  Regardless, a vastly overrated film that is a product of the era ofThe Day After and Reagan's Evil Empire, but loses it's edge intoday's nuclear politics. "},{"Title":"Not That Useful","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This ought to be frightening, but it isn't. It's just a sequence of U.S. propaganda films about the cold war and The Bomb. There is no commentary and no effort to supply context. The produces just assumed that the propaganda would speak for itself.This could be outstanding if only it mentioned why these propaganda films were made, what the state of world affairs was at the time, how truthful the propaganda was, how effective it was, and/or any relevancy it might have to modern affairs. What they have now is simply a montage with no insight and nothing new to say.As it stands, this documentary works only when seen in your history class and followed by a lecture explaining it. I can't give it anything higher than 3 out of 10. "}]