[{"Title":"THIS is how to make an animated feature!","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"38 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I saw this film at a local cinema, I was expecting a simple child's fare. What I got was a most profound experience.A land ruled by magic is brought to a perilous crossroads, and an evil wizard (voiced magnificently by James Earl Jones) seeks to bring about war and chaos. The good wizard Carolinus (voiced by Harry Morgan) seeks help and finds a most unusual ally...a young fantasy game designer in 20th century North America.The diologue is intelligent, the action is well-paced, the plot is believable, and the ending will touch your heart. Kids will be drawn by the storyline and the animation. Adults will enjoy the jokes about science and aeronautics of dragons' wings.Strongly recommended for the fact that it shows the link between science and spirit. That and the fact that you don't normally hear Larry Storch, Henry Morgan, John Ritter and Victor Buono doing voices for animated films. "},{"Title":"A Lasting Part of my childhood","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Flight of Dragons. To this day, I still get excited when I hear that title. I remember when I was first introduced to this exceptional cinema work. I wasn't more than 7 or so. For the first time, my family had the pleasure of having cable. It was one of those ancient cable boxes (I'm 17 now, if that clues you in on anything), but it was cable. I was watching the Disney Channel, and my mother was taping The Flight of Dragons. I liked it, but as with many other obsessions of mine, I didn't grow to love this movie until years later.  I don't know what it is about this movie that keeps me coming back, time and time again.  Is it the storyline? A man, with one foot in the realm of magic, the other in the realm of science. It must have enthralled me, in some way. Dragons, warriors, mythical battles? There's nothing to turn me off there.The characters. The plot. I can't put a finger on what turns me on to this movie. However, I believe this is a timeless classic that I will most certainly be showing my kids one day. I hope they will get as much out of it as I did. "},{"Title":"Awesome fantasy movie","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I've seen quite only quite a few fantasy movies and only one involving a dragon. Not one of those movies have the magic that this animated movie has. This isn't just a simple hack and slash adventure that fantasy is too often stereotyped as. This is a deep, mature animated movie, and the characters are well developed. They speak and act naturally, and the knight has one of the better monologues I've ever seen in a movie. There is a deep philosophy hidden in this movie, too. Should Man stay with magic or move on to science? That is the dilemma facing the main character, a scientist who is fighting to save the realm of magic. And there is more than one scene that will touch your heart. This is an excellent animated movie that is mature enough for adults, yet kids of all ages can enjoy it. Rent it or buy it. Just watch it. "},{"Title":"Exciting animated fantasy movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Flight of dragons is perhaps one of the most unique animated pictures produced. Kids will enjoy watching the dragons and creatures of fantasy while the adults will appreciate the deep story and philosophy portrayed in this film. If the story isn't enough for you to watch this, the animation will attract your eyes to the screen. This is a great animated fantasy good for just about everyone. Whether you're a player of role-playing games or just looking for a good film, this is it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Dragontastic!!!","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Not much for animation usually but this film changed all that. I first watched it when I was younger and until recently hadn't watched it for a while. But after seeing it again it gave me a hunger again and again. If you're into the mystical, fantasy escapism in films and if you love dragons and wizards then this is a definite must see. It has beautifully designed beasts (dragons, ogres, worms etc) not just in design but in naming and essence which is definitely worthy of the book by Peter Dickinson. I'm a complete dragon lover now and love nothing more than watching a film that drops you into a fantasy pool through narrative and colour. And if you're the kind of person who likes a good musical soundtrack to go with, then this is a definite yes. This should be seen by children and adults alike. It's definitely one of my favourites and after you've seen it I'm sure it'll be yours too! "},{"Title":"A great fantasy...","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was great.  I watched it over and over and over again as a kid, and it basically introduced me to fantasy.  The voices are so talented, including the late John Ritter and James Earl Jones.  And the story is so creative!  A great movie for children and adults alike. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie at all!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  An animated science-fiction movie that the whole family can probably enjoy. Wizards, dragons, and ogres are just a few of the many creatures you can find in this movie. I first watched this when I was a little kid, and I still enjoy digging it out from time to time and watching it again (some parts used to scare me bad!). Reminds me a lot of the Lord of the Rings. If you liked those books/movies, you'll probably like this too. "},{"Title":"DVD Version?","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I really enjoyed this film as a child. I had forgotten the name for many years, which was unfortunate. Recently, my mother recalled the title in order to show this film to her class. She had requested it from the library and was surprised that it doesn't exist in a DVD format.I happened to find it laying about and watched it again. All the childhood memories poured back. It isn't often an adult will sit through a children's' film and enjoy what they see but I did.I still searched online for a DVD format so I could make a purchase but no dice. I wish it would be put on DVD. "},{"Title":"Awesome dragon tail (er, tale)","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Good story and characters team up with good animation to bring an excellent tale of a group of heroes joining forces to fight off an evil sorcerer in the world of magic. John Ritter excels as the voice of Peter Dickenson, the modern day scientist who is transformed into a dragon and forced to go along on the journey. Great action all around, and likeable characters. "},{"Title":"Terrific fantasy, sad, action-packed and clever!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Like a lot of people, I first saw this movie when I was about 5 and couldn't stop watching it. It was smashing! I recently found another copy after 12 years and found it hadn't lost its touch. The animation is great and the voices are well chosen. James Earl Jones and John Ritter are superb! The movie is about 4 wizards losing their magic powers and suggest they build a new magical realm. The evil wizard Ommadon (JEJ) doesn't like the idea and threatens to destroy mankind. The green wizard Carolinus (voiced by 'M.a.s.h' Harry Morgan) inspires a quest to kill Ommadon and steal his powerful red crown. Soon enough he manages to round up Peter Dickenson (The guy who wrote the book) from the 20th century. A knight named Sir Orin Neville Smythe, Arak the wolf, Danielle of the woodlands, Smrgol the old dragon, Giles the Elf and soon its Lord of the Rings all over again. This has tons to offer. The science and philosophical side to the story is really clever and makes perfect sense. The action and story is fantastic with the quest involving Sand Mirks (Horrid little creatures who attack by the million!) Giant Worms, More dragons and the ultimate Ogre of Gormley Keep. He used to scare me to death. The nice kind of direction where you can only see his shadow and his face for a second until someone screams. Its frightening! I also found that Smrgol dying made me cry. Still, Smrgol and the Ogres castle-top fight scene is brill! Even if you aren't a fan of this stuff you will enjoy. I'd love to see you find a copy of this too. Well, 10 out of 10 anyway. I hear the call of my comrades. Ha ha ha! "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A fantastic fantasy cartoon, as good as the book if not better, amazingly animated and voiced perfectly the film is entertaining and enchanting, the story has a Tolkien feel to it and very entertaining it is too I would recommend it to anyone who has ever had an imagination.It's a great story of dragons and magic and good versus evil! "},{"Title":"SIMPLY AMAZING!!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have never been into animation that much even since I was a young kid.  I grew up hating animation like Rainbow Brite or Strawberry Shortcake.  It wasn't horrible but it wasn't anything to write home about.  Then my eyes were opened when the great Princess Mononoke was released in America.  Some of my Japanese friends tried to get me to see it and like I've said before, I have never been that much into animation.  I took a risk and was pleasantly surprised.  The movie was short and sweet with witty dialogue and intense action.  I considered it to be the best American animation I've ever seen.  Then a year later my Japanese friends brought over Flight of Dragons and they told me it was better than Princess Mononoke.  I didn't believe that statement until halfway through the movie.  The movie was brilliant and I was speechless afterwards.  Crisp and clean animation flow through Flight of Dragons like a winding mountain river.  As soon as I saw the animation in that movie I began to fear that the dubbing might be horrible thus ruining the beauty of the animation.  I was proven wrong again which helped me to realize I shouldn't make such assumptions because one never can tell when it comes to animation. John Ritter was amazing.  I have never heard his voice so clean and solid as in Flight of Dragons.  Ritter steals the show and you wind up in a trance watching to see where his flight will take him next.  James Earl Jones was totally out of character.  Jones has been in many great films but his voice sounded too much like Darth Vader and it was almost as though he was trying to show off which should not be done in an animated film.  The voice actors obviously needed to take voice lessons from John Ritter, the master dubber himself.  Other than these flaws the movie was perfect starting with an outstanding beginning and finishing with a solid clean end leaving a smile spread across my face.  This will remain my favorite animated movie of all time so I only have one thing to say- Miyazaki, look out because Jules Bass is headed for the silver screen!!  "},{"Title":"Finally on DVD (legally)!","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Flight of Dragons is finally being offered on DVD! Amazon is selling copies of the film on DVD-R discs using their Create Space service. These are legitimate, licensed copies. According to Amazon, copies of works sold through Create Space are made from original sources, so the picture and sound should be better than any bootleg available. So, if you've been looking for this film on DVD, just go to Amazon and search for the flight of dragons DVD, and buy it directly from Amazon (not from the marketplace). I've already ordered my copy and can't wait to watch it. Create Space is licensed by the studio that owns the film to do this, so if the studio sees that there is a demand for the film, maybe we will see a normal DVD or Blu Ray release in the future. "},{"Title":"A beautiful memory!","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember this movie from when I was a kid. Watching it with my siblings and neighbors over and over. Even though we were kids, our English fluency was extremely limited and no subtitles were available, we loved it!It was beautiful! The story was really amazing, the animation ahead of it's time, and the actors who provided the voices for the characters were outstanding. What exactly is stopping WB from releasing it on DVD? A lot of us would buy and share it with a new generation, and so the Flight of Dragons story would live on... "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs up for The Flight Of Dragons","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have looked for this movie for a very long time, I finally found this film and after watching it I still love it after fifteen years. I highly recommend this movie to anyone of any age. The way the dragons were illustrated they literally came to life! The music is enchanting! The plot is outstanding. This title is a rare gem amongst pebbles of what our modern day animation has evolved into. Do not be ashamed to watch this movie because of your age, I am glad that I did not let that obstacle stand in my way. If you can find this film I highly recommend that you see it, let the magic in the movie carry you away, Enjoy The Flight Of Dragons! "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Not just a movie for kids. I first seen it as an adult and still love every minute of it.That was over twenty years ago when it first came out. If you like a good fantasy / fiction this is a keeper. There is a lot to learn in this movie for all ages about mankind and life itself. The constant struggles between good and evil. Idealisms, nature, and wisdom of life. The different balances the aspects of our living selves. The Blue wizard of the seas and stars The yellow wizard of ancient wisdom , peace and tranquility The red wizard of the evils in mankind and of course carolinis the Green wizard for nature Antiquity is the force of knowledge. For it is true there must be a balance between imagination and logic. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was one of my favorite movies growing up. I loved everything about it, I watched it every time I could. It's a wonderful story, fantasy vs. science, man vs. nature. The characters are wonderful, very well thought out, and very well portrayed by all of the actors. Even the names are quite unique. I still name characters Melisonde. The dragons and wizards are all excellent. It even deals well with tales of confidence and self doubt, learning to trust in yourself and your own abilities in life. Basically, a wonderful plot, a wonderful story, a wonderful everything! ^_^ Take my heartfelt and enthusiastic advice, WATCH THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Inspiring movie","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this film over and over again when I was a kid on and just watched it now maybe 20 years since I last saw it. Its magic has transcended the years and it really has a beautiful innocence that can appeal to children and adults alike. This is the kind of film that can remind you of what it was like to dream and inspire you to seek out those dreams. The plot is simplistic but the themes of magic vs logic are really allegorical and make you think why should I be content with what I've got when there's so much more to be had?. All sounds a bit profound I know but I think the value in this movie is really found when you watch it as an adult having seen it first when you were a child. Show it to your kids and keep it alive- its been deleted now but that kind of imaginative and rich film should never die. "},{"Title":"This movie inspired me.","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This animated film is a great story that I will never forget since I first saw it. The moral is integrating fantasy with reality. Plus I just love dragons! It has wondrous adventure and even twenty years later is still just as interesting. It really inspired me over time. I wanted to be a writer for the longest time and this story really caught my eye. I won't spoil it so if for some reason you haven't seen it, go see it! It's not too bad for an '80's animated movie. I mean, sure, Shrek and the Incredibles really blow The FLight of Dragons out of the water when it comes to production. But that's what happens over two decades of work. The older movies do have an advantage, originality. This film definitely has it. It's interesting, it's original, it's a must see. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, esp. if you liked The Last Unicorn!!!!","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Some people might not like this movie. I have loved this movie forever. If you liked Peter S. Beagle's The Last Unicorn then you will LOVE this movie.Spoiler!The basic plot is that this guy is transported to a land of magic. Where wizards and dragons are real. The thing is he only believes in the world of logic. There a wizard is fighting with another wizard about the fate of this world. They decide that the fate of this world will depend on the guy who only believes in order and logic. Depending upon his actions are all the people he meets along the way. It has a love story, and a brilliant ending which explains why there are no dragons or magic today...If anyone knows of a DVD copy please contact me!Nightingale_san "}{"Title":"Perfect, maybe","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've seen this film so many times that I can follow the dialogs in my mind. The first time was when it appeared on video ( 1983 or so in my country, I guess) and now that I am a little bit older, i't s still one of my faves and my favourite cartoon ever. That means (bored yet?) that if you enjoyed it as a kid, it's nothing compared with the impressions that make on you when you're a grown-up.It's really an unique film combining fantasy, romance, adventure, and a great animation. Also, it has a quite original script that you can't find in any Disney-like movie ( yet, I love Disney). The characters present a duality (except for Omadon, who is, after all, an allegory of Evil itself) hard to see in cartoons, the dragons are the most beautiful creatures ever, the backgrounds are a piece of art by themselves, and the music is much more than a simply o.s.t. composed to follow the rhythm of the scenes. And then you have that lovable lyrics from Don McLean at the very beginning. I think is much better than The last unicorn or Lord of the rings, because this one really catches you. I've just found the book ( like in Carolinu's library, when Peter goes there to see the novels that hasn't been written yet! that was charming!) in a store and am willing to read it. I didn't know it existed!So, go and get The flight of the dragons, and you won't regret! D-Jimina Sabadú "},{"Title":"No review can truly give justice to this film","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember watching this film as a small child and being glued to the TV set each of the numerous times. The story is wonderful, the characters are memorable, and now, twenty years later, I still find myself searching for the right keys to play the opening theme whenever I'm sitting by a piano. Fun for children and adults of all ages, The Flight Of Dragons keeps you entertained without having a childish feel about it as many animated films do. There's a great story with action sequences that are not overdone or take away from the plot, as well as a believable sense of fantasy, leaving the viewer hoping that such a world could possibly exist. If you haven't seen it, get your copy right now and be among the many viewers who's lives have been touched by such an amazing animated classic. "},{"Title":"Simply the greatest piece of animation ever....in my opinion","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is great. I first saw it as a small child and was instantly in awe. Sadly it wasn't until recently that I actually saw it again, but I found myself still in love with it. It's great!! Watch it! "},{"Title":"A magical film!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A wonderful film, full of real magic. The Flight of Dragons entranced me when I was a kid and I never forgot it. There is a beautiful, haunting theme song and some quite scary moments. I think I fell in love with the film because when I first watched it because I enjoyed the bittersweet ideas about magic and science. The book it was based on was not a story but an essay with great artwork all about how dragons would have flown and lived, just like the book in the film. And of course the dragons are fantastic!  "},{"Title":"Offbeat, Highly Stylized Animation","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is an interesting film done in an offbeat style. The animation is highly stylized and brightly colored, a stark contrast to the usually pastel and soft-edged Disney style. Some of the characters, such as Sir Orrin Neville-Smythe, are -- well, cartoonish. I'm sure the parody of the knight-errant is well over the head of any child.The story of the quest is simply told and unhurried. Plenty of time for children to enjoy the various side trips, such as Smrgal teaching Gorbash how to make dragon fire, or the two dragons getting drunk in the cellar of an inn and singing Oh Susannah. The many scene breaks look like the movie was designed for commercial interruptions, a la television.This is a niche film. Small children not too addicted to the Disney style will like it. Some of the conversation is stilted (again, everything about this film is very stylized, so the odd style of conversation is likely not unintentional) and you have to be able to accept it that way. Also, much of the conversation has double entendre or a level of humour that will go right by younger children, as when Gorbash asks Smrgal if he would really eat dwarfs and Smrgal replies, Oh no, they are all hairy and tough, not worth picking out of your teeth. My wife decidedly doesn't like this movie but I find it interesting enough in a curious way. And, of course, our five-year-old loves it. "},{"Title":"Haunting and lovely","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A movie from my childhood that stands the test of time surprisingly well. Too often nostalgia casts things in a certain light that went revisited doesn't hold up, but this film is an exception. The story (about magic striving to survive in a world where science is increasingly able to do without it) is one that most people would be familiar with. Staying relevant is similar to survival in many cases. And James Earl Jones's voice is a true gift to the film as he adds a sense of menace that feels very real. John Ritter similarly is fantastic. He attacks the role with an admirable level of both self-importance and wonder. The animation is a bit primitive by today's standards, but I still find that I adore the character designs and colors. Finally finding a copy of this to own was one of my better days! "},{"Title":"Touching Fantasy Movie about the Conflict between Science and Myth","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Unlike other Rankin and Bass animated movies--The Hobbit and The Last Unicorn--this film isn't based on a single work. It doesn't have a primary text, if you will, to accurately relate or deviate from. It's based on other works, but it is a mixture of two (1) the speculative natural history book titled Flight of Dragons (1979) by Peter Dickinson, and (2) the novel, The Dragon and the George (1976), by Gordon R. Dickson. I'm not familiar with either of these works (though I wish I was). Needless to say, the narrative of this film is unique and not one that precedes its production.Some brief plot summary the film concerns the adventures of a former biology student turned fantasy novelist / fantasy game maker. He creates a very Dungeons and Dragons type game and a world to go along with it. And, through some various magical happenings, he gets whisked away to the fantasy world he created. There he finds out that he is the champion of this world. He has to fight an evil necromancer named Ommadon (voiced by James Earl Jones). The story is filled with dragons, elves, rangers, knights, magical spells, fairies, slime worms, dreary taverns, etc..On the level of plot, it's very thrilling.But the plot is not the only thing that endears me to this film. Let me just list some of the elements that make it a masterpiece.The animation style Rankin and Bass's unique animation style comes through here. Slightly strange, borderline grotesque, the artistic style creates a tension between the real world elements the drawings are derived from and the abstractions the drawings are supposed to represent. Thus, there is a kind of rawness / baseness to it.The drawings are stylized, for sure, but the nature of the stylization is such that it might even be described as a resistance to stylization. In other words, the artists strived for reality while realizing that reality was beyond the pale of animation. In other animated films, artists seem to abstain from any ambition to realistically represent something. And in this way you get the four-fingered hands of so much animation / cartoons.The voice acting There is some strange voice acting in this film, but it endears me to it. Particularly, the voice actor who plays the voice of the Princess character, Millisande, is quite awkward yet completely satisfying for its mystical, almost recitative quality. Also, the voice actor who relates the character of Smrgol the Dragon&#x97;James Gregory&#x97;is brilliant! He's an old dragon, tired out by life, and the husky voice no-nonsense delivery completely communicates this. John Ritter does the voice of the main character, Peter Dickinson, and he ramps up the nerdy quality of his voice to the extreme. And, of course, James Earl Jones as the archvillain is just brilliant. He evil laughter is pure art.The thematic content For a kid's film, this flick engages with some serious philosophical issues. Ultimately, this film is about the conflict between magic and science, empiricism and emotion, two fundamentally distinct ways of understanding the world. Without giving away too much of the plot, the main character becomes the avatar for reason and logic, science and math; thus, the baddies become the representatives of superstition, magic, fear, and other emotional ways of coming to terms with the world.Spoiler alert It's a strange twist, but the main character's quest ultimately preserves the magical realm, which is an absolute incongruity considering his way of understanding the world necessarily undermines it.But I forgive this film this as it really begs the question, Are our imaginations and flights of fancy, our impulses toward wonder and beautiful ignorance necessarily incompatible with the scientific endeavor? Is there something worthwhile is hearing a god's anger in the thunder rather than, say, the manifestation of a meteorological phenomenon? Is there something lost when we unweave the rainbow?The film doesn't answer this rich question. It's the source of its aesthetic power is that is even raises it. "},{"Title":"A flight of fantasy to catch your imagination unaware.","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" If you think this is a cartoon for kids, then your in for a surprise, its every part the adults fighting fantasy that every dungeons and dragons epic was. But its done in such a way that any family member can watch.The acting and cast is first grade without the ridiculous accents that cheap actors cant shake off and don't seem to want to when voice acting. Its sad that the world of Disney has cheapened the animation genre with over the top cheesy adaptations making monstrosities of classic tales and even factual histories into pop up musicals. Then people discovered Manga which was soon ruined by excessive nudity and cheap sex sells titles. I'm glad to say this timeless flight of dragons brings back animation and art to the level deserving of mass viewing.As with all stories, it must be believable and amazing at the same time, without being predictable. You must have guessed I'm a sceptic since decades of disappointing films, movies and cartoons. But Flight of Dragons has lasted 30 years strong, and now my children watch it and everyone I introduced this animation to has passed it on too. And no matter how many times I watch it, I am always captivated by the swooping musical score and the sincerity of the way Jules Bass and Arthur Rankin Jr want to transport you to their love of the books they have an obvious fanaticism to. I hope unlike G.Lucas and Steve.S they will keep their cast of expert animators and artists. "},{"Title":"Beautifully animated film","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember watching this film as a child, and I was captivated by the gorgeous Eastern artistic style of the dragons and the explanations of how their physiology worked. I also remember crying when Smrgll fought to protect his friends and died from his injuries. Rewatching it as an adult, it still mostly works, and the style is still beautiful and imaginative.The start of the film is pretty strong, and introduces the 'Four Magic Brothers' each of whom rides his own dragon. The brothers seek a solution to their survival and that of their art in a world where Man is becoming increasingly reliant upon science. Three of the brothers reach an agreement, but the other, Ommadon, turns renegade and swears to twist Man's science and use it to destroy him, before storming out.Carolinus the Green Wizard represents nature and the earth. He travels forward in time to find someone who can defeat Ommadon. He finds Peter of Beacon street, a nerd who designs board games. He brings Peter back to his own time, where we are introduced to Carolinus's dragons Smrgll and Gorbash. Smrgll is an elderly and somewhat cantankerous brown and orange dragon who wishes he could still serve Carolinus rather than enjoying his retirement; Gorbash is a younger green dragon, cocky and overconfident, training as Smrgll's replacement. Rather less well developed are Melissande, token naff woman character, referred to both as Carolinus's adopted daughter and a princess (?), and a boorish knight who is to accompany Peter and Gorbash on the quest.That night Ommadon's dragon attacks and a magic spell goes wrong, leaving Peter in Gorbash's body. Peter spends most of the quest learning how to be a dragon from Smrgll as the group fights various beasts and baddies. They are also joined by a sort of Robin Hood woman, an elf, and a talking wolf. I was rather less keen on these characters as they didn't really add anything to the story. It does manage to come to a satisfying conclusion despite their interruption, with Peter defeating the villain using logic and scientific facts.In summary, this is film is unusual and attractive in its artistic style. Most of the characters are reasonably well developed. Although the main premise of good vs. evil is nothing new, the addition of scientific ideas and a boffin protagonist was handled well and made a refreshing change from fantasy simply involving unexplained magic and beasts defying the laws of nature. More logical-minded kids will love it, and adults will enjoy the animation style. "},{"Title":"A movie about the battle between Magic and Science","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this movie as a child and when I watched it again today I thought I'd find it outdated. But that's what makes this movie truly magical! Its narrative is so beautiful and the characters so engaging. The choice of voice overs are definitely inspired, with gems from Victor Buono, Harry Morgan,John Ritter and the fabulous James Earl Jones.The animation is quite distinctly Japanese and very enchanting.It makes me think of all the great fantasy authors who write about true naming and knowing, whose stories reach us somewhere deep like Le Guin and L'Engle. So too this book and movie. For those who struggle everyday straddling both science and magic... "}{"Title":"Excellent! Highly memorable.","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film has everything that makes a children's film amazing Escapism, adventure and imagination yet is held together by a fantastic plot addressing all sorts of issues we face as both children and adults making it suitable for all. Change, ageing, facing up to your demons, good Good would be totally impotent without the contrast of evil and evil I have weapons you would not dare use, fear rules all man ... he will use science and logic to destroy himself ... turn brother against brother ... greed and avarice shall prevail Pretty deep for a children's film! The music is fantastic and compliments each scene perfectly. All the best films do.Couldn't recommend it enough! (if you can find it that is! I heard its on google videos). "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" For years I could never remember what the name of this movie was, all I knew was the basic plot summary and that I loved it SO much! I have not seen it in over 10 years but I can still remember everything about it. I just recently figured out the title and I have been searching for it ever since. The only problem I have is being able to find a place to buy it or rent it. This is one of the greatest impacting fantasy films ever and i recommend it to everyone! This movie was the first to interest me in fantasy and allowed me to broaden my creative imagination. If you enjoyed this movie you would also enjoy The Last Unicorn, which I have heard is coming out again pretty soon. "},{"Title":"A stroke of imaginative genius!","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Although I was not born when 'The Flight of Dragons' was first released, I saw it in the late eighties at the tender age of four - it opened my mind to things which I could only dream about. The animation was superb, the characters magnificent and brave, and the plot beyond believe (but in a good way). This film is a permanent part of my childhood and I just wish kids today could see it. The contrast between science and 'make believe' is a main theme, but still shows children that these two things can coincide with each other. Every child needs imagination, to merely live and be free of worldly worries which come with adulthood. Let your imagination run wild, let myth take you on an unforgettable journey... watch The Flight of Dragons! "},{"Title":"Best movie for children...","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" As far as movies good for children go, Flight of Dragons takes the cake. It has action, but with respect for the intellect. It has danger and evil, but the ultimate triumph of truth, integrity and the good. It has a love interest; it has imagination by spades. While it lacks some of the broader humor and double entendre found in newer kids movies, it will definitely delight. As for wholesome goodness in children's movies, the Flight of Dragons is insuperable. It also does a good job of modeling team work, important for developing minds. I'm a adult and still love the power and genuineness of the story that is The Flight of Dragons. A+. "},{"Title":"In two words Classic Fantasy!","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't make a habit of writing comments on movies for these kind of sites, but someone had to write something better than what I found posted when I came to the site. The user commentator said that it was crap. Well it certainly isn't and that opinion most definitely does not reflect the user rating of 7.5 stars. This person also added as a post script that kids will love it. Well yeah, I believe it was made mostly for kids. I remember watching it when I was a kid and I loved it. And now that I am a more discerning adult, I still think its great. Its a fun, fully developed fantasy story with the awesome detailed animation seen in other Rankin Bass animated films such as The Hobbit and The Last Unicorn. One aspect I remember I liked most about it was the strong female character of the archer, Danielle. The plot involves a young man from our world who enters a magical realm and after temporarily turning into a dragon embarks on a quest along with a few heroic companions to confront the evil Lord Ommadon (James Earl Jones at his deepest and most menacing) who threatens the kingdom with his control over the dragons. The plot may be a bit simplistic, but again, it is for kids. And adults who have retained a bit of that childlike wonder and imagination unencumbered by adult cynicism will love it too. I'm waiting anxiously for it to come out on DVD. I'd love to own it and enjoy it with my kids. "},{"Title":"For those who dream of more....","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is an awesome fantasy cartoon. To offer a counterpoint to Oogy Boogey or whatever his/her name was(Mr.Grownup!),I wish to say that there are still those who watch stuff like this. (me & my friends like this one)The movie was done excellently for its time. I often found myself wishing to go to that realm-whatever-it-was-called. didn't it look beautiful? of course it did! it looked wonderful! If there was a place like that around here, unfortunately, it would become a shopping mall in 5 days. we can be so stupid. anyway, for those of us who want to at least dream of a world without skyscrapers and parking lots and where adventure is just around the trees and through the forest, I recommend this and other movies like it.thank you,a sagittarius ascendent who daydreams  "},{"Title":"I thoroughly enjoyed this pleasant fantasy film.","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first watched this film with my (then) young children who were enthralled by this tale of good and bad, fiction and fantasy. The magical tale of four wizards representing the four essences of life, each having their own interest in the outcome of the good versus evil struggle. Supported by their respective dragons they interact with human characters, sent into the animation, who become embroiled in this magical tale.I was overjoyed to watch it again recently on TV, and found it to be just as good as I'd remembered it. A pleasant escape from the harsh realities of life. It has a pleasant soundtrack and some memorable voices that just tantalise your memory. "},{"Title":"A great 80's animation!","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I first saw this film when I was probably about 7 or 8 years old and was totally mesmerised by it.  Until I happened to stumble across it just recently I had forgotten all about it.  Looking back I can honestly say that I found the colours to be visually amazing and quite a pleasure to watch. The story telling of this film is very clear, and obviously intended for kids with a great imagination.  Even at the age of 20 I would still be honoured to purchase a copy of this film if it ever comes out on DVD, as I believe it to be a true gem of 80's nostalgic films!!!  A must see for all those who would like to re-capture a feeling of what it was like to be a kid. "},{"Title":"Touching Animation","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I came across this film in the database by mistake and it immediately brought back all sorts of memories. I remember watching it when I was young, it is a truly emotional story with some great characters.I haven't seen it in years but it has stayed with me and deserves at leat 8/10 from me just for that. I suddenly have a deep urge to find a copy, and I thoroughly reccomend you do to.  "},{"Title":"An excellent medieval vs. science story, with a touch of fantasy.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is an excellent movie I would recommend to everyone, young and old. A wonderful explanation of dragons, and the confrontation of magic/fantasy and science/logic.  Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"One of my favs...","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The movie is one of my favorites.  Perfect for the younger ages, but well plotted for the older generations.  Overall, I loved it!  But I think you have to be a fantasy/dragon lover to really enjoy it on all levels. "},{"Title":"This movie makes me all flighty!","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Flight of Dragons is indeed an odd story. The story involves a Boston writer who is taken into a world of fancy. He is turned into a dragon. And he must save the mythological world from certain doom at the hands of a fellow dragon, who is a madman and plans to turn the world into a dilapidated ruin run by machinery and all magic will disappear. Every dragon is set out to try and help the forces of good, and all seems lost until the Boston writer comes along to save the day. The story packs some good action and it appears to be quite amusing at times, perhaps due to the humor being so very crisp. Overall, the animation is classic in appearance, and the story is fresh, so this film is a highly good watch. "},{"Title":"cool!!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I love this, it's just a lot of fun for those of us who never really grew out of goodies and baddies. If you love dragons and wizards etc you'll like it. I love macabre movies as a rule but the inner child (who is often to the fore) puts this on the A list with 'The Wind in the Willows' and the Narnia chronicles etc etc. I don't say the Lord of the Rings 'cause that's not for littlies and is another thing altogether. So HOORAY for stuff like this as we all need to be reminded to be NICE from time to time. "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I dont remember too much of the schematics of the plot, only that i was mesmerized by the wonder and splendour of the story-telling.  That I hold it in such high esteem years (and years) after last seeing it should indicate its long-standing appeal to children of today and yesterday. "},{"Title":"Take Flight","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Concerned about the prospects of logic and magic existing side-by-side in harmony, a Medieval wizard summons the help of a twentieth century board gamer inventor who believes in dragons in this popular animated feature film. The movie is adapted from two separate books about dragons one that speculates the existence of dragons and their biology, and the other a more straightforward fantasy adventure yarn. Memorable as many of the action sequences are, the film is at its best when channeling the more speculative book. The pseudoscience behind dragons, how they breath fire and how they fly is endlessly fascinating. The film also crosses some curious science fiction territory as the game board inventor also gets to experience how a dragon mind works after the wizard accidentally melds him with a dragon. The vast majority of the film though channels the adventure tale, which is significantly less interesting, especially as the characters keep droning on about science versus magic. That said, the film offers some thought-provoking notions in terms of the role of magic in human evolution, such as the idea that television screens were inspired by the crystal balls of fortune tellers and that planes resulted from fairies inspiring humankind to consider flight. The film benefits from some decent vocal work too. Only Harry Morgan disappoints due to the distinctive nature of his voice; he always sounds like Col. Potter from 'M*A*S*H'. James Earl Jones is especially good as the chief villain and John Ritter is perfect as the easily excited protagonist. "},{"Title":"This one is good, no it's very good","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A few days ago I watched Frozen and I thought 'what a crap is this? headache...',but when I saw this one, all I can say it is just beautiful, a story is great, so interesting and intelligent,and music is enchanting like the magic. Remembered this when was a kid, and then I very like it, but didn't catch all the elements and deep profound that wears. How sadly that animated movies todays don't have that human touch; it seem to me that only concern of new movies is to make a pile of money, everything else is less important, but they'll never last long. That is why old cartoons like this one have some special meaning to some people, 'cause they are timeless. "},{"Title":"All time FAV...","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Luv this movie! amazing story line and if they don't remake by the time i retire. thats not for at least 25 years so I'm sure by then they will have personal computers by then that I'm sure i can do amazing graphics with to make my own! I luv how this story talks about the 4 magic brothers! i had the hardest time getting a descent copy when dvds came out... thank *insert your deity of choice* for the Internet! Did i mention this 10 line minimum for a review is stupid! cant believe they did that. I used to use IMDb for everything but have switched to comingsoon as they don't have junk like that or spell corrections for when i want to say luv and not love.... im not writing a letter to some business parter im talking about one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"This is how they should be","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a rule I don't like animations. They simply are not for me. I don;t like Manga, and really do detest Dysney. However this one is different I first saw this as a child, and recently re-watched for nostalgia, and to my surprise I still found myself enthralled by it It is obviously aimed at children, but it has layers which is the mark of a true brilliance. The question raised by the movie, that of magic vs science may be a little stale, but the way it presents the question is enchanting. Put simply the question is between the Innocence of Youth vs the Ignorance of Maturity vs the balance of Wisdom. The even more topical question about the evils of progress/technology is simply put and is in stark contrast to the beauty and subtlety of the animation. Unlike Manga there is little stylisation and unlike Dysney there is no need to dumb down, with ridiculous songs and dancing (something I have increasingly detested since the age of 5) and the art work is simply a pleasure to the eye.The sheer genius of the film is that it is still so watchable today over 20 years on and equally by adults and children. Something few other animations particularly the modern CGI ones will enjoy.The music is both discrete and perfect, the slight aura of melancholy that it injects is so right for the story which is one where there can be no real winners. Either way something is lost and it comes down to the hero to decide what he really wants. Magic or Science. We are shown that in both there is right and wrong.The ending is perhaps the most disappointing in a way, although it is pure high fantasy where the hero gets the girl. As a child it was something missed and as an adult its one of those unreal romantic notions, which kind of gets on my nerves. Thats just me though I guess.ANyway I fully recommend this film to anyone, who loves fantasy. "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I only watched Flight of Dragons already being in adult. The Last Unicorn, another Rankin/Bass production, is one of my dearest movies as long as I can remember. So one day, I thought the makers must have been producing something similar. And indeed, in the same year as The Last Unicorn Flight of Dragons was produced. Flight of Dragons fascinated me from the beginning, just by having a wonderful theme song (again like The Last Unicorn does). And I knew, this would be a movie of my taste. But it does not work in every way for me. It could be a bit more fast-paced. More detailed drawings and a bit more depth in background-sounds would have given the movie a more tangible feeling, though I am aware this is a video-production. (Spoiler) Finally, the conclusion of the last battle is not to my taste. After all, I am fan of fantasy and magic. Science is my work, and still I don't want to see science beat magic. On the other hand do I like the suggestion, that there is still magic in our today's world. (Spoiler end) Fact is sword and magic-fantasy is absolutely underrepresented when we discard all the worthless trash made without heart. This story and movie has heart for certain and therefore should be a must watch for friends of the genre. "},{"Title":"I loved this when I was a kid, and still do!","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a great film, and is never on anymore, why? The animation looks generally lovely, a little flat in places, but that is the only criticism I have of this movie. The title song is so hauntingly beautiful, I still have the song in my head and cannot get it out. The rest of the music is wonderful as well. The characters were amazing. Carolinus, Melisande and Oamadon especially. A friend has a villa in Spain, and has the video there. When I go to Spain, I always watch this, as well as my siblings. The voice talents were great, especially John Ritter and James Earl Jones(outstanding as Oamadon), the script is intelligent-Oamadon's big speech in the meeting between the four brothers is genuinely chilling- and the story is enchanting and surprisingly mature. Please bring this movie back, because I was enchanted as a child, and this along with Last Unicorn has so much magic to make it memorable. 9/10. Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Where to find it on DVD","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've seen a few people comment and ask why they haven't released this title on DVD. I want to let you know that they have, it's just hard to find. Here's an easy link to the cheapest place I've found it http//www.dvdlook.com and look for this movie title. They have it for $16.95 plus shipping and handling. They also have other timeless classics like The Wuzzles (who could forget lovable Bumble-lion? haha) and the Hugga Bunch. This movie is a timeless classic and should be a must-see mandatory viewing for everyone who hasn't already seen it. Personally, I don't own it on DVD...yet! I plan on buying it for my seven year old son as a Christmas present. I'm sure he will love it just like I did when I was his age! This is an awesome move with great animation! Why can't they animate movies like this anymore? Example Check out the original My Little Pony movies and shows then watch the newer ones. The animation is crap if you ask me. I'm sure kids today like it because that's all they've seen. But you let them watch one 80's movie with the 80's style animation and they'll never want anything else. HAHA "},{"Title":"Peter Dickenson and George Dickson","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I think the reason it might not have been re released yet is because the movie while using the science from Peter Dickenson's book takes most of the characters from George and yet George does not get any credit on the film.My theory is that due to him neither getting money nor credit for this work George does not want it re released until he has been fairly compensated for what is obviously his work. I have read both books and in Flight of the Dragons I at no point notice the mention of a talking wolf nor a wizard named Carolinus. Both of these characters appear in George's book and in fact the man in the book turns into a large dragon named Gorbash. I think it would be nice if he got the credit for character invention then maybe we could see a re release. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie for young and old","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" My late fiancée introduced me to this movie shortly after we met, and until then I had never heard of it.It took me until halfway through the movie to adjust to the animation style, compared to the other animated movies I had seen, which had mostly been Disney animated, however it is on my list of regularly watched movies now.The story is heartwarming, a true fantasy tale of someone who has to choose between his two loves in life, with epic battles and dragons, trolls, and evil wizards trying to destroy the world.Nothing makes a better movie, I only wish film makers nowadays could get it right. The art of the classic fantasy movie seems to be more and more lost, but there are a few who are redeeming it. "},{"Title":"Flight of Dragons - Amazing","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember watching this many times as a child on VHS. I thought it was such a great story but the soundtrack always kinda stuck with me. Whenever I mentioned it to friends of the same age they would always look at me with the same confused look. I have recently thought about purchasing it on DVD format but couldn't find it anywhere. I have just watched it streaming via the internet and I was again happy to sit through the entire film, which is not something an adult can do with cartoons very often. Now I have proof that the film existed I'm gonna show it people and see if they remember it. I hold this film up there with the likes of the Turtles, Thundercats as the cartoons of my youth. It must be nearly 10 years since id seen this but like anyone of my era would say...they don't make em like they used to! "},{"Title":"flight of dragons . . . . nuf said","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" it has been at least 15 years since i saw this film on BETA (yes, beta!) . . . i was about 4 years old the first time i saw it and it has absolutely influenced who i have become in so many unmentionable ways . . . i still believe magic and science CAN coexist, at least they do in my mind as a practitioner of science but a firm believer of all things magical (and musical). the paradigms expressed in this film and the struggle to keep them all alive still bring a sting to my soul to this very day. i had a sudden longing to see this film again tonight - it is new years eve and i'm reflecting on who i am and what i believe in. funny that i should hear a song tonight that reminded me too much of the theme flight of dragons-i almost cried. i need to return to the innocence of where my optimism for this world was formed, and it lies here. i typed in the film title, and here i find myself! i'm glad to find a forum dedicated to this, as no one i have ever met has ever even heard of this animation! "},{"Title":"Considering it's age, it's still a masterpiece today...","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" In these days of CGI and DTV, where technology is emulating magic and magic is something you read of in a book, Flight Of Dragons is one of those films that makes it worthwhile to look back at old cel-animation...Through the eyes of Peter, played by the late John Ritter, We are taken to a world which could really exist... Where real old magic is on it's last legs, and the last of the great wizards wish to take it somewhere to exist for the rest of time. When you look at Peter's science, you will find it flawed, since new theories have replaced old, but nowadays, CGI dragons are cheap, and you don't really need to have a actor even on the set... Or, in some cases, the set even.I hope, one day, this will come to DVD... Yeah, The animation is outdated, but it's story is not... "},{"Title":"Pourquoi UN 10 ?","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Pourquoi Un 10 ? Et Bien, Je Pense Que Ce Dessin Anime A Declenche De Nombreux Reves Sur Le Comment Vole Un Dragon ? Et Plus Serieusement Je Ne Me Rappelle Pas De Dessin Anime Plus Feerique Que Celui Ci.Eventuellement La Derniere Licorne).De Memoire, Car Depuis 1984 Je Ne L'Ai Pas Revu.L'Histoire Commence Chez Un Antiquaire Ou Un Jeune Homme Joue À Un Jeux D'Echec.Le Jeune Homme Se Retrouve Projete Dans Un Monde Peuple Entre Autre Par Des Dragons. Et Par Un Concours De Circonstances Notre Heros Se Retrouve Dans La Peau D'Un Dragon Sans Avoir Aucune Notion De Ce Qu'Etre Un Dragon Implique Reellement.Il Lui Faudra Donc Apprendre A Voler Et À Cracher Des Flammes Et Surtout Retrouver Sa Vraie Vie. Bref Un Dessin Anime A Voir De Toute Urgence Pour Se Faire Son Propre Avis Mais Comme Il N'Existe Pas En DVD.... Si Vous L'Avez En Version Française Pensez À Moi. A+ "},{"Title":"A Childhood Obsession","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Though I was born the year this movie came out, it has had a profound impact on my life.  I was a natural for the D&D after having worn through multiple copies of this movie.  Recently I spied it in a Musicland outlet and purchased it, and to my surprise I still had every word memorized.  From an explanation of a dragons hoard to the reasoning behind dragons' flight without ample wingspan, and where the magic went in the first place, a seeker of the answers of mythic questions has found his pot of gold within this masterpiece.  The animation is excellent, though the actual flight of dragons looks more like dragon-shaped balloons, but one of the characters has a tic in his eye, consistent throughout the film.  Music by Don McClean (American Pie), the voice of that guy from M*A*S*H and of course, Vader himself makes this movie pleasant to listen to as well as watch.  Loosely based on a book by Peter Dickens, Dragon and the George. "},{"Title":"Nerd saves Land of Magic by thinking scientifically","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Peter Dickinson-with-an-I's 1979 _The Flight of the Dragons_ (available on Amazon.com), on which the film's dragon visuals and biology are based, is a lavishly-illustrated analysis of what physiological characteristics dragons would have required to elicit the mythos surrounding them. The analysis is used to good effect in much of the dialogue of the film's bookish and bespectacled hero, Peter Dickenson-with-an-E, who inadvertently annoys the people of the Land of Magic (including several dragons) with cheerful comments such as this is exactly how a 747 does it! It's a little melancholy at the end, but great fun otherwise. "},{"Title":"Sheer Magic","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm yet another of the seen this when I was a kid, around the same time that Fox's animated Dungeons & Dragons was on TV. I was, and still am, captivated by the integrity of the film. Top marks go toward the story, animation and voice acting. This is well worth a look if you haven't already, especially those with a head for myth & fantasy. The TV series Dungeons & Dragons was very similar in style to Flight Of Dragons on a smaller scale and I liked to think of it as a progression of the film.I (usually) always sided with Eric. "}{"Title":"Great all round animation","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A wonderful combination of fun, fear and fantasy catapults this underrated gem of a movie to must-see status. The animation is superb as is the vocal talent on offer James Earl (Darth Vader) Jones as the evil sorcerer and Harry (MASH) Morgan as the good wizard. It takes a while to get going but soon it is non-stop action with terrific imagination. The little kiddies should beware; there are a few things that might be a bit intense for them. NOW WATCH IT. "},{"Title":"Not necessarily for kids, more mature than many live action movies I've seen...","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A happy jumble of the the books Flight of Dragons, by Peter Dickinson, and The Dragon and the George, by Gordon Dickinson, this is anything but childish. Don't let the gawd awful box art fool you. The art of the film itself is gorgeous and stylistic, reminiscent of medieval tapestries. The story is about the inherent conflict between logic/technology and magic/nature, a theme often addressed in anime (Princess Mononoke, Blue Seed). The music is WONDERFUL. If anyone knows how I could get my hands on some form of soundtrack or sheet music, WRITE ME, PLEASE. Though occasionally the plot may feel a tad rushed, and the character of the Princess Melisande is utterly flat, the rest of the characters are so endearing they more than make up for it. ESPECIALLY Sir Orin Neville Smythe. And James Earl Jones' Odomon is downright scary. All around, a fabulous piece of art. "},{"Title":"Simple notes","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film is best described as somewhere between The Last Unicorn and The Hobbit.  The acting isn't the best, but the story is nice.  I suspect the main theme is done by the group America.  I've never seen a story like this one before.  I suspect I'll enjoy the book quite a bit.It's a childhood favourite of mine, though, so I've given it a good rating. "},{"Title":"MINTED FILM!!!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just spent £30 to buy this film on video, after seeing it years ago. The best film ever created, PURE MAD MENTAL!!!! Would anyone else out there bone the princess? Gorbash is the coolest dragon in the world... and.. erm.... oh, and i look like the ogre of Gormley Keep too, which isnt too fun! "},{"Title":"painful","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  as a child i saw this movie and loved it.  i should have just cherished the memory and foregone seeing it as an adult.  it was almost painful to watch. the only good thing about it was that it was unintentionally hilarious at times.  i would definitely recommend it for children, but adults beware! "}]