[{"Title":"An eccentric visionary brings opera to the jungle","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"117 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on a historic figure, this is the story of Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski), known as Fitzcarraldo, an eccentric visionary living in Amazonia. He first tried building a Trans-Andean Railroad, but went bankrupt. When we meet him, he's trying to make a living by selling ice to Amazonia natives, although we first see him on a small boat with his sometimes significant other, Molly (Claudia Cardinale). They've traveled 1200 miles down the Amazon to an opera house to hear Enrico Caruso sing, because Fitzcarraldo is an opera fanatic who especially loves Caruso. He loves opera so much that he dreams of building an opera house in the relatively remote outpost of Iquitos, Peru, where he's been living. Understandably unable to find backers for such a venture among Iquitos' wealthy rubber industry leaders, Fitzcarraldo hits upon a scheme for making a bundle of money, and which would eventually enable him to fund the opera house himself. Unfortunately, not all goes as planned.Fitzcarraldo was a notoriously difficult film to make. Documentarian Les Blank even made his own film detailing some of the difficulties and apparent ironies, The Burden of Dreams (1982). Director Werner Herzog hauled his cast and crew to Amazonia for the shoot, where they ended up trapped in the rain forest for months. At one point the filmmakers' camp was set fire by Indians who objected to the production, there was an air crash in which some of the crew died, and a couple outrageous stunts in the film--including the main plot device of the climax--actually were outrageous, dangerous tasks rather than safe effects/model shots, as we'd expect them to be. Just the idea of pulling off the main stunt caused the Brazilian engineer initially associated with the project to abandon involvement. A number of cast members also backed out, including Mick Jagger and Jason Robards, who were both signed on at different points to play Kinski's role. Knowledge of these kinds of issues makes Fitzcarraldo even more fun to watch, and makes the fact that it was completed at all, not to mention that it is such an elegant masterpiece, more remarkable.The tone of Fitzcarraldo overall closely matches Kinski's depiction of titular character. It is quirky and surreal, but very subtly yet satisfyingly so, with both an almost garish bizarreness (Kinski is quite odd looking in a way) balanced with a sublime beauty. Herzog imbues the film with a lot of gorgeous cinematography, enhanced by his unique sense of pacing. For example, he'll set the mood of a dawn/dusk scene with a lingering shot of a colorful sky, which then functions as symbolic of a night's events without directly showing them. Herzog matches this same technique in his action--he has an ability to say as much with what he doesn't show his actors doing (or saying) as with more conspicuous content.Herzog also shows himself to be a master of selecting music to enhance mood and tell a story, as he balances an atmospheric Brian Eno-ish score from Popol Vuh, native jungle music, and vintage turn or the century recordings of Caruso singing Bellini, Verdi, Puccini and such. Of course opera is an important plot device that enters the film at various critical points. Even if you don't like opera, however, Herzog and Kinski make it (and the motivation for it) attractive in context, and you may just find this film beginning to turn around your feelings for that music.It's interesting to note that even with Herzog's unusual pacing, the flow of the film always seems natural. Fitzcarraldo also has an unusual plot structure, as it almost stream-of-consciously moves from opera in a formal European-seeming setting to a historical dramatic depiction of eccentrics in a native-filled Peruvian town, and then to an exciting adventure tale that is the heart of the film before it finally reaches an irony-filled, beautifully surreal dénouement. The constant throughout all of this is Fitzcarraldo, of course, who can't help being eccentric but charming, both to the film's audience and to other characters.Fitzcarraldo is often interpreted as being somewhat critical of western encroachment on other cultures, such as Amazonia. Under this view, Herzog is usually seen as ironically guilty of the same actions that he's indicting. However, the film does not read as criticism to me. It's much more in line with what is usually considered to be a romantic tendency in Herzog. Fitzcarraldo is not at all a villain in the film, and neither are the European rubber barons. Instead, Fitzcarraldo is lovable and admirable if a bit crazy. The introduction of western culture doesn't end up being a negative. The natives in the film still retain their unique identities, and efforts are made to interact with them in their manner, not to adapt them to Eurocentrism. Cultural change may be inevitable with interaction, but the message of Fitzcarraldo is more that the interaction can produce unique, worthwhile cultures that are amalgamations of their precursors.Another interesting subtext is that of Fitzcarraldo as Orpheus. Just as Orpheus enchanted wild beasts, trees and rocks on Mount Olympus with his lyre, causing them to move from their places, Fitzcarraldo uses opera to enchant the natural world in which he is ensconced, eventually moving mountains. "},{"Title":"Magical masterpiece of film technique","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"53 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Amazingly beautiful, well-acted jungle drama details entrepreneur Fitzcarraldo's attempts to mine rubber in order to raise money to accomplish his dream -- to bring grand opera to his tiny town in Peru.  Girlfriend Cardinale buys him a boat (to help with the mining), but unfortunately can't go on the journey, which ends up with Fitz and hundreds of indians physically dragging the huge riverboat over a mountain.  Kinski's performance is top of the line, very good direction, some very memorable scenes -- Fitzcarraldo on top of his boat playing Caruso records into the jungle, the huge boat cresting the wave of the mountain, and even the triumphant ending rings true.  The best film by Werner Herzog that I have seen. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Obsessions...","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"44 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Full of bravura and inspiring sequences the bizarre epic Fitzcarraldo won Werner Herzog the best director award at Cannes Festival in 1982. This is the film that keeps reminding us the words of Oscar Wilde, We are all in the gutter but some of us look at the stars. Even fewer try to reach the stars and Werner Herzog and his longtime collaborator and frequent adversary Klaus Kinski were certainly the men who have reached them. Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald (or Fitzcaralado &#150; the local Indians' name for Fitzgerald) was a visionary, a man with a beautiful obsession who dreamed of a building an opera house in the Peruvian rain forests and bringing the great singer Enrico Caruso there. Fitzcaralado's plan involved dragging a huge steamship over a small mountain to avoid traveling upstream through rapids. This plan was duplicated by Herzog during the production and involved the real Indians actually hauling the boat over the mountain. The image of the boat floating in the clouds and the small figure of Fitzcarraldo dressed in the white suit looking with his crazy wild eyes at the boat is one of the most beautiful and breathtaking visions at the screen ever. This film is not as perfect as Herzog's and Kinski's previous project, the stunning Aguirre, The Wrath of God but it is a magnificent and fascinating tale that could only be told by its matchless team of creators. "},{"Title":"the most operatic documentary-style epic ever made- fearlessly unique","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The story of Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald, aka Fitzcarraldo, is as much the story of his magnanimous pie in the sky ideal to push a boat over a mountain as it is Werner Herzog's own mission to film it. More than a mission- as anyone who saw Burden of Dreams can report- an obsession that might cost a few lives, a good deal of money, and bring a lot of strange first-hand looks at the lives and mind-sets of the natives, but will still bring the greatest of wonders if it gets pulled off. The boat over the mountain is part metaphor, anyway, though not one that's easily pegged into a corner. Achieving something against the odds is something that has been covered in many great films, a quest through man's indelible need to make the impossible possible, be it in a David Lean picture ala Lawrence of Arabia, or in one of Cecil B. DeMille's pictures (and, at times, I wondered if the spirit of one of those old time epic filmmakers came into his mind, if only in bits).All the while as Herzog is out to map the course of this man who just wants the purity of opera in the jungle, but through a style that is completely all his own, which means that it's not just about one man, but also about the ones around him, the methods to following such delusions of grandeur. Like Aguirre, there's a God complex working in Fitzcarraldo, only this time it's not in the total shroud of madness. There's room for irony, spouts of wild humor (sometimes from Kinski, like when he tries to play an opera record for disinterested party-goers early on in the film), and an overwhelming fascination with what's all around Fitzcarraldo, the jungle, nature, the natives that dwell there and always stick to their indeterminable ways. Watching how Herzog maneuvers through his bulky story is ceaselessly compelling, even in the moments where he just lets the camera take everything in the waves crashing all around, the boat set against the jungle-scape with the opera singer Caruso in the background, the many faces and poses of the natives and their moments of pure calm versus their unpredictable nature (why do they put on face paint like they're about to go to war, and then nothing happens, don't ask me).And like in many of his best films, Herzog manages to get much more out of his actors/non-actors and his locations than it might have seemed on paper. Poetry gets set into motion with seemingly the greatest of ease, like a scene where a few natives on a small canoe look on, and Fitzcarraldo thinks about stopping, but they just go on as it's not even worth it, or when he and his first-mate and couple other regulars on the ship try to eat, only surrounded by the natives. Or the shocking moments when after victory seems to be achieved, all is in peril as the boat flaps about on the river and the recording still goes on and on, haunting as anything the jungle can compare to. Indeed, the jungle itself becomes another key part of Herzog's metaphor, even more so than in Aguirre, and it's perfectly exploited (or rendered, depending on point of view) for Herzog's own feelings about the jungle. It's an environment dangerous, alluring, and with the capacity to fear its awesome mass as well as beauty (or, as Herzog said in 'Burden', it's lovable against better judgment), so it's not all taken in at a distance- there isn't so much a real sense of escapism via the hand-held shots unlike in the epics of the directors previously mentioned. Fitcarraldo's own quest then is against nature's own ways- nature is objective and always the same- as the simple notion of moving the boat, and then doing it, goes against nature's true nature, if that makes sense. In this sense it's a great film of the objective, to which Herzog goes to lengths to capture, *and* the fantastical and subjective, which comes through the operatic portions, and not be bound by nature's usual ways and common sense. Thus it makes perfect sense as well to have Kinski along for the ride, even if it's not his greatest achievement with his most frequent director. It's all in the eyes, practically every step of the way, that one believes this man even through all of the follies and naive flights of fancy, and it's the closest Kinski probably ever came to playing the romantic lead of an adventure picture. Some of the usual scenes of 'damn he's nuts' come up, like his ringing of the town bell. It's another in the line of outcasts he played in Herzog's films, tormented and always in craving for something more, though this time not in a bleak manner. There is the problem that Kinski's presence would be undermined by the many adequate images Herzog loves to achieve. Luckily, he stands his ground, and even contributes to the poetry in times of just listening to the Caruso, and gazing on at his dream coming true on the mountainside.Fitzcarraldo isn't perfect by any means, as it ends up by way of the nature of Herzog's storytelling to almost tell of too much in his scenes. And the English language track I heard sometimes dilutes a few of the performances by feeling too dubbed and a little ridiculous in some instances. But these are just tiny mentions that get overlooked when looking at the success of what is done. Only a director as intelligently deranged and confident as Herzog could have dreamed up this film (based on a true character) and make it as real and alive as the greatest of epic adventures. "},{"Title":"Herzog's films are deeply personal, visually exciting and uncompromising&#133;","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" His films are perfect examples of the European tradition of the 'auteur' film, in which the director is seen as the originating and creative force behind the work&#133; But there is also a sense that Herzog's visionary monomaniacs function as the director's alter ego, embodying the heroic status of the auteur, always struggling against recalcitrant reality to fulfill his dream&#133; This seems especially true of Fitzcarraldo, which, sets a hundred years ago, begins with an Irish colonist who had a passion for opera rowing 1,200 miles down a South American river, accompanied by the madam of a brothel, in order to hear the great Caruso perform&#133; Inspired by this experience, Fitzcarraldo embarks on a grandiose plan to open up the Amazonian jungle to river transport, providing access to new rubber plantations and thereby making enough money to build an opera house&#133; Herzog's favorite actor, Klaus Kinski, is as appropriately manic as Fitzcarraldo, eyes glittering madly as he pursues his vision&#133; In the central sequence he organizes a tribe of Indians to help him pull a steamboat across a mountain in order to by-pass dangerous rapids&#133; Fitcarraldo seems by turns admiring of its hero's megalomania and mocking of his hubris, with no illusions about the cynical exploitation of the region's riches by the rubber barons whom Fitzcarraldo tries to defeat by cleverness&#133; Ultimately though, it is the sheer spectacle which we remember&#133; "},{"Title":"Whom the gods would destroy they first make mad...","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a work of fiction, although the idea for the story and the name came from a real person who actually lived at Iquitos, Peru, and who was a rubber (not robber) baron in the eighteen-nineties.Arguably, Klaus Kinski (as Fitzcarraldo) was born to play the main role &#150; although Werner Herzog considered taking up the role himself. But, no one can play an eccentric the way Kinski did in this film. It's not Nosferatu (1979), but the wide, staring eyes are looking at you, all the time, in the same spooky way.And, only an eccentric of the most magnificent kind would dare to take a 340-ton ship up the Amazon and carry it over a mountain down to another river! Isn't that just one of the craziest things you've ever heard of? Well, the truth is Herzog actually did do that and simply used Kinski as his surrogate to prance around the mud and clay, with the local Indians, and generally taking the praise for a job well done. There were no special effects &#150; the production team actually pushed and pulled that hulk up a slope of hundreds of meters and then down to another river.So, who was really crazy Herzog or Fitzcarraldo? Never mind that just see this movie for the lush, primeval jungles of South America; for the rich tones of various opera singers, including Caruso (on a phonograph); for the stunning photography aboard the ill-fated Molly; for the antics of Kinski, as he thrashes around, pushing himself and others to the limits; for the army of local Indians, pulling the ship over the mountain; for the haunting sound-track provided by Popul Vuh, Herzog's perennial musical team of choice; and, of course, for the lovely Claudia Cardinale &#150; past her prime but still remarkable...I love this movie and I hope you do also. And, when you have seen it, then see Burden of Dreams (1982), the film that tells the story of the making of Fitzcarraldo. It's maybe better than the fiction... "},{"Title":"Great Great Film","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"38 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a quest plot line; the golden chalice is to be found in the interior of the Amazon, a performance by Caruso and his opera company in the early 1900's. Klaus Kinski, of the disheveled blond hair, plays the obsessive opera lover. The town's folks believe him to me loco and well they should since his Trans-Andes railroad bankrupted the dreamer. His ice making operation makes no sense. His dream of Peruvian opera is a laughingstock, but he has an ace up his sleeve, his devoted lover, Claudia Cardinale, the local madam of distinction forks over the front money so Klaus can buy a boat to get to the rubber trees in a remote steamy jungle inhabited by headhunters. Oh, there's another problem. Rapids block access to the rubber trees, so Klaus must take another river parallel to the rapids, and then at a narrow point of land, must drag a steamship over a mountain. Unbelievable, the film crew took three years in the jungle to duplicate the feat, a engineering marvel, or a stunning duplication. My hat is off to Werner Herzog. This is what great adventure and acting is all about. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Achievement","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was a real labour of love for Werner Herzog (he said at the time of making it  I live my life or end my life with this film).  The movie tells the story of an entrepreneaur (Klaus Kinski) who is obssessed with the idea of building a Grand Opera house in the Peruvian jungle.  To get the money to do this however, he has to set off on a long and dangerous journey to open up new trade routes for a previously inaccessible part of the jungle, rich in valuable rubber trees.The most famous image in the film is the hauling of a large steam-boat up the side of a mountain (a feat which was achieved by the film-makers without the aid of special effects).  Visually, the film is spectacular and everything is beautifully photographed.  Kinski is superb as the crazed adventurer.On the minus side, however, some viewers might be put off by the slow pace of the film.This film stands as one of Herzog's best, and most accessible works, and is a must-see for anyone. "},{"Title":"The dreamer","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fitzcarraldo is an ode to men who dare to have dreams and make them come true. This epic speaks volumes about a man who happens to be obsessed with the opera, which is his passion. He is a foreigner in a hostile land at the beginning of the last century where enormous fortunes were made in different parts of the world. For Fitzcarraldo, it is Peru, the land where he is now living.As he is introduced in the story, he is seen arriving at the Manaus opera house, to catch the Great Caruso sing. Since he has no ticket, and the performance is sold out, he impresses on one of the attendants, who lets him, and Molly, his companion, stay at the back of the house. Fitzcarraldo, who returns with Molly back to Iquitos, a desolate locale, figures he will bring opera, and Caruso to the city.Fitzcarraldo, who has no means to support his dream, decides to go into the rubber business. For that, he must go to a remote spot, away from where the other, and wealthier rubber barons, have established claims to the land. It will take only a resolute, and mad person to undertake such a gigantic enterprise.With the help of Molly, he buys a dilapidated boat and modernizes it. He takes along an experienced captain, a great mechanic, Cholo, and the best cook money can buy into a trip down the river to his property. The only thing is he soon realizes how if he continues along the river route, he will be in danger because of the rapids at one particular spot. His decision, to hoist the ship across a mountain to the other side, where another river is more navigable.Fitzcarraldo made a lasting impression on the local Indian population, who saw in this adventurer, somebody larger than life. His inter action with them was instrumental in doing the insurmountable task that had to be done to get to his ultimate goal.This film could only have been done by Werner Herzog, a director who was not afraid to go into an inhospitable part of South America to photograph this magnificent picture. Helped by his cinematographer, Thomas Mauch, he was able to conquer a great obstacle in order to make the film. Popol Vuh's film score mingles with some great music by Bellini, Puccini, Verdi and Strauss that does wonder in the background.No one but Klaus Kinski was born to play Fitzcarraldo, in what might be considered his best screen role. Mr. Kinski was an obsessed actor who bares his soul in getting under the skin of his characters. As Fitzcarraldo, he goes through the whole gamut of emotions to show what this man was really like. We can't take our eyes from him throughout the picture because of his intensity and his honesty in portraying this mad man with a vision for beauty.Claudia Cardinale makes a tremendous contribution to the film as Molly, the woman who loved, understood, and saw the genius of her man. Jose Lewgoy is perfect as Don Aquilino, Fitzcarraldo's rival and mentor. Miguel Angel Fuentes is also excellent as Cholo. Huerequeque Bohorquez plays the cook and Paul Hittscher appears as the captain.The last sequence of the film shows Mr. Herzog's greatness as Mr. Kinski rides with the opera company in a small ship. They sing an aria from I Puritani, an opera that delights his soul as Fitzcarraldo feasts himself into Iquitos in their company. "},{"Title":"post-war Germany's great romantic","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Like Fitzcarraldo, Herzog has a well-known passion for opera--he's been known to conduct on occasion and refers to music as the territory of ecstatic truth.  Film, too, has that potential, if it's released from the literal and the director concentrates on the importance of great images.  It's no surprise, then, that Herzog made Fitzcarraldo without a well-defined narrative goal. He just wanted to see if he could do it.  Filmmaking is a personal and social process for him, not a finished product.  It's an extreme version of method acting.  Like Fitzcarraldo's lifting of the boat, grand gestures go far for Herzog, if only to show the world that you're great and visionary enough to try.  Most of his characters are done in by their obsessive drive (Fitzcarraldo's boat crashing into the rapids, Aguirre madly pacing about on his raft), but leave behind something beautiful.  Like a boat being dragged up a mountain in Peru with ropes and pulleys or a gun depot going up like the 4th of July.You can't give Herzog too much credit--he's been more careful not to be done in by his hubris than any of his characters were.  In fact, he's capitalized on it, much the same way Cappola did after Apocalypse Now or Hopper did after Easy Rider.  No doubt, the tales of his misadventures contribute as much to his films' popularity as the stories and images themselves, and he's been quick to market his persona with books, talks, and films about himself, the mad director. But still, Herzog is a great romantic that was born of a time and place (Munich, 1942) with few romantics, which is its own great feat. See Fitzcarraldo for a little bit of that.   "}{"Title":"Audacious and imperfect, unique and disappointing","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fitzcarraldo (1982)The plot, and the necessary parallel in making the movie, is audacious, and the end is a quiet, satisfying thrill. That, and the intense performance by the lead, Klaus Kinski, is what keeps people watching this movie, which is utterly unique. But Fitzcarraldo is not especially lyrical, original, well-written, or well-acted. It has not worn well. I first saw it sometime in the 1980s and it was somehow mesmerizing, if imperfect. The whole exotic flavor of Peru and these foreigners acting exceedingly foreign was based on a dreamy idea that high culture (opera) can and should rise above all else. It was a triumph of the spirit of the individual. Twenty years later that is tempered by the absolute imperialism, bombast, blindness, and idiocy of it all. No longer swayed by the aura of the plot, the flaws in the way the film was made jump out.For starters, the language. To have some native Spanish speakers talking in German and others, with haphazardness, speaking Spanish or some indigenous language, is inconsistent. Not that they should speak English, no way, but either have them seem to be natives with a knowledge of German, or just use subtitles. Further worrisome are the stereotypes, the types of people cast as the cook, his lovers, the captain, the natives, and so on, many of whom do not really act so much as play out their cardboard expectations. The camera-work is interesting because it is not notable--and maybe this is intentional, because too much lyricism would distract from the facts. But the facts, you notice, are not really convincing. We have a fictional movie no matter how painstaking the famous scenes with the boat toward the end. It falters too often into cliché and, actually, mediocrity (I see this even in the last scene, the crowd on the shore, there they are, nothing more is said).Maybe I take it to literally, and I should blur out the details. Because as a metaphor of possibility, and of the huge price you have to pay to succeed, or to fail beautifully, it still holds up. In some weird way, because it dared to be different, the movie is still remarkable. But something different than I once thought. "},{"Title":"Highly Original But Unexciting World Cinema Classic Of South-American Opera Lover","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald is an Irish industrialist who lives in Iquitos in north-east Peru in the early twentieth-century and is passionate about one thing - opera. He has a crazy dream to build an opera-house in one of the most remote places in the world, and embarks on a dangerous voyage up the Pachitea River to raise the necessary funds ...Confession time here - I like Fitzcarraldo a lot, but I actually like Les Blank's Burden Of Dreams, a documentary about the making of the movie, quite a bit more. The reason for this is that whilst it is a truly original and fascinating film, the knowledge that none of it was faked - Herzog really did hire the indigenous Machiguenga tribe to pull the 320-ton steamship over a hill, with no model-shots or special effects - makes it more amazing as a physical accomplishment than a cinematic experience. This forty-five minute sequence is astonishing but then so is the whole movie, a visually arresting fable of folly for the sake of it. Kinski is terrific here; iconic in his white suit and panama hat against the greens and browns of the jungle, and it's great to see him for once playing a nice guy, ably supported by the gorgeous Cardinale, who adds glamour and humour to the piece. Where it falls down in my view is that it's a tough movie to get animated about - very languid, with a protagonist who is almost impossible to identify with and a plot which seems to derive directly from Herzog's ambition rather than any kind of storytelling style. Made by many of the same crew as the superior Aguirre, Zorn Des Gottes (cameraman Thomas Mauch, composers Popol Vuh, editor Beate Mainka-Jellinghaus) and even shot in some of the same Peruvian locations, this is Herzog's most famous and acclaimed film - he won Best Director at Cannes - though for my money not his best one. If nothing else however, it is a remarkable achievement and a truly original piece of film craft. "},{"Title":"Of Opera And Headhunters","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" One of the strangest films I have seen in some time tells the story of a South American rubber baron named Brian Fitzgerald, better known as Fitzcarraldo (Klaus Kinski), a man who dreams of building an opera house in the jungles of the Amazon.With his white coat, white hat, and his bleached blonde hair, Fitz is quite an eccentric. In a social context, he's an outsider. But he has a bold vision. His romantic sidekick is a woman named Molly (Claudia Cardinale). As a compliment to Fitz, she speaks the film's theme It's only the dreamers who move mountains.After some preparation early in the film, Fitz and crew set sail up the Amazon on a huge boat, to stake out a claim for their business that will bring in the money to advance Fitzcarraldo's dream. The boat is equipped with all the necessities, which include, naturally, a gramophone to play the operatic music of Enrico Caruso. And the best sequences of the film are those set in the remote jungle, as the boat moves through a large tributary of the Amazon, into headhunter territory. With the gramophone blaring out opera amid the sound of Indian war drums, it's the unusual contrast between the primitive and the cultural that makes this film interesting.Filmed entirely in South America, the story is set in the early years of the twentieth century, long before the advent of television or automobiles.Color cinematography is quite good. This is a very physical story. Most scenes take place outdoors. And the remoteness of the setting conveys a sense of doom, a sense of unknown terror and foreboding.While the visuals are stunning, some aspects of the story I'm just not sure about. I never did figure out the significance of the ice. Is that a reward for Indian cooperation? If so, how can ice be preserved in a land without electricity? And without electricity, isn't the whole idea of an opera house in the wilderness a tad ludicrous? Maybe these questions are all answered and I just missed them. Even so, these issues could have been better addressed in the script.Not as deeply thematic as Aguirre The Wrath Of God (1972), Werner Herzog's Fitzcarraldo nevertheless is an unusual film, one that is worth watching for its stunning visuals and thematic contrasts, its physicality, and the eccentric character of Fitzcarraldo, the dreamer who can move mountains. "},{"Title":"Insane","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" An operatic film, in keeping with it's content. Herzog's film is simple. It is made without recourse to any effects. Consequently it remains an act of film-making chutzpah that will never be repeated and one cannot take one's eyes from the screen. Amazingly Herzog manages to make some sort of narrative and visual variation from this situation. Rather like this seemingly unattainable task of moving a huge vessel overland between two proximate but apparently unbridgeable tributaries, so Fitzcaraldo's ambition is to bring the pinnacle of Western art to one of the world's least civilised outposts. The outcome - the closing sequence of the film - may be classed a success or failure depending how one's perception of what constitutes either is reassigned by the experience of the journey that is the body of the film.Kinski is a wonderful force of nature, at once dilletante madman and visionary. That we are kept guessing is the centre of the drama. The casting of Cardinale as his faithful lover seems like an odd gilding exercise until the exuberant finale - by which time Herzog has performed some sort of alchemy. An extraordinary achievement, and all the more so given the disastrous living-memory precedents of Apocalypse Now and Heaven's Gate. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Follow your dreams","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fitcarraldo has a dream to have Grand Opera performed in the Amazon Jungle and goes to enormous lengths and overcomes innumerable obstacles and set backs to see his dream come to life. He even has a whole steam ship winched up a hill by Amazonian Indians, but their shared effort is to fulfil a different dream, which scuppers Fitzcarraldo's plans. Undeterred he sells the ship, and uses the proceeds to hire the Opera Company, who perform from the decks. Beautiful filming, wonderful Caruso singing, manic acting, and a powerful message to keep on if you believe in a dream and want to see your dream come true. So good I did not even notice the dubbing! "},{"Title":"Kinski's greatest role","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps Aguirre is the better film but Brian Fitzgerald (Fitzcarraldo) is an even better character.  We love dreamers and Fitz may be the greatest dreamer ever created on film.  Kinski in his white suit with his Hair by Charlie Manson manning the turret atop the Molly Aida, firing volleys of Caruso at the native tribesman.  Ah, unforgettable.  Herzog is a truly unique voice and has never been afraid to experiment.  Fitzcarraldo is one of the experiments that succeeds. "},{"Title":"Herzog goes Cecil B. DeMille","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In Fitzcarraldo the eponymous hero dreams of bringing opera to an Amazonian backwater. To raise the money he must drag a huge river steamer from one river to another over a hill in the depths of the jungle thereby avoiding dangerous rapids and giving him access to untapped rubber trees. The Important Fact about this film is that Herzog (the director), his crew and a few hundred Amazonian tribespeople (apparently hunter gatherers with a traditional way of life) actually dragged that boat across the jungle for real. They really did it and this changes how the viewer feels about the film.For much of its running time Fitzcarraldo comes across as an old colonial spectacular in the mould of Hollywood of the 1950s, with the merest sprinkling of Heart of Darkness, but not so you can really taste it. Fitzgerald (Kinski improbable as the likable dreamer) is thrilled by opera and he realises that if he can only get a transport ship to a remote part of the jungle cut off by dangerous rapids and collect the rubber there he can make a killing and build an opera house. He buys a ship, hires a crew and heads off into uncharted waters. Soon they encounter Amazonian headhunters and, terrified, most of the crew desert, leaving Fitzgerald to persuade the native people to aid him in his grand scheme. Up to this point the film seems clumsy. It's badly put together and acted, not particularly good to look at, even dull. But, then they begin to drag this huge ship out of the water and over a jungle covered hill, and it is immediately obvious that they are doing this for real. It's jaw dropping stuff.Trees are hacked down to whoops from the native people, cuttings are blasted and they recoil in terror, stones are passed from hand to hand, winding equipment is built from great trees, an immense pulley is carried by people gasping under its weight, and then miraculously the ship begins to inch its way out of the water in scenes reminiscent of Salgado's photographs of silver miners. The cast (professional and amateur) swarm around the ship covered head to foot in red mud. The physical strain and exhilaration are all real. Kinski, suddenly perfect with his grubby linen suit and shock of blond hair, is almost dwarfed by a spectacle equal to his mad persona. It's akin to seeing Buster Keaton at play with a steam locomotive. It's amazing and entertaining - but surely someone is going to get hurt? Once the ship hits the water again sadly the power of these scenes begins to dissipate and the film floats on bumpily to its ridiculous conclusion. The role of the Amazonian tribespeople in Fitzcarraldo is troubling. They are heralded in the time honoured fashion of safari movies. Before we meet them we hear tales of murdered missionaries and shrunken heads. We hear strange drumming and chanting from the forest. Ominous figures stand in wooden canoes. Finally we see dozens of little boats and mysterious visitors fill the ship. They are baffled by Fitzgerald's extreme blond, whiteness. None of these characters have a name, none get to utter dialogue comprehensible to the audience, and none are differentiated individuals except one apparent leader. They are just a conglomeration, a collective entity, an alien otherness. This is a shame because they bring some much needed gravity and screen presence to the film. Herzog makes ineffectual attempts to counter this colonial taint through the script. The native people have their own agenda for engaging in this task (appeasement of river gods) and the film concludes happily for them having sent the ship over the rapids Fitzgerald has been at such pains to avoid. For once colonialism has been co-opted to someone else's ends and thwarted in the process. This is not enough to restore the film's balance.In Fitzcarraldo we are offered a rather tired colonial yarn that seems thrown together, but which culminates in a spectacle worthy of Cecil B. DeMille. The film does flip from clumsy fiction to electrifying reality and back again, but the sight of this huge ship being dragged over the red mud using ropes and muscle power makes compelling viewing. However the viewer is left to question the film's attitude to colonialism and whether doing it for real really turns this mostly leaden film into gold? "},{"Title":"There is no denying the visual and technical magnificence of Herzog's achievement.","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In Peru in the early 20th century, an eccentric Irishman (Klaus Kinski), who is a fervent Caruso fan, resolves to accomplish an extraordinary feat against all odds establishing an opera house in the jungle.Fitzcarraldo is a strange, brilliant, unforgettable film centering on the hero's successful attempt to drag his massive boat from one river to another; clearly in director Werner Herzog's mind, a Herculean task comparable to getting a film made that reflects a director's artistic vision. For this film Herzog won the award for Best Director at the 1982 Cannes Film Festival. "},{"Title":"A  labor of love...","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" FITZCARRALDO never flags; an unofficial ambassador of the arts, if you will, he pushes on when his crew abandons him, cranking up the Caruso (literally, with a hand-cranked phonograph), and his Molly Aida becomes an almost Flying Dutchman phantom of the opera. Our everyday life is an illusion, the Peruvian Indians say ... Behind which lies the reality of dreams. Kinski as Fitz placates his contemplative captors and together they hew their way through the lush tropical forest. It's only the dreamers who ever move mountains. Like AGUIRRE THE WRATH OF GOD, FITZCARRALDO is a journey deep into Conrad's heart of darkness. Fitz, his white whale in tow, is striking in his white suit with his shock of reddish-yellow hair and his wide, staring blue eyes. When he first makes contact with the natives, they are in awe of him- partially because the coming of his white ship is the stuff of local legend, but perhaps, too, because he is as white and as ethereal as his vessel. (And Kinski's turn as the title character in Herzog's brilliant remake of NOSFERATU has to be seen to be believed I saw it in an art house when it opened and, despite my lifelong love of fright films, was creeped out by it.) I am the spectacle in the jungle, he says. Indeed, and his journey is, as stated in the film, a soul-stirring experience. No mythological god ever undertook a more monumental task. That the solution to the problem of being abandoned by the natives is arrived at by the finest drunkard ever to stagger over this earth is not a little ironic. It fits in, somehow, with the craziness of a dream being realized. When the camera literally rises to meet the Molly as she reaches the top of the mountain, it's the most glorious moment in a movie chock full of glorious moments. FITZCARRALDO is one of the greatest of the grand epics, and the movie's final denouement is an absolutely brilliant testament to the will (and willfulness) of Man. Fantastic film-making. "},{"Title":"Wonderful dream like film","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I think that it is always going to be a mistake to analyze this film using the known chaos of the actual making of the project. It is well known and written about but in my view is equally a distraction to the strengths of the art. If you did not know a thing about this movie, what would be your impressions? Given that innocent point of view, my impressions were that it was like watching the dream of an obsessed madman come to life. According to http//www.iquitosnews.com/page14a.html the Herzog story is very loosely based on a true story. Disregarding this, the film has great merits on its own. Kinski, a man renowned for being a living volcano, when he IS on camera is perfectly poised and generally calm. His madcap dream does not come across as mentally deranged but rather as a romantic extravagance that hearkens more to the 19'th century than to the 20'th. That he had the means to indulge his passion is all the story needs the spark and fuel of the combustion evolve as the story unfolds. What does this film look like? I was drawn to compare the film to Terrence Malick's The Thin Red Line and The New World. Herzog's film had many of those qualities many moments when there is no dialog, the boat drifts down the river and the piercing chirp of strange sounding birds is all you hear. The focus on the natives who again are often shot with them gathered around, looking still and meditative but remote...is both hypnotic and strange The efforts to lift the boat are so outrageous, suggested as they were in the film by a drunken cook, that when we see it occur all you can do is gasp out-loud and laugh. The movie is much discussed (I'm sure) in film schools. For me it was simply a delightful and totally crazy dream, a journey not through the heart of darkness, but into the unknown veins of natures backwoods; the anxiety of the journey offset by the phenomenal beauty of the rain forest and the wild encounter with savage natives. That Fitzcaraldo was able to pursue his goals in peace reminded me again of Captain John Smith making arrangements with the Powhattan. I loved it. "}{"Title":"A rare, towering masterpiece!","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Saying that a film is deserving of an eleven, on a scale of ten, is usually an exaggeration; Fitzcarraldo is a rare and wonderful exception; this film truly does deserve that sort of praise! Fitzcarraldo is an astonishing story-- masterfully written and combined with some of the most breathtakingly beautiful cinematography ever seen. All of this would have been lost, however, without the extraordinary acting genius and expressiveness of Klaus Kinski. Mr. Kinski has the remarkable ability to communicate, emotion and feeling, through facial expression and body movement, more effectively than any other actor I have seen, including Charlie Chaplin.After seeing the documentary film Burden of Dreams, which concerns itself with the making of the film and the endless, crushing difficulties that plagued the cast and crew, I have come to appreciate this film doubly. I heartily recommend seeing it, possibly before seeing the film itself. "},{"Title":"Herzog's madness","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I have to admit I'm ten times more interested in Werner Herzog himself than in the movies he's made. This is rare for me because I pretty much don't concern myself with creator's lives unless something that happens affects their work, which is oftentimes difficult to ascertain. Herzog, though, is a madman, a likable and engaging madman, who makes movies about madmen that make me think about what a madman Herzog is, not what madmen the people Herzog portrays are.For instance, this movie. Fitzcarraldo, as represented by Herzog, is insane. He's not even falling into insanity or slowly going insane, he just starts from the beginning completely out of his mind. His obsession with opera and his imposing, frazzled-haired quality make great iconographic representations of people driven too much by their impulses and not enough by reason. And the fact that he ultimately succeeds gives this movie more of a surprise ending than you'd expect.However, Herzog isn't content to merely say, He was insane, and leave it at that, he has to take it to the next level. He not only actually goes through all the trouble of showing how Fitzcarraldo managed to pull a steamboat over the mountain, he one-ups the character by increasing its circumstances higher grade slope, not pulling the ship over in pieces, using only natural materials of the time, etc. (See Burden of Dreams. It's a good documentary and very revealing). Herzog did this to make it more dramatic, you know, in a movie about a dramatically insane person obsessed with melodrama (the opera, the type of drama of which we compare to soap operas or really really melodramatic drama). So what does that say about Herzog? This movie also is a companion piece of sorts to Aguirre, the Wrath of God. It's sort of like the Kurtz perspective, the initial investor who penetrates further into the jungle than ever before and manages to maneuver himself into the favor of the local population as a god-like or at least spiritual figure (somehow). But then again, as a token to the perseverance, the opera house the historical figure built still exists. So not all madness is tragic, and it's certainly kept one peculiar filmmaker going for several years.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A Mad Vision, A Haunting Dream, An Inimitable Journey","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" There is no other film quite like the frenzied dream that is Fitzcarraldo.The antithesis of generic milkshake movies which crowd todays multiplexes, Fitzcarraldo is a challenging and fascinating film, similar in spirit to some of Coppola's best or an attempt at the best of Orson Welles. Like both of those visionaries, Herzog dreams large, and although there are sometimes gaps in logic or narrative flow, the mad scope of the vision is inimitable.In telling the tale of a man obsessed with bringing European culture to the dark mud of South America, director Herzog challenges himself to do the impossible--and, perhaps at the cost of human lives and daily sanity, lets himself and his lead, Klaus Kinski, succeed. The mysterious and spectacular images captured by photographer Thomas Mauch will linger in your brain, and the weird obsession that drives wild-eyed Kinski will, if you're willing to flow with him in that creaky steamer down the Amazon, take you on a trip you will long recall "},{"Title":"Masterful and memorable foreign film","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Many regard this as Werner Herzog's most memorable movie. I think Fitzcarraldo is cinematic gold, but it's not quite platinum. Small problems like grainy picture and sub-par sound are not that big of a deal (unless you are fussy). The problem comes down to a couple of weaknesses in the script, which could probably have been avoided, but knowing how hard Werner Herzog worked on this (and there are many famous production stories) I am impressed enough to call this great filmaking. It requires patience to watch, but if you have it, I guarantee you'll find this fascinating.The story is about a very very obsessed man. Brian Fitzgerald was a wealthy opera loving business man who wants to build an opera house in the Peruvian jungle near the village where he lives. To get the funding for this he comes up with a very elaborate plan which involves rigging a steamboat and pulling it over a mountain!! Well, not exactly a mountain, a hundred meter high piece of rock which divided the river in two in one place. The reason why he attempts this insanity I am not gonna say. You have to see the film for yourself (or read someone else's review). The bottom line, he does it.Werner Herzog moves his film very slowly, and during the large middle section, it gets a bit too slow perhaps. There are also a couple of scenes which make don't make much sense and should probably have been cut. The ending feels a little rushed. Maybe there was more in it, and Herzog had to cut it because the rest of the Fitzcarraldo is so long. Things like that happen sometimes. I think all film goers should see Fitzcarraldo, it is epic, unique, and among other things, it's insane. "},{"Title":"A top drawer achievement for both Herzog and Kinski","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fitzcarraldo (1982) Dir Werner HerzogI suppose I should have researched Fitzcarraldo more closely before I delved into it. This is only the second Herzog film I've ever seen, and my impressions of the first (Aguirre...) definitely coloured my expectations for this, the penultimate Herzog/Kinski collaboration. I was wondering when the crew of the Molly Aida would start succumbing to dysentery and hallucinating, when the captain would catch a spear to the chest and when the drunkard cook would unceremoniously drown. Nothing like this happens. Ultimately, when the steamboat returns to great fanfare, triumphant and battered, to the point of its launch, I realised that Fitzcarraldo is the better film for this positivity.That Klaus Kinski is wonderful in this film cannot be overstated. He is constantly the centrepiece, and when he is off screen (which is rarely), the viewer is always anticipating his arrival in shot. His character, Brian Fitzgerald, is one of the most charismatic leads I've ever seen. His supreme confidence and authority never wavers, despite the warmth and fragility we see in the earlier scenes. He is always played with a strong, sympathetic humanity that never boils over into madness, despite the madness of the task itself - to hoist a steamboat over the Amazonian hillside and back down into a parallel river.Herzog assembled a film with many emblematic visual features, presumably for the purposes of enhancing the aesthetics. It works wonders, frankly, as I'm sitting here struggling to think of a gramophone, a white suit or a steamboat in any other context than in Fitzcarraldo. It is set in the tropical heart of Brazil, and the crux of the plot is a daring and rather reckless plan to harvest the natural rubber from a region considered completely inaccessible. The profits from this would then go towards building a venue in the Amazon for the performance of Fitzgerald's favourite music - opera. Bizarre concept for a movie, right?Despite some clunky dubbing and a few supporting performances that look about fifteen years behind (stopping me from awarding it a 9), this strange premise is very successfully realised by Herzog's full-scale immersion into the daunting, endless and unreal rainforest. As soon as the boat sets off, the film kicks into gear. We are treated to a long succession of very beautifully composed shots as Fitzgerald and company plunge through the jungle in their majestic white 19th Century vessel.I don't want to reveal too much to those who have not yet seen this film, so I'll spare this review any further plot points. Fitzcarraldo should be seen for Kinski's defining performance, the superb visual touches that colour its best scenes, and for the sheer spectacle. It is undoubtedly a fine, grand movie in which all events orbit around, and gravitate towards, the central character himself. "},{"Title":"Caruso","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a long and wonderful journey full of eccentricities, full of dreams and of acts that one could never imagine. The film introduce to us a man in love with something, with the opera, since always he had one clear goal, one clear dream, something that will make him look like a complete insane man, like a visionary and always like a dreamer. Again we have the encounter of different worlds. Here is clear that the people from the old continent are having all the success however Brian Fitzcarraldo Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski) is still looking out for that road to the success. He is in the ice business, he left incomplete another visionary project and basically at one point he is seen as a complete madman when he tries to share what the opera makes with him. He is an eccentric character, he is a businessman and a visionary who will do what nobody ever imagine if there is a hope to get what he wants to get what he needs for that dream, for that opera house. On that way his dream will stay intact but the way to get what he needs will change until the mission is clear, not clear in ways of how successful it will be but clear in the mind of Fitzcarraldo. Everything seems great for the team that will join our main character in his journey however not a long time after they began to have questions, actually the first questions began right after the steamer took its way. The fear is the only thing Fitzcarraldo can represent to his team and not because he is an evil man or something but because he is doing something that nobody has done. He will be alone at one point with only three men from the original crew. The fear was always there thanks to the natives but they were something different. The opera was a reason to see Fitzcarraldo as a different man for those successful men but maybe it was one of the reasons of why Fitzcarraldo and his team were still alive. Is hard to know how the natives were thinking, for sure they wanted to find a place of peace. Is fascinating because at one point Fitzcarraldo's plan became something that, even if it was just something almost impossible and without a clear conclusion if they succeed, was a real mission not only for Fitzcarraldo but now for his team too, it became something for what they were really fighting and when the success looked at least possible the happiness was there, at least for a couple of minutes. Now they were a true team not only men carrying out with their jobs for other man who's real intentions were basically unknown. Fitzcarraldo felt the glory just to see how his plan was failing but another man, now infected with the dream, came with the final plan, the one that delivered a moment of true happiness. Fitzcarraldo and his team could return, they did something impossible with the help of who knows what and the film ends with a moment of true happiness for the dreamer, the visionary, the madman&#133;Kinski created another complex character, now based on the real life Peruvian Carlos Fermín Fitzcarrald. He is great as the film (the film-making values of it are impressive) however this is not my favourite performance of Kinski and not my favourite film of Herzog, of course from the ones I have seen that are For A Few Dollars More (Kinski), Aguirre, the Wrath of God (both), Nosferatu Phantom der Nacht (both), Woyzeck (both), Les Fruits de la Passion (Kinski), Grizzly Man (Herzog) and Rescue Dawn (Herzog). For the record, I saw this film after midnight so in the first minutes of this day (15 September 2008) not knowing for sure if I was going to stay awake. It was amazingly interesting and fascinating that I do stay awake even that its runtime is 158 minutes or so. Still is not an accessible film or at least not as accessible as others of Herzog, in my opinion the clearest example of an accessible film of Herzog is Rescue Dawn. Absolutely worth watching and I feel that I will be watching it again soon, not extremely soon but soon. "},{"Title":"Into the Jungle Again with Werner Herzog","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Director Werner Herzog returns once more to the wilds of the jungle and yet one more protagonist who finds there the atmosphere to feed his frenzied obsessions.In this one, Klaus Kinski plays an opera lover who is determined to build an opera house in the middle of the Amazon rain forest. In order to achieve his dream, though, he must first make a fortune in the area's biggest industry rubber. The scheme he conjures up involves sailing a boat down one branch of the Amazon, carrying it over a mountain, and sailing up the other side. This feat comprises a large bulk of the film, and was shot without the aid of any special effects.One wonders why Herzog ever bothers to make fiction films at all, since even the ones he does make feel like documentaries. This isn't the first film of his in which the actual narrative storytelling feels obligatory, and is almost lost amid Herzog's detached observation. This marred my enjoyment of Fitzcarraldo somewhat, as Kinski's objective and the developments of the plot are somewhat difficult to follow. It's as if Herzog has to wrench himself away from simply filming unscripted action when someone on his crew reminds him that he's actually trying to tell a story. However, the viewer is compensated by beautiful, authentic location shooting in the Amazon and fascinating exposure to the native Peruvian tribes. If these were actors and not actual natives, Herzog does a hell of a good job of convincing us otherwise.Grade A "},{"Title":"opera in the jungle","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" As I understand it, on the movie's set, director Werner Herzog created the same kinds of conditions that he portrayed in the movie, sort of like what Francis Ford Coppola did with Apocalypse Now. But either way, one can't deny the movie's quality. The truth is, Klaus Kinski has just the look for a man crazy enough to drag a ship over a mountain, what with his sunken eyes and wild hair. And Claudia Cardinale is really hot! Overall, Fitzcarraldo was the perfect way for Herzog and Kinski to follow up Nosferatu (although I consider Nosferatu Herzog's best movie ever, given how it elaborated the Dracula story). I recommend both these movies to everyone. "},{"Title":"Moving mountains (spoilers)","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" There's definitely something odd about seeing Klaus Kinski play a character that smiles and a character that is in love with another human being. After all, virtually every other character Kinski played was a frothing madman. But here he plays Fitzcarraldo, a man of passion and warmth, a man who loves opera instead of fear and death.The opening scenes set the character up superbly. Fitzcarraldo emerges from the darkness as he struggles to get to the opera on time. He's rowed two days and two nights to see the show (after the motor on his boat broke down) but once he gets there the show has already started and he's denied entry. Meanwhile horses are fed expensive champagne and there's a large group of locals congregated outside the front of the house. It's obvious that Fitzcarraldo, like the indigenous population, doesn't belong in such opulent surroundings. He's an outsider. However, after some gentle persuasion he gains entry and gets to watch the rest of the show while standing at the back of the theatre.But Fitzcarraldo isn't content to stand at the back forever. Inspired by his love of opera and the way the wealthy claim this form of artistic expression entirely as their own, he decides that he's going to build his own opera house. He's going to do it for the local children that listen to his records and for the pig that listens to them, too.One of my favourite scenes in the film is when Fitzcarraldo climbs to the top of a church and screams from the belfry that he wants his opera house. He's like a big kid demanding French fries and ketchup for dinner. But it's endearing too, and I love the manic way that Kinski starts ringing the bell as he demands his opera house and as he says that he wont let anyone come into the church until he's got it.Well, his church siege doesn't last, but his passion doesn't die. He's going to make the money required to build his opera house come hell or high water. But it isn't an easy task and he has to put up with rich businessmen flashing their wealth in his face &#150; one man feeds money to his fish just to illustrate how much he has. But all the doubting and the all the taunts just make him more determined. When he buys a piece of land rich with rubber trees, and when the local businessmen start placing bets on when he'll fail, he says that he'll move a mountain, and because it's Kinski, and because Kinski is intense to an absurd degree, you believe him.But you also believe him because Herzog is directing the film. If anyone can move a mountain, it's him. And the scene where Fitzcarraldo and a tribe of Indians drag a steamboat up a mountain really has to be seen to be believed. It's surreal, it's beautiful and it's a fantastic way of illustrating what an uphill struggle we have when we try and make our dreams real. It's a difficult process, and a painful one too, but it's also incredibly worthwhile.Another scene I like is when Fitzcarraldo surveys the land he's bought from a gantry high up in the trees. He looks down upon the land he wants to exploit (money from the rubber trees are going to pay for his opera house) like a god. Again he's like the kid demanding his opera house.But there are plenty of other great moments in the film as well. I love the bit when Fitzcarraldo and his crew first encounter the natives. They can't see them, but they can hear their drums coming from the jungle. So then Fitzcarraldo plays Caruso and everything goes quiet. And then again Fitzcarraldo surveys the jungle like a god quietly passing through. But then to bring him back down to earth there's the subtly threatening way that an umbrella appears in the river. If he makes a mistake or acts in the wrong way, he's a dead man.But what I like most about the film is the ending. All through the second half of the film, Fitzcarraldo gets distracted by this insane goal of pulling a boat up a hill so that he can get the rubber trees and make money enough to build an opera house. You kind of feel like he's losing his way &#150; Indians get killed pulling the boat up and he plays up to the Indian's idea of him being some sort of god. But then just as he's got the boat over the hill and he's in sight of achieving his goal, everything goes wrong. After a celebration, and in the dead of night, the boat is cut loose and it flows down the river and into the rapids with him sound asleep in it. What follows is an insane piece of film-making &#150; Herzog actually filmed Kinski and his crew on the boat while going through a treacherous stretch of river &#150; and the boat crashes into cliff walls and spirals totally out of control. It seems like all hope is lost; they might die and they have no rubber. But somehow they survive unscathed (unlike the film crew who got injured filming the scene). And then Herzog pulls something of a masterstroke. Instead of having a despairing ending with a man defeated, he has Fitzcarraldo fulfil his dream, albeit on a smaller scale. He has Fitzcarraldo load up his battered boat with opera singers and musicians and he then has them take their music up river. It's a beautiful scene, and Kinski's large smile as he puffs on a massive cigar, and as he waves to the local children and the pig, is the icing on the cake. He climbed a mountain, he fulfilled his dream of bringing opera to the jungle and he didn't lose himself in the process. "},{"Title":"While I'm preferable to Aguirre The Wrath of God as my personal favorite, Fitzcarraldo is probably the finest film Herzog ever made","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Many people consider Fitzcarraldo Herzog's finest achievement. While I'm preferable to Aguirre The Wrath of God as my personal favorite, Fitzcarraldo is probably the finest film Herzog ever made. Klaus Kinski plays probably his most obsessive yet most sympathetic character yet. His work with Herzog is always fascinating, but this is the only time I've made an emotional connection with the protagonist. Hes also probably the most likable character in their collaborations and comes across as being just severely eccentric as opposed to completely insane. Still, he is completely compelling and probably the most well-developed character in a Herzog film. Just like Scorcese and DeNiro, Kinski and Herzog made many fine films apart, but they were always at their peak when working together.In addition to another superb character from Kinski, Herzog as a director has never been finer. The film is extremely slowly paced, which may alienate some (Aguirre is defiantly the starting place for Herzog), but not a single frame seems like filler and its never boring. Herzog knows how to captivate the viewer throughout with some of the richest and most intoxicating images ever caught on film. Its fortunate someone gave him the budget to make these kinds of film, as he probably would've floundered in the States. As usual, he includes a masterful closing scene which sums up the protagonists journey and accomplishments. Herzog was a film genius, plain and simple. Even his lesser works are completely engrossing and interesting. When you can say that about any artist, you know their finest achievements are hypnotic. (10/10) "}{"Title":"Intriguing and beautifully filmed venture!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" (Spoilers)Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski), known as 'Fitzcarraldo' to the locals of Peru, is a man of big dreams. He dreams of bringing the opera to the Amazon Jungle, but first he must venture in the rubber business. With the aid of his rich wife, Molly (Claudia Cardinale), he purchases a steamboat and heads against the current to develop a seemingly impossible task of acquiring untouched rubber from a parallel river. During his journey, Fitzcarraldo and his wayward crew encounter a large tribe of Amazon Indians, who are entranced by the opera recording on the ship. Unsure of the Indians' agenda, Fitzcarraldo forms an alliance with them in order to achieve the seemingly impossible; drag a steamboat over the land to the other side.This is first Werner Herzog film I've seen, and although it started off slowly, I was entranced by the journey itself. The cinematography of the Amazonian landscape is breath-taking in parts, as well as the tension created throughout the story. You really do get an idea of the facets of this vessel from the various camera-angles, as well as the humidity, and the tension created in the story. Like Fitzcarraldo, the viewer never really knows where he stands with the natives of the jungle. This is less a story about the opera, and more a story about humanity, and the coming together of different types of people and culture.Klaus Kinski is excellent as the manic-haired lead character. Fitzcarraldo is truly the odd one out amongst his crew, and later in the film. Kinski has quite a screen presence, and I look forward to seeing more of Herzog/Kinski collaborations. Although, the film takes its time in the beginning, it literally takes off along with the steamboat and the journey becomes a rhythmic and visual feast. 'Fitzcarraldo', as a film, is a great introduction to Werner Herzog and as a film about humanity, triumph over the land, as well as the spirituality of the people who are part of that land.**** out of *****! "},{"Title":"8/10","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  FITZCARRALDOFitzcarraldo, Herzog's most famous -- and infamous -- film , is the story of a man who yearns to build an operahouse in the middle of the Amazon jungle. The inimitable Klaus Kinski delivers one of his most inspired performances as the eccentric Irishman who strikes out into a cloying world of García Márquez-ian lushness and magic. The Jivero Indians believe that everyday life is only an illusion behind which lies the reality of dreams. They see Fitzcarraldo's gigantic steamboat as the means to soothe the angry gods who have chosen to leave their world unfinished.  For Herzog's script to remain true to his personal vision, he actually had to drag the ship over a mountain. The painstaking process encountered every disaster possible, including tribal and cast revolts, droughts, and floods. Herzog somehow pulled the boat and everyone else along with his own dream, to create one of the truest representations of the primordial and one of finest examples of the transcendent nature of film. Greater ordeals were in store with the making of the formidable Fitzcarraldo, about a man soobsessed with bringing opera to the backwaters of the Amazon that he pulls a 340-ton ship over  the mountains. The film was plagued with disasters of all sorts including two plane crashes, a border  war between Peru and Ecuador, and two crew members shot with arrows, necessitating  kitchen-table surgery.  The film, which took three years of preparation and nine months of shooting, featured 5,000 extras,  required building a jungle camp, and had a crew of only 14 or 16, which Herzog claimed to be his  largest crew yet. Jason Robards, originally cast in the title role, became so ill he was flown out of  the jungle and forbidden by doctors to return. The volatile Kinski was recruited to replace him.  The Indians were scared of this mad man. At the end of shooting one day, one came up to me and said, 'Shall we shoot him for you?' They said they weren't afraid of this screaming mad man, they  were afraid of me because I was so silent.  His experiences making the film prompted the exasperated Herzog to say in a documentary,  Burden of Dreams, I shouldn't make movies anymore. I should go to a lunatic asylum.  Linking all his films, he said, is the desire to understand the human condition, to look deep inside the  unexplained mysteries of our existence and ask who we are. A deep glimpse inside of our heart is  important. At the same time I try to articulate new images. We are surrounded by worn out images.  We need to develop a language of images adequate to our civilization. It sounds a little high, but it's  practical to me. Article.excerpt  "},{"Title":"An undimmed dream.","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" What a fantastic movie. I saw Aguirre Wrath of God at the cinema a few years ago and decided I never wanted to see it on the small screen, but haven't foreseen a chance to see Fitzcarraldo so, so I submitted to seeing it on DVD. I watched it twice that day! Like Aguirre, it's visually a beautiful film, which makes far better use of the landscape than similar white man goes nuts in the Jungle movies. It's also far less patronising than Mosquito Coast and nothing like as pretentious as Apocalypse Now. Herzog can escape the tired jungle as Id cliché (one which he himself may have set the template for in Aguirre) because his and Fitzcarraldo's real dreamscape is opera. It also has a far more honest approach to the jungle than those movies. Rather than setting it up as a primeval Conradian hell (a comparison which the interviewer sets up but Herzog seems to ignore in the DVD commentary) in which the basest instincts of man are unleashed, it is a strange but beautiful world which offers potential for banal business exploitation. The natives are not the virtual extraterrestrials of old but simply another social organisation with different values and ways of comprehending the World. Unlike Kurtz, it is not the Jungle that defeats Fitzcarraldo but the rather more modest natives who simply and innocently exploit Fitzcarraldo even as he is selfishly exploiting them.At 230, it probably is too long for such a simple story but this probably has more to do with a very leisurely first act, establishing Fitzcarraldo's love of opera, the time and society of the rubber barons and Fitzcarraldo's touching relationship with his Madame wife. It takes Fitzcarraldo an hour to actually set out up the river. And anyway, is that really such a harsh criticism in a world that can tolerate 315 hours of the trite Titanic and over 9 hours of the overblown Lord of the Rings. The film is packed with detail and incident but Herzog needs to present this as a slow painstaking endeavour. But cutting it down to 100 minutes (Herzog's usual running time, he's not known for making long films) would have diminished the difficulty of Fitzcarraldo's enterprise. The viewer needs to share at least some of that effort.There's not much to choose between the English soundtrack and the German, though admittedly some of Kinski's line readings sound a little more stilled in English (mainly in a couple of admittedly redundant exposition scenes), but then the lip movements match better as the film was shot in English. "},{"Title":"Herzog and Kinski back in the jungle","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fitzcarraldo is a West German / Peruvian 2.5-hour movie from over 30 years ago. So this means this was made 10 years after Herzog and Kinski collaborator for another jungle-set film Aguirre and 10 years before Kinski's death. I myself found Fitzcarraldo a watch that was pretty absurd yet entertaining at the same time and I preferred it over Aguirre. I think that one all came down to Kinski portraying a schemer, who was truly insane and emotionally unstable. There are more layers to his performance here. it is actually one of these rare films where Kinski's character is actually quite likable, even if there is once again a touch of insanity to it. Or is there really? After all his dream of opera in the jungle did come true in the end.While it is probably not among my very favorite Herzog movies, it was still a decent watch. The female lead is the famous Italian beauty Claudia Cardinale. I think this film does have some lengths and they certainly could have kept it under 2 hours while still making a convincing work. This way, it would have been more essential as well. However, this one was Golden Globe nominated and BAFTA nominated, so I guess Herzog didn't make a lot wrong. And he won Best Director at Cannes for his work here. There is a German version out there and also an English one. It does not really matter which one you pick as basically almost all of the actors in here were dubbed anyway later on. As a whole, this was a pretty decent watch and I recommend Fitzcarraldo. "},{"Title":"A homage to visionaries","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This two and a half hour German film released in 1982 is one of Werner Herzog's best movies. It reads mostly as a homage to crazy visionaries, people whom Herzog clearly identifies with. Based on a true story, but taking considerable liberties with the truth, this film tells the story of one Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski, who is terrific), an opera mad Irish entrepreneur living in Iquitos, in the Peruvian Amazon in the late 19th century. Fitzgerald was called Fitzcarraldo by the locals, who found his original name difficult to pronounce. A plan by him to build a railway crossing the Andes had failed, and his next project of making ice wasn't going anywhere. After a talk with a rubber baron, he came up with a new plan to exploit rubber in a very remote part of the Amazon rain forest and with the profits made from the venture build an opera house in Iquitos. For that purpose, he buys a river boat with money from the madam of a brothel (played by Claudia Cardinale) who sympathizes with him. He hires a rowdy crew to accompany him in his boat to his jungle tract, including a nearsighted captain, a drunken cook and a giant Indian called Cholo. Now, the area where he had the concession to exploit rubber trees could only be accessed through a river with impossible rapids to cross. But a navigable river ran nearby, and he came up with the idea of carrying the whole boat between the rivers with the help of nearby Indians. Only problem, those Indians were hostile head hunters, known to kill previous trespassers in the area. And to make things worse, the terrain where the portage of the boat took place was not plain but was rather a steep hill (apparently, the real Fitzcarraldo did carry a boat through a hill, only he disassemble first into pieces, and later assemble it back in the nearby river).In a superb extender scene, Fitzcarraldo manages to get the Indians to carry the boat to the other river, but after wards, things start unraveling badly. But just when the film looks like is going to have a downbeat ending, Herzog pulls out a surprisingly heartwarming finale, which I won't reveal here but in which Fitzcarraldo partly fulfills his dreams - though some reviewers find it anticlimactic compared with the scene of the boat going up the hill.Originally Jason Robards was going to play Fitzcarraldo, with Mick Jagger playing his sidekick. Eventually, Robards got a tropical disease during the filming and had to bow out on medical advice, and Jagger also abandoned the shooting due to his musical commitments with the Rolling Stones (by the way, there is some footage around the Internet showing Robards and Jagger playing their characters and is clear that they would have been dreadful in the movie). Herzog decided to call Kinski, who doesn't look Irish at all, but had the right crazy intensity for the character, while writing off Jagger's role. By casting Kisnki, the movie turn into a German speaking film, which looks incongruous in a film set in the Peruvian Amazon, though you will eventually suspend your disbelief. "},{"Title":"A Fascinating Story of a Passionate Individual","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I have to confess that this is the first Werner Herzog movie I've seen; I am no expert, and cannot comment on his oeuvre. Based on this film alone, I admit that Herzog is definitely a bold director who makes no compromises to complete his vision---just like the protagonist of this film.Herzog paints an intriguing picture of a wealthy entrepreneur in early-20th century Peru who is unique among his peers. He is a genuine aesthete, and has a vision far beyond the mere accumulation and enjoyment of wealth. The film portrays the nouveau-riche rubber barons, who are Fitzcarraldo's friends and acquaintances, as vulgar, money-driven people who have accumulated so much wealth that throwing some money away means nothing to them. They mock Fitz for his failed ventures as a railroad builder and an ice maker, already setting him apart from his peers. He only decides to exploit a new area for its rubber not simply to become a fat and happy baron, but as a means to an end he wants to bring culture and beauty in the form of an opera house in his frontier settlement. This dream drives his dangerous adventure into the jungle, with a single-mindedness that puts other rubber barons to shame. Herzog does not shirk from depicting Fitzcarraldo as mad and irrational, but also also treats him sympathetically. He is mad, but he is a determined dreamer, willing to do what it takes against overwhelming odds to make his strange dream come true. From this film alone, it seems Herzog places value on the individual with powerful dreams and ambition, and, while not above criticizing the individual for his recklessness, also treats him with unabashed admiration. This movie is a bit troubling in its depiction of a white protagonist who ventures into the jungle and tames the natives. Fitzcarraldo is apparently considered by the natives as some sort of superhuman who fulfills a prophecy, and they risk their lives to complete the Herculean task of lifting his immense riverboat up a hill using only primitive winches and their muscle power. Granted, the lifting of the boat is a visually amazing scene, one of the best set pieces in cinema I've seen; still, the implications of what this scene depicts is troubling. While Fitzcarraldo may be a nicer white man than the other rubber barons living in the Peruvian jungle, he is nevertheless just as exploitative of the native peoples who live there they consider Fitzcarraldo as some sort of special person they need to work for, and they work for him without compensation of any sort. This movie does not engage enough with the troubling issues of colonialism and the exploitation of native peoples around the world; the film's focus is primarily on Fitzcarraldo and his state of mind. I wish the film would have explored the themes of colonialism more acutely than it does. As it stands, the movie seems a bit too Eurocentric and treats European exploration and exploitation with a triumphal tone.In all, this was a fascinating movie. It is, so far as I can tell, the only movie to depict the Amazon Rubber Boom. I would have liked this film to have focused more on the plight of the Indians rather than just on Fitzcarraldo and his vision; I suppose that will have have to await another filmmaker. The film makes great use of special effects and lush tropical scenery to depict the story of a driven man. There are some Apocalypse Now/Heart of Darkness tones to the riverboat voyage, but Fitzcarraldo is a much *much* less dark movie, though of no less quality than Coppola's work. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"definitely a masterpiece","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I was not even born and Fitzcarraldo already existed. I watched it some years ago and it actually took me time to realize this film was older than me then!It's not only a matter of time or age here, Fitzcarraldo is a movie you must watch... the simple truth. It's a bit long though but the story that Hertzog tells here is of a man, an actual man who dreams and who creates his own dreams to also make them come through.Imagination, engineering, hands of collaboration, excellent music and great visionary sense of humor make of Fitzcarraldo a film you'd never fail to remember. Every time somebody gives me to understand that something is just impossible to happen or to make it work I just think of Fitzcarraldo and I happen to see those people as just... basic people, not able to distinguish between Fitzcarraldo and, just plain reality.Quite an amazing and superb film. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the reality is stranger than the fiction","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Only Werner Herzog could have seriously conceived the idea of this film for a movie. One of the true cinematic visionaries, Herzog outdid himself here in terms of pure crazed intent. An eccentric visionary called Fitzcarraldo dreams of building an opera house in the middle of the Amazonian jungle. To do this he needs money and in this part of the world this meant rubber trees. He realises that there is a large section of untapped jungle ripe for exploitation. The only problem is that it is completely inaccessible because of rapids. Well, not completely inaccessible, as Fitzcarraldo plans to drag his steamboat over a small mountain in order to get there.This is a fairly strange story to begin with. But really, what takes things to a whole new level is the fact that Herzog actually dragged this steamboat over the hill for real with primitive means. It takes a borderline madman to even consider this. This is the one Herzog film where the mercurial Klaus Kinski seems relatively sane. This is only because the monumentally crazy enterprise overshadows everything else. Of course, the result is an astonishing film.The imagery is often breathtaking. Aside from the extraordinary scenes of the boat being hauled over the hill, there is the intense rapid sequence and, best of all, the quite menacing section where the steamboat glides through the Amazon while the chants and drums of unseen Indians roar from the hidden depths of the jungle. Fitzcarraldo is truly a visual spectacle. But it is also about what happens when cultures clash. The Indians assist the plan to drag the boat over the hill quite willingly but Fitzcarraldo only discovers much too late that their motivations are entirely different to his.Ultimately though, this is a truly one-of-a-kind film. For once, the reality is even crazier than the fiction. "},{"Title":"There is no single non-CGI image as awe-inspiring in 80s cinema as the dragging of a steamship across steep land.","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" If there was ever a film that captured the madness of one filmmaker and summed up his notorious obsession with translating crazy stories onto the big screen, that film would be Fitzcarraldo, and that director would be Werner Herzog. Made in 1982, and competed at Cannes, where Herzog was awarded Best Director for this incredible endeavor, Fitzcarraldo tells the tale of one man who dreams of building an opera house in the middle of the jungle. That man is Brian Fitzgerald, played by the enigmatic and screen-stealing Klaus Kinski.In order to fund his opera house, Fitzgerald buys a steamship so that he could sail upstream along the Amazon River to reach a forested area that has been inaccessible to Man for centuries. That area contains millions of rubber trees that could be tapped, which could earn him a fortune. Fitzcarraldo follows Fitzgerald as he journeys deep into the heart of nature, chasing a dream that is just as wild as the environment he has thrust himself in. He encounters a hundred odd native Indians along the way, piquing their curiosity with his large steamship, and later enlisting their labour to carry out an absolutely crazy plan.Fitzgerald's plan is to drag his steamship, all thirty tones of it, over a steep hill from one river to another. Very remarkably, Herzog filmed this entire sequence without the aid of visual effects. As a result, it remains to be one of cinema's most jaw-dropping scenes, a technical achievement rarely equaled and almost impossible to emulate by anyone whose sanity is still intact. Herzog's camera captures this incredible sequence with documentary-like realism; one can hear the rumbling and creaking, and feel the tension in the ropes as they pull the massive man-made beast over difficult terrain.Another sequence that is every bit just as suspenseful shows the steamship colliding with rocks, as rapids force it to float dangerously fast downstream. Herzog's mastery of his environment, in this case, the natural environment, is his strongest attribute. Despite shooting in a hostile location, facing insurmountable physical challenges, and being notoriously over-demanding on the cast and crew, he manages to complete the film, which is already a feat in itself. In Fitzcarraldo, Kinski grounds his character in reality with a performance that is much less exaggerated (and powerful) than his starring role in Aguirre, The Wrath of God (1972), but with more subtlety to match his character's eccentricity.Filled with absurdist situational humor &#x96; one bizarre moment sees Fitzgerald playing Italian opera on his Victrola on top of his floating ship as he tries to drown the sounds of tribal drumming and chanting during the journey upstream, Fitzcarraldo however feels slightly uneven in terms of pacing. There are uninteresting, sporadic moments with the natives on board the ship that drag along, stagnating the narrative. But fortunately, for most parts, Herzog's film is quite engaging, and at times, the stunning visuals grip you and become etched in your mind.Fitzcarraldo is not Herzog's greatest film, but it is arguably his greatest feat as a filmmaker. There is no single non-CGI image as awe-inspiring in 80s cinema as the dragging of a steamship across steep land. And to the sounds of Caruso playing on the Victrola.SCORE 8.5/10 (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved! "},{"Title":"Quite staggering tale of scope, physically in its journeying, but mentally in its lead's dreams; as Herzog directs a rather remarkable adventure film.","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Can there be many films as seemingly maddening as this one? Fitzcarraldo is probably the best film about a middle aged European male ice-maker whom is based in Peru and has a fondness for opera so much so that he tries to construct his own opera house, that you're ever likely to see; a two and a half hour tale of one man and his eccentric dream to venture into the unknown so as to achieve the nigh-on impossible. The crux of the man's plight is highlighted in a simple exchange between he and someone else Do you have any idea what you're doing? snorts the individual. Something no one ever has our lead retorts. We ask the question the initial character asks, we ask the question to both the lead character and even to those working on the film; their respective replies are in the undertakings of such missions, and it is a reply well worth seeing.The titular character is a certain businessman of Irish descent named Brian Fitzgerald; his surname of which is the origin of his nickname and film title Fitzcarraldo, he is played by Klaus Kinski and lives with his wife Molly (Cardinale) in a small, down trodden hut in a Peruvian village at around about the start of the 20th Century. The first time we see him and his wife, they have just arrived at a large opera house on the continent of South America after having rowed down the Amazon River for two days by themselves in a small boat, only to then struggle through the general opera area as they strive to catch a glimpse of an ongoing performance. The sequence is the first instance in which our lead goes to extraordinary lengths purely for the opera, the linkage being the travelling under somewhat extreme circumstances in a boat down a stretch of water so as to get closer to this medium of high art. After leaving the place somewhat disgruntled, Fitzcarraldo claims that he himself will one day run an opera house of his own.Fitzcarraldo is surrounded in squalor and generally low level living conditions; his hut surrounded by local Peruvian people whom mingle in with local farming wildlife meshing into one big, third world level of existence. His home and existence humbling; his spirit, boldness and levels of aspiration sky high; his target a patch of land deep within the jungles under-looking the Andes mountains, a patch that is, according to those whom live in and around there, unfinished by God. The film is ultimately a tale about the plight of a man attempting to bring a piece of high culture to a zone of low level and dishevelled living, further still encompassing a battle between man and nature. The items of entertainment and things you do to kill time when granted spare time of your own in and around Fitz's existence comes in the form of gambling and card playing; the film allowing both us and Fitz to observe the sorts that indulge in this activity as being less than desirable and not particularly bothered by just sitting around and loosing money if it means a good time with a bunch of guys.His coming into contact with such living conditions, the world around him and the fact he must accept this is where he is in the world with what he really likes a two day row away down a perilous river spurns him into action. Upon hearing of this untouched patch of jungle land, located deep within the dense rural wilderness and amongst dangerous local natives he sets out to attain his dream. A prior coming together of both director Werner Herzog and lead actor Klaus Kinski in the jungle saw them produce 1972's Aguirre, The Wrath of God; with said film culminating in Kinski's own character on a boat and in the middle of the dense, rural wilderness that was a large jungle dreaming or aspiring to greater things which appeared impossible. Fitzcarraldo sees Kinski pick up where he left off, so to speak, as he takes to the waters of South America once again with a vision in his head of greater; larger; more expansive targets that at first appear fruitless in the attempting of said feats.Fitz sets off after having got a hold of, and consequently touched up to the best of his ability, an old steam boat with which he places an ex-seaman from the Netherlands as the captain of complete with a makeshift crew. There's something ominous about the trip from the beginning, initially they take off and venture away into the opposite direction from whence they were supposed to go as downcast music perhaps more associated with a funeral procession is played over these images. Later on down the line, a trip to what looks like a train depot yard that has seen its constructors attempt to carve a building plus train tracks into this dense jungle sees a past dream or experimentation in construction and business enterprising in this locale on Fitz's behalf spectacularly fail. The employee whom has seemingly been left behind so as to 'watch' whatever remained of the expedition is happy to see his former employer, but the sense of our lead perhaps disregarding those that worked for him becomes prominent more than anything else. As this huge task of going to where they're going is half way done, ominous seeds born out of past events are planted. Herzog brings the film down to a near complete stop when it transpires lugging this steamer over the mountain and into the adjacent river is Fitz's answer to a speedy process, a shift which works rather well than bog the film down. Fitzcarraldo is a remarkable film, neatly taking its place on the mantle beside other esteemed works from the director and providing a blistering descent into the mind of a man with dreams seemingly larger than the jungle he finds himself inhabiting. "}{"Title":"Never Trust A Man With His Face Painted Red.","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Before committing yourself to this longish and sometimes static film you ought to ask yourself a question. Do you feel lucky? No, wait. I meant, do you find this image enthralling, or -- let's not demand too much -- in any way interesting? It's the turn of the century in South America. There is this mammoth river steamboat, all beaten up and lopsided but still seaworthy. It's huffing along some river that you've never heard of in the upper reaches of the Amazon. A knot of Europeans stands on the muddy shore, waving and cheering, but you could sail up the river for hundreds of miles and encounter nobody but illiterate laborers and indigenous head hunters.Aboard this brave but decrepit boat an opera, The Carmelites, is being performed with a full orchestra and the entire cast. The only audience aboard the boat is a handful of silent, motionless Amazonian aborigines with their faces painted scarlet, who don't know what a drinking glass is, let alone what the champagne within it is supposed to be.On the upper deck, towards the stern, stands Klaus Kinski with a footlong cigar in his mouth, smiling proudly as he brings opera to the remoter regions of the earth. The aria rings out from the Italian orchestra and the tenor and is damped down and lost in the surrounding jungle.I only ask because that is the climactic scene in this outlandish and perplexing movie. And it's a happy ending, too.But, as you can see, it's not what anyone would call a typically Hollywood happy ending.Kinski is Fitzcarraldo -- the closest the native Amazonians can get to his real name, Fitzgerald -- and he's obsessed with Enrico Caruso and with opera in general. He's mad for opera in the most literal sense. And it's his responsibility, he feels, to bring opera to the unenlightened masses of bare asses who labor in the mud of isolated rubber plantations or spend their time shrinking heads.To do it, he develops a plan to bring his steamboat to one of the most isolated rivers and schlepp rubber from one point to another, saving enough time and labor to make the scheme profitable. I don't want to have to draw a map here, so you'll have to take my word for it that the big boat must be sailed up one river, hauled by hand over a mountain, and deposited in the river on the other side so that it can be deployed.He borrows money for the boat from a reckless rubber baron and from his own girl friend, an older but still succulent Claudia Cardinale, who runs a whorehouse in a minuscule port on the Amazon. The job gets done -- including the hefting of the huge boat over the mountain -- just as it was done by Werner Herzog and his crew while filming the scene. For complex reasons, the sweating red-faced natives set the boat free in the new river, it bumps and bangs its way down through impassable rapids, and winds up back where it started, a failure.Except that Kinski doesn't really seem to care that much about the collapse of his would-be logistical enterprise. He sells the boat and somehow comes into enough money to hire the opera company for this sail into nowhere. And there Kinski stands at the stern, about to sit in his plush upholstered chair, as pleased as punch, looking around at the passing wilderness as if expecting applause, enjoying every note of The Carmelites. I didn't think much of The Carmelites myself. I saw it performed in San Francisco and fell asleep halfway through. So did my companero, who began to snore loudly enough to begin attracting attention. A quick nudge brought him out of it. But neither of us were opera buffs or, to the extent that we enjoyed it, it was at about the same level as the red-faced bare asses, certainly not Fitcarraldo's.You may or may not like this movie but I can practically guarantee that you won't forget it easily. If you find that it piques your interest, take a whack at Herzog's Aguirre The Wrath of God. Both are set in the Amazon basin of history and both star Klaus Kinski as a lunatic. In Fitzcarraldo, he's a happy madman. In Aguirre, he's angry. "},{"Title":"Oh My God!! What Have i Just Seen!!","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It is only the dreamers who move mountains fitzcarraldo is one the most ambitious film that i've ever been across. the film starts with the title character fitzcarraldo played graciously by klaus kinski and his wife travelling 1200 miles just to hear Caruso sing. fitzcarraldo is the story of a dreamer who dreams of building an opera in the Peruvian jungles. with one major failure already behind which nearly bankrupted him, fitzcarraldo remains unaltered. now, the fact that all this has truly happened and the dreamer fitzcarraldo has really existed in blood and flesh makes the experience of watching fitzcarraldo even more interesting. with the meager money left in his pocket this guy set's out on a journey and you secretly pray in your heart that he hit's the bull's eye. he travel's around trying to set up a proper business that would generate the money to fulfill his casino dream. once again our guy does the unexpected. he leases an inaccessible parcel of area that generates rubber from the Peruvian government. purchases a 340 ton steam boat raises a crew and sets off up the pachitea, a river in peruvia.This river is known to be more dangerous the further one gets from the Amazon because of the unfriendly tribes that inhabit the area. Fitzcarraldo's plan is to reach the point where the two rivers nearly meet and then, with the manpower of enlisted natives, physically pull his three-story, 340-ton steamer over the muddy hillside across an isthmus, from one river to the next. Using the steamer, he will then collect rubber on the upper Ucayali and bring it down the Pachitea to market. The most toughest scene ever shot by a man who call's himself a director is the ending scene where we spellboundedly watch a smiling fitzcarraldo and his crew pull over a 340 ton steam ship across a mountain. the director werner herzog didn't want special effects to ruin the most important scene of the movie. instead he wanted a real 340 ton boat moved over a hill and he got what he wanted. only a dreamer himself would have ever dreamed of making a film on fitzcarraldo and the dreamer happened to be werner herzog.  I live my life or end my life with this film is the first statement made by him when he announced this film.indeed  It is only the dreamers who move mountains.. "},{"Title":"I want my opera house!","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film has a prologue about the jungle. The main part of the film starts with the opera house in Manaus, where to Fitzcarraldo, played by Klaus Kinski, and his girl friend Molly, played by Claudia Cardinale, hurry in a small boat. Fitzcarraldo wears an impressive hat. Bytheway, in this film the hats add a certain playful element to the whole story. It's also an interesting detail that Fitzcarraldo always wears a white suit, an old one probably but always recognizably white. Though they are late and have no tickets they are allowed to go inside after Molly's comment He has no ticket, but he has a right. The opera performed is Ernani by Verdi. The last scene of the film is also a scene from the opera I Puritani by Bellini, performed on a big boat (a steamboat)with Fitzcarraldo as a director of this performance. The question is why has the director (also the writer and the producer) Werner Herzog chosen these two operas? Without a better explanation i assume that the development of the story plot goes toward the happy end (in Ernani the main hero dies, in I Puritani he survives). At the beginning of the film the fate of a passionate opera lover, an inventor and an adventurer is uncertain, he may go right to perdition with all his dreams, plans and obsessions. Yet he survives and even wins at the end of the film. Some commentators call Fitzcarraldo a madman. But he is just a man with a dream. Let's have a dream, this makes life much more exciting. There is a remark on the IMDb site that Werner Herzog likes to show animals in his films. I found this quite interesting and watched the film from this point of view. There are following animals in the order of appearance horses, drinking Champagne in front of the opera house, a parrot, a pig that is promised a seat the future opera house, a fish that swallows money, a white turkey in the jungle (appears when the rubber baron says to Fitzcarraldo You are a strange bird, but somehow i like you., a young white cat at Molly's house and two snakes in the jungle. The best moments in the film are Fitcarraldo comes into the opera with Molly, Fitzcarraldo shouting I want my opera house! on the top of the bell tower, Fitzcarraldo with his pals on the top of the tree in the jungle, Caruso's voice pacifying the Indians and the last scene when the opera is performed on the steamboat. This is an excellent cinema experience, one of my favorite films. Somehow it reminds me of Tarkovski's films, maybe because of the slow pace and a loving eye for the nature. Please, take your time and watch this film! I am sure you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The Madman Wins","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Many years ago I heard of this film on Siskel and Ebert on Public Television. I had always wanted to see it but never got around to it. It was worth the wait. It is one of the most delightful films I have ever seen. Watching Klaus Kinski's passion, running around in that white suit and big hat as a group of Amazon natives make his way to his own El Dorado is a great movie experience. At first I hated his pushy, almost maniacal presence, but as we get to know him, we realize that all of us would like to live the dream. The scenes on the river with that big ugly boat, the gramophone sitting atop a pedestal, playing Caruso is superb. The great effort that all make to get the ship over a mountaintop is breathtaking. And, the final scene is uplifting and inspiring. Compare Kinski's presence with his pose at the conclusion of Aguirre The Wrath of God. "},{"Title":"A true classic of world cinema","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Herzog returns to the beautiful yet merciless Amazonian jungles and creates a film of epic proportions. In this turn of the century tale the Amazon beckons and Brian Sweeney Fitzacarraldo answers it's call. Fitzcarraldo has a dream to build a great opera house and his eccentric nature will not allow that dream to go unfulfilled. After failed attempts to build a Peruvian railroad line, he then directs his efforts to the production of ice. Scoffed by the local rubber barons who tag Fitzcarraldo as the conquistador of the useless, his beautiful girlfriend Molly convinces him the only way he can gain the capital needed to bring his dream to fruition is to harvest rubber himself. Despite the scarcity of available land, the lack of reliable labor, and the threat of native indians, Fitzcarraldo accepts the daunting challenge and our story begins.Herzog painfully spared no expense to create authenticity and his results are among the greatest of engineering feats ever achieved on filmed. The viewer can't help but marvel at his efforts and the suspense created. This monumental epic boasts wonderful performances, amazing locations, and a gripping storyline that stays with the audience long after viewing. A true classic of world cinema. "},{"Title":"burden of dreams, indeed.","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In Herzog's story FITZCARRALDO, an opera fanatic at the turn of the century in Brazil attempts to carry Caruso into the wilds of the Amazon basin on the backs of the Indian population, literally as well as figuratively. The scenes of a riverboat being dragged from one riverstream over a mountain to meet another tributary of the Amazon is one of the most powerful metaphors for the endless desire of all too many westerners to civilize people they neither know or understand that I've ever seen enacted on screen. The movie is unpreachy and meticulous in content. And in the role of the Great White Hope, Herzog's favorite maniac, Klaus Kinski. It's a masterwork. "},{"Title":"Monumental film achievement with class A Kinski","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Please disregard the above mention that the special effects are bad. The crazy thing about this movie is that there ARE NO SPECIAL EFFECTS.from wikipedia The film was an incredible ordeal and famously involved moving a 340-ton steam ship over a mountain without special effects. Scenes were also shot on board the ship while it crashed through rapids, injuring three of the six people involved in the filming.Klaus Kinski was also a major source of tension as he fought with Herzog and other members of the crew and greatly upset the native extras. In his documentary My Best Fiend, Herzog says that one of the native chiefs offered to murder Kinski for him, and he once told Kinski that if he carried out a threat to leave the film he would shoot both Kinski and himself in the head. "},{"Title":"Mesmerising journey down river by conquistador of the useless","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  *spoiler*Herzog came to my attention after I was given a copy of Aguirre, Wrath of God. Fitzcarraldo continues Herzog's exploration of the Amazon as a metaphor for the human soul. In stark contrast to Aguirre however, Fitzcarraldo is a positive, life affirming film looking at themes of determination, the primal beauty in nature, an obsession with Caruso and the manipulation of ancient myths.In a film packed full of eye boggling images the zenith has got to be Fitzcarraldo's attempt to literally drag a huge steamboat over a mountain. There is a documentary by Herzog about his relationship with his screen nemesis and alter ego Klaus Kinzki, who plays the lead. He apparently got so cheesed off with Kinski's prima donna behaviour that he paid many of the local indians to assassinate him. Thankfully this didn't happen. This is a stunning film both visually and through its ideas. Herzog is one of the great film makers. Watch this if you want to be inspired. "},{"Title":"Story of a magnificent obsession","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Truly a memorable drama of a magnificent obsession!  A must see following it is Burden of Dreams which is also about a magnificent obsession, Werner Herzog's obsession with making Fitzcarraldo.  To see only one is to deny yourself the richness of a complete experience. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like that anymore.","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Fitzcarraldo features the some of the most fantastic scenes to be found in cinema.  The majority of the film's 158 minutes are concerned with Fitzcarraldo (Klaus Kinski) hauling a river boat over a mountain by employing the efforts of indigenous jungle population.  The ever-present computer-generated special effects of today's films do not compare with the impression that Herzog makes by eschewing same.  Truly an epic feat of film making.To get the most out of the movie, consider watching the documentary on Werner Herzog and Klaus Kinski, My Best Fiend, prior to seeing Fitzcarraldo. "}{"Title":"arresting,complex captivating,intense and charming at the same time!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Fascinating, visually compelling story of obsession to acceptance. Opera to the Amazon is a marvelous story line. Les Blanc's documentary Burden of Dreams re the making of this film adds value to the viewing experience and worth seeing as a film in its own right. Klaus Kinski is extraordinary and I never appreciated Claudia Cardinale until this film. "},{"Title":"This is a truly amazing film.  One of my favorites.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have always enjoyed foreign films, despite having to read the subtitles.  This movie was no exception, and interestingly enough we are given no subtitles at all for the native Javiros language, and so we are kept in the perspective of the protagonist, (i.e., ignorant of what they are saying).  Dialogue and action aside, this movie is full of beautiful images, sceneries, music, and even jungle sounds. The overall theme of the movie to me was the idea that  everyday life was just a delusion connected to the realm of dreams.  The protagonist is clearly a dreamer.  It is also about 'struggle'.  One man's determined struggle to make a dream into reality.   It reminds me of a famous quote by Winston Churchill, Success is never final.  Failure is never fatal.  It's courage that counts.   "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A fascinating portrait of a man whose love for the opera drives him on a peculiar mission to build an opera house in the South American rain forest. The characters are sharply developed without the use of unnecessary reflective dialogue.  Herzog instead chooses to allow his actors to show us the characters almost wholly through expression and action.There is some beautiful camera work, and the script is always fascinating. "},{"Title":"madness, madness, madness","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski) calls himself Fitzcarraldo. He and his partner brothel madam Molly (Claudia Cardinale) are big fans of opera. He tells famed tenor Enrico Caruso that he intends to build an opera house. He is obsessed. He's a dreamer who doesn't do well with money. Iquitos is a boom town from rubber and some of the wealthy patrons have already build expansive palaces in a city of huts. Fitzcarraldo uses Molly's money to purchase the last remaining land unclaimed by the rubber barons. It is inaccessible due to rapids but he plans to travel a neighboring river, move the riverboat over a hill and subdue the savage natives. The Peruvian government gives him nine months to access the territories or the contract would be terminated.Fitzcarraldo is mad. The problem is that he starts off bat sh!t crazy. It's great that he's driven but his craziness is problematic. It's never in doubt that the business would fail. He doesn't really plan anything through. It's very hard to like the man as a businessman and as a character. Klaus Kinski is overplaying the craziness. Of course, Werner Herzog has him ringing the bell like Quasimodo.Herzog is almost as crazy. Moving the boat is very impressive. So is the use of real jungle locations. However not all of it is cinematic. The use of real locations does not automatically make it compelling. There is a scene where the characters are on a platform overlooking both rivers. That and the boat moving are compelling but the rest is not so compelling. "},{"Title":"Werner Herzog  A director who believes in methods of madness. Fitzcarraldo  A film which will always symbolize such methods of madness.","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The films by Werner Herzog are not for normal people because they are so used to watch films by munching popcorn and sipping coca cola.As Werner Herzog's films require a lot of special attention,cola sipping crowd always prefers to stay away from his films by watching light hearted stuff.This is good for them as there is always Star Wars and James Bond kind of films for them.So what is so special about films by German master Werner Herzog ? The special thing about his films is that they are made for a very special category of people whose primary passion is to study methods of madness.This is for this very reason that Werner Herzog belongs to a select family of highly talented filmmakers who believe in methods of madness.In the history of cinema apart from Werner Herzog,Joao Cesar Monteiro,Marco Ferreri, Miklos Jancso and Shohei Imamura there are no so many directors who have got a chance to have studied human madness at close proximity. Fitzcarraldo is a film which celebrates human madness as a joyous festival.It is a film in which Klaus Kinski is shown under complete control.This is a film which will put the admirers of special effects to shame.One can easily forget copying Fitzcarraldo, no filmmaker can even come closer to it as it would take at least a million years before any film maker can even stake his/her claim to make a film as similar as this one. "},{"Title":"Herzog scores","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I first watched Werner Herzog's 1982 film Fitzcarraldo back in the late 1980s, on PBS, and found it to be a great film. All these years later I still find it to be a great film, if not quite in a league with Herzog and Klaus Kinski's other most famed filmic pairing, Aguirre The Wrath Of God. The earlier film, made a decade before, shares other elements with Fitzcarraldo, which was written and directed by Herzog. The most obvious is that both involve river journeys in the Amazon, and both films have scenes of troublemakers being left in the jungle to fend for themselves. In Aguirre it's a horse, in Fitzcarraldo it's four humans. A less obvious commonality is that both films were shot in English, then dubbed into German. Thus, when one chooses the English language option on the DVD one is watching the film as it was originally made. This is how I watched it, and how all foreign language or foreign made DVDs should be packaged. In a visual medium there is absolutely no excuse for foreign films to not have available English dubbed soundtracks, for the reading of words necessarily diminishes the visual impact of the film on first watching.However, this film would still be great even were it only available with subtitles. Yet, if a viewer is expecting another vintage over the top performance by Kinski, he will be disappointed, for Kinski's titular character, whose real name is Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald (Fitzcarraldo is a local nickname based on a mispronunciation), is far more understated a role than in his other collaborations with Herzog. It's a great performance, nonetheless, which proves a) that Kinski was one of the Twentieth Century's greatest actors and b) how felicitous it was for Herzog that his original choice for the role, Jason Robards, dropped out due to illness. While I think Robards was a fine actor, he was not near the pure acting talent that Kinski was. Another fact gleaned from the DVD commentary is that Herzog had a sidekick role for Robards' version of Fitzcarraldo, with rock star Mick Jagger in the lead role. A few scenes of this pairing appear in Herzog's acclaimed documentary on Kinski called My Best Fiend, and they are absolutely terrible. That Jack Nicholson was also considering taking the lead role, but declined it, is another instance of fortuity's role in great art. There are many little moments in the film, that are the realism in the 'eye level realism', which make the film seem less like a film and more as if a camera had been snuck aboard a real life adventure. This is where the film's greatness really comes into focus, for so few other directors ever have such moments in their films. Herzog often calls these moments ecstatic truths, but they are great because they are not really ecstatic, merely ordinary, but displaced in narrative space and time so that they take on a meaning and metaphor that is not immanent. As example, there are the young children who stare at the jail Fitz is held in after an incident at a rubber baron's party. The police chief lets him out because the children will not flee, and one child plays a fiddle for days on end. Why? There is no explanation, but oddities like this occur in life far more often than they ever appear in film. There's the tiny black employee of Fitz's, who has guarded his railroad property from Indians, not knowing it's another project he has returned on. His odd but endearing behavior seems real precisely because only an oddball would defend another man's property without pay for months on end. There is the black umbrella that floats toward the boat as a seeming warning from the local Indians. There is the celebration by the Indians after the boat has made it over the mountain, where native women squirt their breast milk into bowls to be drunk.Then, at film's end, there is a close moment between Fitz and Captain Paul. Yet, Fitz whispers it into the Captain's ear, so the viewer never knows what is said. Having seen the more recent Lost In Translation, where what was whispered between that film's two lead characters was taken as a 'stroke of genius' by tyro director Sofia Coppola, it does not surprise me that she stole that idea from Herzog. In this film, since it is a greater film, and the two characters have gone through far more, the gesture is even more powerful and moving. The very fact that a moment like that goes uncommented upon by all the major critics of the film- then and now, yet when it appears in a film like Coppola's is lauded without surcease, shows how far much more a film like Fitzcarraldo has to offer than a rather light piece of fluff like Lost In Translation. This is because such moments are in surfeit in Fitzcarraldo, whereas they are the centerpieces of Hollywood tripe. But, as Captain Paul mentions to Fitz, there are two kinds of silences- the good and the bad. Oddly, the lack of praise for such a great moment is one of the good silences. Enjoy the gilt. "},{"Title":"Don't get me wrong here","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fitzcarraldo (German, 1982) One of my favorite film makers of all time is Werner Herzog, and this one ranks at about the middle of my Herzog list. It's wonderful &#150; don't get me wrong here - with lots of classic Herzog devices and attitudes &#150; many non-actors used, the documentary half-truths and lucky accidents he allows to occur & remain, the always interesting music juxtaposed to the imagery and action, the basis of true events which lend believability to otherwise unbelievable and incredibly interesting stories, and his take on humanity &#150; which is never very optimistic, most often dark, full of people with incredibly out of proportion egos, the clash of cultures, and First-vs-Third world scenarios. Progress is a very debatable concept to him. This story took a monumental effort to create, and I admire it very much. My only reservation is in comparison to his work I feel is stronger &#150; especially The Mystery of Kasper Hauser, Stroszek, and Aguirre, the Wrath of God, followed by Even Dwarfs Start Small, Heart of Glass, and (his version of) Nosferatu. He is one of our best. "},{"Title":"When you stop dreamin' is time to die...","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Fitzcarraldo, an opera enthusiast who sets out to build a theatre in the heart of the peruvian amazonian jungle in order to invite Enrico caruso to sing in it. A man and his dream. He doesn't have money enough, so he has to get into the rubber businness he buys a plantation situated in a remote zone of the Amazonas, but there's a problem he and the workers cannot reach that plantation going up by the river with their big steamship, 'cause the plantation is in a parallel river, surrounded by rapids. No problem he'll take a short cut through the jungle itself, he'll make the ship go up a hill and he'll take it to the other side, the side where the plantation is.That's the story Werner Herzog gives us. All the troubles Fitzcarraldo's gotta get through. The will-power, that's what Fitzcarraldo is about. Herzog perfectly recreates what it means to live in the Amazonas, you can almost feel the sweat, the humidity, the stifling heat. With a calm and slow rhythm (just like that ship climbing that hill) he takes pleasure filming all the corners of that astonishing river while the voice of Enrico Caruso goes out from Fitzarraldo's record player. He came off well of a rather difficult job, adn made his best film (for me -though I love Aguirre or Nosferatu as well-). Klaus Kinski, one the more excessive and intense actor ever, plays one of his best performances (due to his bad temper and his complicated personality it wasn't easy to work with this man) and brings Fitzcarraldo to life as no one could possibly have done. Risky, epic, poetic, emotive, exciting... I'd have to use so many adjectives to define this movie and what it made me feel. PS The filming of Fitzcarraldo was almost as difficult as Fitcarraldo's enterprise Werner Herzog took all the crew (cast included, of course) to Perú, he recruited a whole cast of native people; they suffered all kind of diseases, that infernal-humid weather, storms, mosquitos, snakes, and all kind of jungle creatures, they knew the meaning of the jungle. Sure it was a ruinous business; but who cares? Money does not mean anything. Fitzcarraldo means a lot of things.My rate 9/10 "},{"Title":"Sheer madness","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Given Hertzog's mania for the film, it is not, perhaps, strange, that Klaus Kinsky (or whoever one wants him to be), became a berserker during the production. Hertzog KNEW that Kinsky was borderline psychotic, knew that he identified with each character whom he played, even to his empathic portrayal of Nosferatu, the vampire who, one would argue, became Kinsky himself. But, Fitzcarraldo is a marvellous film. As an introduction to the insanity of Eurocentrism which, regardless of its well-meaning paternalism, destroyed indigenous cultures, it also indicates (true or not) that the locals are/will be interested in what happens next. The attempted introduction of Christianity, resulting as it did, in the extinction of almost all indigenous cultures in the new world, should be viewed in the same light as the current/contemporary drive to destroy any individual and separatist subculture.Look at Fitzcarraldo and see it for what it is a document of the insanity which was the introduction of Christianity to the New World. YOUR New World.live long and prosper,Paul )    "},{"Title":"An amazing feat of filming an amazing feat.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The late Klaus Kinski plays the title character in this much heralded 2.5+ hour long film about Fitzcarraldo's obsession with opera which he is determined to bring to his remote village in the jungles of Peru. An obsession which leads him into an adventure in the treacherous headwaters of the Amazon.This film of considerable magnitude is an adventure/drama with the emphasis on drama. Little time is spent with action sequences, stunts, or cliffhangers. Rather, Herzog presents the depths of the jungle as a place where mystical beauty overshadows peril and focuses on accomplishments over failures. Not for everyone though many viewers will be caught up in the eccentricities of the story and swept away by the incredible beauty of a pristine jungle wilderness. "}{"Title":"Engrossing!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Herzog has really produced a gem with Fitzcarraldo. The story of a more-than-half-mad opera fanatic (played to perfection by Klaus Kinski) who's dream is to build an opera house in the Amazonian jungle. His plan is to exploit the only unclaimed region of rubber trees to get his venture capital. The only problem is the territory is unreachable by boat because of trecherous rapids. Fitzcarraldo has a blue-sky plan to get his ship to those trees, but when his crew deserts him, a stroke of native lore-based luck allows him to enlist a tribe of headhunters to haul his immense riverboat up and over a cliff between two rivers. Fitzcarraldo, his captain, engineer, and cook are particularly engaging characters of some idiosyncracy; actually all of the characters seem pretty idiosynchratic in this film. I found the incidental music to be well chosen and the cinematography to be first rate. My only complaint is that the film is 157 minutes in length and there were a number of  opportunities to trim the running time without sacrificing content.  "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Fascinating masterpiece by Herzog follows opera lover Brian Sweeney Fitzcarraldo (Klaus Kinski) as he tries to exploit an unclaimed area of the jungle for rubber trading as a means to fund his dream of an opera house. Driven by a masterful performance by Kinski and the whole cast, as well as superb direction, cinematography, and scripting.  Long but interesting all the way through.  Still an accessible film despite long stretches without dialogue and a leisurely pace. "},{"Title":"an incredible feast for the eyes","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Visually, this is a stunning film with incredible cinematography of the South American jungles--especially the scene in the rapids. Though the team of Werner Herzog (director) and Klaus Kinsky (lead actor) also teamed up for another Peruvian jungle film (Aguirre The Wrath of God) just a few years earlier, this film is MUCH more beautifully filmed--as if the prior film allowed Herzog to learn and perfect his craft for the later film. Plus, I found the overall experience more interesting and involving than AGUIRRE. About the only drawback is that at times I felt a bit disconnected from the main character, Fitzcarraldo. I was fascinated by his actions but ultimately didn't really care ABOUT him. While this isn't necessary for a film to be good, it did prevent me from giving the film a slightly higher rating. HOWEVER, this film deserves major kudos for being different and for all the trouble it took to film.Also, if you do see the film, also try to see the documentary Burden of Dreams--a making of feature for Fitzcarraldo. When you do see it, you learn just how difficult it was to make the film--as if the production was somehow cursed because so many problem occur trying to get the picture completed--such as the loss of the original leading man, Jason Robards. "},{"Title":"A sublime nut","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" If we had to chose one film from among every auteur-director's body of work, the film that sums up the creator's ideas,obsessions,artistic energy and talent at its highest point, then we have to say that Fitzcarraldo is the ultimate Herzog film. At least it will be the film he will always be most remembered for. I loved it from the first time I saw it in its entirety, and I could understand the reasons that move Kinski to drag that ship up a mountain. The guy is bonkers, sure, but he is a lovable nut. The film is the story of a man with an inexhaustible willpower and a capacity for romantic dreams like no one else ever had and which move him to try to achieve the impossible. Fitzcarraldo is Herzog's alter-ego. When the director told his idea of actually dragging the ship up the mountain for real, many potential investors laughed at him and pulled out of the film, foreseeing only disaster. But the man got his way and made the film just the way he wanted to. I would have loved being there in the set just for the fun and the excitement of seeing a 300-ton boat being dragged over a mountain entirely by brute force. No one was killed in freak accidents during the entire shooting. The ship was dragged up the mountain and then let down again just like we see it in the film, and then it was let loose down the rapids as well. Three identical ships were used. Kinski's psychopathic behaviour reached such extremes that the Indian extras hired by Herzog, shocked by the sight of Kinski's schizophrenic explosions, offered Herzog to kill that raving maniac. Herzog turned the offer down, and he and Kinski would go to make one last film together after this one -Cobra verde. Fitzcarraldo is, undoubtedly, Herzog's greatest and craziest film, and probably Kinski's most famous role. "},{"Title":"Arguably Herzog's masterpiece - a film of remarkable power and splendour which succeeds on every level.","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Werner Herzog's Fitzcarraldo is one of the most remarkable stories ever committed to celluloid. The off-screen story is every bit as incredible as the on-screen one &#x96; Herzog's exhausting quest to bring the film to life, shooting on location under the most taxing conditions, is the stuff of film-making folklore&#x85; every bit as extraordinary as the much- publicised tribulations experienced by Coppola when shooting Apocalypse Now. An artists' indomitable spirit in pursuit of his art occasionally throws up masterworks of this kind and, while the process of getting the film made very nearly tips these passionate individuals over the edge, the end results can be truly astounding. So it was with Apocalypse Now and so it is with Fitzcarraldo.Idealistic wannabe tycoon Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski) is an ambitious Irishman living in turn-of-the-century South America. He is an ideas-man, but all too often his ideas come to nothing&#x85; such as his recent, aborted dream of building a Trans-Andean railway. Fitzgerald winds up in the ramshackle Amazonian city of Iquitos, where he earns the nickname 'Fitzcarraldo' as the locals are unable to correctly pronounce his name. One evening he makes the long and difficult journey downriver to the thriving city of Manaus to watch an opera featuring his idol, the great operatic legend Caruso. He is overwhelmed by the experience, and it makes him more determined than ever to pursue his long-held dream of building an opera house in Iquitos. To achieve the dream he needs money. The way to make money in turn-of-the-century Amazonia is to get involved in the lucrative rubber industry, but this is not an easy thing to do as virtually every area where rubber trees can be found has been snapped up by wealthy plantation owners. Fitzgerald discovers that there is one region still available for purchase further downstream, left alone by the wealthy tycoons as it lies beyond some dangerous and un-navigable rapids. Fitzgerald's incredible plan is to sail a steamboat down a parallel river, then drag the entire vessel over the dividing mountains at a point beyond the rapids. The quest takes him into hostile native territory, where he must somehow make contact with the untrusting Indians and persuade them to help him hoist the 300-ton ship over the slopes.Herzog's dynamic direction &#x96; working from his own script &#x96; really drives the film. He gets a masterful performance from Kinski as Fitzgerald, plus stunning visuals from his cinematographer Thomas Mauch. Reports suggest that Herzog and Kinski almost came to blows during the difficult shoot (one of the native extras allegedly offered to murder Kinski on Herzog's behalf!) but their fractious relationship has been cleverly channelled to bring out the best in both of them. Kinski's obsessed, wide-eyed dreamer is a mesmerising character, one of cinema's all-time greats, providing the actor with arguably the finest role of his career. Similarly, Herzog takes his art to a new level here &#x96; already a brilliant film-maker with a mightily impressive oeuvre to his name, he somehow goes a step farther with Fitzcarraldo &#x96; this is his masterpiece. Inspiring, fascinating, visually stunning and emotionally intense, Fitzcarraldo encapsulates everything that is great about cinema. One cannot fail to be stirred by Herzog's story of a man's unbridled determination to fulfil a dream&#x85; nor can one feel any less stirred by Herzog's own unbridled determination to complete his film against overwhelming odds. It is a marvel of a movie, a genuine must-see for anyone and everyone who loves the art of film. "},{"Title":"Fitzcarraldo","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" From director Werner Herzog (Nosferatu the Vampyre, Grizzly Man), and featuring in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I was looking forward to seeing this German (available dubbed) film because of the image I had seen, and the critics rated it the full five out of five stars. Basically Brian Sweeney 'Fitzcarraldo' Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski) lives in South America and has a great passion for the opera, and he has a dream to build his own opera house in the exotic wilderness so that singers like Caruso, and Pucinni, and Wagner can be enjoyed in these parts. One night Fitcarraldo and his top brothel madam girlfriend Molly (Claudia Cardinale) arrive a little late for a local opera performance, and he manages to catch the attention of Don Aquilino (José Lewgoy), who is interested in financing this plan that the opera enthusiast has. The plan starts with Fitzcarraldo buying a boat with Molly's money, gathering together a small crew, and travelling up the Amazon River where they will head for an area of the jungle where Indiana inhabit, those who kill any white men who enter. They eventually reach the halfway point of the journey, and the tribe accept Fitcarraldo as some kind of God after hearing the music of Caruso, and they are happy to take the commands from the entrepreneur so he can realise his dream. The biggest test in the journey comes when there is a separation on the river to where the boat is heading, this is due to a set of small mountain hills, meaning that the Indians and crew members are forced to drag the one hundred and eighty pound barge over the leg. After this tiring task and the Indians have finished their slavery, the journey on the river continues, and soon runs into another dilemma where the rapids nearly damage the boat, but it ultimately survives the ordeal. In the end, after these hills are conquered, trees are cut down, and perilous waters, the boat reaches its destinations, and becomes the opera house that Fitzcarraldo had imagines, with the stars he loves so much performing their small show, and those that watch admire the wonderful performance, with the entrepreneur standing proud. Also starring Paul Hittscher as Paul the Captain, Miguel Ángel Fuentes as Cholo and Enrique Bohorquez as Huerequeque (The Cook). Kinski gives a great performance as the eccentric and very obsessive man with the love for opera and having his own opera house, the direction by Herzog is well paced, the most exciting scene is certainly the boat being pulled by the ropes up and down the muddy hill, but there is a lot to be enjoyed in this compelling period drama. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Foreign Language Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Those who'll fight for art, must conquer my heart","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fitzcarraldo is an extraordinary vision of what two warriors believe its their mission to conquer, their dreams to make it real and that is to fight for the art, no matter what it takes. The first warrior is the main character played effortlessly by Klaus Kinski, an adventure and wannabe rubber baron named Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald, nicknamed by the Indians as Fitzcarraldo and a lover of Enrico Caruso's opera performances. His mission is to build an opera house in the middle of the South American jungle in the early days of the 20th Century, and to be able to do that he must get money from the extraction of rubber in dangerous jungles, crossing rivers through rapids with his steamship and the most risky and ungrateful mission of all to pull that same giant ship over a hill in order to reach the rubber and avoid some complications. The second warrior is behind cameras and it is director Werner Herzog, who entered in a almost disastrous adventure to make this film, filming in several locations such as in Peru and Brazil; and went through a lot of trouble while making it during four endless years. Problems with casting the actors; letting go two of the main stars (Jason Robards and Mick Jagger) when 40% of the film was made, then he had to start over again with Kinski in the main role; troubles in finding locations; and the most disastrous of all the events was planning for a real steamship being pulled up the hill (and this ship was bigger than the one used in the real event that happened in 1890's); countless of troubles, all presented in the fascinating documentary Burden of Dreams (I strongly advise you to watch both films).In the end, Fitzcarraldo is an metaphor about fighting against everything and everyone in order to fulfill a wish, a dream even that this dream might and will become a nightmare. I believe that Herzog was foreseeing lots of trouble to make this film, perhaps not the ones he had while shooting, because he and Fitzcarraldo are almost the same person, and it's difficult not seeing an enormous similarity between both men. He fought for this film until the last moment and he managed to put the boat over the hill, just like Fitzcarraldo, who puts the boat in the same place on his way to built his opera house. They're in a long battle wanting to show to the world something that would last, something beautiful and powerful, art at its best form as they believe. It's also a metaphor for obsessions too, everything must be perfect for these two Herzog would wait long hours at the end of the day to find the perfect light to be captured in his film and he succeed it in that, you'll see beautiful images all around; and Fitzcarraldo's obsession in playing Caruso at almost all moments, reaching a high state of mind, and like the director, visualizing beauty.Both men might have been called as Conquistadores of the Useless but they really conquered something in me, lots of reactions, emotions and sensations, an bright sense of accomplish; this film really fulfilled my expectations. I was excited before and during the adventure; terrified with the steamship being pulled over the hill, one of those moments when you feel a real panic in seeing how crazy those Indians, Fitzcarraldo and crew were by performing this task; and the ending moved me a lot as well. Fitzcarraldo translates like an unforgettable poetry into the screen with its themes, images, metaphors, music (the opera is perfect, but the original score is quite inappropriate in some scenes). Many films were made about defeating obstacles and winning challenges and things never done before, dreams becoming reality, but how many achieved the level of greatness and beauty than this one? This is a truly cinematic experience with amazing performances by the cast, including Claudia Cardinale, José Lewgoy, Grande Otelo and others. This is an adventure! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding film in every regard.","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The plot of this movie is pretty out there. You get the feeling that all involved in the project suffer from some sort of mental illness, but it works so well. Sometimes the chemical mixture of the director, actors and the crew along with the story just meshes perfectly and this film is a fine example of that.Fitzcarraldo pulls no punches and never attempts to be grandiose; it just IS. I can't imagine a movie like this being made today. It should be shown to film students and those who champion these Hollywood blockbusters with their ridiculous CGI effects.Recommended to those who like Klaus Kinski. He gives a great performance here. Almost as good as Aguirre The Wrath of God, but not quite as groundbreaking in my humble opinion.9 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"Fitzcaraldo","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Best movie of its kind ever made because most all of it was honest and REAL, with very few Hollywood props (if any) and minimal obvious special effects. The making of the film was just as hazardous (if not more) to the Director, film crew and actors as they were to Fitzcaraldo and his native crew in his real life feat.A Documentary of the film's making Hosted by Hertzog, was made afterword's that was just as elucidating and interesting (if not more) than the movie itself. I believe it was aired on PBS or WTTW Ch 11 Chicago. I'm looking for a copy of it but can't locate one. Anyone have any ideas where I can find one???? "},{"Title":"Klaus Kinski one class act!","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  There is one reason to see this film Klaus Kinski. Kinski, in sheer acting talent and ability, is at the front rank all-time. Here, he is given the opportunity to display his chops. The writing and direction are good (though the special effects are subpar), but Kinski is the focus.  "}{"Title":"Warum?","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Perhaps I am just a philistine, but I find Fitzcarroldo to be like so many other European movies which aspire to artistry pointless, elliptical, and tedious. I rather like the central premise a man fueled by a burning love of opera in general, and Enrico Caruso in particular, seeks to make a fortune harvesting rubber in the South American jungle so that he can build an opera house in same. We are treated to the amusing spectacle of Klaus Kinski, in an improbably clean white suit and broad-brimmed hat, cranking up his phonograph and listening to Caruso recordings while steaming up the Amazon. But the central event of the movie -- when scores of natives assist Fitzcarroldo convey his large steamboat overland from one branch of the river to another -- is stunningly implausible. We are offered no clue as to why the natives who undertake this Herculean labor. Even Fitzcarroldo himself wonders Warum? Warum? (why?)as he seeks to understand the natives. The viewer is left wondering the same thing about the whole enterprise, and the movie itself. "},{"Title":"Dreaming of the impossible... Strange one","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Like the other Herzog film I saw recently, Cobra Verde, Fitzcarraldo left me puzzled, in thoughts. Kinsky is much more 'down to earth', human in this one, I could say. This film is important in context, in the vein of defining the utopia, of having an impossible dream and trying to reach it.I can't really say I could identify with any of this, and for the most part it just couldn't make sense. But then again, as with 'Cobra Verde', the film and its effect grew in me. ***SPOILERS AHEAD**** If you look at the trivia, you will see that that huge 340-ton steamship was ACTUALLY dragged over a small hill! This plan is totally absurd! In a way what Herzog tried to do with this film resembles the dream of his hero, Kinsky. *****end of SPOILERS*****Anyway, watch it perhaps as introduction to Herzog, or Kinsky, for its beautiful cinematography and for the devotion to the hopeless. "},{"Title":"obsessive/compulsive","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Fitzcarraldo is basically the story of how one man's dreams turn into an obsession he'll do anything and everything in his power to make come into fruition....that's about it.....what makes it interesting is how the movie pulls you into the madness of it's protagonist while being aloof from the actions at the same time....I give this movie 4 stars....but there's a documentary by Les Blank (Burden Of Dreams) which I give five stars, because as great as this movie is, it pales compared to the reality of what happened behind the scenes....I suggest watching both in a row.... "},{"Title":"I know I am in the minority when I say this but...","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fitzcarraldo is very over rated. I have enjoyed many movies that people have thought were very tedious to watch. Some of them are 2001, Stranger than Paradise, Down by Law, and Night on Earth. I know I will sound very ignorant to people when I say this, but I will say it as bluntly as I can. Fitzcarraldo was excruciatingly boring. From start to finish.I must admit there are some fascinating scenes. When everyone is working together to build the pulley system is interesting. The scenes where Klaus Kinski plays the Caruso on the phonograph on the boat do break up the boredom, and the ending was definitely not bad. Judging by the ending the film in not easy to dismiss.Unfortunately the damage had already been done.Besides from being mind numbingly dull, I was not very fond of the script. Any attempts at humor crash and burn. The dialog feels wooden and phony. The score with the guitar was very out of place for this film. And once you get to the climax(which was pretty predictable) which might have been exciting if you had not lost interest in this movie nearly an hour ago.I know some people will find this a masterpiece but I believe I saw an emperor without any clothes. I still want to check out Herzog's work. Maybe it's just me. "},{"Title":"Constrained Frenzy","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The invention of modern drama was the birth of twins, and they have been spatting ever since. One of these is the Shakespearean tradition characters transform, sometimes even extending beyond the constraints of the movie to create themselves or some reality. Situations are complex, sometimes unresolved. An amazing number of films (most bad of course) are part of this geneology.Contrast that with Kit Marlowe whose work can be equally abstract and complex. But here, dramatic excess is the rule. Characters come upon the scene made whole, never transforming. Situations operate according to a clockmaker outside the cosmos of the drama. Sometimes cartoony, sometimes posturing. Sometimes richly dramatic and stylish. The other half of films (and all opera) come under this gene pool.Most filmgoers have intercourse with each of these seductive types, but designing a life is pretty much about which of these you have children with. `Fitz' is Marlovian, possibly one of the most delicious. To my mind, it is better than the superficially similar Scorsese stuff that styles bombast. Herzog seems to style the restraint of bombast.By now you know key elements of the story, and those key elements are all there is this film as opera; a grand obsession of one man seen as enhanced destiny by the masses; stage as temple -- temple as ship -- ship as god -- god as song -- song as sex and each of these wound to a compulsive maximum. That maximum is held -- barely -- by Kinski, who sometimes really impresses with the way he moves as if fortune were tickling him uncomfortably. But energy is not intelligence; being stoned is not meditation; prancing is not dance.I actually use this as white space to help me see other films of this general type better because it has such pure energy`Apocalypse Now,' though earlier, some parts of `Mosquito Coast,' though Ford isn't in the same class (or even the same building) and `Oscar and Lucinda,' whose floating glass church as an object of obsession is directly overlain on this.It is a charming visit to a Peruvian whorehouse where one of our twins awaits. But worth a visit (for training) only.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"excruciatingly boring","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film was the longest 3 hours of my life, each scene moved along slower than the one before it. Klaus Kinski is a good actor but boring in this role and all the other cast suck. Not one interesting character in the whole bunch. This film is about a man who wants to build a opera house or something like that, but most of this movie has nothing to do with him actually building the opera house but just standing around talking to some Peruvian tribe people who are even less interesting than the main character and will numb your mind until you feel like throwing this movie into the nearest ocean. Werner Herzog tries to tell a near 3 hour story that could have easily been told in 45 minutes and only succeeds in boring his audience to death. People who hate movies like this are often told to go watch terminator or something with lots of shooting, well I make those snobs right, any day i'd rather watch Arnold Schwarzenegger blowing the crap out of people than be subjected to film torture such as Fitzcarraldo. "},{"Title":"*shudder*","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Alright, enough with the pretentious speakings with ass. This movie sucked. The actors spoke german, supposedly, but the german didn't match what their mouths were saying. My soul was quite literally drained as a result of watching this movie. I am now certain that there is no god. However, if you enjoyed Glitter and Battlefield Earth, then you will probably love this movie. Especially the 15 minute shots of a boat going up a damn hill. "},{"Title":"Apocalpyse Now without the action, surreal imagery, intensity or quirky screenplay.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The premise is unique one man's obsession to build an opera house in the jungle, the centrepiece of which is the boat they must pull over a hill to get to the spot. But its story might be summed up like so a meandering journey up a river, just like Apocalypse Now.There is by far not enough material to justify an over two hour picture. Our interest in Fitzcarraldo's obsession has to be pretty great to maintain our interest for 150 minutes - mine wasn't, yours might.It has some good use of music, and Kinski has an incredible screen presence, but the only real thing of interest in it is the sheer practical feat of pulling the boat up the hill. Its an incredible sight, and very impressive that they actually did it - but its just not interesting enough for a film idea.For the aesthetes among us, there are three or four good images in this - i expected much more from what everyone says of Herzog...2/5. Colour me unimpressed. Listening to Herzog telling tales about the horrors of working with Kinski was quite fun, though. "},{"Title":"I just don't get it","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I watched the movie last evening, and I had no idea what the movie was about, as I had never heard of it. I am not a highbrow movie watcher and found the movie flat. I guess I just did not get it. After I watched the movie I asked myself, What was that all about? I guess I just did not see the point of the movie. I was not familiar with any of the actors or actresses...but thought they did OK. I guess the thing I find fault with is just the uselessness of the plot of the movie. Yes, there are a few good scenes in the movie and I liked the fact that many Peruvian extra's were cast in roles, it did add to the reality of the show. The scenery of the Amazon River was beautiful. If you watch the movie just for the scenery, it may be worth watching, but the plot line just left me confused and not satisfied. "},{"Title":"Painfully inept","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  How unfortunate that this 2.5 hour long film is filled with this long, slow scenes that reveal nothing about the storyline. He could have clipped an hour's worth of shots and still maintained the dreary tale. In some ways the main character's insane/reckless pursuit of art is actually what the director has done. Herzog took a snippet of a true story and fictionalized it. Because of this it fails as it unfolds, unless I've missed something--they cross the mountain for the purpose of being below the rapids and in his section of land that he can harvest rubber on. But instead he ends up set going through those very rapids. Why would that be? Were there MORE rapids? Another failure of the film was Herzog's complete ignorance of opera. This could have been beautifully incorporated by using operatic segments (complete with subtitles) that paralleled the events unfolding or contrasted them. Our main character's story could have played out like an opera story, but Herzog didn't do his research. Dreary!  "}]