[{"Title":"Trivia question what is the name of the guy that Jason gets the mask from?","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are very few horror films that are like Halloween ( the first one ) and Nightmare on Elm Street ( the first one ). That is, horror films that not only scare, but have a good story and great direction. Steve Miner is obviously not in the same league as Carpenter and Craven, but what he does manage to do is make an effective sequel that is much scarier than the first and next to the final chapter, it is the best and scariest among all the Fridays.This film is laughable in parts, especially in terms of continuity with some of the stories that are told by Chris, but having said that, Steve Miner makes a very atmospheric and very tense film.The film starts off the day after part two ended. We know Jason is still alive because he kills two disgusting people at the beginning that at least establishes Miner's style to come for the rest of the movie. The false scares, the open doors with no one there, the strange noises, the missing props that the character knows she had just a few seconds ago. The beginning is very well done. But again, the continuity and stupidity of movie characters is at all an all time high here. ( A quick example Harold is about 5'6, rotund and clumsy. His wife calls out his name when she sees a well built figure standing behind her sheets at night. This figure is at least 6 feet or more in height and he looks squared, not pear shaped like her husband Harold. Plus, on the television is the news about the massacre the night before saying that the killer has not been caught. DUUUHHH!! Should this not click into her brain that who she is seeing may be Jason? )But what is excellent about this film are some of the same elements that made Halloween good. And that is the use of foreground for false scares. There are numerous times when the camera scans the for-ground and you are so sure that Jason is going to show up, and then he doesn't until whammo, someone loses an eye or their life. It is very effective. There are also numerous shots of Jason in the background waiting for his next victim to turn around to see him. And when we see him standing behind one stoner guy, his pure size really makes him menacing. And that mask....How he gets the mask is one of the great trivia questions in Friday the 13th folklore.Steve Miner did a masterful job of directing and why he decided to hand the reins over to Joseph Zito for the final chapter is a mysteryAs Fridays go, this is one that you can't go wrong with. It also has ( I believe ) one of the five most gruesome and painful deaths in the series. Watch for Andy walking on his hands, it will make you cringe for quite a while.Edit The new remastered edition in 3-D is worth seeing. I found the 3-D to be entertaining in some parts and lacklustre in others, but there is some added footage in the deluxe edition. You get to see more of Fox hanging from the barn and in a truly jaw dropping moment, you get to see all of Andy, chopped up after he gets split in two walking on his hands. In the original version, you just see a glimpse of him as his blood drips onto the magazine, but now, you see his blood, his legs severed, and much more. I would say this alone makes the purchase worth it.Answer to the question Shelly "},{"Title":"The Hockey Mask Is Here!","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked this sequel. Yes, it's stupid, but it's a guilty pleasure thing. A van load of stupid twentysomethings head up to Crystal Lake for the weekend for no other purpose than to smoke pot and screw each other cross eyed. Among them are the painfully unattractive Shelly who enjoys immature practical jokes, a newly pregnant girl, a hippie couple who are constantly ensconced in a cloud of pot smoke and the emotionally damaged Chris, who loves Crystal Lake but has terrible memories of it. It seems that, some time ago, Chris was attacked in the woods by a man with a terribly deformed face. During the attack she passed out and woke up the next morning, safe in her own bed at home. She is not entirely convinced that it was all a dream, and so decides that a weekend at her former haven may just be what she needs to deal with the past. Unfortunately, it was not a dream, as all of us already knew. The man who attacked her was Jason Voorhees, and no sooner do the kids settle in and start partying and screwing than he shows up, ready for some post-coital killings. First to go is an obnoxious trio of motorcycle thugs who harassed our heroes. Then Jason gets right down to what he does best - stabbing, skewering, bisecting and impaling anyone who is stupid enough to wander off alone and wait for him to approach.Still, I liked this movie. Jason finally gets to don his signature hockey mask in this one, and I love the ending, when the rotted remains of Mother Voorhees rise from the lake in a nod to the first films shock ending. I'm still not sure how Mother Voorhees got her head back on, but who cares? This isn't a movie you're supposed to think about too much. I also love Jason's unmasked face in this one. A friend of mine succinctly pointed out the fact that he looks like the banjo player from Deliverance all grown up. A scene at films end when his deranged piggy face appears in a window is actually rather shocking. Dana Kimmel does as good a job as she can with the character of Chris, although Chris is not given a whole hell of a lot to do other than scream, act like a whiny wimp and run. Yeah, this movie is stupid, but its harmless fun. It's not as bad as some of the sequels that followed it, believe me. "},{"Title":"A review of the 3-D theatrical version","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Last night, the Cameo Cinema in Edinburgh, screened an ultra-rare showing of Friday the 13th Part 3 in all it's gore-splattered 3D glory. The cinema was packed, the screening sold out and the audience absolutely loved it. Every scare worked, the 3D effects leaped right off the screen and lovingly poked us in the eye and when the film was over it got the longest applause I've ever seen a film get. For those pretentious cynics who think that the Friday the 13th films are not great then there's nothing like a 350+ audience to prove you wrong.Since this film was in 'polarised' 3D (see-thru glasses instead of a red-blue blur)then it's not possible to transfer the effect to DVD. Besides, nothing beats seeing this on the big screen with Jason's face 10-feet tall and his massive hands reaching out for you. If there is EVER a 3D screening of this then you really ought to go see, even if you have to sell your own grandmother for a ticket. "},{"Title":"Jason's causing chaos once again!","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I remember first viewing this Friday the 13th sequel on videotape, and in the beginning I thought it was stupid. But now, after seeing it again on DVD, I have changed my mind about the movie. It isn't that bad.The film starts with a recap of the last scene from Part 2, where Jason is seen getting up after he is assumed dead. Then the movie begins, with a funky and upbeat 80's background song starting the film. Right after the song ends, Jason begins his killing spree, starting with two unsuspecting store owners, and then moving on to unsuspecting teens at a small farm area...The thing I like about this movie is the fact that Jason first gets his trademark hockey mask in this movie. The mask is a big improvement over the sack from part 2, and makes Jason look much scarier.Another good thing about this movie is Dana Kimmell. Although her lines & dialog in the film are somewhat cheesy at some points, her character is very convincing as the teen heroine. And whenever she's frightened, she screams the cutest scream ever. I loved how she screamed in the film; she was cute and funny at the same time! A bad part of the movie is the fact that the rest of the characters are unlikable. The teens are generally stupid and naive, and the biker gang are very mean-spirited. Those characters are so unlikable that you will really want Jason to kill them all.Another bad thing Some viewers might be disappointed that they cannot see the film in its actual 3D format. I myself would have liked to see the movie's 3D effects.Overall, Dana Kimmell and Jason save the movie from being bad. You have to hear Dana's screams to know how cute she is. And you must watch this movie in order to know how Jason gets his hockey mask.I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"PART 3 IS ALMOST AS GREAT AS THE ORIGINAL!!!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"34 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  dont ask me why, but i really really enjoyed f13part3. even though it can be cheesy, it also has some great scares and terrifying chills. part 3 doesnt really depend on on-screen blood and guts, its more about the killer watching and waiting and not going around cutting peoples heads off and blood splattering on the walls. part 3 is also famous for introducing jasons hockey mask. to me, part 3 is A MASTERPIECE. ITS THE BEST 3RD MOVIE TO EVER BE MADE FOR ANY MOVIE SERIES... "},{"Title":"The man behind the mask for the 1st. time","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13h part III starts immediately after the events of part II where at the end, Jason gets macheted in the shoulder.At dawn, police finds the dead bodies of 8 counselors spread over the camp, they also give medical attention to the lone survivor Ginny Field (it's presumed that Jason killed Paul).After a recap footage of the ending of the previous film, we see a scene where Jason recovers from the injury and escapes after Ginny and Paul leave his cabin in the woods. This time Jason leaves Camp Crystal Lake and heads to an unknown destiny, which later turns to be Higgins Haven. On his way to the haven Jason murders Harold and Edna (the owners / attendants) of a rural K-Mart like store. This time Jason's unlucky victims include Chris Higgins (owner of the haven), Rick, Chuck, Chilli, Shelly, Debbie, Andy, Vera, and a gang of motorcycle bikers Ali, Fox, Loco. Highlights of the movie Jason and the bikers, Chris revealing to Rick about her previous encounter with Jason (not knowing it was him), Chuck watching Jason thinking it's a hallucination, Andy's death, and of course , Jason getting his trademark mask; and at last but not least the great funky groovy opening theme. This tune added some humor to the tension felt towards the beginning of the carnage.Friday 3 came in the right moment when the slasher genre was at it's peak. After the box office success of part 2, this sequel was a coming on. This movie has plenty of gore, suspense, and some good scare scenes.The acting is regular, the best performance comes from Dana Kimmell.Jason looks menacing, big, and surely very angry. Richard Brooker portrayed Jason in a good way, he knows how to act violent and looks like he's blood thirsty. This time the teens aren't as smart as in the previous film, still I liked some of them. Shelly was a good character, although he was annoying you felt sorry for him at the end. Rick was an unlikeable character, he seemed tough but in the end he couldn't even fight Jason. Debbie's pregnancy was overlooked, I guess that Jason didn't know he killed an unborn. What the heck, even if he knew about it he would still kill Debbie. Andy's death is by far the best in the movie, and one of the best s in the series. Chuck and Chilli (who aren't exactly teens) had potential, but in a 90 minute slasher movie you can't get much character development. The gang situation was unnecessary, I mean there was a lot of hype about a possible confrontation between these guys and Jason. The ending of the movie is great! The chasing scene is the best in the series (even better than part 2's). Jason seemed angry and desperate to kill Chris, who wasn't by no means braver than Ginny but still manged to give some fight to Jason. Unmasked Jason looked frightening, specially if you consider that Jason's unmasked look from part 2 wasn't that creepy at all. Unlike the Jason from part 2 this Jason seems to be invincible, the producers probably wanted to create a Jason that would impose respect, and create fear among the other characters.Miner's direction is still good. This is where part III didn't improve from the 2nd. movie. Miner's job in part 2 is magnificent, probably the best (apart from part VI) in the series. Still, Miner shows his talent in creating a scary, and dark setting.Friday the 13th part III3D is a good horror movie, the 3rd. installment in the series is worth a rental for horror fans and if you are a die hard of the series -like me- then you should buy it even IF it isn't the uncut version on DVD. I'm sure that this movie is more effective in the fear factor if you watch it on 3-D. Sadly, it isn't available in that format.Give a try to this flick even if you're not a Friday the 13th fan, it's surely a great slasher flick. Not the best in the series but delivers some good scares, gore, a cool theme, and a hockey masked Jason!.4/10 8/10 in the Friday the 13th scale. "},{"Title":"One of more entertaining sequels.","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Obviously, no Friday the 13th film is going to be Oscar material. You have to judge a film based on what it set out to do, and decide whether it met that goal or not. I don't think it's fair to judge these films by the same criteria as The Godfather or something.If you go into this movie just expecting to have fun, you won't be disappointed. The story is essentially the same as every other Friday film, with a minor twist this time it takes place on a little ranch owned by one of the main characters. Jason, fresh off his killing spree in part 2, makes his way across the countryside to find a new batch of hormonal kids vacationing at Crystal Lake. Of course, this time it looks nothing like the Crystal Lake from the previous two films, seeing as it was filmed on a ranch in California instead of New Jersey, but oh well.The kids are all walking stereotypes--pretty much the only way to give them any characterization in a 90-minute movie that has to dispatch one of them every ten minutes. There's a pair of stoners that look older than the rest of the cast and make you question what they're even doing there, a hefty practical joker, and a couple expecting a baby of all things. But they all manage to be likable enough, and thankfully there is no one irritating enough to make you wish they would die already. There is no mean girl or jerk; they all seem to be friends, which is nice.Jason gets his hands on the famous hockey mask in this installment, courtesy of one dead joker. The kills are the most creative in the series thus far, obviously taking advantage of the original 3D format this was released in back in 1982 one character's eyeball pops out at the screen in what must have been a pretty cool gag in 3D, an unlucky guy doing a handstand gets split in two, and a harpoon gun is put to deadly use.The highlight of the film is the chase sequence in the final act. The Friday films are known for some of the most entertaining chase scenes, and this one is no exception. It starts out in a cabin and goes all over the place from there, with Jason pursuing our terrified heroine relentlessly. Jason is actually creepy in this film--some form of degenerate who runs (not walks) after his victims with something approaching excitement. Wait until you see him unmasked later in the film--clearly he is not feeling burdened by his work.This is a perfect movie to put on with friends. It's entertaining, fun, and you'll have a blast watching these goof-balls bite it in interesting ways. You'll laugh at the dialogue, chuckle at some of the acting, and jump at some of the scares. So order a pizza, grab some beer, and just sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Three-dimensional Jason!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The last of the scary ones, Friday the 13th Part 3 3D is one of the best in the series. The plot does have some holes in it and sometimes the acting leaves a lot to be desired, but the interesting component of the film is its use of 3-D. Don't let the 3-D aspect fool you into thinking the movie is bad (as in Jaws 3-D & Amityville 3-D). The film is great; as far as these type of slasher flicks go. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"This One Is So Cool","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen my share of movies in 3D but they were ok. Friday The 13th in 3D was so cool and when they showed this movie in the theatre about 3 or 4 yrs. ago well I went to see it and it was so neat to see it on the big screen.  I wish they would make more movies in 3D because I liked them so much especially horror movies like this one. "},{"Title":"My favorite Friday the 13th installment","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although this installment was not too original, I thought it stood out from the others.  If you watch the series in order, this is the first time the victims are just vacationing teenagers and not camp counselors.  I also thought the character developement was better than the first two (yes, I know character developement and slasher movies aren't birds of a feather, but I though it worked in this particular slasher).  I actually became attached to some of the characters and didn't want them them to die. Most people, however, think the time spent developing characters slowed the pace and made the movie boring.  This was also the first Friday the 13th movie to have it's climax in a barn. I thought the fact that it took place on a ranch was kind of neat, I was getting kind of tired of camp.Most of the death scenes were original, the gore level was average, not a whole lot of suspense (but what do you expect? This is Friday the 13th, not The Sixth Sense), but the characters were really cool.  It had some continuity errors with the previous movies, so I'm deducting one point.  9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Jason Gets His Classic Hockey Mask","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is The Best of The Endless Friday the 13th Sequels. It Pleased me most because Jason picked up his Hockey Mask Logo in this film. I also Enjoyed The Terrfying Climaxes and the Un-Forgettable Ending. Jason Seems a Bit more Human than he does in Films after this. When we enter his House we find a Beat-Up Shack with a Ran-Down Toilet and some old Tables. This Film Seems to Label him as a Retarded Freak, Rather than a Vicious Monster. Rent it if you like Horror. "},{"Title":"Dead People and a Rabbit","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies where you see teenagers smoking pot in a van and talking about s-e-x, so you know they are going to die. You also see why old people shouldn't sleep in the road and play with dead eyeballs; no kids ever want to listen to what old people have to say anyway. Especially if they have a beard like that. There is this one guy with a goldfish named Lionel who doesn't like his food, so the guy eats it instead. Yuck! Also he has the cutest rabbit ever! I am mostly a rabbit person, so I can tell you that the rabbit in this movie is even cuter than the ones in North, Donnie Darko, or even House of 1000 Corpses! And those were all really cute! Later you see him pooping and drinking whiskey (the guy! Not the rabbit!) I hated to see how his love of rabbits did not even save him from getting killed ( Then Jason kills the teenagers, except for this one girl who either kills him or doesn't. In the beginning, he doesn't have a hockey mask, but then he gets one later. There was a dead rabbit in the road, but probably just a stray, not the cute one from before. "},{"Title":"wow!!!!!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  like alot of you,the first time I saw this movie. It wasn't in 3-d. I thought it sucked.However..... I finally saw it in 3-d and it made all the difference in the world. It is brilliant. "},{"Title":"3D?","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was recently hit by a big nostalgia trip and having bought the first films of this series on VHS cassette, these had to be seen as well. They've mostly just been collecting dust in a box but watching them again have me lots of thrills... Normally I'm a bit harsh in my reviews but I really have a soft spot for this series along with the Nightmare on Elm Street series.. These films were important in the task of introducting the horror genre as we know it - wannabe followups like Scream and all the other BS cannot follow this, trust me...if you love horror but for some reason missed these films you are in for a treat!I remember this, part 3, as the part where Jason finally got his mask. It is apparently filmed in 3D but I never had the the privilege of experiencing those effects....however, maybe it doesn't matter..It is not movie art, granted, but it is great entertainment, especially if you saw them as a kid.....  "},{"Title":"join jason in the woods for the best friday ever!!!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  as one of the first horror movies i ever viewed(and the first friday movie i ever saw!!)it is still my favourite horror movie to date! although the friday movies have taken a battering over the years,being typcast as a typical slasher movie or an immataion of halloween,friday the 13th 3 is reccomended viewing for any horror fan(as are the first 4 movies in the friday series) it starts were part2 leaves off then enter some funky music(hot ice)and the 3-d images and you certainly dont think your watching a friday movie!until the movie starts!grainy and dark adds to the atmosphere as does the excellent sound track(along with the traditional ki-ki-ki-ma-ma-ma!)then the killing begins!!!this is the one were jason gets his hockey mask,this is the most intense friday and this has the best ending of a friday movie! i strongley recommend that if you have seen any of the friday series this ones a must!or if your just a horror fan in genral then check it out!put in the dvd,dim the lights,grab the pop-corn and join jason in the woods!!! "},{"Title":"The story of how Jason Voorhees finds his mask.","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Third part is one of my favorites, mostly because of high dynamics and great final chase sequences. Another reason to love this part for me is more personal in this part we can see the classic image of Jason Voorhees finally complete. There's also a lot of minor advantages in contrast with previous sequel remarkable characters (Shelly!), some interesting details about Jason's past (Chris's memories), and catchy synthpop soundtrack. The killing scenes is also very good. There could be some questions about the weird ending, but I don't think this can ruin the whole movie. So, if you're looking for a solid slasher classic &#x96; take this one and have fun. "},{"Title":"The infamous hockey mask stars for the first time","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An Idyllic summer turns into a nightmare of unspeakable terror for yet another group of naive counsellors. Ignoring Camp Crystal Lake's bloody legacy, one by one they fall victim to the maniacal Jason who stalks them at every turn. Friday the 13th Part 3 will have you frozen with fear, as Jason finds his way into your living room!This film starred Dana Kimmell, Paul Kratka & Richard Brooker In my opinion, this film was not bad compared to the other films, it was better than the first film but not as good as the second. After this film there was 4,5,6,7,8, Jason goes to hell, Jason x and Freddy vs Jason before the remake, yes it's a long series.***/***** Good film "},{"Title":"My second favourite in the series.","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As i've said already, I enjoy the first four films the best, after that it got ridiculous. Why do I enjoy this film, well it has a certain atmosphere or mood that draws me in. The first time I watched this film once I bought the 3D Blu-ray I didn't notice all the 3D elements they put in. Now that I watched it again, I made a game of paying attention to how many things come towards the screen, it was pretty amusing. You get everything from sticks, yo-yo's, eyeballs, even more sticks, and fruit. Yes they juggle fruit towards the screen. The kills were satisfying with out be to over done, the best one is when a guy is doing a hand stand and gets cut in half. There's a part where a girl is looking through a Fangoria magazine, and we see Tom Savini, then my favourite when they show Godzilla, I thought that was a nice touch. Of course this film has the mandatory shower scene, why does almost every horror movie have one, even if it last's 10 seconds they got to put it in. I wish they would have explained on what happened to Chris in the woods, then again I don't even want to think about it. This film is a very entertaining and is worth buying the 3D edition. "},{"Title":"Flawed but still enjoyable sequel","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hoping a trip to her old campground will ease her troubled life, a group of friends arrive at Crystal Lake for a weekend of fun only to find the homicidal Jason still lurking around and must try to get away before they're all killed.This one managed to be one of the more enjoyable sequels in the series, though there are still some flaws to it. One of the better aspects here is the exceptionally high body count which generates plenty of gory, blood-soaked goodness during it's time with a rather wide assortment of weaponry, delivering with the bloody goods impaling people on staffs, knifes, and many other sharp objects as to be expected during a film as this. There's even an all-time favorite in the infamous handstand kill, which is part of the charm with unique and fantastic kills, as all the killings are great to a degree and is pretty chilling. As well, the film manages to get plenty of fun in its traditional slasher moments as there's a ton of incredibly suspenseful moments in this, from the barnyard massacre of the biker group as the group continually reaches another level to find one of their members killed unexpectedly, to the different stalking tactics against the friends in the house. Those are incredibly fun, with the lakeside ambush, the attack on the post-coital couple upstairs hallway and then taking out the remaining group as the last couple arrives and then parts of the final chase throughout here, which is a highlight effort of grand style here. it's lengthy, gets in numerous close encounters and provides the kind of high-quality stalking, chasing, close-encounters and battling that runs through the house, out into the woods and back into the barn for one of the best parts here, though in the end this segment also highlights part of the film's problems. The fact that, what should be the biggest sequence is instead merely presented as a tired retread of the other two in the manner of knocking him down then failing to press the advantage in order to hide and do it all over again, which makes this one of the lesser examples of the style. Also problematic is the 3D effects here are just plain ludicrous, with the examples coming across as just stupid as the tactic itself geared toward finding the stupidest possible examples to accomplish the feat as possible, getting yo-yos, popping popcorn, flung wallets, juggled fruit and more flung towards the camera that has no bearing on the plot and they all stick out quite obviously. The last problem here is the film's pacing, which is off and quite drags at places as the beginning is endlessly overlong with the massacred couple who are completely unworthy of being focused upon for way too long, the meeting-the-friends is too short and is over too quickly, while the middle section is bogged down with the irritating ploy of her trying to get her past out only to constantly force herself not to then try again and repeat the process. Once we finally get the flashback, which was an important part of the movie, was handled very weirdly as instead of the usual flashback where the character narrates over the action that is happening on screen, we see a silhouette of her face over the action, completely blurring the scene which reveals itself to make no sense in the grand scheme of things, leaving it utterly tiring quite quickly. These here really lower this one in the series.Rated R Graphic Violence, Brief Nudity, Adult Language and drug use. "},{"Title":"Perfect party movie.","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" My favorite Friday the 13th film. It's just so darn entertaining, you can't help but love it.No, the acting isn't even approaching Oscar territory, and the story is basically a re-tread of the first two, but so what? The strength of these films is their sensible, straight-forward approach. They're just meant to be fun, and this one certainly is.For those interested in the plot, this time Jason sets his sights on a group of young adults spending the weekend at a friend's cottage, which just happens to be situated on--yes, you guessed it Crystal Lake.The fun begins almost immediately as we meet two of cinema's quirkiest general store owners who unwittingly fall victim to a very much alive Jason as he vacates the scene of the last entry's bloodbath (and searches for some new clothes).We then pick up with our core group of fun-loving kids who, among other things, enjoy activities such as sex, playing practical jokes, and smoking pot. Despite all of this, they manage to remain surprisingly likable--probably the most approachable cast in the series. I could see myself being friends with these guys.Once Jason makes his way to the ranch, the blood-letting ensues. We even get a fun sequence involving leather-clad bikers who venture onto Jason's land in search of revenge following a grocery store incident with two of the main characters.From start to finish, the film stays entertaining throughout, ending with one of the series' best finales, as Jason chases his unfortunate final victim all over the place, giving us lots of thrills and scares along the way.It's also worth mentioning that this is the first film in which Jason dons the now infamous hockey mask. And let's just say his first on-screen appearance while wearing it is pretty memorable.Originally shot in 3D, the film contains plenty of obvious 3D gags with things popping out at the screen, lending an even cheesier, entertaining vibe to the entire experience.Ignore the recycled plot and the hammy acting--just have fun with this film--the way it was intended. "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part III","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part 3 continues with the story of Jason's killing spree throughout the area of Crystal Lake. Picking up right where we left off in part 2, Jason continues his slaughter at a small store where he murders the couple living there. We soon meet a group of teenagers, led by Chris Higgins (Dana Kimmell), who are going out to the lake for some summer fun. Jason meanwhile is hiding out in the Higgins barn watching the teens every move. Eventually some members of a biker gang decide to check out the barn when Jason strikes. He also gets his infamous hockey mask in this sequel which has become a trademark for the horror genre. Many of the teens are murdered, and it's up to Chris to battle the evil madman.Part three was originally presented in 3-D back in 1982. I would have loved to see it in the theatre, watching on your TV screen doesn't do it justice. This part was a very good addition to the series. It carried on a continuous story of Jason stalking residents of Crystal Lake over a period of a few days. Having Part 3 take place the day after Amy Steel's Ginny battle Jason in part 2 was pretty cool. Jason Vorhees looks different in this one than he did in the second one. Potato sack and hockey mask aside, his face was very different. His face/head were shaved and he looked inhuman. In the second Friday, he looked like some backwoods grizzly type man. In Part 3, he looks like a mutation of some kind.Dana Kimmell is amazing. That's all I can say. I loved her portrayal of Chris Higgins and her battle and chase scenes with Jason were the best of the series next to Amy Steel's in part 2. And one cannot overlook that this is the movie where Jason gets his legendary hockey mask thanks to Shelley and his assortment of costumes/makeup he brings on the trip. The ending is a little odd, but most of the time in Friday films, the endings make little sense.One of the better Friday film's completed with a (very) low budget.8/10 "},{"Title":"Good an bad","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I rate this as an extremely good film for the series since it is the first time Jason donned the mask. I rate it really bad though on the anaglyph transfer. Finally we get a home 3D version of the film released by Paramount. Obviously though Paramount had more than one person working on the transfer since some of the scenes work and some fall flat on their face. Anaglyph (Red-blue) means the images have to be presented side to side. Some of the scenes in the opening of the film are correct but some are obviously transferred into anaglyph in over-under anaglyph which just doesn't work. Also, when you present an anaglyph film you have to increase the contrast on the DVD so people can see an image through a dark filter. That wasn't done here. Instead we get a dark image which is hard enough for the human eye to see. Next gripe is that Paramount used the original over-under negative which shows horrible grain in both the 3d and 2d versions of the film. May as well watch this on an old 8mm projector. Glad to have a 3D release but get people that know what they are doing to transfer the film. Making an over-under film into anaglyph doesn't work because that isn't how people's eyes work. Also, if you are going to call it a delux edition, include a few extras. This DVD doesn't even include a chapter card and no extras at all. Typically Paramount. "},{"Title":"Best 'Friday the 13th' sequel","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is my favorite sequel. The acting is quite good, when compared to the other sequels. Mostly because we see the MASK!! Also, because it's not like the usual Friday the 13th movies, the sex-and-violence thing. This one's pretty mild when compared with part 2 or part 5.The deaths are all cool. I liked the one of the guy walking on his hands and the arrow in the eye. This was one of the few sequels that was actually scary! Unlike the others, there's a death that you weren't expecting.Anyway, I'd suggest you watch this and stop here. The others are just stupid. If you really want to watch another one, watch part 6, but that's all. "},{"Title":"As Good As The Second","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I Really Enjoyed This Third Sequel Friday The 13th Part 3, besides Jason Finally got his Hockey Mask YIPEE!!! Once Again I'll Deliver The Plot. Jason (now in glorious 3-D) leaves his cabin after his showdown with Ginny and comes to a roadside store where he gains a new set of clothes - and kills the owner and his wife.Meanwhile, Chris and her friends make their way to her family cabin, Higgins Haven. The party includes Chris' boyfriend Rick, the pregnant Debbie and her boyfriend Andy, the bong-toking' Chuck and Chili, Vera, and Shelly, an overweight kid given to gruesome pranks.At a local store, Vera and Shelly are confronted by a trio of bikers and Shelly drives into their motorcycles. The bikers, Ali, Loco and Fox, make their way to Higgins Haven for retribution, where they siphon the gas from the van to burn down the barn. Before that happens, though, they're killed by Jason.That night, while Chris and Rick are off in the woods, Jason slits Shelly's throat and takes his hockey mask. Wearing the mask, he dispatches Vera with a spear gun. In the house, Andy is split in half while walking on his hands and Debbie is stabbed from beneath her hammock. Chuck is killed in the cellar while looking at the fuses, and Chili is impaled with a hot fireplace poker.Returning to an empty cabin, Chris and Rick investigate. When they're separated, Jason kills Rick by crushing his head with his bare hands. Jason throws his body through the window at Chris, who flees in the van. But when it stalls (from being siphoned), Chris has to flee back to the barn on foot for the 3-D showdown. . .Yes The 3D effects for that movie today are crappy but they were probably great for people back then, a sequel just as good the 2nd i recommend this horror flick for all horror fans. "},{"Title":"A slight improvement over Part 2","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Some well directed shock scenes, intentional humor and likeable characters make this an improvement over the previous one and, yeah, more people die real good. This one starts with clips from Part 2 (featuring Amy Steel) to let viewers know that Jason (Richard Brooker) is still alive. Then eight people (not camp counselors) travel via van to Camp Crystal Lake, encounter a bum who warns them in vain and end up eating a bag of pot when the cops pull up behind them. When they get to their cabin, some punks harass them and Jason shows up to kill everyone. And that's all she wrote, though at least the heroine (Dana Kimmell) has a little more common sense than usual and fights Jason with a knife, axe, log and shovel. Cast is mediocre at best...Supposedly, the 3-D theater effects were among the best ever created, with harpoon, pitchfork, knife, sewing needle, fire poker and, yes even a yo-yo, thrusting at the viewer. This is the first time Jason gets to wear the trademark hockey mask too, by the way.Score 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"MASK","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, Jason gets his hockey mask! Not my favorite in the series, especially with the 3D effects that do not carry over to the video, but it is nice to have the Jason Vorhees we have come to know and love finally establish his visual identity.  "},{"Title":"A Solid Installment of the series!","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After part 2, Jason Voorhees (Richard Brooker) is still on the loose as he has gotten new clothes and murdered a couple of married store owners. Rich girl Chris (Dana Kimmel) with friends such as prankster Shelly (Larry Zerner), Debbie (Tracie Savage), Andy (Jeffery Rogers), Vera (Catherine Parks), Chili (Rachel Howard), and Chuck (David Katims) are off for a sexual holiday at a cottage resort called Higgins Haven. Chris unfortunately has bad memories from two years ago about encountering a strange disfigured man who attacked her but she survived as she has returned back to the cabin to get rid of the bad memories, now the maniac is out for blood including her's.A gory and entertaining entry of the classic F13 saga! this is the movie that finally gave Jason Voorhees his trademark hockey mask that re-established him. Steve Miner who directed part 2 did a great directing job on this excellent installment with shocks, gore, some laughs and decent acting. I think this entry makes the franchise more high for it was made in 3D and became one of the highest grossing movies of the franchise, it's a winner all the way. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As Part 2.","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In Friday the 13th Part 3 3-D, Jason has returned again for more teenage slaughter. This time he's targeting some teenagers who are spending the weekend in a summerhouse near Camp Crystal Lake, like he does in almost every sequel that follows this one.I will say that I haven't seen this movie in it's original 3-D format, I saw it on DVD, so I'm guessing it was much better in 3-D than it is in 2-D. I enjoyed Friday the 13th Part 2 better than Part 3. This film does have some slightly suspenseful moments, and the acting is downright awful, which really doesn't matter because this is a Friday the 13th sequel. But still, this one didn't work for me.When I see these movies I don't expect top notch acting. Also some of the killings have horrible effects jobs and they look worse than fake. It has the horror elements in there, but it still isn't nearly as good as Part 2. I think the best thing about this movie is that it was the first of all of the sequels to introduce the infamous hockey mask, which is now iconic. Not to mention, the original theater release was in 3-D. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Not that bad of a sequel","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I will never look at this movie the same again. Did you know the guy who played Shelly (the fat kid who always played the pranks) quit acting and went to become a famous lawyer in California?  I think that is so cool. I wonder what he looks like these days.  I really wish I could have seen this movie in 3d but since this movie was made in 1982 I wasn't even close enough to be allowed to see this movie.  It is never the same when watching it on tape compared to the big screen.  I mean you can't really tell much where the 3d parts are anymore. I see a few now and then.  Maybe it's because I have really bad eye site for a 27 year old.  Who knows?  This isn't that bad of a movie really.  It could have been better but this WAS made in the 80's people and didn't have the technology back then.  It's about some kids going to a house a friend owns.  She supposedly survived Jason's attack (which makes you wonder why she wasn't in a previous Friday movie) and is really jumpy about returning.  She thinks she sees Jason and doors move by themselves,which would really freak me out.  Two of the friends go to town and have a little run in with a motorcycle gang. Shelly runs over their motorcycle and drives away.  Later in the movie the bikers came up to the cabin (just wondering how they knew where they were staying at) and sucked the gasoline out of the van. One by one people start to die till there is one person left. I won't tell you who or what happens but it's really good. 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Jason returns and gets his first hockey mask!","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13TH PART IIIstarring Dana Kimmell, Paul Kratka, Richard Brooker, Nick Savage, Larry Zerner, Catherine Parks, Tracie Savage, Jeffrey Rogers, David Katims, Rachel Howard, Gloria Charles and Kevin O'Brien.plot Chris (Dana Kimmell) returns to Crystal Lake after a traumatic experience two years before, along with her friends and her boyfriend. Her friends just want to smoke some dope and have some premarital sex, but Chris can't shake the feeling that something horrible is going to happen to all of them. Soon, Jason (Richard Brooker) crashes the party with his new hockey mask and machete to once against slaughter up a storm on Crystal Lake.my thoughts Although this is the Friday THE 13TH sequel where we're already introduced to Jason, we know there's going to be no more plot twists, Tommy Jarvis hasn't arrived yet and the gimmicks still haven't kicked in, this is still a very entertaining sequel.We have it all the masked killer, the virginal heroine, her hunky yet sensitive boyfriend, the horny couples, the stoners, the prankster and the tough black guy. We also get a new hockey mask, some great gore and a disco score to boot!Even though this is not as good as parts 1, 4, 6, 7 or FREDDY VS. JASON, this is still a very entertaining Friday THE 13TH film with lots of cheese, gore and more!*** "}{"Title":"Jason looks good in 3D","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13th - PART III continues with the story of Jason's killing spree throughout the area of Camp Crystal Lake.Picking up right where the second one left off, Jason continues his slaughter at a small store where he murders the couple living there.We soon meet a group of teenagers, led by Chris Higgins (played by Dana Kimmell), who are going out to the lake for some summer fun. Jason meanwhile is hiding out in the Higgins barn watching the teens every move. Eventually, some members of a biker gang decide to check out the barn when Jason strikes.He also gets his infamous hockey mask in this sequel which has become a trademark for the horror movie genre. Many of the teenagers are murdered, and it's up to Chris to battle the evil madman.This film was originally presented in 3-D back in 1982. I would have loved to see this movie in 3D, but I was born in 1998 and I did not know anything about movies when I was young, but now I do.The hockey mask is why I put Jason Voorhees on my Top 10 Horror Movie Villains list and because of the way he kills his victims is just amazing. In the first and second Friday the 13th, he did not wear that hockey ask, but in the third film, he finally got the hockey mask.Dana Kimmel is amazing and the rest of the actors are just amazing. The ending to this film is a little odd, but most of the time in Friday the 13th movies, the endings can be very confusing, but in scary movies, the killers' living eye must snap open.If not, how can you make a sequel? A prequel? A interquel? Or a remake, reboot or a trilogy? If you want to keep the money flowing in, you have to keep the killer alive.Overall, Friday THE 13th - PART III is awesome and I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Friday the 13th Sequels","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Christine returns to Camp Crystal Lake, 2 years after the brutal murders of campers and the survival of her own separate attack. Tagging along are the requisite body count; nymphet, jock, stoner, nerd and way-too-old boyfriend. You know, the disparate people that make up every group of friends. Beginning right where Part 2 left off (how else could we follow the plot without a reset?), Miner attempts to give the series a narrative thread, a concept that goes south quickly with subsequent entries. Shot in 3D for its initial release, Part 3 is far more playful and better directed then the bulk of the Jason films. The 3D forces Miner to play with perspective and composition in more interesting, artful ways than in previous film. This entry also bears the distinction of being the origin of the iconic Jason, the hockey-masked, machete-wielding, disfigured psychopath that has become a permanent figure in horror pop- culture. Stealing a goalie mask from one of his victims, Jason is allowed more room in front of the camera, the series finally finding a really effective way of utilizing his movements on screen, than merely having him stalk around the edges of the frame. Here, Jason hasn't yet become the immortal slasher monster, his movements and reactions far more humanoid. He reacts to pain, limps and verbalizes injury, moves at different speeds (in contrast to his latter singular, lumbering zombie state) and is even given screen time with his face visible and expressive. This makes Miner's Jason the most terrifying of his incarnations, as he appears to occupy the same plain of existence as his victims. Miner takes his time actually developing his victims, and then begins to dispatch them with staccato bursts of violence, rather than prolonged, detailed gore. His most significant directorial decision is to overlay Christine's flashback scene, with her telling the tale presently. This creates a Godardian visual rift in the film, so purely cinematic and bizarre. Employing goofy 3D antics such as popcorn popping, yo-yo's, juggling and harpoons in the eye, Part 3 is by far the best sequel in the entire series (with X being the nadir). Here, Miner attempts to wrap up the Crystal Lake saga in a narratively cohesive manner, long before Jason goes to Hell, or Manhattan, or Space. C+ "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but adds a campy vibe to the series","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a gorehound at all and only occasionally watch slasher flicks, but I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th franchise, which started in 1980 with the mega-success of the first film. My appreciation has nothing to do with nostalgia since I didn't become a fan until I was well into adulthood when I saw 1985's Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning on TV one night in the early 2000s. I think I like these movies because they typically involve young adults in a fun camp-type environment in the woods, which naturally stirs fond youthful memories (not that I'm that old); the presence of a lunatic unstoppable killer&#x97;who increasingly becomes an infernal monster&#x97;just adds an air of danger and suspense to the dramedy and adventure. Add scores of gorgeous females and various filming locations around North America and you have a fabulously entertaining franchise that has yet to end. It's the camp-like settings of most of the series and the unstoppable malevolent force that is Jason Voorhees that especially sets Friday the 13th apart from similar franchises.The first two films are serious in nature with the expected antics of youths on vacation in the woods, but the franchise introduces a campy element with Part III, which pretty much plagues the rest of the series until the reboot in 2009. Not that I'm complaining much, as these films are only quasi-believable anyway. Still, this is the main detriment of Part III, released in 1982. The opening credits song tips the viewer off that this isn't a wholly serious horror film (like the first two), which is compounded when a couple of the protagonists meet some sinister bikers at a convenience store in the boonies, which takes place about 25 minutes into the story. These hoodlums are too cartoony to take serious and so it's hard to take the horror of the story serious as well. This doesn't mean it's not an entertaining installment, just that it's my least favorite.Another noticeable difference between Part III and the two previous films is that, although the story takes place in the area of Crystal Lake, the film was shot on the West Coast instead of the East Coast, specifically Santa Clarita, CA, and nearby Melody Ranch (where the barn is located). The geography is obviously dryer, but this won't make much of an impact on most viewers and, besides, it is a nice change of pace from the first two movies.As usual, the film features a nice assortment of young women &#x96; three white girls, a Hispanic and a black woman, the latter being the biker chick, Fox. It's hard to pick a favorite, but the main protagonist, Chris, played by Dana Kimmell, is probably it, followed by the stoner chick, Chili. Debbie and Vera are also on hand.Many people find these films scary and shocking and the first two movies have some slightly chilling aspects, some of the others as well, but&#x97;with the exception of the 2009 reboot&#x97;I don't find these movies particularly scary, although they have loads of jump scares. They're sometimes creepy, sometimes suspenseful, sometimes exciting and always fun & entertaining, but not very scary, for me anyway. In fact, I usually bust out laughing at the inevitable death scenes.BOTTOM LINE Part III is another entertaining segment in the series and it's notable for switching the filming locations to dry Southern California, not to mention Jason is bigger and more imposing than in Part II and he finally acquires his iconic hockey mask, but Part III is my least favorite of the franchise due to the overt goofy elements.The film runs 95 minutes.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Entry. Another fantastic film by Steve Miner.","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part 3 continues where part 2 left off. Steve Miner again is at the helm , and frankly he does a great job. Right away with part 3 the standout difference from the others is the use of 3D. Some see the use of 3D as cheesy , in fact a lot of the time that is the truth. Yet with the slasher genre I believe it fits in quite nicely. The effects in this film were very top notch for the time period. Now onto the story. This is not a new group of counselors , this is not at Camp Crystal Lake. The setting is an area on the lake but that of a farm if you will called Higgins Haven. Part of me wants to dislike this idea because the campgrounds as a setting with the woods was flawless. However , this setting has grown on me. It is still a wooded area and we still have some horny young adults looking for a getaway weekend. There are a few things that I personally felt we could do without in terms of the story. In the beginning there is a flashback to the ending of part 2 ,this then leads to a couple who own a grocery store. The couple are very random , and granted both kills are good they just seem as unnecessary characters.One thing I noticed in this film is when Chris (Dana Kimmel)has her flashback it is almost implied that Jason was going to assault or rape her. I just don't know if that is what was intended or not but I find it unnecessary. I really enjoyed the addition of the biker gang. They made the story interesting and brought some freshness with their attitudes. The kills in this film are a bit tame as far as blood goes. However , a few of my favorite kills by Jason are in this film. The first being the spear-gun kill , the second being Rick's head being squeezed until his eyeball pops out in 3D, and lastly Andy's kill might just be the best F13th kill. Walking on his hands , then being split in half was a crazy thing to see. This film was much more intense as Miner showed us in part 2. He wanted to make the film suspenseful , terrifying and gory. I think he was quite successful with this formula. If you get a chance both versions 2D and 3D are worth watching please note that a widescreen formula does this film so much more justice. So stop waiting , grab the popcorn, and enjoy this film as Jason makes his way from the screen into your living room. "},{"Title":"First one with the hockey mask.","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In this second sequel of the Friday the 13th trilogy, Jason Voorhees is back, dunning a hockey mask for the first time, and terrorizing a new group of twenty-something party-goers near Camp Crystal Lake.The scares, screams, gore and running around continue in abundance, with OK and not- too-cheesy acting where there are actually some character development from some of the cast members. Unfortunately, the rest of the cast came across being pretty stupid and mean-spirited. It's a typical slasher flick with the usual horror elements and a pretty basic plot, but one you would still find entertaining from the 80s. Grade B- "},{"Title":"A terrific entry to the awesome Friday the 13th series!","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason Voorhees (Richard Brooker) is a deformed maniac who lives at Camp Crystal Lake, where he kills anyone who happens to be there. Jason supposedly drowned as a young boy several years earlier but he keeps coming back somehow and can't seem to be stopped. After the survivor of his last massacre is taken away to the hospital, some new camp counselors arrive. These counselors include Chris (Dana Kimmell), Rick (Paul Kratka), Debbie (Tracy Savage), Andy (Jeffrey Rogers), and the goofy prankster Shelly (Larry Zerner). As soon as they arrive, the young counselors engage in having sex, drinking, and smoking pot. Jason isn't about to let them go about their fun in his territory, so he ditches the potato sack that he used to wear on his head in favor of a hockey mask (stolen from Shelly) and begins brutally killing the teens one by one! Chris has a history with Jason and encountered him years before. Will she have what it takes to face the evil man from her past?The Friday the 13th series has to be the greatest horror franchise of all time simply because, in my opinion at least, none of the entries are absolutely terrible (well, except Jason X). Sure some of them aren't as good as others but compared to most horror sagas, pretty much every installment here is great or at least very entertaining. Part 3 is no exception, and features some of the greatest moments of the whole series. This is where Jason first obtains his iconic hockey mask that he wears throughout the rest of his movies. That mask has since become one of the most recognized items in horror history! The characters in this film are some of the best of the whole series as well, with the prank loving jokester Shelly being a favorite of mine. Richard Brooker is a great Jason and in my opinion a huge improvement over Steve Dash, who played Mr. Voorhees in the previous film. If you were only going to watch five Friday the 13th films, definitely make this one of them as it is a spectacular entry to the series! "},{"Title":"Hey! The vans on fire!","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part III in my opinion is the best of the series. Not only does the infamous Jason retrieve his mask from the clutches of a dying doofus named Shelly, but also introduces some rather humorous characters. Shelly, the theater hound who is obsessed with special affects, was born in the wrong decade. If he had lived in today's society he would have been super fly. An 80's nerd is today's hipster. The 80's stereotypical motorcycle gang is pretty legit, as well as their super badass names including Fox, and Chili. A scene I personally like is when a motorcycle hound exits the gas station holding an Olympia beer. Since I've from that area I find that kinda cool. Like all the other episodes in this slasher blood-fest, it centers on some kids who just want to get away and have some good old fashioned sex. Unfortunately for them, the masked murderer named Jason makes that impossible. It's a great addition to the collection and worth watching just for the 3D affects. Give it a try, and find out why the van is on fire.. "},{"Title":"Mediocre and predictable","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't expecting a masterpiece when I decided to watch this film and my expectations were, for the most part, met precisely. The opening sequence (excluding the ending from Friday the 13th Part II which was put in there originally to remind people in the theaters of what happened last time since the movie hadn't been released on VHS) is slow and builds tension. It was the best part of the whole movie. It was then that I thought...hey, maybe this movie isn't going to be so bad after all. The tension buildup was agonizing. I knew the couple was going to buy it...it was a question of when. From there, it seemed the movie just lost the road and came down the embankment. The only somewhat lovable character that anyone has any sympathy for is Chris...and seeing how she turned out at the end of the movie seemed to make sense after all she'd been through, but since the movie sucked it probably would've been more appropriate to have Chris traumatized but not a babbling laughing lunatic. After the opening sequence, typical slasher/splatter movie format takes over. Semi-likable characters, some with unusual talents or personalities (all the better to kill them with), simply there because they're going to be killed. What was up with Shelly. Did he turn out that way because he was named Shelly? I'd be bitter toward my parents if they had named me Shelly. The homage to Psycho (and I took it as somewhat of an homage to Halloween, too, after all Steve Miner was directing and he went on to direct Halloween H20) where the guy gets killed while going downstairs to get a beer for his girlfriend after having sex with her. The homage to Psycho comes with her in the shower. And what was up with the biker gang, and the big black dude, who was the leader, at the end seemingly coming back to life to get back at Jason right when he's going to kill Chris? That was messed up. And why, when she had the opportunity at the end with the ax, wouldn't Chris just chop Jason's head off!!! I'd gladly do it if I was in her position. If some lunatic comes after me in an attempt to kill me, he'd better hope he gets the job done, that's all I'm saying. Overall...I give it a 5 out of 10 since it, in a few small ways, exceeded my expectations. "},{"Title":"one of the better ones","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers aheadI would say this is one the better Friday the 13th movies. I would not call any of them good movies of course but some are better others. One was cool but i did not like two that much cause no characters I really liked and the sack he wore over his face was pretty lame. I like some of the characters in this though. Shelly was awesome funny guy n a more well written character than most of the others. I thought it really sucked that he died. But thanks to him Jason got his trade mark hocky mask. Other people i kinda like were Chuck n Chilli And even though he was mostly a bad guy the biker leader Ali was pretty cool.I admit i am not sure why these people came to this place for vacation in spite of the murders that all ready happened. It seems like they some how dident hear about it or dident know this was that place. So i would say this was an entertaining movie. Not a great horror movie but an entertaining one. I think the other best installments of this series are 1 6 7 n freddy vs jason 2 n 4 n 8 were kinda cool Jason x was nothing special. I thought 5 sucked n jason goes to hell is probably the worst in this series.  "},{"Title":"Is that all you're gonna do this weekend? Smoke dope? ","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Writing a plot description for Friday the 13th Part III seems sort of unnecessary. It's pretty much the same as every other movie in the series &#150; a group of seemingly brainless kids goes into the woods only to be slaughtered by an unseen killer. How original! But in fairness, it's actually no better or worse than the other films in the series. Even with the plot limitations, there are some scenes in Friday the 13th Part III that I enjoy Jason finding his hockey mask, a dead Jason pulling himself up to get the rope off his neck, and everyone going to the barn to die are favorite moments for me. The last point &#150; everyone going to the barn to die &#150; is actually something of a joke between my wife and I. At one point or another in the movie, it seems that every single brain dead character makes a trip, whether purposeful or not, to the barn where Jason just happens to be hiding. It's utterly ridiculous, but fun nonetheless.Friday the 13th Part III was released during something of a 3-D craze in the early 80s. I can remember seeing this movie, the re-release of the 3-D 1953 House of Wax, and Jaws 3-D in the theaters. There are some scenes in Friday the 13th Part III that may seem pointless today that were amazing in 3-D. The best example in my mind is the spear-gun scene. Watching today, it's nothing special. But in 3-D, it blew me away. "}{"Title":"Jason Gets The Hockey Mask In This One!","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film came out during a time when 3-D made a brief comeback in the early 1980's. The same day after his massacre in Part 2 Jason once again finds his woods invaded by a bunch of dope-smoking, horny teenagers and they once again ignore the warnings of townsfolk. The teens set up shot in a vacation farm owned by the family of one of the teens, Chris. After upsetting some bikers in town earlier, the teens continue partying until Jason crashes it and murders them one by one, while Chris and her man Rick are away. One of Jason's victims, Shelly, provides him with his now-trademark, iconic hockey goalie's mask. When Chris and Rick return, Rick is killed and Chris battles Jason with the brief assistance of one of the bikers from town who came to the farm to get revenge on the teens who upset him earlier. But Jason, like he did to the other two bikers, kills him and Chris, in turn, kills Jason. And like the dream sequence in Part 1, Chris goes insane when she dreams someone has jumped from the lake and brings her underwater. This time, it's not Jason, but a decomposed Pamela Voorhees, with head reattached! "},{"Title":"I liked the sequel.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday 13th part 3 was the first one I liked it built up tension and was quiet scary. It also introduced the iconic hockey mask that Jason wears for the rest of the series and the characters are good but boy I hate Shelly however the film has great kills even one of my favourite involving a harpoon going though one of the charters eye which would have looked brilliant in 3-D. The 3-D in the film was a big marketing point and the score was fantastic and just really catchy.Now the film starts of right after the end of part 2 with Jason killing two randoms people and then making his way to crystal lake. The teens then make there way to the camp and Shelly just happens pranking the main characters like 10 times in the film and am glad it comes back to bite him in the ass later on. So they end up getting in trouble with a biker gang which end up going after them then they end up getting killed. So at the end Jason gets hung and dies until the sequel.So I would watch part 3 it's a fun horror film and the first good one. "},{"Title":"Far far better than the first two FT13 films with epic kills,the iconic mask debuts and a brilliant lead actress.","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Though I liked the first two Friday films both were rather forgettable to be honest(though they are tonnes better than the first two A Nightmare On Elm Street films)so I was expecting more of the same with part three,i was pleasantly surprised(like A Nightmare On Elm Street 3,must be the number)by a film far better in quality,creeping dread,the debut of killer Jason's iconic hockey mask,awesome death scenes and a superb lead performance by actress Dana Kimmell.It follows the pattern really of the other two films but with a bunch of youngsters staying at a different location but it looks about the same.Before we see them the film starts off where the second began with the lead character being chased by Jason before she manages to fool him by mimicking his mother and though he sees through it she and her friend get away.After a great scene where Jason kills a couple in their home it moves onto the main plot of this film as the group of teens(must admit i'm not going to name them as apart from the wonderful Kimmell they were not that great and weren't given huge screen time,i liked them more than the previous two films though)arrive at the camp.After a while before a major kill Jason starts to pick off his prey one by one and all of them were top notch before its left to Chris(Kemmell)to face off with the deformed hockey mask wearing psycho who no matter what never seems to stay down before she is rescued and still screaming.Like any FT13 film(no disrespect to this BTW)the plot is pretty basic with a group of relaxed teens all trying to have a good time who get picked off one by one by the maniac with the mask(from sequels on the mask stays the same)and the characters are never that interesting but like I said this one was better because of the lead actress acting talent and some epic Jason kills and I was never bored.As I said Kimmell as Chris was a class act who when she screamed it was believable(even though The Shining is a masterpiece Shelley Duvall screaming never convinced)and when she was scared you were truly convinced,something the other actresses never got right in the film.She really was a breath of fresh air(and beautiful too)and for a horror film her acting was brilliant and she deserved better from the other actors around her,the others aren't terrible but whenever she isn't there the film drags a bit(apart from the death scenes),her screaming and panicking at discovering her friends dead bodies or facing off with Jason will keep you hooked plus her screams at the end are chilling even though she is safe you feel she will never feel right again,a job well done and how she didn't go onto bigger roles staggers me tbh.The action and death scenes are the other stand outs in this third film with a great scene involving two of the group getting into trouble with a trio of bullies(who also meet their maker thanks to Voorhees)made me laugh as well as keeping me hooked.Jason's kills were truly fantastic with him killing people by pitchfork,by blade,by fire poker and best of all a epic mutilation on a guy doing a handstand(its so cool guys)plus one man even has his eye pop out(fake looking but great).The final battle between Chris and Jason is supreme too as this guy just doesn't know when to quit as he chases her in the house,the barn and even on the water(OK it was a dream but it was a nice homage to the original film)and though he is a big guy this was one heroine that stood up to him and I was willing her to survive(unlike the others).Much better than the other two films before it with what should of been a star making lead performance,sensational death scenes,proper frights and a sense of dread and the birth of an iconic mask and though its no horror masterpiece and has a poor set of supporting characters I now can't wait for the other Friday films after this superior sequel. "},{"Title":"A Familiar Plot Shown in 3D","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie essentially begins with a group of young men and women who decide to ignore the warnings and spend some time in the woods at Camp Crystal Lake. Also involved are three motorcycle punks who are upset with them after a confrontation at a local convenience store and want to get even in the worst possible way. What none of them realize is that Jason is still alive and well&#x97;and waiting for them. Now, if this plot seems slightly familiar then it's because it is the third time it has been used and like Jason the producers simply brush it off and begin again. However, what makes this movie somewhat unique is that it was filmed in 3-D in order to enhance the effect at local theaters. Unfortunately, what the movie producers may not have counted on was that this movie was released during the height of the VCR craze and as a result audiences were just as likely to see this movie on a television screen than anywhere else. As a result, some of the special effects geared for 3-D may have fallen a little flat. Another interesting fact about this movie is that it is the first time that Jason dons his iconic hockey mask as previously he used a burlap bag over his head similar to the psychopath in The Town that Dreaded Sundown. In any case, even though the plot followed the standard path of the Friday the 13th films preceding it still managed&#x97;along with the Halloween and Nightmare on Elm Street series&#x97;to attract huge audiences and rake in millions of dollars during the decade of the 80's. That being the case, who can argue with success? Yet despite everything just mentioned there really isn't that much here, in my mind, that separates this movie from countless other slasher films of this type. And it hasn't aged well. Accordingly, I rate it as about average. "},{"Title":"Jason's back for a turd. A one-dimensional 3D horror of a film.","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th is one of the highest grossing horror franchise in the United States, nevertheless, it's Friday the 13th Part III, where it become very crystal clear that the film series to starting to get stupid. Directed by Steve Miner, and originally release in 3-D, Friday the 13th Part III is the first movie to feature the antagonist Jason Voorhees (Richard Brooker) with his iconic signature hockey mask, which has since become a trademark of both the character and franchise as a whole. As a direct sequel to 1980's Friday the 13th & 1981's Friday the 13th Part 2, the first part of the film follows the aftermath of the massacres at Camp Crystal Lake, very loosely. We see a recap of the last minutes of the previous film through archive footage. However, it doesn't really fit well, with the rest of this film, since that part wasn't shot in 3D. Other glaring factors is that none of the previous cast, return for this film. Not even, Amy Steel as Ginny Field, who surprising, was never even kill by Jason. I guess, they didn't want to do the Ginny at psychiatric hospital route, since 1981's Halloween 2 kinda did it first. Instead, the movie focus on a new batch of teenagers lead by Chrissy Higgins (Dana Kimmell) in a new location, Higgins Haven trying to have some vacation time, before the new school year on surprising Sunday, the 15th, not Friday the 13th. I wasn't impressed with any of the actors acting here. It was a bit jarring to see, mid 30s somethings, trying to act like teens. Not only that; unlike the other film, where most of the supporting characters were likable. Most of them in this movie, weren't likable! They were all, highly obnoxious! First off, you got Rick (Paul Kraka) whom loves, surprising and forcing sex on supposedly rape victims. Then you got the over-the-top Cheech & Chong rip-off, stoner, Charles 'Chuck Garth (David Katims) who looks like, he has step into the wrong set! Then you got the cheesy Michael Jackson's 'BAD' looking motorcycle gang that really had, no purpose in the film, just to serve as filler. Then you got the guy, Andy Beltrami (Jeffery Rodgers) and his pregnant girlfriend, Debbie Klein (Tracie Savage) whom gimmick was it, to walk on his hands. Then you got Debbie, whom I really don't know, why they had to try to kill her and unborn child. I guess, the producers really hated, teen pregnancies. Then you got the really horrible character, Shelly Finkelstein (Larry Zerner), whom I didn't like him, at all! He really ruins the film for me. Does he have mental problems or something!? Who does mean pranks like that!? Are you sure, this movie wasn't made as a comedy, because they all, look like a joke! The only person, besides Chrissy that was somewhat decent was Vera Sanchez (Catherine Parks) who had an eye on things. Honestly, for the most part, I wanted all of them to die, quick. It's a bad sign, if you cheer for the bad guy, more than the good guys. Anyways, the movie is full of silly 3-D gimmicks. We get to see, a number of mundane 3-D effects from Yo-Yo being tossed at us to juggling tricks. It seemed like they were really stretching, when coming up with ideas on how to use the 3-D in this film. Still, there were a number of really cool shots that was worth seeing, such as the harpoon gun or pitchfork scene. Still, some of the deaths in the film were edited in order to avoid an X rating, and you really can tell, where the cuts ends. The film also contains an infamous alternate ending in which the lead character Chris, played by Dana Kimmell, is decapitated by Jason at the conclusion. Though this sequence has never been commercially released, stills of it can be seen. Still, the ending, they did choose, was very lackluster, with all the fake-outs dream sequences. Despite all the blood and gore, this movie lacks the suspense, compare to the previous two. I really didn't find, the movie to be, that scary. After all, the movie has a funky disco soundtrack by Harry Manfredini that sounds like a Halloween dance-off party and lots of nudity that give anybody, a chubby. When first released, the film was intended to end the series as a trilogy. However unlike its sequel Friday the 13th Part IV The Final Chapter (1984) and the later film, Jason Goes to Hell The Final Friday (1993), Friday the 13th Part III did not include a moniker in its title to indicate it as such. Overall it's one of the films, you have to watch at least once, if you into the 1980's horror genre. Just don't think too much about it when watching. It's just one of those films you watch if you want cheap thrills, nothing more. "},{"Title":"A Dimension Like No Other In The Friday The 13th Franchise","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part 3 starts off where part 2 left off. Then the beginning credits role in 3-D. The main feature begins showing small store owners Harold(Steve Susskind), and Edna(Cheri Maugans) becoming Jason's first victims. When Chris(Dana Kimmell, Chuck(David Katims), Andy (Jeff Rogers), Debbie(Tracie Savage), and Shelly( Larry Zerner) travel to Chris' uncle's cabin 4 the weekend. As they pass by the store it brings back scary memories for Chris. On the way there they pick up Shelly's date, Vera( Catherine Park's). All seems to be going well as they approach the cabin. Once there Chris meets here boyfriend, Rick( Paul Kratka). While there Chris get's spooked, she starts to see things and becomes a little unnerved. Little does the group of friends know that Jason is back and the killing spree begins again. I liked this movie and it being in 3-D helped a little. The plot is good considering, and this is the first of the series where Jason sports the hockey mask. I wasn't familiar with the cast at all except for Tracie Savage. I only know Savage because she was a newscaster in Dayton, Ohio when I was growing up. This movie brings it, especially when Chris tells her story to Paul about her 1st encounter with Jason. The Lake scene at the end was a added surprise also, it will make some jump. It still makes my skin crawl, but not like the ending in the 1st one. This is not a bad sequel at all, in fact I prefer Part 3 over the Final Chapter. The 3-D effects are good; but they are nothing compared to today's 3-D magic. A great film that will still make you think twice about the joy's of camping D.Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"Jason looks good in 3D","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13th - PART III continues with the story of Jason's killing spree throughout the area of Camp Crystal Lake.Picking up right where the second one left off, Jason continues his slaughter at a small store where he murders the couple living there.We soon meet a group of teenagers, led by Chris Higgins (played by Dana Kimmell), who are going out to the lake for some summer fun. Jason meanwhile is hiding out in the Higgins barn watching the teens every move. Eventually, some members of a biker gang decide to check out the barn when Jason strikes.He also gets his infamous hockey mask in this sequel which has become a trademark for the horror movie genre. Many of the teenagers are murdered, and it's up to Chris to battle the evil madman.This film was originally presented in 3-D back in 1982. I would have loved to see this movie in 3D, but I was born in 1998 and I did not know anything about movies when I was young, but now I do.The hockey mask is why I put Jason Voorhees on my Top 10 Horror Movie Villains list and because of the way he kills his victims is just amazing. In the first and second Friday the 13th, he did not wear that hockey ask, but in the third film, he finally got the hockey mask.Dana Kimmel is amazing and the rest of the actors are just amazing. The ending to this film is a little odd, but most of the time in Friday the 13th movies, the endings can be very confusing, but in scary movies, the killers' living eye must snap open.If not, how can you make a sequel? A prequel? A interquel? Or a remake, reboot or a trilogy? If you want to keep the money flowing in, you have to keep the killer alive.Overall, Friday THE 13th - PART III is awesome and I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A flawed but hugely enjoyable film","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film is not as well paced in its first hour as the second film and it suffers from poor casting in the leads. Dana Kimmell, who plays Chris Higgins, is nowhere near good enough of an actress to play the lead role in any film and Paul Kafka, who plays Rick, can't act to save his life. His next on screen role wasn't for another 24 years, which isn't terribly surprising. Both of the film's supporting female stars, Tracie Savage and in particular Catherine Parks, would have been much better as Chris while Jeffrey Rogers should have probably been cast as Rick instead of Andy. The characters are all likable and some of them even seem like real people but I have to say that the bikers were more interesting! One thing that really bothered me about the film though was the fact that the Wild Bunch as they like to call themselves decide that it's a good idea to holiday within a few miles at most of an extraordinarily brutal murder spree which left eight people the day before and the killer is still at large, which is reported on the news at the beginning of this film. I suppose that you could argue that they didn't hear about it since they never mention it but that seems a bit far- fetched considering how extensively comparable events in real life are reported in the media. Failing that, have they no parents, friends or siblings who would have heard about the massacre with the good sense to warn them not to go? Besides which, you would think that the police would have the entire area cordoned off as Jason is still at large. In the previous film, the filmmakers at least had the good sense to move the action forward five years and even then the characters discussed Mrs Voorhees, Jason and the previous massacre.Released during the 3-D craze of the early 1980s, the filmmakers decided that it would be good idea to enhance the audience's illusion of depth perception for the third film. I'm not a big of 3-D but at least we were spared the film being entitled Friday the 13th Part 3-D as was the case with Jaws 3-D and Amityville 3-D, both of which were released in 1983. I think that 3-D is lazy and can be very irritating. I watched the film in 2-D but the fact that the film was shot in 3-D was still very obvious when things like the baseball bat and yo-yo come at the screen for no reason other than the fact that it's a 3-D film.However, I'd no such problem with the numerous scenes of murder, violence and mayhem, many of which were very well done and among the most gruesome to grace the series up to this point. I highly doubt that if I had watched the film in its intended format, I would have enjoyed than any more than I did. In fact, I would probably have enjoyed them less, if I'm perfectly honest.Overall, this is a flawed but nevertheless hugely enjoyable film which comes into its own in its second half, particularly the last half an hour. "},{"Title":"Brainless popcorn fun with the iconic hockey mask","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was actually the 4th Friday movie I ever saw as a kid, my local video shop had part 1, 2 and 8, but didn't have any more. A friend of mine had this on video and I was so desperate to own it that I bought it off him for 13 quid out of my pocket money and never looked back. I just loved it and even though I was already a fan of the series, seeing Jason get his infamous hockey mask for the first time just made me smile and just watched it over and over again.Well where do I start, for all those familiar with 1 and 2, then this one will come as no surprise and has all the right ingredients that makes this series work and viewing it again as a grown up, I do view it differently that I used to, I still love it though, even though it's not quite as perfect as I remember it. Firstly the 3D elements just too gimmicky and not used to full effect, and were just a blatant attempt for money grabbing and everything else like story and character development took a back seat. But some of the kill shots were pretty cool.The opening disco music scene which gets a lot of complaints, but personally I love it and justs adds to the cheese factor. But there a few small elements that don't work like the flashback to where Chris got attacked, just seemed muddled and not fully explored and was just thrown in to add more to the thin plot and just felt unnecessary. Then there's the dream sequence ending which just felt rushed and after some research I found out that it was just filmed because they couldn't go with the original intended downbeat ending where the survivor has her head chopped off, which would have been cool, but sadly didn't happen.But the positive aspects like I already said the iconic hockey mask was a genius touch to the proceedings and the death scenes are really cool we getting the eye popping scene which was awesome, spear gun in the eye and a guy chopped in half while doing a handstand was again brilliant. Even though the acting was quite to the level of the first 2 there were still some pretty decent performances. Larry Zerner who plays Shelly is one of the more developed and lovable characters in the franchise, Dana Kimmell plays one of the best final girls in the series, she proves more than a match for Jason, the 80's punks were hit and miss, plus the stoner characters just seemed to be there for the body count, but Richard Brooker who plays Jason definitely stands out as one of the best, bringing a hulking menacing, but human vibe to the character.All in all Friday The 13th Part 3 definitely ranks one of the best in the franchise, just don't expect any substance, it's just brainless popcorn fun with some cool killings. "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Entertaining And Memorable Sequel And One Of The Best In The Friday The 13th Series.","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th Part III is a terrific and entertaining sequel that combines wonderful direction,a fine cast,a great score and good special effects. All of those elements make Friday The 13th Part III one of best and most memorable films in the series.Taking place after the events in Part 2,Friday The 13th Part III has Jason(Richard Booker)who after surviving the events in Part 2 is on the loose and stalking another group of campers that includes Chris(Dana Kimmel)and her friends which will lead to terror,fright and a high body count.Friday The 13th Part III is a fantastic sequel and one of the better films in the Friday The 13th franchise that was another box office hit for the series and is the only Friday The 13th series to be filmed in 3-D which put the Friday The 13th series into pop culture status. Friday The 13th Part III doesn't give viewers anything new in the series and gives fans all of the familiar elements that are in Friday The 13th seriesthe young campers,a high body count,blood,gore and last but certainly not least seeing everyone's favorite Summer Camp killer Jason Voorhees doing what he does best for 90 minutes offering fans another marathon of slaying and we as the viewers are entertained and having fun. The kills in Part III are well done and creative and what really adds to the kills is the 3-D effect which makes it seem like your feeling the kills yourself. The blood and gore is also in great effect here because we see human limbs coming off as well a wonderful eyeball gag(you'll see)that is one of most memorable scenes. The atmosphere and look of Part III is one of best in the series especially during the night time scenes which are dark and mysterious and makes the some of the scenes more suspenseful and creepy whether Jason is in the scene or not. The atmosphere also adds to the chase scenes towards the end of the film which is one of the best chase scenes in the entire series and will keep you on the edge of your seat. And what about the main characters in Part III? Some of them are a combination of being interesting and forgettable because let's face characters and depth have never been the Friday The 13th franchises strongest suite because Everyone knows that the main attraction of this series is Jason Voorhees. Jason in Part III is in top form here in this film and is at his creepiest,hiding in the shadows,killing his victims in a vicious fashion in the best way that he knows how like the silent killer that he is stalking and hunting his prey like a shark in the water ready eat it victims and unleash his brutality. Perhaps the most famous scene in the film and in my opinion one of the best scenes in Horror movie history is the introduction of Jason's famous Hockey mask which made Jason not just a Horror icon or a Slasher movie icon but a movie icon in general. Where as Freddy Kruger has the finger claws,red and green sweater and fedora hat and Michael Myers has the white mask and butcher's knife The Hockey mask(along with the machete)helped define Jason and gave the character a symbol that makes Jason Voorhees unforgettable. The ending of Friday The 13th Part III is great and filled with intensity,suspense and surprises that will leave excited and fearful. A terrific ending.The cast is good. Richard Booker is excellent and memorable as Jason Voorhees,with Booker being creepy and intense. RIP Mr. Booker,you were one of the best Jason's. Dana Kimmel is wonderful as Chris,a the main heroine. Paul Krafta does a fine job as Rick,Chris' boyfriend. Tracie Savage and Jeffrey Rogers are good as Debbie and Andy,a couple. Catherine Parks is memorable as Vera,a friend of Chris'. Larry Zerner is funny as Shelly,a practical joker who has a crush on Vera. David Katims and Rachel Howard are Humorous as Chuck and Chili,an older couple. Nick Savage(Ali),Gloria Charles(Fox)and Kevin O'Brian(Loco)are fun and interesting as a Motorcycle gang.The direction by Joseph Zito is great,with Zito giving the movie a dark and moody atmosphere while giving the film a nice pace. Fine direction,Zito.The score by Harry Manfredini is another wonderful,suspenseful and intense score that adds to the film. Great score,Manfredini. I also like the opening Disco theme song that goes with the movie.The Special and Practical Make-up effects are fantastic,well-done and add to the movie. Great Special effects.In final word,if you love Horror Films or the Friday The 13th franchise,I highly suggest you see Friday The 13th Part III,a terrific,entertaining sequel that is one of the best films in the series. Highly Recommended. 9.5/10. "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 3D.....A New Dimension In Terror","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" My absolute favorite Friday the 13th film is Friday the 13th Part 3D.When Friday the 13th Part 3 starts, we find out that Jason never jumped through the window to attack Ginny in the last film, and that apparently she was the only one that survived, Paul had not. Jason is able to remove the machete from his shoulder and crawl away, moving onto another part of Crystal Lake to find more people to kill.Jason doesn't waste much time finding new victims, and now viewers get an idea of the size of Crystal Lake. Jason moves to another area where his fodder seemingly don't know what's been going on in the area. Even though the setting is still around Crystal Lake, the area has a farm look and feel to it, taking it out of the woods from the first two films and putting things out in the open.Chris, our go-to girl, is taking her friends out to her parents' cabin. She's there to show her friends a good time, and get over a traumatic experience she had there a while ago. On top of that, her old flame is there to spend the weekend with her, giving up a shot to hang with Mary Jo Conrad. Sorry to say Rick, you should have spent the weekend with Mary Jo.We get our usual teenagers here, the pot smokers and practical joker, the sexpots and the serious ones. You could actually point to this movie as having every single teenager clich in it, before they were clichs. One in particular, the practical joker Shelly, would change the entire face of the franchise, literally. Shelly introduces the world, and Jason, to the fabled hockey mask. A lot of people forget, Jason didn't get the mask until the third film, and boy, did it change the series.By the time the third installment of the franchise came around, the producers had decided to use a gimmick that was making its comeback in the early 80's, 3D. 3D films have existed in some form since 1915, but had been largely relegated to a niche in the motion picture industry because of the costly hardware and processes required to produce and display a 3D film.By the 1950's however, technology had come along well enough that many films used 3D to enjoy plenty of success, and for the most part, the technology worked. However, as with all gimmicks, people got tired of 3D and even though the technology was good, it wasn't perfected. So Hollywood did away with it, and the film industry wouldn't bring it back around until the 1980's.Friday the 13th Part 3 (marketed as Friday the 13th Part 3D) jumped on board the 3D bandwagon but not just for a few scenes in the movie, but rather the entire film. I didn't have the chance to see the film on the big screen, but thanks to HD TVs and the ability to put 3D onto DVDs and Blu Ray, I can get a pretty good idea of what people saw back in the day on the big screen.The deluxe version of the film comes with a 3D copy of the movie and glasses, and I can assure you it does in fact work. Not all of it is perfect however, and some of the effects are quite gimmicky, but there are some things that stick out. There is a depth to the film the entire time, and it looks pretty damn cool. Scenes where trees are blowing in the wind, bugs can be seen flying around, popcorn popping and some other things look great. I mean, it's nothing compared to the 3D movies of today, but you gotta think, 1982 3D technology actually working is pretty damn cool.However, the film really didn't need to be in 3D, and thanks to some of the best shots being centered around 3D, the movie lost a lot of its edge because 2D just doesn't work the same. Some of the kills look really bad in 2D, and that's a shame because I've always found the film to be pretty damn creepy.Steve Miner, who directed part two, did a good job here with the pacing of the film. You get kills every few minutes, plenty of jump scares and of course, Jason finally gets a face. The film uses the creepy vibes from the first two films, and at this point the franchise wasn't completely milked, so the formula works.One of my very few complaints is Jason's appearance from part two to three, and how it changes drastically. In Friday the 13th Part 2, Jason is a small guy with long hair, here he's a big guy who's bald, and yet it's only been a day since part two! I know the reason for the switch to a bigger guy, and I can say that it was actually for the best, but it's an annoying continuity error.Another issue I have with the film is the subplot of Chris being attacked in the woods and coming out to face her fears. We find out the person that attacked her is Jason, and we see this in a flashback sequence. The problem isn't with the idea, the problem is Jason is wearing the same clothes he does in this film, and those clothes he actually gets at the beginning of the movie! Big time error on the filmmakers part.Even with the films issues, the 3D effects that work are cool and Friday 3 brings everything you could want. A little sex, a lot of kills, and Jason finally gets his face. Oh, and a funky opening song to boot. "},{"Title":"Part 3 is scarier then the first 2","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first 2 Friday the 13th movie are very scary. But this one is scarier. This is one the scariest movies made before 1984. There are scarier movies like Friday the 13th IV the final chapter. Friday the 13th VI Jason live is also scarier. Friday the 13th VII the new blood is also scarier. Friday the 13th VIII Jason take Manhattan is also scarier. Jason goes to hell the final Friday is also scarier. But still a very scary movie. Great story line. Great acting. Great special effects. Jason is not a human. He is a zombie so I consider this horror fantasy. It is a great movie. See it. It is very scary. "},{"Title":"It could have been better.","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a really great entry in the series. Jasons got his famous mask, all the characters are pretty likable and enjoyable to watch, and kills are all really creative and the blood and gore is on full display. But it could have been better.The writing really makes the acting seem total garbage here, its not, trust me that it isn't. The acting isn't grade A level stuff but for the Friday series its pretty good but some of the Dialogue is just utter trash, like a monkey tried to write what he hears humans say, I don't think Brando could have made some of the lines sound natural.The 3D is also a pain in the ass. In 3D it gets irritating after about half an hour or so, and in 2D its utterly pointless and makes the film look really crappy, just a crap load of stuff from rakes, eyeballs, yo- yos, all of the above really being shoved into the camera. Makes you wish 3D was never invented really.The final is good old fashioned horror fun. Bodies being found all over the place, killer getting ever closer and the final 2 minutes or so are really disturbing. An unmasked Jason banging at the window is actually terrifying which considering this is the same character that went to space (in Jason X) thats surprising. Overall, could have been better but as it stands, its still a good entry in a mixed franchise. "},{"Title":"Lady in the lake??","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While I did like this movie as a good sequel and it blew away Jaws 3D at the box office in the same year, the ending really made me shake my head. If you notice, the name Jason is not spoken once throughout the movie and Chris refers to him as This hideous looking man when explaining her story to Rick and It's you! when Jason pulls off his mask to un-hang himself at the barn. With all this, she doesn't know who he is or his history at all, how then, can she dream up Mrs. Voorhees attacking her in the lake????? It makes zero sense. The rest of movie is fun and scary, the way F13 films should be. Kudos to the Rick's eyeball pop out and Vera's spear to the eye-in 3D, these are great effects. The lesser 3D effects are good with poles, juggling balls, red-hot fireplace pokers and yo yo's coming right at you. The replacement Crazy Ralph, Chili and Chuck were somewhat pathetic but Shelly and the bikers make up for them. The We don't accept no food stamps and Is this your rubber? scene along with the white biker's wimpy arms provided some much needed laughs. So, while it is not as good as Parts 2 or 4 and no where near the original, it is a quality Friday worth watching, especially in 3D, so pop on them glasses and enjoy. "},{"Title":"We don't accept no food stamps.","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason's back and this time he's got his trademark hockey mask that he would wear for the rest of the series. A pretty routine Friday sequel outside of that. Still entertaining though. This one doesn't have Jason killing camp counselors but he does find some other twenty-somethings to kill. He also wastes a multiethnic biker trio. Dana Kimmell is a pretty but bland 'final girl.' Tracie Savage brings the sexy this time. There's an annoying fat guy named Shelly, played by Larry Zerner, who I hated. I was counting the minutes until he was dead. The music score for this one has some nice funky '80s beats. It was filmed in 3D so there's lots of scenes where things are shoved in your face. Like when a crazy old man awkwardly thrusts an eyeball at the camera. Yes, I said an eyeball. The worst is when a guy plays with a yo-yo and we get a rather irritating point-of-view for that one. I'm sure audiences in 1982 were thrilled. My favorite scene is when two characters go to a gas station and are told by the rude cashier we don't accept no food stamps. Classic. "},{"Title":"Jason gets his mask and the Audience gets 3-D Mayhem","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part 3 in the series opens with a recap of the end of part 2. There isn't much reason given but Jason (Richard Brooker) kills a middle age couple at their store than heads back to camp Crystal Lake. A fresh new crop of teenagers have shown up to have sex and die. Part 3 Boasted some great 3-D effects at the theater and just recently on DVD. Returning Director Steve Miner uses the 3-D well and many of the deaths are very inventive using this gimmick. The cast is likable and Harry Manfredini's score is solid once again. This is the chapter when Jason gets his iconic hockey mask. His first kill wearing the mask is a classic as he harpoons a character in the eye. The story is by-the-numbers, like all the films in this series, so it comes down to the death scenes and this chapter has some great ones. One character has his head crushed and his eyeballs pop out of his head into the 3-D laps of the audience. One of the most violent deaths of the entire series happens to a character named Andy (Jeffrey Rogers). Andy is walking down a hallway on his hands and runs straight into Jason who brings the machete down and it just destroys his body. The end chase sequence between final girl Chris (Kimmell) and Jason happens in a barn and it has good suspense and some hair raising moments. In the end, Part 3 certainly doesn't deliver anything special, but delivers on what fans of this series expects. "},{"Title":"The famous Hockey Mask comes to be....","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I will openly admit I watched this when I was only about 7 years old and never revisited it like other films in the series. The reasoning was because I always heard this one was only memorable because of the hockey mask and that was it. I finally decided to watch it the other night and I came away pleasantly surprised at how great it is.I will not spoil the story but will tell you this much, it takes place 24 hours after Part 2 and has a great opening scene. Unfortunately the pacing is quite off in this one compared to the first two and there is a little more back story to our heroine this time around. This means it takes a little time to get to the actual killings but once they start its great to watch. Shelly is also one of my favorite characters in the series because of his humor and of course for what he provides our Jason.I wish I could have seen this in 3-d like it was originally meant to because the kills in this movie are the most brutal yet. Between the harpoon and the handstand kill(which is very sick and pleasing I admit), this movie out did its self and helped set up the rest of the series. I can see why some fans detest this movie but I love it. Even though it loses its scare factor from part 2, Jason actually runs in this movie and jumps off of barns. He is more menacing but is still human and not undead yet. For the people who read my part 2 review and noticed I scored this one slightly lower than part 2 but noticed I said I like this one better there is a simple reason. The kills in this movie are great and its a more fun ride than the previous two. I believe this movie started the series into an attractive ride and focused less on scaring the viewer. But the kills are still just as shocking and as usual you cant help but root for Jason in this movie. So I give this movie a 4 outta 5. Watch it after watching the previous two. "},{"Title":"How come you never scream when we have sex?","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For some reason I could never really get into this film. Some have said it was as good as the first, or even that it was the best version, but I just didn't agree.I think part of it was the characters. I never could care enough about them even to wish them evil. I have to admit that the spear-gun, poker, and hammock kills were really good. Probably the best of the lot. How come the good kills were reserved for the women? Well, the popping eyeball wasn't a woman. So much for the gore. How about the nudity. Julianna Guill was great in Friday the 13th; Kirsten Baker let it all hang out in Part II, and Debi Sue Voorhees was extremely hot in Part V. In Part III, we have just Tracie Savage showing off. Pretty weak in comparison to the others.Well, I liked the ending anyway. "},{"Title":"Ahh...just the same concept","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This seems to be the common thing in FTT movies - the concept is same! There are only minor differences in each sequel.In part 3, Chris and Rick , survivors of FTT Part 2, decide on go on another camp in the woods, not taking seriously the fact that Jason may be still there waiting for victims.In this, along with the regular wayward camp goers, a few others are included in the victim list. Apart from that, it;s basically the same as any FTT.Concept? Same old thing. Thrills? Nothing that will thrill or scare even a child. Effects?Not many and none scary. Music? Same old thing. Vulgarity? Like any other FTT film.And why I watched? Coz I like horror! "},{"Title":"Not a bad fun Friday","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Even though most of the actors in this third outing, need a firecracker up their arse, seriously, this flick shot in 3D, which I never saw that version, the normal one I first viewed probably back in 2004, I'd say, was a lot of fun. Again, we have a sex crazed couple, the boyfriend who likes to walk on his hands, more than his knees. Then we a red headed, movie freak/aspiring actor who likes masks to hide his plain features, and their female friend, Chris, returning to the scene of the crime, haunted by her recollections of the never dying Jason Voorhees. Chris meets her old boyfriend Derek, back up at the lake who tries to get her through this tough time. And then we have the slashings and the mutations by our lovable Jason, and this includes a middle aged couple at the start, running a market, the woman actress apparently used to date David Caruso at one stage. Yeah, believe it. We also have three bikers who our teen loving spirits clash with, but like all the others, all these three of course meet their demise. I loved the two hippies, Chuck and Chilli, that rode with our teenies, they were probably the only saving grace. I loved it especially when they smoked up their van. Check out the strained monologue between Chris and Derek. Typical Friday fare, not badly shot, but most of the cast here are in desperate need of acting lessons. "}{"Title":"I like most of the sequels but I would've been happy of it all ended here as this is the 2nd best Friday The 13th","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well it's hard going in depth to think of words to say for this review and I really don't want to talk about the story but I can't without doing so.The story of this movie starts off with showing the last 5 minutes of Part 2 with Jenny slamming Jason in the shoulder with his machete knocking him out for a few minutes and then after Jenny & Paul escape we see Jason pull the machete out of his shoulder and crawl away. So after stealing new clothes from a local couple who owns a local store and of course sends his thanks by murdering them. So he then hides in a barn by the lake when our lead girl Chris Higgins (Dana Kimmell) and her friends come to the lake for the weekend (also I will say she's one of the most attractive lead girls in the series) and one by one her friends are offed by Jason some of which very cool (the character Vera gets a harpoon in the eye & Andy gets a machete in the willy). Then we get to the climax where now its Chris & Jason going 1 on 1 and she actually has the smart idea of leaving however the car doesn't have any gas. Then in the barn she knocks out Jason puts a rope around his neck and hangs him but much to her horror and shock HE'S STILL ALIVE!!!! So then a biker who Jason knocks out tries to get revenge but is immediately killed (which is obviously time to stall for Chris) so after Jason kills the biker Chris takes the opportunity and puts an axe in Jason's head and he's still going for a few seconds before collapsing and seemingly dead. So the. Chris sleeps throughout the night in a boat and has a nightmare that Jason is still alive and comes after her but then she's dragged into the lake by Mrs. Voorhees but then she wakes up and freaks out and the. You question her sanity after that the camera zooms in on Jason's dead body and then an eerie shot of the lake ending the film.Now I said in the title that I'd be happy if the Friday The 13th films ended here (and doing research it really was supposed to end here) and I like the sequels but this should've been Jason's death an axe in the head no way he survives. Also I know about the wide consensus that the original trilogy of Friday The 13th with a human Jason are the best of the series and I somewhat agree with that. I say that because even though I like zombie Jason and a few of the zombie Jason films I prefer human Jason. Human Jason is better because he's more intimidating because he's human, he's one of us and this could be a real case scenario. Also this is my second favorite of the series because here I'd say Jason is either 75/25 or 50/50 because in Part 2 there's no doubt in your mind that Jason his human he felt pain, he was cunning, and he could be knocked down for the count but however in Friday The 13th Part 4 The Final Chapter he's more of a supernatural human because apparently not even an axe to the head could kill him & he has the strength of 1000 men. But here he's still human but this is where you see he begins to take a more supernatural turn because close to the end he crushes the character Rick's skull forcing an eye to pop out with his bare hands and obviously survive an axe to the head but despite that he still can feel pain and has emotion (as seen when he was limping throughout the last 15-20 minutes of the movie). Anyway this still stands as the Second best Friday The 13th behind Part 2. 4.5/5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Creates the definitive look for a slasher icon.","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The makers of Friday the 13th Part III sure had the right idea when it came down to creating a gimmick for this third entry in the series. What better feature to use than 3-D, which experienced something of a resurgence in the early 1980s? This leads to some pretty ingenious and memorable gags, and it doesn't matter if we can clearly see the strings manipulating the objects coming towards the camera, it's really all part of the fun, in this sequel which is more about the 3-D effects and excellent use of widescreen than graphic violence.The formula was really becoming like a well worn pair of shoes by this point, in a script (co-written by Martin Kitrosser, script supervisor on the first two movies) with a standard set-up of unknowing young folk hoping to have a good time in a remote cabin but instead falling prey to the maniacal Jason Voorhees.One will note just how unknowing these horny fools are they truly have no idea who this killer is; the name Jason is never even uttered here. He uses a variety of implements and methods - spear, head crushing, electrocution, the standard slashings and stabbings with his trusty machete, and as played by Richard Brooker, is a very stealthy and creepy character here, possessing that relentless Terminator like quality that we know and love so well. Harry Manfredini's score is highly enjoyable as always, and even gets a funky disco style reinvention during the opening and ending credits. In terms of the acting, it may very well be (mostly) amateur night at the movies, but that doesn't mean the characters and performances aren't at least entertaining. Standing out are trouble making bikers Ali (Nick Savage), Fox (Gloria Charles), and Loco (Kevin O'Brien) - definitely a priceless trio, Tommy Chong lookalike stoner Chuck (David Katims), and lovable, pathetic Shelly (the engaging Larry Zerner), the man who will go down in history as having provided Jason with the hockey mask that was to become part of the iconography of the horror genre. The lovely Dana Kimmell is an appealing final girl.Steve Miner, the man with the distinction of having helmed two F13 series sequels, Part 2 and this one, does a capable job; the movies' pacing is just fine, and its great moments are always timed well, with a healthy nod to the first film in terms of shots near the end, a healthy amount of humour, and a cracking finale with some wonderful chasing going on.The sentimental favourite in the franchise for this viewer (it was the first entry I saw), it remains great fun upon repeat viewings.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Sequel!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dana Kimmell, Paul Kratka and Larry Zerner star in this 1982 horror sequel. This picks up where the last film ended with Jason Voorhees killing a married couple. Soon, Chris (Kimmell) and her friends stay at a cabin near Crystal Lake. Chris not only runs into her ex-boyfriend, Rick (Kratka), but she and her friends deal with their practical joking friend, Shelly (Zerner) and 3 biker bullies. That's the least of their problems when they become hunted by Jason (Richard Brooker). Chris reveals to Rick that she was attacked 2 years before by a deformed man turning out to be Jason. After her friends and the bikers are killed, Chris becomes the only survivor who meets Jason face to face since she was first attacked. This sequel isn't bad and was originally shot in 3-D. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part III (1982)","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 50/100. Just when you thought it was safe to go back to Crystal Lake. The first hour of the film is almost a carbon copy of the second. Dana Kimmell does a good job following in the footsteps of other Friday girls Adrienne King and Amy Steel, but unlike the first two films the rest of the cast of teens are annoying. Larry Zerner's character of Shelly in particular is almost unbearable to watch. They try to make the character sympathetic but he just comes off an irritating and nosy mess. Being a Reagan era 3D movie, the film is full of gimmicky moments of characters consistently poking sharp objects at the screen. Viewing in 2D can cause these moments to take away from the serious tone of the film, so watching in the intended 3D is best if possible. And once again Miner shows the last five minutes of the final film which combined with the opening credits, wastes roughly eight minutes. The use of techno music was a mistake, and the surprise dream endings are really starting to get me rolling my eyes. This Friday is famous for being the first to put the old style hockey mask on Jason. The long awaited reveal of Jason strolling down the pier first dawning the mask, as well as other impressive kills heightened by an even more menacing Jason keep an otherwise brush away movie from a lower grade in the mid to high forties. Although the movie isn't that good by any means, the decision to throw on the Hockey masks helped make this movie directly responsible for creating one of Horror's greatest villains as well as inspiring thousands of kids to throw away their Spider-Man costumes, and through on the jumpsuit and mask. Also features the handstand death, one of the more effectively executed kills in the series. "},{"Title":"The Bodies continue to pile in the phenomenal Horror Series","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th, the entire franchise, is a lot of things. For one it is absolutely an acquired taste. I mean the first several instalments which I am watching in order are essentially the same. Friday the 13th features more of a story and a background to set up the series, the second instalment literally is just a pile up of bodies and now Friday the 13th Part 3 features a new group of youngsters who fall victim to the one and only Jason Voorhees. Basically to enjoy these films and truly become a fan of them you have to enjoy the lore they create, and enjoy them coming up with new and fantastic ways for Jason to cut his terror through a new group of campers or some variation. This instalment is most important because it gives Jason two of his most iconic features. One if of course the Hockey Mask that is synonymous with him, and the large gash on the forehead of the mask. Friday the 13th is about nudity, blood, teenagers, and Jason and Part 3 doesn't disappoint. Is it brilliant? No. It's the same formula as part two only the cast is a little better and the deaths are amped up. The attempt at a back story in this case is a young woman who had met up with Jason years ago in the woods. She returns to the farm with her friends to try and get over that memory.Because Friday films usually have such a large and varied cast I am only going to call out the performances that are main characters or characters that do actually stand out. Dana Kimmell is our scream queen this time around. She plays Chris, the heroine who saw Jason years ago and is faced with him again. She does as well as any previous or future scream queens in the series. She isn't particularly stand out but does well. Paul Kratka plays her estranged boyfriend Rick. He is monotone and not the greatest actor but fits her decently well. Larry Zerner is Shelly, who is a legend in Friday lore because it is his mask that Jason takes which lasts the rest of the entire series to date. Zerner is probably the most entertaining and probably the best performer in the film. Jeffrey Rogers is also decent as one of the victims, Andy whose death is pretty unique and tailored to a particular talent Rogers has of walking on his hands. Richard Brooker takes up the role of Jason and does a good job of carrying on the character from Steve Dash in part 2. I don't think Jason really reaches his stride until Kane Hodder took over the character.One of the interesting points about Friday the 13th Part 3 is the fact that it was shown in 3D. The DVD copy I have of this film does actually have a 3D version and two pairs of the old red and white cyan glasses. I started watching it in 3D because there are definitely some cool aspects of 3D in it but it became annoying in the first half hour wearing the paper glasses. Still they were ahead of their time and actually made the 3D work. Steve Miner returned to helm the third instalment which is always good to keep consistency in check. Miner knows what people want to see and not to mess with what works. To some this film and the previous ones would seem atrocious, silly, predictable but to true slasher/horror fans this is what makes us tick. Good vs Evil, a killer that can't be stopped, ridiculous over the top kills, and a campy silly good time. The series continues! 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Entry","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't say that because Jason gets his hockey mask in this sequel. It's because the film was what a horror film should be scary. The actors were bland at times, but they portrayed likable characters. We see some brutal, original deaths as well. Vera getting the ole' harpoon in the eye still makes me cringe. Jason's choice to hide in a dimly-lit barn was perfect. Seeing that monstrosity emerging from the shadows could give a robot the shivers. The only thing I didn't care for was the Voorhee's pop-up dream sequence at the end. They should've used Jason decapitating Chris instead. Speaking of Jason, Richard Brooker's portrayal of the killer is the most powerful out of all the actors who've played him. They've all done great work, but Brooker really stands out. I loved how he smashed his head through the van's window as he tried to free himself. His peering out the window of the cabin is the creepiest Jason scene, in my opinion. Plus, the make-up used on the character was totally disgusting and unsettling. You won't be disappointed with this one. Watch it! "},{"Title":"First roundabout with hockey mask and machete.","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It takes some time for Friday the 13th Part 3 to leave an impression, but the impression definitely comes when Jason puts on the hockey-mask (for the first time in the franchise) and tumbles down to the seaside carrying a harpoon, aims coolly and fires an arrow through the eye of a victim. Before that, it looks, feels and acts way too much alike the two predecessors, and there's few things to enjoy except three local hoodlums who gets mixed up with farming. The kills are occasionally homaging the first film, but gladly we get a couple of memorable blood-sprouts; the aforementioned harpoon-kill (arguably the finest in the series so far) and country boy getting his head smashed before being thrown through a window. Friday the 13th Part 3 is arguably the best so far, solely because Jason puts on the famous mask and starts fumbling and jumbling through the forest. "},{"Title":"That Hockey-Machete Wileding Maniac!","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen this Friday the 13th film in 3-D but I don't care, it's just good the way it is and 3-D should not have been invented. It just ruins great films like these.My 4th fav Friday the 13th film, this one holds a lot of suspense. I believe this to be one of the more scarier Friday the 13th films for many reasons. One Jason strikes back the day after, two he's more deformed than ever, and 3 he finally gets his Hockey Mask from Shelly!? Anyway moving on, after the teens supposedly killed Jason in the 2nd Friday, 24 hours later, Jason seems to return to the camp grounds to continue his bloody hacking of horny, sex feasted, druggie teens. Some teens decide to go to the camp for campy fun. Jason then comes back with more haunting and hellish kills.Now I know some people have got a problem with the plot and are wondering why Steve Miner set Friday III 24 hours after Friday II. To be honest, shouldn't it be called Saturday the 14th. Oh well, in a way I do find that kinda creepy that he just stalks people 24 hours.There are some other things that might make people laugh and some silly scenes are displayed but oh well, it's a Jason film. And definitely one of his better ones. At times I did find the plot a bit wasted but oh well, it's not a major flaw.To be honest this was suspenseful. And like Friday's 1, 2, 4 & 6. Borrow it on a Friday night, sit back and relax, and enjoy another bloody Friday.7/10 "},{"Title":"Jason Gets His Hockey Mask","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason gets his hockey mask, its in 3D, its a slasher movie. You'd think it's the best film right? Unforantly, no, it's one of the worst. It's very boring, the charters aren't very likable, and very unmemorable kills. You need to see this in 3D, it has great 3D, and if not you'll be miserable watching a Jaws 3 like movie, a 2D 3D movie. The film is fun, I guess, but not very good. Jason is ugly, he has a huge butt chin and his mask looks like it's made of plastic. The charters are very ugly, escpacily Debby, Shelly, and Chris. Many of the kills are simple, uncreative kills. The only kill I've never heared of is a rake to the chest. All the other kills are overused and simple. It's just boring and bad. It does have some good moments, but not really. The final chase scene is great, but the rest of the movie is boring. Still see it though. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Jason is back ...... again !","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After escaping death at the hands of two teenagers from the last film Jason changes his clothes , kills more teenagers and picks up his hockey mask up on the way. A simple story and pretty much a rehash of the previous film but with more gore and more entertaining characters who you half will to survive unlike the last film where they are all annoying and stupid and you wish Jason killed everyone of them. I should also mention all of the girls are very attractive without exception which is a nice change from the last film. Jason gets his infamous hockey mask here and that is pretty much the only thing new in this film but still perfectly watchable and this is the last good film in the series so enjoy it! "}{"Title":"The hockey mask legend is born","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the film that introduced us to the hockey mask and was originally in 3-D. It's a shame that's all it really offers though. Watching the 3-D version now will just leave you with a horrible headache. I actually prefer the film in 2-D. The nudity in the film is also rather light and before you jump on me for saying that, that's one of the main things you look forward to in a Friday the 13th film; Jason Voorhees, inventive kills, T&A, and maybe a few laughs. That's what makes the Friday the 13th films fun. Especially compared to the first two films, sideboob and a brief glimpse in the shower doesn't really cut it. I guess what really ruined it for me was the homages to the first film. By the way, what was up with the ending? And why does Mrs. Voorhees suddenly have her head again? It wasn't a bad idea to do a few throwbacks to the original, but it felt like too much by the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Jason Vorrhees in 3-D!.........Yeah.","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part III-3D is not bad. Sure if you get the 2-D DVD you will find that there are a bunch of things coming out at you. But there's no 3-D so nothing truly is coming out at you, but luckily there is a 3-D DVD that got released last year, that comes with 2 pairs of glasses. Needless to say the 3-D does not work to well, unless you are standing far enough away. (To bad they could not use the Real-D 3-D glasses) This movie was released during the 1980's 3-D craze. When 3-D was a cheap gimmick instead of an expensive gimmick. No that we have all of that out of the way let's get on to the actual film. The acting is corny, and all the characters (except for Jason) are pretty forgettable. No one really sticks out except for the slasher himself. Next is the plot. It's an okay plot. but unfortunately does not stick out in the series. The only thing memorable about this film is that this is where Jason gets his trademark hockey mask. He would have this for the rest of the series. The effects in this movie are good, for the most part. So in the end, this is an okay slasher film so check it out if you want. "},{"Title":"I have warned thee!","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not as good as number 2 but definitely more fun. This was the first of the series not only to have the hockey mask but also to feature a hulking Jason (rather than the average guy he was in number 2...well, sort of average....). Also, since Ralph from the previous films is dead, they had some random bum lying in the middle of the road as the Doomsayer. He's hilarious not only because his scene starts off innocently enough, but also because he doesn't have any other scenes and because (for some unexplained reason) he carries around a disembodied eye. I really wish this guy would've been in one of the sequels, but I guess he just didn't have the same impact on viewers that crazy Ralph did. Also, like number 2, this attempts to ape the final scare from the first film. But the results are, to put it lightly, moronic. Besides the nutty homeless guy, the only character I really like in this one is Shelly. He's the token nerd who's significant for two reasons. One, he's hilarious. His incessant and gruesome practical jokes (possibly ripped from Pete Walker's proto-slasher The Flesh and Blood Show) annoy his friends so much that I'm surprised they still talk to him. Two, his character is the one who brings along the hockey mask that Jason goes on to wear in all the sequels! So this is indeed a very important character. The others annoy me to no end. Dana Kimmell as Chris is one of the worst heroines in Friday history. Every word out of her mouth sounds so snotty that I'd swear she can't even help it. Her boyfriend, played by Paul Kratka, is as dumb as a bag of rocks. I'm willing to forgive him only because he has the coolest, most eye-popping death scene in the movie. Come to think of it, I also kind of liked the couple from the beginning of the movie, but they don't last too long. Steve Miner returns from the excellent Friday the 13th Part II, but his work here isn't quite as great. The frame is filled out nicely, and there's a number of moody tracking shots, but it falls victim to the film the movie around the 3D gimmick rather than manipulate the 3D gimmick to suit the movie. Still, there's a number of great moments. I love the first scene of Jason in his mask - the wide shots of him approaching the girl are very creepy, especially with that moody Manfredini score in the background.I was very excited to see this one in 3D, but sadly the DVD suffers from a sort of double vision effect, rendering the 3D almost worthless. Does anyone know if the Blu-ray is any better? I need to see my popcorn popping scene in glorious 3D! "},{"Title":"average slasher film, but forgettable Friday sequel","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part 3 just kind of blends into the slasher crowd. it's not particularly scary, not very memorable, the deaths aren't as creative as other installments, not T&A is this one, boys, no particularly good actors who went onto do anything, the heroine is the worst in any slasher film, (even worst than Gretchen of Offerings)who Jason raped a few years back, the only good thing is funny man Shelley, his antics crack me up, the totally out-of-place disco theme and Jason's hockey mask appears for the first time. Hell, yeah! in the end, this tends to be a weak, disappointing entry in the Frdiay franchise. if you want my opinion, skip and check out Graduation Day, its much better "},{"Title":"An entertaining, if not perfect, sequel to the series.","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Friday The 13th Part III' doesn't break any new ground whatsoever.It's a slasher movie that has the same plot as most of them do A killer stalks a bunch of drug- using teenagers at a summer camp.We've all seen it before, but that doesn't mean the movie is bad.As you can expect from early 80's horror flicks, there's some cheap dialog and acting.But that's something we all go through when we see a movie or two.At least the acting was better than the trashy dialog in part 5.'Friday The 13th Part III' was a 3-D movie way back then when it first came out.Some of the effects aren't exactly Oscar worthy, but seeing an eyeball pop out towards the screen is always entertaining.It's a shame that I will probably never see the 3-D version since I own the regular DVD.Overall, good, but not great, sequel. "},{"Title":"Not that good sadly, but has a few highlights","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part III isn't really a good entry in the series. I liked it's two prequels more. Why? Part III doesn't really deliver anything new. There are a few nice, little scenes that do work, but for the most part the movie consists of awful acting, boring characters and a weak story.About the only good thing in the film is Jason, who evolves even more since his last picture. He gets his trademark ice hockey mask in this movie too.So if you are a fan of Jason, go watch it; but there aren't really any other reasons to watch this.5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Jason stumbles","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Even without seeing it in 3D, it is evident Part 3 was shot for 3D exploitation purposes. Things, such as Jason's grubby hands and various weapons, are constantly flying at the camera. It was probably fun to watch this second sequel in 3D, although it is is one of the dullest Jason flicks in the series. Jason at the very least is finally sporting a hockey mask, but the actor playing Jason clearly was given no sharper directions than to chase after various teens and kill them. He even appears to stumble once or twice. It must be the mask. This is definitely not Kane Hodder's Jason, which had real presence. Plot-wise, there is no plot. Just poor stumbling Jason chasing after and mowing down a bunch of nitwit kids. To be fair, the supernatural, unkillable, Frankenstein-like Jason will not make his appearance for another sequel or two. But this Jason looks like a punk. After all, a slip of a girl ends up besting him. Still, any Jason flick is better than all of the HALLOWEEN sequels strung together. "},{"Title":"The 3D Ruined it","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Despite giving the movie a bad review, it can still be watched just to laugh at how absurd it is.Now this movie happens to be in 3D and that really screws up the movie. The actors, who are terrible in the by the way, are constantly pointing their fingers and objects towards the camera in the hopes to amaze people with some 3D technology but they just end up giving you a massive headache. Totally cheesy too, but you have to laugh when someone does this which puts the movie in the so bad it's good category.The kills are actually pretty good, especially with the guy walking on his hands but they're just ruined by the fact that they're still pointing things at the camera as they die.However, I love how this movie shows the origin of the hockey mask which became the classic look of this murderer. The problem is that the mask looks very cheap looking and Jason pretty much looks like a normal guy of average height. He really should be taller and larger, because he didn't look scary at all. "},{"Title":"Predictable, moronically stupid, and a TON of fun!","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Franchises that go on forever typically start strong and get worse over time. Not so with Friday the 13th - the first two installments are mediocre slasher films but the series really hit its stride with Parts III and IV (and then hit the nadir with Part V ... then got okay again in part VI ... then dumb again, etc.).In my humble opinion, Part III is the second best of the series right after The Final Chapter. It's a bad film by any stretch, with horrible dialogue and acting, many moments of bad camp and a completely cheesy disco theme. Still, I loved every second of it. Richard Brooker's version of Jason Vorhees as a deformed, murderous hick was by far my favorite - I like it better when Jason is burly like a truck driver and runs around a lot. This is also the film when Jason gets his hockey mask, in a scene that isn't nearly as iconic as you might have guessed. There are some memorably creative / gross kills, and the best damn final chase scene in the entire series. Jason appears without his mask for some of the run time and he's pretty creepy. I even liked the fake / dream ending.This film is horrible cheesy and stupid but it's a really enjoyable guilty pleasure and a pretty solid example of the slasher genre. I'd sooner recommend The Final Chapter but if you like that, give Part 3 a try. Trust me, plot is not the strong suit of the series and you'll miss nothing by watching them out of order. "},{"Title":"The Hockey Mask!","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The opening is recaps of Part 2's exciting climax.Viewers are treated to zany music from Harry Manfredini during the intro credits that seems abit out of place for a Friday The 13th film.On the night of the day after Ginny's plight of survival, we have a couple that run a ma and pa mini mart in the general area of the murders. Edna is scalding her procrastinating husband Harold about chores. On the television a fleeting news report authorities are hailing the crime the worst ever in local history and have been combing the area for more bodies since dawn. This sequence involving minor characters is a pleasant mixture of comedy and horror but it is also rather long running nearly ten minutes with a barrage of silly false starts and 3D gimmicks. Edna even sees Jason in the shadows outside but mistakes him for her husband. Easy opportunity victims.Now the central players enter the picture, Chris Higgins (Dana Kimmell) is driving her van full of friends up to her parent's cabin at Higgins Haven to enjoy the weekend but first they have to pick up Vera a blind date set up with Shelly by his roommate Andy, also in the van is Andy's pregnant girlfriend Deb, and couple of potheads named Chuck and Chili F13's very own Cheech And Chong.They stop outside Vera's home where Shelly's asked to come out to meet his date date but the humorous muffled response from the bowels of the van are Bring her to me! Chris tells Andy and Deb that they are going up to the cabin to have fun not to mind her that it has been two years since she has been up there. A hint of a terrible experience in her past at the cabin.But Shelly does exit the van and viewers learn he has a obnoxious habit of playing scary pranks on people. Andy chides him to quite doing those things and not to embarrass him. Shelly's answer is Could you be yourself if you looked like this? hinting at personal issues of condescending self esteem.Back in the van and on the road they pass Edna and Harold 's mini mart watching the medical staff load the couple's bagged bodies up into a EMR vehicle. An ominous atmosphere hangs over the group in the van Deb says encouraging words to Chris. The first of two scary omens.Next omen they nearly run over a sleeping hobo in the road but once wakened by the gang he with a disembodied eyeball removed from his pocket and hung-over fueled rants escalating into warnings look upon this omen go back from whence ye came I have warned thee I have warned thee. The sight of the disembodied eye repulses the gang to scramble back to the van ignoring the old man's gibberish they drive around him.Upon arrival to the cabin Chris' boyfriend Rick surprises her with a playful scare and the group begins to unpack and rooms are determined. Everyone is in cheery moods until Shelly pulls a prank on Chris that ruins it. Vera and Shelley leave for the store in Rick's VW bug.The blind dates are harassed by a trio of motorcycle gangsters Ali, Loco, and Ali's girlfriend Fox at the register in the store and extorted of $20. But Shelley guarantees writ in stone the wrath of the bikers by striking their bikes down with Rick's VW bug making an attempt to flee back to the cabin. Ki-ki-ki-ma-ma-ma Shots of Jason partially in picture in the foreground spying on the kids from behind barns and through windows foreshadow the coming massacre.This is my second favorite Friday The 13th movie. Livelier characters than the two previous IMHO dull characterless tensionless Fridays with some funny lines, campy moments, and some of the best on screen kills offered in the franchise.Shelly Is that all you two are going to do this weekend? Is smoke dope? Chuck Why not man is there a law against it? Shelly There are better things to do with your life! Chuck Like what? Chili I can't think of anything? Also there is a undeniable post traumatic abuction and rape subtext ruling in Chris and Rick 's relationship that the traumatic event of 2 years ago spoken of and the couple's lack of bedroom intimacy is related.The film drops a lot of obvious information, Rick snickers cold in here when Chris pushes his playful advances away. Another example Rick loading hay bails into the loft of the barn he remarks this is sweat of a worker not of a lover. And again, three hours a day to fulfill our needs, one in the morning, two in the evening. Before she recounts to Rick what exactly happened that day two years ago just moments earlier Rick whines about barriers coming between them all the time suggesting Chris is unusually frigid.And her confession to Rick of the real reason for coming back to the cabin and the woods where she was abducted is to prove something to myself, prove I am stronger than I think I am. Chris and her courage and Shelly and his faults are sympathetic qualities a refreshing change in the slasher genre.By far Richard Brooker is my favorite Jason Voorhees he plays up to the role of a mongoloid mass murderer with brilliant subtleties. He is a pleasure to watch. The climax in the barn (always the dreaded barn) has become iconic among F13 finishes in fact Part V attempts this to much inferior effect. "}{"Title":"no sun, no sex? yes there is sex, but no nudity","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am gong to try to show that part 3 is not a very scary part of the series.it must be very cool to see this movie in 3D. anyway, it was fun to watch it on a normal DVD too. but I was a bit disappointed, because Jason wasn't as creepy as I remembered he was in Friday the 13th part 3. but hey, don't forget that the first time I saw it, I was only 9 years old or something. in the world of a 9 year old, everything is creepy.but the story remains cool, just the way I remembered it. even better, because now I understand a lot of things better. like sex, for instance. if you're looking for nudity, however, this film ain't gonna please you. yes, there is somebody naked, and yes, that's a woman. so far so good, but the director doesn't show anything. you're watching her taking a shower, but you do not get to see a thing. that's stupid. why would you tingle the senses of your audience with a shower without showing anything? beside of that, the characters are cool and well performed and with good background information.but what's this with Jason? is he killed? did he got away? and what's that corpse of him we see at the end? did he get away, but die anyway? what a stupid way to end a horror movie like that. now I will have to wait until tomorrow to see part 4.conclusion part 3 has got much drama, less horror (that's my opinion). "},{"Title":"Who are you?  What are you doing?  Hey cut that out right now, that's NOT FUNNY!","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" SO......everyone's favorite hillbilly bumpkin serial killer finally decides to find some direction in his life....Part 3 (in 3-D....cool little gimmick) isn't that bad....OK, it's not really that GOOD, either, but what do you expect from a shoestring budget? What do we get that we haven't seen before? -We don't have all the cool cabins by the lake where the surviving heroine must dodge every corner from the hydrocephalic killer (that's bad), BUT we have a really creepy farm (complete with barn and outhouse) with a lot of creepy corners of its own (that's good).-We have to suffer through about a minute and a half of crappy disco music as the beginning credits roll (that's bad), but otherwise, Harry Manfredini stomps out a great score for this one (a bit of a rehash of the first two, but the last reel has some GREAT chase music, and that's GOOD).-We don't get a single blond haired girl, be she heroine or victim (that's bad), BUT we DO get three bombshell brunettes and a chunky black haired pothead who either get naked or look good in the clothes they are in (that's good....well, luckily, the pothead chick does NOT take her clothes off....again, very very VERY good).-We get all the same great kills with less gore (that's bad....), BUT...we get them in super cool 3-D (that's GOOD).-For over 26 years, Paramount Pictures would not release a 3-D version of the film in VHS or DVD--making all those gore-free killings pretty much POINTLESS (that's bad), BUT due to high viewer demand, they finally caved to the fans' demands and released it in all its three dimensional glory (that's good....not as good as I'd hoped, but damn it's cool watching Rick's eyeball pop RIGHT out atcha....).-oh, and Jason finally gets his damned hockey mask....that's VERY good! OK, that pretty much sums up the movie.....it ain't at the camp anymore, four chicks and their horny boyfriends go on a vacation of the damned, you get an eyeball, and Jason decides to play Goalie for the first of 10 times.LOL, I'm teasing....well maybe not, but that's pretty much it...The acting, is to say the least, BAD, but there is actually a good humor that runs through the length of the film. You don't get the deeper character development you manage to get out of The Final Chapter and a few of the subsequent films, but you will actually grow to like some of the doomed campers (particularly Shelly and Vera....the film's odd couple.....and you end up pretty dang surprised that Vera bites it, because in all honesty, her character is better developed and more all-around likable than the film's solo survivor, Chris Higgins). There is an interesting side note with a biker gang, a grocery store manager on a crapper, and a Crazy Ralph-esquire doomsday prophet. Pretty much all of the familiar clichs are here (the weird fat guy, the jock guy, the stoners, the hot chick...OK, several of those), and we even get a strange little back story that really adds nothing to our surviving camper's likability quotient....but DOES add a little bit of tension between Chris and Jason that we have not seen in the series yet (but an idea that Part 8 eventually tries to duplicate....even more poorly than this one does....at least in this one, it's an ORIGINAL idea...).The chase scene is a fairly big stand-out in the movie....it starts with a BANG as Chris finds the first body, and it doesn't let up from there....even if her annoying moaning and screaming gets on your nerves as bad as it did mine, the fight that she puts up with Jason will be appreciated by any horror fan. With the exception of the Final Chapter, this chase scene is the best (and, arguably better, depending on what you like in a good chase scene) of the series. Jason sustains decent damage, but as we all know, Mr Voorhees takes a lickin' and keeps on tickin'.....and even though the big scare moment at the very end is TOTALLY ripped off from the original, you just can't help but be creeped out by the way Jason just appears in that upstairs bedroom window watching Chris in the canoe.OK, there ya have it....not a masterpiece, and in all honesty, barely even worthy of an R rating (seriously....I've seen some PG-13 flicks with more violence, F-word, and bare breasts than this film), but it's definitely a worthy addition to the franchise...in fact, none of the first four are bad at all. DEFINITELY better than the other 3-D gimmick films of the early 80's (ever notice how Jaws 3-D, Amityville 3-D, and this one are all the THIRD pics in their series'?.....hmmm.....maybe Halloween 3 shoulda been in 3-D....but then again, nothing could save that slop....but i digress). If you are new to the franchise, this one is a great little campy movie to see, and if you are a fan, go pick up the new 3-D DVD version! "},{"Title":"Jason got a hockey mask","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The third film in the series is not too different from the first two except in one single but important detail JASON finally got his trademark; the hockey mask. The plot setting is not the Crystal Lake camp anymore but the surroundings, also in the countryside and in the woods of course (in spite of not being in the camp the setting is very similar). The characters, the suspense, the soundtrack, the deaths and even the clichs are pretty much the same. I would mention two deaths the one in the lake when JASON shot a girl in the eye with an arrow, and when he slice a guy which was standing with his feet up in two. In this film we can also see the true face of JASON for several times which is not very common in the series I think... "},{"Title":"Friday The 13th Peeks At 3","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part 3 is easily the best installment to date. From the use of Manfredini's music to the forlorn setting, this Friday is one of the more effective entries. It's documented that this film was a rush job. Filmed in about a month (or less). So even though the technical high points of this movie may very well have been by accident this film never the less boasts a lot of creepy positives! The setting alone (obviously not filmed anywhere near the site of 1 or 2) makes for a lot of chills. And Richard Brooker as Jason provides a very menacing presents on screen and with Miner's direction Jason's presents is also felt off screen as well. As the second act begins setting things up for the climax, you can immediately sense doom among the remaining characters. The other Friday movies are pretty good, but this one stands at the top of the heap. Weather or not this was a fluke or the work of creative vision I don't know, but part 3 is number 1. "},{"Title":"Part 3 Not For Me...Jason Moans?","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The only thing that I can honestly say that saves this film from complete disaster is that Jason gets his hockey mask! A much scarier Jason than the sack-head from Part 2. How he gets it you'll have to watch and see for yourself...OK, Part 3 starts off showing the last scene from Part 2 to get us caught back up on the action. From that we are introduced to a couple who own a small store that is built in with their house. Also it appears that the woman owns the man as well, as she is very cranky and complaining about him. We kind of feel sorry for the guy, but we want Jason to shut that B***h up! Well, we know what happens to story-filling actors, so let's move on to the naive teens down on the farm...Horrible acting here. This is what sets this film back from Part 2. I wanted to like the characters, but the only two I really could say that I liked was Shelly and Chris. And it wasn't really their acting (because like I said, the acting was pitiful), but I liked the characters. Shelly was the curly-headed guy that played all the horrible jokes that everyone else seemed to hate (but I liked them). And of course Chris was our heroine. Another thing the film fails to do is catch us up on what happened to Chris when her parents found her. We basically had to fill in our own thoughts there. She was attacked by a man in the woods. Well, yeah...Jason obviously, and that becomes apparent when she sees his face again near the end of the movie and says, It's you! It can't be! You're dead! ...or something like that. One scene I found funny was when Chris was hiding in the closet upstairs, and after Jason chopped at the door with an ax, she came at him with the knife slashing and stabbing him in the leg...Jason grunted and moaned! The biker gang could have been a nice touch if they would have been used a little differently. But then again, story-filling actors play story-filling roles... And Rick the hick, I wanted him dead from the moment his character was introduced! Oh, and the scene near the end with Mrs. Voorhees coming out of the water, IMO, was either just a dream Chris was having, or it was to pay homage to the original Friday the 13th when Jason did the same thing at the end of it.All in all, this is one of the weaker films in the series thanks to some horrific acting and bad characters. The only true bright spot was Jason getting his mask. I would have liked to give it a higher rating than 5 out of 10, but the acting was just that damn bad... "},{"Title":"best in the series (has 1 spoiler)","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" i have seen all of the movies with our hockey masked friend in them and this is my favorite one! the reason i loved this part is because Jason is always doing something and he kills people with cool things like with the gun thing when he shot that lady in the eye. and best of all you get to see him a lot unlike on the 9th movie called Jason goes to hell. this is only the best of the Friday the 13ths but Freddy vs. Jason is way better!!! you will like this movie and get some popcorn when you watch it and have a friend over at your house and you will have fun!!! that is about all i can tell you about this movie because I'm not good at explaining horror films. get this movie and enjoy it!!! "},{"Title":"Part 3 Gets Two Thumbs Up!","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time recently, and felt that it was so good that I should write a review. In Friday the 13th, Part III, more teens die, and the endless bloodshed of Jason Voorhees continues as he avenges his mothers death. This is the one where Jason wears his famous hockey mask for the first time, after he kills the previous owner and steals it of course. In the story, some bikers come into conflict with the teens that are staying at this old barn for the weekend. While there sabotaging the teens equipment, Jason enters and kills them, almost all of them. To know who he left alive, you will just have to watch it, won't you. If you do watch the movie, it is best to start at the beginning with the original Friday the 13th. And the next installment is gorier, and is not The Final Chapter. Funtoid A glimpse of this film can be spotted in the film Murphy's Romance with Sally Field and James Garner. "},{"Title":"Jason, teens, bikers and the barn of dooooom.","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" More teens head out to a farmhouse at Crystal Lake, unknowingly to them there were some brutal murders committed by a madman within the campsite area just the day before. And there's no exception to the trend here, as Jason gets around to picking off the group and he also encounters some bikers along the way, while hiding about in a barn. If you want to hear something original and professional, well that ain't going to happen on this instalment&#x85; so don't hang around. But I guess you'll know what you're getting yourself into, anyway. So, what we got here is Jason in 3-D land, but most likely you won't get to see it in 3-D, which makes the gimmick very tacky and flat with its constant prodding. The yo-yo madness takes the cake! Actually, it would've been tacky anyhow&#x85; but still definitely way more fun. Part 3 is my favourite flick in the rancid series, which wasn't always the case, but with repeat viewings it has really grown on me. I find it enjoyably clunky, despite it having some very nihilistic and unforgettable slaughters. But how can you go past the infamous trademark that bestows itself on Jason, to help him become an icon figure in the horror genre. You can thank the practical joker, Shelly for the noteworthy hockey mask. Although, I found the sack over-the-head in part 2, to be far more creepier. Larry Zerner, who played Shelly (the boy who cried wolf), provided some humour and the script adds a few dabs of irony. The acting is surprisingly decent, and the dim teens are quite likable. The beautiful Dana Kimmell in the heroine role, as Chris, makes an impressionable mark. Uh, now what is hard to shake off, are the badass bikers&#x85; these guys you don't want to mess with&#x85; um, actually that's not quite the case. They're pathetically hopeless and very laughable punks! The jolly teens are your typical kind of sinners that are there to get the chop in quick concession. Most of them don't put up much of fight and are blind-sided. Richard Brooker as Jason is more human and gives the villain a lanky, but still quite towering figure of brute strength. The generic story is a smrgsbord of clichs, lacking continuity, unexplored details (like Jason's connection with the heroine) and has only a singular objective on mind - watch the bodies pile up, courtesy of Jason.Steve Miner's direction won't set the word alight with such conventional methods, but it's able and he adds an organic rawness to the feel of the film (that only the earlier features seem to have). While, there might little suspense, some drawn-out moments and plenty of false build-ups, but the isolated backdrop still injects an silently eerie air to proceedings and Henry Manfredini's chillingly sneaky theme score hasn't lost any of it's infectious nerve. One thing that ran through my mind was the alluring attraction of that barn. Is there some sort of message lurking there for its important attachment to the story&#x85; with people popping in and out and simply staring at it in amazement?An entertaining, cheesy romp, if somewhat quite standard entry to the series. "},{"Title":"As far as Friday the 13th goes...Not bad.","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the 3rd installment of the so bad it's good horror series, Jason escapes with his life after Part II, and he proceeds to attack a group of teens spending their weekend near Camp Crystal Lake, one of whom has been attacked by him before. This movie has a creepy feel to it like the first film. Jason is always watching, always contemplating, but it's not boring like in Part II. The characters in this movie are more humorous than in the previous films, and it makes it more enjoyable to watch. The death scenes in this movie aren't really that bad, except for one involving eyes popping out of a guy's head.The story is better in this movie, and of course, Jason gets his hockey mask. Some of the actors in this movie aren't that bad either. However, when you get right down to it, this is a stupid slasher film. The film makers decided to make it in 3D, and it was kind of goofy watching it on a normal screen. The opening title sequence is so goofy with the music, I laughed right through it.6/10 "},{"Title":"Friday The 13th  Part 3 Is An  OK Movie","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 3rd movie in my Friday The 13th movie marathon.This movie is an OK installment to the Friday the 13th series but this movie is not good this movie is just OK.The plot is a bit different then the first two Friday the 13th movies this movie is about how some friends go to a cabin for a holiday and then all hell breaks louse.If u are a fan of the Friday the 13th series i think that u will like this movie or if u are a fun of b grade movies u will like this movie.Over all the first two movies in this series are a bit better then this movie and i have not seen this movie in 3d yet but i would love to.My rating for this movie is five out of ten. "}{"Title":"one of the best -- Jason reaches MATURITY and is MENACING","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am a big fan of the Friday the 13th movies. Maybe in part it is nostalgia for the 1980s. You have to admire that they created the Jason character and made some pretty good movies with good suspenseful atmosphere. This one is one of the best of the series.I think the first four are overall the best. The later movies were just too unrealistic (although they did have some interesting scenes). I say that because in the later movies Jason is too invincible (being brought back to life by lightning in Part 6, e.g.) and they have scenes where Jason walks through woods and yet catches people running. Just too unrealistic. I know it is known that the actor who played Jason in the later movies, Kane Hodder, didn't think Jason should run since it was beneath the character or something. However, the first four movies are better (ignoring the fact it was Jason's mom in the first one killing people) because Jason is more realistic. It's scarier when Jason is tough and is not easily hurt or killed, but at the same time does not act superhuman. He is scary due to his determination. That is why I think Jason in parts 2, 3 and 4 are the best overall. It just got too over the top in later movies.POSSIBLE spoilers below This third installment is great, certainly among the best of the series, maybe the best (probably a close tie with part 4, it's hard to say part 3 or 4 are not the best two overall in the series). We have a great heroine, played by Dana Kimmell, Jason first gets his hockey mask, we have unique killings. Richard Brooker does an excellent job playing Jason, the subtle body language he uses to make Jason menacing. Jason is deliberate in this, very focused on his mission of killing people. Plus, compared to part 2, you see a lot more of Jason now. Many of the part 2 scenes were filmed too much in the dark, you don't see much of Jason. Here you have more shots of Jason openly tossing over hay bales in the barn, for example, looking for the main female (Chris), where you get to see more of him from interesting camera angles, his body language, his determination. The sack Jason wore in part 2 was OK, but Jason just looks scarier, more menacing here. Maybe it was due to the hockey mask in this movie, and to Brooker playing Jason well.The final chase sequence is, as others have noted, action packed and suspenseful. The first killing where Jason is actually wearing the hockey mask is memorable, he is deliberate and patient with his weapon of choice (speargun). This is the movie where Jason really develops his own style, and becomes iconic almost in the horror genre. "},{"Title":"OK sequel","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While not the best sequel in the long running series, it still has it's likable qualities. The change of atmosphere was good and gives the film a fresher vibe than most of the other entries. The kills are somewhat more over the top than the first two(mostly because of the 3-D effects). The acting ranges from believable to just plain silly. Dana Kimmell is a good sport through most of the movie, but her acting can get corny at times, but then again the script doesn't give her too much to work with. Her last battle with Jason at the end is pretty good, though.The character of Shely is definitely one of the most developed characters in Friday history. You really feel for the guy.All together, not bad. It won't win Oscars, but it entertains. "},{"Title":"By no means a great movie, but enjoyable for a run-of-the-mill slasher","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yet another group of brain-dead teens go to Crystal Lake for a weekend of partying. Unfortunately for them, the infamous hockey mask-clad, axe-wielding maniac, Jason, has other plans for them. This 3rd entry in the Friday the 13th series is goofy and dumb, but nevertheless an entertaining slasher flick. While the film may have been a lot more effective in 3D during it's original release, on DVD the images&#151;including characters putting object in the viewer's face, yo-yos being lowered into the camera, snakes striking and, silliest of all, a guy's eye being popped out of his dead&#151;are laughable, but in a fun sort of way. The characters are clichd but fairly likable, there's some alright gore and the film has an overall decent sense of humor, something that is desperately needed to make generic slasher flicks work. In the end this was one of the more enjoyable entries in the Friday series, by no means a masterpiece but enjoyable enough for a brainless slasher flick.Director Steve Miner has since gone on to direct the 1986 horror/comedy House and the 1999 killer crocodile flick Lake Placid. None of his horror efforts have been especially great, though he clearly realizes that the main objective of a horror film is to entertain and as a result his films are never boring or sloppily made. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Guess Whose Back...","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason is back, and once again he is out doing his dirty work. Friday The 13th part three is an excellent sequel to the first two classics which hit the big screen in the early 80's. Even though it's not as good as the second film, is follows the same formula, and above that, it is the beginning of THE HOCKEY MASK!Jason is still out, and about. Doing what he is best at Killing naughty teenagers who smoke weed and have pre-marital sex. It takes place the day after the third film, and a new batch of kids are about to be introduced to the insane killer. Soon, these weed smoking hippies will be the next victims of the famous serial killer JASON VOORHEES!A great film! Not as good as the second one, but better then the first one. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst of the Friday series (in a bad way) SPOILERS!","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have to say that this would probably be the worst Friday the 13th in the series!It is pointless, plot-less, scare-less, quality acting-less!!Fans of the series would say that the thing about this movie is that Jason gets his hockey mask. Whoopie! What a huge mind-fudge! What a plot twist!Why bother sitting through a 90 minute film just to see Jason pick up a mask is beyond me.It's directed by Steve Miner who directed Part 2 (one of my favourites) - so it is just a shame that this is soooo crap!Don't bother! "},{"Title":"The one with the Hockey mask!","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Though he looked very dead at the end of part 2, Jason (here played by Richard Brooker) is still alive and well (or undead and silently tormented) and he's still on the hunt for horny teenagers who can't seem to cling to their virginity, with the exception of Dana Kimmell in this film. This time, Jason gallantly ventures from Camp Crystal lake to a barn, where he battles evil bikers, hippies and slays teenagers and the like.The character Shelly is very oddly sympathetic, which is strange because most of the time characters in these films are never sympathetic.Of interest to Jason fans for being the first Friday film to feature the hockey mask. Once again, there's something funny about hearing Jason grunt whenever he falls down or gets hit with something and watching him chase after his victims (something Kane Hodder, the most famous of all the Jason actors, ruled out as soon as he took over). Film probably looks better if you have 3D glasses.  "},{"Title":"Slow going, but it picks up in the third act","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is almost a carbon copy of part two another bunch of campers go to a farm house near Camp Crystal Lake, on Sunday the 15th, where they're mostly done in by an unseen killer (who is never once mentioned by name) - one of them acts and even looks like the hero character from part two. The group almost runs over a bad attempt to replace Crazy Ralph from parts I and II, perhaps they should have. One of this bunch is a practical joke playing goofball who wears a hockey mask right before getting killed, and Jason, needing a replacement for his burlap sack from part two, decides to try it on, and gets his hockey mask for the first time here in this movie. And for the second Friday the 13th movie in a row, there is VW bug used throughout. The climax, which rips off both Friday the 13th parts one and two, is good, as our heroine axes Jason in his head, but the film goes on for two scenes too long, with a ridiculous deus ex machina (involving a biker who was shown getting hacked to bits coming back to life to intervene in Jason's attack on the girl) followed by an equally weird encounter with Jason's mother. The real attraction to this one was probably the 3D effects, but the 3D effects aren't really that good. They basically amount to nothing more than people pointing at the camera, handing cigarettes towards the camera etc. It's obvious that they didn't have any new ideas with this one, so they just basically remade the second film, only with a more light hearted tone throughout. This has probably the most likable characters in the series, even this film's Cheech and Chong clones weren't that bad, and again, for the most part, the ending is good, too. Part III isn't as intense as the first two were, and doesn't have the darker tone of the first two, but it's still a worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Another merodic Friday the 13th","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    A bunch of teens including Chris(Dana Kimmell)Rick(Paul Kratka)Chili(Rachel Howard)Chuck(David Katims)Shelly(Larry Zerner)Debbie(Tracie Savage)Andy(Jeffrey Rogers)And Vera(Catherine Parks) head to Camp Crystal lake Where Jason Voorhees is waiting...  The third entry in the Friday the 13th series is no worse then the first 2,But that's still not saying much.Its predictable,Boring,cliched,What else can you except from a friday the 13th movie.I dident like the Jason back story,The murders were kind of cool,And the gore was...Ok I guess.The acting was,nothing special.Jason got his Hockey mask in this one,So I guess that's kind of cool... "},{"Title":"Larry Zerner is an important cog in the horror genre wheel!!!","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS INCLUDED WITHINLarry Zerner plays Shelly, one of several campers who are laid victim to the wrath of Jason in part 3. Shelly is a practical joker, an ugly duckling who is unloved by the girls, misunderstood by the guys, and so he plays jokes on everyone to fit in. Most horror movies, even Scream, have a horror fan within the movie. This is Shelly played by Larry Zerner. Zerner is a very important part of horror genre history; one of his jokes entails wearing a hockey mask to scare one of the hot girls. After Jason has his way with poor Larry Zerner, he nabs the mask - the rest is horror movie history. For this alone, Larry Zerner should be recognized as a very important cog in the horror genre wheel that, to this very day, is still rolling - in other words, Jason is still a box office draw, and the hockey mask, once owned by Shelly, is his ultimate trademark. Thank you Larry Zerner, you are the greatest actor since Brando (Christian Brando, that is)!!! "},{"Title":"Hockey Mask","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Its nice to know that potatoes won't follow us into this sequel. I believe that this movie is probably the most important one out of all of them.Jason, once again returns, in the same night as as the previous movie. He starts with picking off a couple, which seem hopelessly in love NOT, and we start all up. A group of friends decide to go to Chris' house for a long weekend to get away from all the urban warfare. You got hippies, a terrible actor, and bikers. After Jason decides to keep up his old gig and start picking them off one by one, you must consider the simple facts inside the movie. One, drugs are always inside the movie somewhere. Two, sex, the one thing the pregnant chick and her hubby are always doing. Three, Chris already met up with Jason whenever he wasn't supposed to be around (way before the second sequel was ever made). Four, bikers who steal the actors wallet, then gets all pissy whenever they run over their motorcycles. Ok whatever, the deserve to die in my eyes. Chris battles Jason while finding out all of her friends are killed off. Jason picks up his infamous hockey mask from the terrible actor and will never put it down. Chris tries to run from Jason, well obviously that won't work, so now she must put up a stand to fend him off. She hits him over the head with a piece of wood, nope. Tries to stab him, keep trying. Tries to hang him, wrongo. Finally puts an ax into his head once and for all. But is he dead is the question?The hockey mask is still inside the movies today along with the ax mark that Chris put there at the end. All you have to do is look in the upper right corner of the mask and you will see it. Its been a trademark since that movie. I thought this movie was really good and I would have loved to have seen it in the 3D mode it was made for. If you are only going to see two of these movies, see this one and Freddy Vs Jason.5.5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"How is this better then 5","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    I'm still not to sure what the storyline on this movie is, but I'll try hard to explain it anyways.  So this girl run's away from home for the night, and takes a little nap in the woods.  Jason attacks her, but she gets away.  Now she gets the idea to go with some friends and kick it near where she got attacked.  Now let me tell you that all of these friends have wide age gaps, which seems kind of funny.  However Jason is very entertaining in this one, and yes he does get his hockeymask in this one.4/10. "},{"Title":"Introducing The Hockey Mask","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well all the Jason fans know that this film was the introduction of the hockey mask. SPOLIER what most dont know is that threw most of the film Jason is not wearing a mask and mostly stays hidden in the shadows. This one picks up right after part 2. (2,3 & 4 Jason is on a two weeks rampage. All take place within a two week period) AT the beginning Jason kills two local people and gets some new cloths. AFter that he makes his way to the hills at Higgins Haven were some kids are having a weekend party. Jason crashes that party and ends up with an axe in his head by Chris the surviving teenager. One of the better Jason films and some really cool kills. Also the only one in 3D8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Better than most of the sequels","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  More teenagers go up to Crystal Lake to get sliced-and-diced by Jason, but this time they have the distinction of being slaughtered in 3-D.  Actually, the 3-D isn't bad; too bad as much couldn't be said for the film itself.  Hack director Steve Miner runs a cast of unknowns through the motions in this film of which the only positive thing that can be said about it is that it is slightly, and I mean slightly, better than some of the other Friday the 13th sequels. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie did a lot to advance the F13 series. Jason's mask,machete and unstoppability are a result of this movie. As a part of the series, strictly ok. Bad acting good kills. Includes the obligatory jason stabs prey from under the bed after sex scene.  "},{"Title":"3D gimmick isn't enough to save this one","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nobody can tell Steve Miner that he doesn't know how to direct a scary movie. After his success with part 2 of this series, this film goes down as a disappointment, however. Miner's name appears in the credits of some truly great horror classics going all the way back to Last House On the Left among others. The 3D concept of this film seems to have clouded his typically stellar vision, though.Jason is back, and this time he is bigger, stronger, and more resourceful than he has been up to this point. He trades in his overalls and gunny sack from part 2, and ushers in the era of the khaki pants, green work shirt, and of course the hockey mask for this one. Plenty of youngsters (and a threesome of bikers) get wasted with various implement tools, and even a spear gun. This film has all that you'd think it would need to be good, except something is missing.The acting is so wooden it's unbelievable. The film isn't as suspenseful as you would hope it to be, until the typical last female standing vs killer sequence where it picks up quite a bit. Jason gets the crap beat out of him as he tries to track the pretty brunette down. The conclusion is murky, just like in part 2, and it clearly left things wide open for further sequels (as intended).The main reason the film comes up short is the fact that you cannot view it in 3D on your home screen. I'm sure it looked cool in the theater, but those days are two decades past. Steve Miner's work now looks forced as he had to spend so much time setting up shots that would look good in 3D, that he didn't really have time to make the film very scary.Oh, well. It's not like this is the worst film of the series. It's just not up to par with Miner's prior effort which was excellent.5 of 10 starsSo sayeth the Hound p.s. There are some extraordinarily beautiful women in this film!! "},{"Title":"Slowly becoming Halloween...","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It took 2 films to get to Jason, 3 films to get to his mask, 6 films to get the camera angles and play on the foreground/background, and 7 films to get to decent music.  You have to admire the F13 franchise, it may be slow, dull, and stupid, but at least it's persistent.To reiterate, the highlight of this film is Jason getting his hockey maks and putting it on.  That's it.  If we compare it to number two, we get a great ending.  If we hold it up to normal standards it's just a plain eh, right, whatever ending.  But at least it's not some pathetically idiotic BS stunt that would only work to destroy any intimidation Jason might have had. After F13pt2, I'd wouldn't be surprised if shadow puppets could distract the killer.Of course, this is assuming you can get past the title F13pt3 3d - oh, how incredibly clever.  3 . . . 3D . . . never would have saw that fad coming.  Then can you bear to sit through the opening credits with cheesy 3D lettering and godawful music that should have been dead before this film. It's not as bad or annoying as the unbearable crap in Jason Lives, but still very much cringeworthy.  Ironic style and even cultural twists are great in music, but not this.  God no, not this.Jason kills, kills some more, then kills some more.  You hear the ch-ch-ch-ha-ha-ha.  Camp Crystal Lake.  Lots of victims.  Something jumping out of the lake again (wow, didn't see that coming for the third time). All these the wonderful traits are strangely found in every F13 making it pretty much indistiguishable from the other nine making it pretty pointless to watch this one unless you're really bored, are obsessed with horror and have to see 'em all, actually like this trash, absolutely have to see the 15 seconds it takes for Jason to get his hocky mask and put it on.  Yeah, that last one's worth 90 minutes of my life and the $1.09 I spent on the rental .. . oy.     "},{"Title":"Second 'F13' sequel gets 2 stars just because it's better than the last sequel","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part III 3D (1982) Dana Kimmell, Paul Kratka, Richard Brooker, Nick Savage, Rachel Howard, David Katims, Larry Zerner, Tracie Savage, D Steve Miner. Horror fans won't be too disappointed with this third atrocity that's more of a remake of F13-originally presented in pointless 3-D.The anemic plot is again at Crystal Lake where those gosh-darn teenagers don't know any better sex equals death! Better than Part II, this sequel has some bothersome characters you want to be killed at once, but the infamous hockey-goalie mask worn by Jason memorably shows up in this one. Not bad but unintentional howlers don't help. Look for Miner as a newscaster (if you care). Running Time 96 minutes and rated R for gore/violence, brief nudity and language. RATING ** (out of ****)  "},{"Title":"Nothing's going to happen when we're all here together.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Haha!!  Yeah, Jason's not going to viciously kill everybody.  The Cunningham/Miner team strike again.  Friday the 13th Part 3 in 3-D; I would have loved to have seen this in theaters.  The spear-gun and eye-popping scenes would have been great.  Steve Miner is back in the director's chair and is the only person to direct more than one Friday the 13th movie.  You can see that too because Parts 2 and 3 are so similar.  This installment has the best characters of the original three movies Ali, Fox, and Loco.  What a great biker gang.  They absolutely crack me up.  Let's not forget about Shelley.  Shelley is great, everyone else is cardboard compared to him.  Part 3 is also known for giving us the Jason we've all come to know and love.  That's right, Part 3 introduces the hockey mask.  This is the most exciting of the original three but is too formulaic Kids go to cabin in the woods, Jason is in the woods, Jason kills off the teens one by one, lone heroine has to fight him in the end.  They even have a character to take Crazy Ralph's place.  Are you beginning to see a pattern?  Nothing new is offered in this movie, but I still enjoy it.Best kill Ali.  He survived one Jason attack only to be brutally slain later on.Note for genre buffs The magazine Deb is reading is a Fangoria issue with Tom Savini featured in it.  The character of Deb is also dispatched in the same manner as Kevin Bacon is in the first movie. "},{"Title":"The Best In The Series...","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love every installment in the Friday The 13th series, and if I had to choose what my favorite was, I would have to say... the 3rd one. I think the 3rd Friday the 13th mainly just puts off a great vibe it's summer time in the 80's and there all at a camp ground smoking weed and playing jokes on each other. This one also has the best murder sequences and characters. Shelly was the best character in the movie, and if it wasn't for him there would be no Hockey Mask. I dont have much else to say about this, but it was awesome and you should rent it!!! "},{"Title":"Most Unique of Series","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS This installment contains scenes not found in the others. For one, it's the only Friday The 13th presented in 3-D (originally). I was lucky enough to see it in this format (still have the glasses). The effects were outstanding! But it's still a good horror movie without 3-D stuff. The unique qualities continue...Jason dons his famous hockey mask for the first time when he takes it from a Jewish kid after slicing his throat, Jason murders a pregnant woman (in later installments, Jason develops a soft spot for kids), Jason runs in pursuit of his intended victim (in parts 5-10, he only walks), there's a catchy breakdancing tune in the opening/end credits and Jason's mother returns for a cameo- What was all that about a lady in the lake?Plus, the scene where Mr. Voorhees slices a young man in two while walking on his hands is my favorite of all! The acting by Dana Kimmell was admirable too, I feel she was second best after Amy Steel in part 2.Her highest acting point is when she describes the time she first ran into Jason out in the woods and got attacked. Very convincing drama.My favorite suspense scene was when Chris Higgins (Kimmell) opens the barn doors and Jason is hanging on a noose in front of her. When he springs back into life, it's a shocker- Can't be alive!Overall, the movie is a fun ride. Some of the 3-D effects may still surprise you (beware of flying eyeballs).This movie was shot in Saugas,California which is why Camp Crystal Lake appears much smaller than in earlier installments shot in New England.Steve Miner is a talented director and certainly proved he could reach beyond some boundaries in this very different follow up to part 2 (notice how much bigger Jason is).Part 3 is definitely the most unforgettable Friday of the bunch. "}{"Title":"Up there with the best of the series","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was lucky enough to catch this on two consecutive nights in 3-D at the National Film Theatre during a season of 3-D (HOUSE OF WAX and JAWS 3-D were two other films featured) and I was surprised that the film was the only one of the series shot in Cinemascope.The only gripe I had about the 3D was that it made the image a bit blurred, but it still proved a thrilling movie and I enjoyed it so much the first night that I booked a ticket for the second night!!!.The formula of the series had been firmly established (let's face it, some people do watch FRIDAY THE 13TH films from time to time for nothing more than for the horror gore delights on screen) and there are some terrific bits of humour and shocks in this one that actually made it more enjoyable. Indeed, watching it with an audience helped the experience along.I would recommend to everyone that they try and catch it on the big screen, or at least lobby Paramount for a few more screenings from time to time. "},{"Title":"ARRRGH... What happened? The second was so good!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, first off, does anyone else out there see a resemblance between Jason and the disfigured guy from the Goonies? Check this movie and the Goonies out, and see for yourself.Okay, one word to sum it up... BORING. Okay, the acting was okay, the gore was medium level (not a full blown slasher yet), Jason was as cool a killer as ever, the problem, nothing happens for about an hour! Jason should have started killing a lot sooner, and they SHOULDN'T have shown his face. He looked too much like the disfigured guy from the Goonies. There is an upside to this though, Jason get's his goalie mask in this movie, which has become his trademark.Okay, plot... Six campers stay at a Cottage on Crystal lake, one of which (the survivor) had a run in with Jason two years earlier, and survived. All but her are killed, and she sticks Jason in  the head with an axe. And you think he's dead? Guess again, there are more sequels...Jason had edge in this movie, the characters were good (except the Tommy Chong wannabe), and it had the proper setting for a good Friday the 13 movie. It's just that nothing really happened in the movie, and the fact that they showed Jason so much, ruined the effect of seing his face in later movies.All in all, the second worst of the series I've seen yet (but I've only seen 1-4 and Jason X), Jason X was the worst.2 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Low point in a great series","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 3 continues Jason's madness. But it does it with no new surprises,or scares. The film is boring to watch,and it did not scare me. I hated all most all of it. Especially Richard Brooker. He can't play Jason. Well it did have some very few good moments. The teens are great. I liked Shelly the best,faked his own death so much,when he really gets it,they don't believe him. The directing is good. The town looks like a real camping resort. So-so film. It should have been better2/4 "},{"Title":"They should have put the dimension in the horror.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rated R Runtime 96mins Release Date 1982The unstoppable and the unkillable murderer Jason Voorhees is back, and this time he has a new group of lambs to slaughter at camp Crystal Lake.For Chris, the nightmare of Jason Voorhees has been dead for two years. But when she and a group of her friends decide to take a trip down to the infamous camp Crystal Lake, Chris finds out her nightmare isn't dead, but is very much alive. Now thirsty for the kill, Jason returns to wreak havoc and revenge on Chris and her teenage friends, and he will not stop until every last one of them is dead.The third installment in the Friday the Thirteenth series is by far the worst one to date. The actors are terrible, and show absolutely no character at all, except maybe the effects kid who likes scaring his friends with pranks, such as fake knives in the back, but you already know what's going to happen to him right from the beginning, so I guess his character doesn't even really count. Aside from him and a pot-smoking hippie, I really started having difficulty telling who was who; everyone looked and acted the exact same. Of course I don't think the producers were even looking for good actors; I mean what would they need them for, their characters don't even have last names.I know what director Steve Minor was thinking, and it wasn't that he would like to make a good horror movie. He was thinking, Why not take the first and second films, put them together and cash in on their success. Much to my dismay, he did exactly just that. Any originality that would have been thrown in to this story, got thrown out the window when the opening credits stopped rolling. This movie is not just a typical Friday the Thirteenth movie, it's a remake of a typical Friday the Thirteenth movie. The story could be summed up by saying yet more teens go to a camp where a whole other load of teens have been killed already,and then, in the same fashion as their predecessors, the group is killed off one by one. Except, of course, for the sole survivor who must do battle with Jason in a ridiculously long and draggy manner. I honestly believe that even people watching movies for the first time could predict this horrid piece of film work. There are a couple of good moments in this movie, for instance there is a hilarious scene in which the pot-smoking character is in the outhouse and thinks he's hallucinating. There are also a couple of good gory effects done in the movie especially a scene in which you see one of the characters split completely in half. Though I have to say these minor instances give very little overall impact on this bottom feeder of a film. Minor isn't going down alone though. Writers Carol Watson and Martin Kitrosser contributed absolutely squat themselves. It seems they just told the actors to act like themselves and then run around the woods and inside a cabin until it was there turn to die. My friends kid brother could have done more with Frank Mancuso's scrawny budget.I could go on for hours about how terrible this film was, but I won't. Instead I will warn everyone, including the fans of the series, that unless you get a chance to see this in the theatres in 3-D do not go rent this movie or even think about watching it on cable, even if there is nothing else on. Rent Friday the Thirteenth (I did enjoy that one), or even number two, but stay away from Friday the Thirteenth Part 3 because it really is the unluckiest number of them all.Overall Rating 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Steve Miner's second time around, not so good","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"                            Possible SpoilersFriday The 13th part 3, hmmm, it sounded cool, but I wasn't exactly thrilled.  This could very well be the worst in the series because it is so boring.  I still like it though.  I think Chris was a cool character, a lot of people will disagree with me, but I think her story was interesting.  All of the other ones are just your basic horror movie idiots.  Although, like most of the other users have stated, this is the one where he gets his mask.  However, in this movie, I am pretty sure that none of the characters, besides maybe one, had ever heard of our hero Jason Voorhees.  A lot of the stuff in this one is ripped off of the first one though.  Some pretty good kills and not to mention one of the best in the series.  Fair warning, if you are going to come in contact with Jason Voorhees, never be in a handstand position.  In conclusion, this is a very boring movie at times.  I recorded it about seven years ago off of TNT and fell asleep, missing about 35 minutes of the movie.  If you can last to the end though, watch it and ask that question I have been trying to figure out;What was Steve Miner trying to say? "},{"Title":"Third time is definitely not a charm","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (** out of *****)This third, unremarkable entry in the series is memorable mainly for being the one in which Jason dons his defining hockey mask (he takes it from a chubby loser who's always playing poor-taste practical jokes on his friends.)  Otherwise, you get more mostly good-looking youngsters (as well as a trio of biker punks and a couple who do nothing but sit around and smoke pot) lining up to be cut down to size by axes, machetes, pitchforks, spear guns, and any other sharp object Jason can magically pull out of thin air.  The acting in this one seems a little worse than usual, but Jason's disfigured face makeup looks pretty good, at least.  When this originally came out in theaters, it was shown in 3-D, so there are lots of annoying, extended scenes of people pointing clothesline poles and eyeballs and other things at the camera.Lowlight  To show off the 3-D effects, there are two insufferably long scenes of a kid playing with a yo-yo and two other kids juggling apples. "},{"Title":"Pretty good(spoilers)","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a while since I last saw this, but I remember it being a fairly good installment in the Friday the 13th series. This one picks up right after part 2, with Jason surviving being stabbed with a machete. He abandons his cabin in the woods, kills a couple of people, gets some new clothes and then arrives at his new hunting ground. The victims are just the usual teenage fodder, nothing new or special. What does make part 3 stand out is the suspense and gory deaths. This is genuinely creepy as you are always wondering where Jason will jump out from next. The death scenes were outstanding- a guy is cut in half whilst he is walking upside down, a girl gets a harpoon in the eye and a guy's head is crushed until his eyeball pops out! They would probably look better in its original 3D format, but it still looks good. One major complaint though- this film sees Jason ditch his whole motive of revenge for his mother's death and just slash everything in sight. I felt that the set-up of part 2(cabin in the woods contains his mother's severed head) was a lot more believeable. He does get his hockey mask, but i think it would have been better if in later sequels he got a different mask each time. This could have been the director's intention but his successor in the director's chair took the lazy way out. This could have added a small bit of originality into the same old formula.This is the second last installment where Jason is still thought to be human, even though he survives a machete through the torso in part 2 to go on this rampage, and an axe in the head in this installment to go on his final rampage as a human in The Final Chapter, where he is finally stopped by a machete in the head. An enjoyable film for slasher fans, I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jason III Electric Boogaloo","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let's be honest if you're a fan of the so-called slasher genre, you know what to expect from the early 1980s entries in the Jason franchise. While not masterpieces at any rate, the films to continue to rake in a steady stream of cash through online sales and rentals, new movies are still being written and produced every few years.  There really is no end in sight!The first film Friday the 13th set the standard for the subsequent films, usually following at a rate of one per year (excluding 1983 & 1987). Unfortunately, this was the problem the first Jason flick was  lacking in almost all departments, and today, is mostly revered for the legendary post-cult status and historical significance (Once in a while, you're like to come upon a fact sheet somewhere that mentions how Betsy Palmer, who played Jason's mum in that film, drove to the lot in her own car every day she was to be on the set). But as ridiculous as it was amusing, Sean Cunningham was able to get the film into orbit, although it doesn't seem particularly stable at any point the plot sets us in Camp Crystal Lake, following what seemed to be a modern riff on a classic urban legend--a psychopathic family hiding in the woods, preying on clueless teenagers bent on a summer rife with sex, drugs, and rock'n'roll (sound familiar? the type of story was actually cinema fare long before Tobe Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre of '74, though most GenX and GenY fans probably aren't in any hurry to scoop up many pre 1960's horror classics like The Corpse Vanishes, the original House on Haunted Hill, or the Cat People--which was also remade the same year Part 3 hit audiences stateside) The second film followed suit a year later, and was essentially a rehash of the first (and not in an endearing fashion, either--after viewing the entire series, one could argue Part 2 is the worst in the series, but it's photo finish for last place, in my opinion).  Making another film was akin to spitshining a turd, and Part 2 is possibly the worst thing Miner ever directed.This brings me to Friday the 13th, Part 3.  From it's comical video box cover and theatrical posters, it's obvious that the movie's bent on reaching some new kind of low. And it succeeds on every level (it set out to be a Jason movie, and well, it IS a Jason movie)...But it also intrigues as often as it repulses--the production values blow away Part 1. The storyline, while not something worth really debating over afternoon tea, is a vast improvement over the previous film, and there's actually a real emphasis on campy humor that one shan't overlook.  The 3-D sequences are nothing more than cash-cow gimmick ressurected in the early-to-mid 80s, but are worth noting all the same.  Keep your eyes peeled for the secret Roy Orbison cameo!Many people pass up Part 3 as just more of the same, and while I can't recommend it just on it's own merit (which I can do for parts IV and IX, which are decent even as standalone titles).  It is weak (as a rule, all the films are), but the chances are, if you see one Jason movie, you're going to see them all and you're going to enjoy this entry.Criticized for it's generally bright look and feel, Steve Miner (who also directed Part 2) is actually clearing the air for the viewer. Jason isn't just hacking up camp counselors anymore--he's really invading simple backwoods townfolk in broad (and bright) daylight.  The blood looks fake (and actually sort of tasty), and while the acting is pretty subpar and there's virtually no sympathy for any of the characters, it doesn't make for such a terrible movie. The motorcycle gang members are a absolute hoot, and when Shelly finally died, it started the whole world laughing. I consider Friday the 13th Part 3 to actually be the 2nd best title released in the 1980s, surpassed only by the epic that would follow it two years later.Rating (includes previous two films for comparison) out of 4 stars Part 1 *+/**** Part 2 */**** Part 3 **+/**** "},{"Title":"A great horror movie.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 3 gave you a awesome look about the early 1980's. This was a very good movie from the series. Jason looked cool in the hockey mask. the murders were great. The plot was great. 1982 was really spoiled by this great horror film. 2nd best in the series behind part 7. "},{"Title":"Good not great.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason has escaped his death,and finds a group of friends on vacation at a farmhouse. Jason steals a hockey mask from a practical joker named Shelly. He kills them one by one. It lacks a good plot,and special effects,and it has a dumb backstory for Jason,and Chris. Well I`m giving it a break since it has some cool death scenes,except for the dumb eye ball that pop's out.3/5 "}{"Title":"The Best of the Series (especially in 3-D)","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In keeping with the 3-D boom of the early 80's, the Friday THE 13TH franchise unleashed its own 3-D sequel (before JAWS 3-D or AMITYVILLE 3-D). It's the best of the series, 3-D or not, largely due to lead actress Dana Kimmel being such a pain. Apparently she was on some soap opera at the time, and was therefore something of a name, so when she was approached about starring in a F13 movie, she laid down a couple of conditions no explicit sex, no excessive violence. The studio complied and told the filmmakers (led by director Steve Miner) to tone down the skin and gore. Miner chose instead to go for shocks and suspense, and was surprisingly successful, especially if you got a chance to see it in 3-D. A group of friends (one of whom had survived an earlier attack by Jason) ventures to the woods of Crystal Lake where Jason is alive and well and still slaughtering anyone who happens to cross his path. After disposing of an obnoxious couple of shopkeepers and a biker gang, Jason dispatches the vacationers one by one, in some creatively grisly ways (a crochet needle is driven through a woman's neck and comes out her mouth, a boy is cut in half vertically, a girl is impaled with a hot poker, a boy's head is crushed until his eyeball pops out), until he finally has a showdown with his previous escapee, resulting in his first being hanged, then being axed in the head. This movie utilizes its 3-D gimmick to its fullest effect, never passing up an opportunity to shove something in our face(including a yo-yo, a rattlesnake, a harpoon gun, a pitchfork, juggling apples, and the aforementioned eyeball popping), and makes full use of its scope aspect ratio. It's much more stylishly shot and edited than the previous two, and plays out as a decent thriller even when viewed flat on TV. Other points of interest include the debut of the infamous hockey mask, a rather bizarre nightmare appearance by Mrs. Voorhees (decomposed and worm-ridden) and the opening and closing disco theme! Despite the fact that there is no implication whatsoever that Jason is still alive at the end of this one (which was actually intended to be the final entry in the series), Paramount carried on with five more sequels, until New Line Cinema acquired the rights and unleashed JASON GOES TO HELL and JASON X. Also known as Friday THE 13TH PART 3-D. "},{"Title":"Pretty standard, but enjoyable.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Most people will love this film simply because it marks the union of our favorite mentally-retarded murderer Jason and his beloved hockey mask. Most people will remember it for it's corny 3-D sequences that have no purpose on video/DVD. Most people will hate it because it has a pretty boring beginning. However, all Friday fans should watch this because it does have a different setting/plot than the previous two, and there are some nice atmospheric touches that actually give this film a creepy edge, not to mention that whacked-out ending. The story picks up on Saturday the 14th, the morning after the events of part 2. We follow a troubled female named Chris, who apparently had a run-in with Jason years earlier, who is returning to Camp Crystal Lake with a group of friends to help get her over it. Included in this group is a sexy latina lady, an overweight joker, a Tommy Chong look-alike and about a half dozen pieces of insignificant morgue meat. Along the way they run into a biker gang, whose fate is more than obvious and after the exposition (which takes awhile) the movie starts treading down familiar territory. What helps this movie out is that the events take place at a farmhouse, as opposed to the standard campsite, and there is a little more back-story to the leading lady this time around. Jason is a lot creepier and he actually runs in this movie! (as opposed to teleporting, as exhibited in the latest installments). This is one of those movies that is just average. It's not my favorite F13 movie, but it's not the worst. If you miss it, don't lose any sleep over it. "},{"Title":"It must have been the commercials.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I viewed this movie on tv on Halloween night. It was ok, but very slow-paced. Not only did Jason decide to slash his victims off until the night, but we get an hour of omnious music and suspense. It was too boring. I loved the ending though. My Take 5/10My MPAA rating R for strong terror violence/gore, some language and sexuality, and for drug content.  "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 3","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Jason Takes Manhattan, but this film has grown on me of late.  May have spoilersJason looks a lot bigger in this sequel and since he gets the hockey mask for the first time, he looked really funny with the mask and big bald head.The 3-D effects were fun, I like a previous poster on this forum, saw it recently with cardboard glasses in a theater where everyone in attendance were cracking up the whole 96 minutes.  But since the film was projected so tiny, taking up only a quarter of the screen, it should have been like 3 bucks instead of 8.50.  I saw both The Terminator and Rocky in re-release and only paid 3 bucks a ticket.The acting in this one like most Friday the 13th's is pretty bad.  I know horror films don't need A-list Hollywood actors, but they should of found people with some talent.  The gore was acceptable, though we've all seen better.Some people say this is the highest grossing 3-D film, but it made 36 million, while Jaws 3-D made around 41-42 million.On an 80's horror film level, Friday the 13th Part 3 is high up on the charts. "},{"Title":"Best Friday the 13th I've seen!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is the best one...but then again I have only seen this one and partfour.  This is the first one I saw and it is scary!  I jumped in like fourscenes.  It was pretty suspenseful, I mean I did not know whenJason would strike or how he would kill his next victim.  I don't carewhat anyone says Jason is scary!  He is one of the best slashercharacters.  This is a good film to rent for its well done shockscenes and good story.  This is when Jason first gets his hockeymask so that is probably why it is the best one!  Rent it if you wantto see a good flick.  It is a fun scary movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a hardcore 'Friday the 13th' fan, I don't give the movies marks out of ten because they are all great. This one sees a bunch of pesky kids staying at a farm near camp crystal lake. This is a very funny movie as well as gory. There's an old man sleeping in the middle of the road! There's also a funny bit where some of the group see the van supposedly on fire. It turns out to be pot smoking hippies with their bongs! The main character Chris is likeable and she tells a childhood story of an encounter with a hideous deformed man who tried to rape or kill her. Yes, it is Jason. After the whole group settle in, jason dons the hockey mask and goes around killing off everyone. This one has a body count of 12. There are people cut in half, eyes popped out, wrench beatings etc. A friday fan should love it. It's a hell of a thrill ride!   "},{"Title":"Cool 3D Film,They handed me the glasses for FREE!!!!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film at a movie theater(Sing to American Pie) A long,long time ago,I can still remember how this movie used to make me smile and I should knew this is my chance,to show the people how to watch it and maybe theyll be happy for a while (Enough). This Movie is a classical scare fest and this is how the premise should have stayed, if the rest of the friday the 13th series wouldve been this way maybe the could have been scary and not just a senseless teen massacre,anyway,back to the movie,This movie marks the premiere of Jasons trademark Hockey mask wich he used from here on to the rest of the series, even upgrading it on the last and worst of all Jason X (a sorry joke out of Malcolm X). In this film you are introduced to characters you really kind of like and when they get killed you feel kind of sorry,Believe me,this taking care of working because theyre probably gonna bite the dust character in a SLASHER movie is hard to do,but here is accomplished nicely. Try it and get really scared (mostly in the end scene its a classic beautiful scare moment)and lister to this cool 80s discoesque track take on the friday the 13th theme,If you dont dance to it...well youre not a freak.Ill give it a good 10 out of 10 on Scary Jason movies when he used to Run and Scare in Suspense not just appear in front of victims that have runned a marathon and slash them open. "},{"Title":"Another slasher film.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    The 3rd installment in the Friday the 13th series is nothing spectacular, in fact, it's pretty much just a rehash of the 2nd film.  The only thing different in this one is that he finally gets the Hockey Mask in this film.  Although, I would imagine this was awesome to see in a 3-D viewing.  Before seeing this film, and the previous two, I had always thought that the Hockey Mask was something that had been with the series since the beginning.  I was completely shocked to learn that he didn't acquire the hockey mask until the 3rd installment.  All in all, it was just another Jason-slasher film.  Unless your just curious (as I was) what this film is about, I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see it.  And even if you are interested, go see the previous two films first.  If you do somehow make it to the 3rd installment of this series, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"A Cool Entry","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 3 was one of the better entries in the long running series.  I didn't see it in 3-D but it still was more enjoyable than other installments. Jason had one of his cooler looks in this one with the big bald head and finally getting the hockey mask.  The run ins with the bikers and the counselors were pretty funny.Definately worth taking a look at if your're a big horror fan.  Though if you are you've probally already seen it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it at the Movies","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't sure the 3-D effects would allow the movie to remain scary.  Was I wrong.  I saw this movie in 1982 when it originally came out in 3-D.  Yep, they handed us those crazy glasses to wear when we bought tickets.  The 3-D effects were very realistic.  Nothing like having the end of a pitch fork dangling in your face in 3-D.I think after this installment the series wasn't as good.  In my opinion, of the Friday the 13th films parts I, II, & III still remain classics. "}{"Title":"Oh yeah! death in 3D was really good stuff!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first time that Jason grew in stature and found himself his first hockey-mask!Certainly played for innovative and gratuitous killings, Part 3 delivered on all fronts. Marginally better acting and obviously with a larger budget...some of this actually made sense. The 3D effects were, for the most part, very well done. You lose so much on video.Fans went to see Jason killing people not to hear a vapid discourse on the emotional dysfunctionality of youth and thats exactly what they got. By no means a deep and meaningful sequel but a lot of fun. You could do way worse than see this - watch RIDING IN CARS WITH BOYS for example? "},{"Title":"Best in the series!!!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen some pretty good Friday films, but this one stands out as the best in the series.Basically, it's about a bunch of sinful teenagers who take a summer trip to Higgins Haven, (located near Crystal Lake) to cut loose. That's basically it, but what else did you expect? However, What sets this movie apart from the others is a steady flow of events and decent suspense. Which is more then I can say for part 2! Another thing this film had that the others didn't was a funny and somewhat likeable cast. Like the first film this group ignores warnings from a homeless old man and decides to go out into the woods anyway. So you know they're in deep trouble.The acting in this film was good too, with the lead character probably being my favorite of the series. The cast was surprisingly smart yet unbelievably stupid. For example, They know not to go out alone in the dark or split up, they even stress that many times! And what do they do? The exact thing they told eachother not to! I have to admit this was my favorite Jason too. I was extremely pleased with his performance. Also I enjoyed the main characters story of her past with Jason and didn't find myself fast-forwarding through dull scenes. With the exception of some noticable wires during a death scene this film was fun, gruesome, and scary.**SPOILERS**The death scenes in this movie were impeccable. Among my favorites were death by pitchfork, electrocution, several innovative machete deaths, a knife plunging from one of the stunningly beautiful character's chest/ breast region, a cheesy yet cringe worthy head crushing and..well they were all great. I especially loved how this main character (played by Dana Kimmel) actually fought back and even hung Jason!In conclusion, excellent film, beautifully orchestrated death scenes, good (or somewhat good) acting and a great cast, including Jason! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great Jason Flick!!!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While it almost seems the same as 1&2 Friday the 13th part 3 is a step up and Jason gets the famous Hockey Mask. Pretty funny moments. Some scares. Bad acting. Great Ending. Overall part 3 was nothing spectacular but still good. OVERALL 7/10 "},{"Title":"My fav of the series","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the Friday the 13th movies for whatever reason Part 3 is my fav.Friday the 13th Part 3 picks up later on in the day from the events of Pt 2.There really is no plot, just Jason walking around killing everybody.A group of teens are getting away for the weekend near the site of the first to Friday films.When who else but Jason shows up to ruin their getaway.As the day goes on Jason slices his way through everybody till only Chris(Dana Kimmell) is left. And when she comes face to face with Jason she pretty much throws him a beating.Director Steve Miner did a really good job, he used the setting of the woods to his advantage. And too be honest i think of all the Friday films this one is the Scariest.Richard Brooker now plays Jason, and well Jason got bigger in a very short period of time. Jason is starting to become that Monster who wrecks everything is his way yet still not too over powering. Thats what made this film work so good.And Dana Kimmell is my fav of all the actors in a Friday film.I give Friday the 13th Part 3 8/10And of all the Friday the 13th DVDS this one has the best picture and sound "},{"Title":"Appalling Jason movie even worse than part 9!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am a major jason fan, but this movie is absolutely awful!, terrible acting (the movie was non-union, another reason to go union when hiring actors!) the characters do absolutely nothing in the entire movie but wait hang around waiting to die....This movie was part of the 82-83 3D craze (Jaws 3D) and the movie makers do not let up sticking poles, eye balls towards the screen; this would be ok if the FX were good, but they are worse than the acting (that snake scene with the clearly visable wire had me and my friend in tears of laughter!!!!!)Usually the Jason movies are pretty dire as movies, but Jason fans enjoy them for the movie in questions Jason; Part 3 has the most nonchalant Jason to date, the scene when he kills the dope smoking hippy was camper than caberet. Even worse was the scene were Jason harpoons the girl in the lake, after he kills her he limply lets go of the harpoon gun, then looks at the house where the rest of the characters are, and does not even look like he can be bothered to go in and kill them. This Jason has absolutely nothing in common with the terrific pissed off meat terminator Kane Hodder Jason of part 7.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Another Exciting Installment","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 3 is the third installment in this film series. It is perhaps not as strong as parts one and two but is is great nevertheless.This is the film where Jason acquires the hockey mask which is better than the white sheet he was using in part 2. Jason is a lot more scarier in this film and there are some very scary-and violent-scenes. As I said earlier, I don't think it is as strong as the first and second film but how many third installments are better than their predecessors? Not many I would guess.All in all, this is a thriller of a ride which will be enjoyed by any fan of Jason Voorhees (wonder what Jason did in his spare time?). "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fun movie to watch at night with some friends. There's plenty of scares and not a lot of other things (like a plot) to get in the way of Jason and his body count. If you've seen any of the Friday movies, then you'll know what to expect with this one, but it's still a fun movie to kick back and watch (as are all the Friday movies). This time around, a group of friends head out to Crystal Lake a day after the massacre in part 2, unaware that a killer is on the loose and hacking up the happy campers who flock to Crystal Lake for a weekend getaway. Jason, the maniac from part 2 flees the scene of the slaughter he made while the authorities are left to clean up after his mess. He ends up stumbling across the new arrivals' ranch cabin, and finds a nice barn to hide in so he can wait for nightfall and wreak a little havoc. One by one, the kids are killed off, in very gruesome ways (one guy is walking on his hands and is split from groin to chest with a machete). The setting is great, as they usually are in this series, because everyone feels nervous out in the middle of nowhere. Jason lurks in the shadows as he prepares for his blood bath, and this time he picks up the now famous hockey mask from one of the kids who happens to stumble across him. This is a good movie to watch and not think about. There is great suspense and something happening every minute, and lots of dead bodies piling up in the running time. It's not too long, and the acting is okay as well as the music. This is the 2nd film with Jason Voorhees in it, following his crime spree in Friday 2. This movie is not only fun to watch, but it establishes Jason as who he will be throughout the rest of this series. As always, this movie has some laughable moments and occasional bad acting scenes, but you won't mind unless you're one of those people who complain about this series all the time. Like all movies in this series, this one simply delivers a good time even though you know you're watching crap. Watch it, enjoy it, don't let all that no plot, bad acting, stupid characters junk ruin it for you. It's good entertainment and nothing more. "},{"Title":"** (out of *****)","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A group of friends spending the night at a secluded ranch are terrorized by the crazed Jason Vorhees, until heroine Dana Kimmel smacks him over the head with an axe.The worst of the series. Bad acting, no scares, lame script and very little gore. There is one cool scene where some fool doing a handstand gets chopped down the middle, but that's about the only memorable thing in the entire flick.Admittedly, things do perk up a bit by the last ten minutes or so and the scenes of Kimmel running away from the hunchbacked Vorhees are cool, but not especially suspenseful. Good for a few unintentional laughs, but not much else.Includes One throat slitting, two pitchfork impalements, a guy chopped in half, a machete through the torso, one electrocution, one impalement via poker, one stupid fat guy, zero explosions, three dead bikers, no skinny-dipping scenes, thriteen dead bodies.** "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13 part 3 is just like the last two but a bit cooler (spoiler) jason got his mask, he gets it from a dorky fat guy that likes playing bad jokes on YOU!! But it also is the first real good horror movie aside from freddy's dead (1991) that alows you to watch it in 3D and in this movie some of the 3D scenes are real cool all in all Friday the 13 part 3 is really good "},{"Title":"Horror","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"                  This is a okay episode.The film is scary in many ways. The constant flashing of sharp objects does get old.I have to comment on the opening business with Harold and Maude store clerking.These two are the WORST actors I have ever seen in my 31 years.They rot.Why is this even included in the film?A better opening would have been showing Jason walking in the woods with the wind howling!!!!!!Further,The flying eyeball is one of the worst effects in the movie.I have frozen it in on vhs and you can see THE WIRE!!!!!!! I reccomend part2 if you want a great scare.             4.5 OUT OF 10. "}{"Title":"I liked this movie","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  friday the thirteenth three is one of the best originanl friday series. It has Jason at his baddest.  parts one thru three are the scariest of them all.  You can't help but be scared as jason stalks his victims.  Part 5 and 8 can't compare to any of the other friday the thirteenth movies.  This is a must see. "},{"Title":"One of tha all time greats!!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent movie!!  I am a huge fan of this series.  They along with the Halloween movies are among my favorites.  I like the person portraying Jason this time around he is a very large and intimidating Jason. Perfect for the role.  I also like how in this installment there are no refrences at all made about the legend of Jason,  these kids seem to no nothing of the killing machine.  This along with episodes 2 and 4 in my opinion are head and shoulders above the rest..  I am back and forth about which episode is actually my favorite.  For a very long time this was it,  however lately I think #4 may have taken over.  10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Jason is really p***ed off!!!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This 3rd. installment in the infamous Friday the 13th series shows for the very first time the  man behind the mask, yes, Jason Voorhees with the hockey mask!.The plot in the movie is simple  Jason is still mad, and that means that everyone around Camp Crystal Lake will die... brutally. If you take seriously this movie (which is kinda difficult), you'll find that it's scary, and it will give you the creeps.The disco intro theme is legendary! And the eye-pop up scene is really cool. Friday the 13th Part 3 is a must see for the die hard Friday fans. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, gory fare, not that bad actually","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is incredibly cheesy, from the weird disco music theme to the 3d opening credits and 3d murder sequences (which are basically lost on current video prints), this is real cheese-o-rama here but it was fun, I guess, definitely not of the best of the series but better than parts 4 and 5. A bunch of teens in a van head to a farmhouse with a barn by a lake to do the usual stuff, drugs and sex and whatnot, and of course end up hacked and slashed by the now hockey-masked Jason, who murders with speargun, machete, butcher knife, pitchfork, and a fire poker, not to mention other killing methods such as electrocution and popping an eyeball out of its socket. The teenagers were really stupid, especially the fat kid who kept scaring the girl he was drooling over, as well as the horny couple who seemed to be having sex or talking about having sex in every scene they are in before they're killed. The lead girl, Chris, has an annoying screechy scream and isn't one of the best, although there is a weird subplot about her actually meeting Jason in the woods before the final showdown, which is kind of cool. And the bikers were pretty cool too. This is cheesy and corny, at times seeming so different from the others while still basically the same. Have fun with this one. "},{"Title":"Jason is back","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason Voorhees is back to revenge his mother's death another time. Crystal Lake is the venue and several youngsters is the target of Jason. For the second part of this flick he also uses the infamous hockey mask that people connect him with.Not as good as the sequel but alright and interesting methods of killing, as always of course, but will anyone survive this mean powerful killing machine? Watch it to find out! "},{"Title":"Nightmare.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"          This film is were the first wrong turn in the series took place.The setting moves from the spooky woods of crystal lake to less scary locations.The first two films use the woods and rain to scare you.What can be more scary than  a madman chasing you with a ax????????Part 3 main trouble is the opening sequence.The store clerks are pitful.This is some of the worst acting I  have seen in these films.Where did they find those two losers???????? You will never see them in a movie again.The teens are okay in the roles of cannon fodder for Jason.The girls get in bed as always in Jason movie.The chase and last half hour are great. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3 is not bad at all, full of surprises and some excellent cinematography. Most of the body counts are presented on screen and in a special way (like the guy who gets split in 2 while walking on hands). There are also scenes with great photography(referring to the scene where the guy plays the yo-yo, and how it reaches the camera), well, basically the scenes that were meant for the theaters in 3D. As for the surprises, this is where we see Jason in his infamous hockey mask for the first time in the Friday history. That was a pretty pleasant surprise for I who had skipped part 3 and watched the whole series. But the other surprise is a let down at the opening credits where we see a cool Jason Voorhees corpse from part 2(?). But as the camera gets closer to his face, we see a HUGE FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3 logo fly right out of his face mixed with a technical dance music(what the hell!!!???), that opening scene made the movie look like funky dance movie or some cheesy musical if you had missed the FRIDAY THE 13TH part. Overall, the movie is pretty good and is worth renting. 8/10   -2 for the opening credits, they could have done better by mixing the audio with the creepy chi-chi music. "},{"Title":"Jason, my beloved Jason","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film has a sentimental value because it was the first horror movie I saw and when I was only nine,I loved it and from that, I began to watch all horror movies I could find in the video stores. Of course, I have seen it later apart from the rest of the movies of this series and I think the first one is no doubt the best. But still, part second from part five are totally charming for me, although the last sequels are a bit tiresome.I said I watched Jason X at the cinema some months ago but it is not the same now.Jason is a classical character together with Freddy(they are my favorite ones) but I think they should stop making sequels. Instead of Jason X, they should have made the so commented on Freddy VS Jason but I think the project has been abandoned.A pity. "},{"Title":"The Birth of the HOCKEY MASK!!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is your typical Friday the 13th slasher film, where Jason stalks a bunch of teens out in the woods until his climatic fight with the one surviving heroine. What sets this one apart from the others, is the first appearance of the DEFINITIVE Jason. This is where he obtains his trademark hockey mask as well as his outfit. Gone are the overalls and burlap sack on his head. I found this movie to be far more fast paced and exciting then parts 1,2 and 4. There are some cool deaths to, such as Jason knifing a guy in half who's walking on his hands, spear-gunning a girl through the eye, and the coolest, crushing a guy's head so his eye-balls pop out. You have to see this movie in 3D in order to get the full effect of the murders. To bad they didn't use the original ending where Jason chops the heroine's head off with an axe! "},{"Title":"best in its series","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have got to say that this is the best in the friday 13th series.It has everything I ask for in a horror picture.Very elaborate death scenes,more gore,and a gorgeous heroine who is not scared to fight back. These are the horror movies I like.Most of the Jason movies are like that,but this had a little more,expecially in 3D.I am a very big Jason fan.He's the most original movie monster in horror history.This movie gets 2 thumbs way up and 10 stars.Great job Jason. "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so hilarious! I'm so used to the FRIDAY films being solid, above average horror films with the usually classy studio backing. But this, the third installment, is totally amateurish in both the acting and the writing departments. Not too mention those cheesy  3-D effects! I was cracking up the entire time. FRIDAY 3 is a good film but it is totally inconsistent with others in its series. First of all, it doesn't take place at Camp Crystal Lake (maybe that can be considered a nice change of scenery). But my biggest problem with this film is that the makers don't even try to finish the backstory started in Part 2. Our answers were never really answered in the previous entry What is Jason? How can he be alive? Where has he been for the past thirty years, etc. etc. Well, this movie doesn't even bother explaining it. Jason just shows up and starts hacking people to bits. This film is a riot. A lot of the acting is atrocious. Dana Kimmell is OK as the heroine but Paul Kratka is awful (and he dies in the film's funniest scene). Jason looks like some hunchbacked buffoon (check out the scene where Kimmel drives away from the cabin and a wounded Jason hobbles after the speeding van on one leg!) and his kills aren't as gory as the previous installments. Besides that, there's also a hilarious disco rendition of Harry Manfredini's classic score. Top it all off with a, ahem, twist ending stolen directly from the original (and which frankly makes very little sense) and you've got yourself one fun little movie.To be fair there are some good scares and the climax is exciting. The most memorable thing about this film, however, is that this is the one where Jason finally gets his hockey mask. And it also has the honor of containing one of the series' most popular murder sequences, where some fool doing a handstand gets chopped in half lengthwise with a machete.So all in all one of the most amateurish of the series but easily one of the most enjoyable. Check it out. *** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst in the series","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was the worst of the sequels.  It was slow and boring.The ending was silly.  MINOR SPOILER When Jason's mother jumped out of the river, isn't she supposed to be dead? It was far-fetched and ridiculous! "},{"Title":"Not very good, but not the worst","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"     The third installment of Friday The 13th is scary, but pretty predictable. I know a lot of people seem to like to complain about the  acting, the acting in this film is not very good, not disgraceful, but  when you watch any of the Friday the 13th's or any movie, the focus should be on the plot and the story that follows. If it scares and you don't get bored with it, then its a good film. This film was not bad really, but the predictably is really what made me not like it so much. The film was scary, but they practically rehashed the whole first movie. I really wish I could have seen it in it in 3-D, because if you watch it on video, you can find the 3-D scenes, they look great, but you only get the 2-D effect. I give this movie 4.5 out of 10. Its not nearly as bad as Friday The 13th (5) The New Beginning (1985) "},{"Title":"one of jason's better outings","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this may or may not b the best in the series, but it's definetly one of the better entries; one of the few Friday films to contain decent actingget to see jason get his hockey mask (but u probably already knew that) "},{"Title":"a new dimension in horror","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"       This movie has it all for a Jason fan !!! It has Jason being the killer wearing the hockey mask,  it has good looking teens, it has plenty of gore, some cool special effects, and a creepy atmosphere. Friday the 13th part III is one of the best of the series, it  has good murder scenes, and you'll jump one or two times in your seat. This is a classic in the Friday the 13 th saga!! Jason wears the hockey mask for the 1st. time...  Acting is bad  (uh, it's a Jason movie), but what saves this movie is that it's as good as part II. I recommend it for any horror fan. IT'S NOT THE BEST OF THE SERIES, BUT IT'S STILL GOOD .  "},{"Title":"Shiverin' in my bones","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have never been that scared in a movie theatre in my life.  Some of the effects had me jumping out of my seat.  I was begging to leave.  Don't watch the video copy, it's not the same experience. "},{"Title":"Another very worthy horror sequel","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first two films in this series were very awesome and fun to watch and this installment is definitely no exception.  This film, like its predecessors, is among my favorite horror films of all time.  Nothing but pure fun and excitement throughout.  Perfect for any fan of the slasher genre. "},{"Title":"Good second sequel!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is where Jason first got his hocky mask! It stars Richard Brooker, Dana Kimmel, Paul Kratka, Larry Zerner, Steve Susskind, and Cheri Maugans.plot Jason (Richard Brooker) survived the end of part 2 and goes to a store and kills the owners, Harold (Steve Susskind), and Edna (Cheri Maugans). Now he has set his eyes on a group of teens staying at a farm on crystal lake. One of the teens, Chris (Dana Kimmel) is a survivor from Jason, she was attacked 2 years ago. When Chris, and her boyfriend Rick (Paul Kratka) go for a walk in the woods, Jason is back on the farm with there friends. He kills each of the horny, weed smoking teens, including Shelly (Larry Zerner), who he steals his first hocky mask from. Then Chris and Rick go back to the farm, Jason kills Rick, and now its up to Chris to put an end to Jason. Great sequel! This isnt one of my favorites but its close. Jason looks awsome in his first hocky mask!3/4 "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad, But Not Great.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"            Friday the 13th Part 3 was an okay movie, but as always, sequels are never as good as the originals. The acting wasn't anything to rave about, but the story was okay. Also, some of the killings were quite cheezey. Steve Miner does a good job at directing these films, and the script was written nicely. The movie had some suspenseful moments and some thrills, which always makes a horror movie good. I give Friday the 13th Part 3 a 7/8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just another stupid sequel","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is what started all the stupid sequels to come. They ruined it with this. After Friday the 13th 2, they should have just left it at that. Actually they should have just left it alone after the first. This is what opened the door for all the other piece of crap sequels. This might have been somewhat better if hadn't been directed by Steve Miner. I actually liked his work in part 2, but i dont know i guess he just didnt do too well with this one. I recommend this one to anyone who likes low budget, and somewhat out-there films "}{"Title":"Not one of the best installments but worth being a part of the series","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *This contains spoilers*Friday the 13th part 3 was filmed in Saugus, California and came out in 1982.  The traditional 'Jason' hockey mask was introduced for this sequel.  The movie picks up pretty much where the second installment leaves off.  The lady with curlers in her hair is watching the news about what just happened at Camp Crystal Lake, which was the second sequel.  The news clipping that is shown on the TV is actually part of the end of Friday the 13th part 2.  The day after she was murdered by Jason, there are a group of people going to Camp Crystal Lake for a weekend.  It is not mentioned whether they are counselors or not, so it is understood that they are just there to camp out in the cabins.The lake where the movie was filmed was obviously different from the ones in the original movies, probably because it was filmed on a movie ranch.  Even though the lakes in the first two were different, at least they looked to be the same.  The acting was rather poor.  In the beginning where the man is in the store eating the food and sees the snake, the wire that makes the snake move is visible.  Later on in the movie, Jason tries to crush Rick's head and when he does that, his eye pops out, which looked really cheesy.  A few of the scenes were poorly reproduced from the original Friday the 13th movie, especially at the end when the last survivor climbs into the canoe and drifts on the lake.  Jason's mother pops out of the lake half decomposed and pulls her into the water.  Immediately after that happens, she awakens.  Other murder scenes seemed very fake, such as when the girl was shot in the eye with a dart gun by Jason, there was an obvious difference between her real face and the makeup job.  Don't expect this movie to be as good as the first two Friday the 13th movies, but at least it's worth watching.  There are still good murder scenes; especially the way Andy is killed, there are no other murder scenes quite like it in any of the other Friday the 13th sequels.Movie rating  6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bad but good","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, of course it's not a good movie as far as quality goes, these Friday the 13th movies are not meant to be good, just cheap and slashy. It's amusing as far as cheap-quality entertainment goes. I like the addition of the 3D effect, I remember they made such a big deal out of it when this movie was released nearly 20 years ago, especially the eye-ball popping scene. The harpoon scene was great as well, but I don't understand why they used a dummy instead of the actress. The dummy effect was bad as it looked so unrealistic. They could of easily and realisitically attached the harpoon effect to the actress and used her slumping more realistically into the water. I am an an admitted fan of this series for the cheap, so-bad-it-is-good amusing entertainment value it brings (and the great make-up effects in most of them, I have studied this field so it is of personal interest to me), and this third installment is my favorite of the series.  "},{"Title":"Chilling 3-D popcorn action","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film has it all.  Romance (for the ladies), action, suspense and an eyeball that squeezed out of someone's head and shot directly at the camera! Although is film is a tour-de-force for all of the actors involved there are three stand-outs who were intentionally overlooked for academy awards. The first two are Gloria Charles who embodied the biker chick Fox and Kevin O'Brien as the noble Loco (a.k.a biker guy #2).  Even though these two had a combined 10 minutes of screen, the depth and flair that they brought to their characters was truly amazing (eat your heart out Tracy and Hepburn!). The third and most heart-wrenching performance belonged to the now legendary Larry Zerner who brought the character of Shelly to life.  With his out of control afro and his doughy good looks and charm, Zerner gave Shelly a flair that people still talk about to this day.  So dear readers watch Friday the 13th Part 3 for the 100th time (like almost everyone out there has) and enjoy some of the rich, full-bodied performances that have made this film a modern masterpiece worthy of the Ronald Regan 1980's. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Okay, As Good As Part 2","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Picks up where Part 2 left off at a ranch where more teens are getting it (pun intended).  Part 3 is just as good as Part 2, yet we would still have to wait until Part IV to get somewhere with the series.  The climax this time around is just as good as the original, but the acting is just as routine.  By this time, I was asking myself Where is this series going?  Because this film is just a reworking of Part 2.  Every film in this series is a timewaster, but at this point I was looking to see something new.  (Possible Spoiler)  I mean how many Teens go to have fun and smoke pot and have sex but are menaced by an angry murderer who wants to kill them and does kill them all except for one or two who kill the angry murderer who might survive for the sequel type films can a person take.  Don't get me wrong, I love slasher films.  But I must tell you, I do like variety.  Films like THE PROWLER and NEW YEAR'S EVIL give you that variety.  Films like FRIDAY THE 13TH PARTS 2 AND 3 don't.  **out of ****Yet another timewaster notable only for Jason getting his hockey mask, a fun climax, and Jason worshipping (as in Part 2) Betsy Palmer's severed head. "},{"Title":"Similar to Part 2, though not quite as good.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The third installment in the series picks up where Part 2 leaves off. (Just as 2 picked up after 1). Just like my thoughts on Part 2, I will list the good and bad The Good 1) The tension in this film is unrelenting. With a small exception early in the film to introduce some characters, from start to finish there is never a dull moment. Director Steven Miner - who also did Part 2,  had this craft mastered. 2) Several victims to be slaughtered are not weak, frail, stupid (well, maybe stupid) characters, which was a case with many in Part 2, and in many, many slasher movies. Some characters here are from a biker gang, and others just have bad luck in getting killed. 3) Jason is very intimidating. In my Part 2 review I credited Kane Hodder, he was actually not Jason until later in the series. But the credit can be shared, Jason is a very menacing, towering figure here and in most of the sequels. His hockey mask fit him perfectly! 4) As another reviewer noted, Harry Manfredini's manic score is fitting.The Bad 1) While a few of the characters are formidable, the acting is often weak. Amy Steel gave Part 2 a great hero, with good acting. Outside of Jason too much acting here is stiff, with weak characters. 2) The body count is too high, and too quick. Just like Part 2 (and many horror/slasher films), not enough time is frequently given to allow you to care about the characters (a root problem) thus, feel the tension to build before the killing. 3) The ending does not have the crescendo that parts 1&2 had. I liked the finale, and lack of absolute resolution in the first two films that seems tired by now. 4) The filmmakers tried to overdo the 3D, and it takes a bit away from the film. All in all, probably 3rd best in the series, perhaps 4th (1, 2 & 4 are all good horror), but while the series continued, it didn't have much left to say. Really after Part 2. 3 out of 4 stars for Horror fans. 2 of 4 for everyone else.  "},{"Title":"Worst in the series","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw Friday THE 13TH PART 3 3D when it first came out on DVD. I thought it would come with the 3D glasses. It turns out that the 3D glasses were not included with the DVD, which was a big letdown. Without the 3D effects, the film isn't worth watching. It has the same plot as the first two Friday THE 13TH movies and is not nearly as entertaining. In fact, it's definitely the worst in the series. There's nothing interesting in the plot, there's just blood and stupidity. The death scenes have a lot more gore and just like in the second Friday THE 13TH movie, we learn a little more about Jason's history. Of course, if you have not seen Friday THE 13TH or Friday THE 13TH PART 2 then you won't know what the heck is going on. 3/10 "},{"Title":"The Hockey Mask","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 3 is not one of the better Fridays, but it does have an eerie feel to it each time I watch it. The plots simple, teens looking to get away for the weekend drinking, drugs, and sex. Then of course one by one they are added to the list of murders at Crystal Lake. The acting is not as good as it was in the first two, but in this one Jason gets his hockey mask, and that's a moment in movie history that no one will forget. "},{"Title":"Pure cheese!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WHY? WHY does everyone like this movie so much? I myself find the FRIDAY THE 13th series a lot of fun, but this is just pure . . . cheese. The acting is terrible, there's not that much blood, and the photography is so grainy, it's hard to believe that Steve Miner himself could have directed this after his classic, FRIDAY 2! I mean, it's still a lot of fun all by itself, but as a movie in the FRIDAY series? FRIDAY THE 13th movies have always been above-average slasher films mostly because they had Paramount backing them up. This one looks like it was filmed on a cam-corder! Well, the truth is, it DOES have a couple neat murders, and it's the first film where Jason has his hockey mask. So where did they go wrong? The casting! My god, I couldn't believe I was watching a FRIDAY film! Dana Kimmell is SO bad she's GOOD. And as for Paul Kratka, well, he's just bad. So anyway, the plot had eight friends staying at Kimmell's barn in the middle of the forest, where, very recently, two people were just murdered. So anyway, we also have a biker gang who serve for no other purpose than to be butchered by Jason via machete and pitchfork. Then the teens begin to start dying. Now, like I said above, some of the murders are innovative but generally bloodless. One teen gets a spear in her eye, another one (in a very memorable moment) is cut down the middle while doing a handstand, and, in the great bravura moment, Paul Kratka gets his eye popped out!So anyway, FRIDAY 3 is by no means a good movie, but it will generate some laughs, and, admittedly, some chills during the final chase between Jason (his first time in a hockey mask!) and Kimmell.GORE 6/10 (which is pretty tame for FRIDAY movies) ACTING 3/10 DIRECTION 4/10 SUSPENSE 6/10 ATMOSPHERE 5/10 "},{"Title":"good and bad!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok first off I did enjoy this movie but it was so stupid I won't spoil it but basically Jason rises up at the beginning but it turns out to not even be him which made absolutely no sense at all! Parts of the movie were funny and there is a small love scene and a few other nude scenes with the girls so that was good as well hehe. Overall the killings are good except the ending just sucked! 5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a newer user of the IMDB I find myself reviewing more and more Friday movies.  I didn't plan to do this when I signed up, its just kinda ended up this way.  I guess it's because I'd rather review movies that the critics pan instead of Shawshank-type masterpieces.  Many people can't tell one Friday the 13th movie from another and that's always kinda peeved me, so let me start by saying if you're gonna watch any of these you should limit yourself to the first four, of which this is the worst.  But when you consider that there are nine+ of these movies that's not bad at all.Jason is alive in this one, and by that I mean he's not a bullet-proof, maggot-faced zombie who could take on 50 armed guys and not break a sweat.  I will always prefer this version of Jason to the latter, because every character actually has a CHANCE of beating him at his own game.  The main character in this one hands him the worst beating yet, and it's always entertaining to watch little Dana Kimmell fight the massive Richard Brooker and win time and time again.  She hits him with a shovel, a log, a knife, books, and an ax, and Jason really seems frustrated at his own inability to catch her.  The murders that lead up to the chase scene are hot-cold, ranging from the awesome handstand death to the very lame electrocute the hippie.So watch F13-3 and see Jason do his thing before he could take 100s of bullets, teleport, possess people and breathe underwater.  When the series granted him these super-powers it basically turned him from a mountain-man psychopath into some sort of alien, and it's a change for the worse.  You'll find that he has more character in these early films, and part 3 has more of the original Jason than any of the other films.  By the end you'll be itching to see what happens next, and you're in for a treat- part 4 is even better!  But stay away from parts 5 through 9 in which Jason basically turns into the Shape from Halloween with a hockey mask.      "}{"Title":"A typical schlock 3D horror film","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I may be prejudiced, when I saw this film in 3D in the theater, the projection was horrible--you could see the three-D, but it was horribly mis-registered.  A complaint to the manager seemed to indicate that was the way the print arrived.  Anyway, like most children with a new toy, the director was more interested in playing with it and exploring its possibilities, rather than weaving a good story.  The effects were not quite as gory as Andy Warhol's frankenstein, but competent.  If you cant see this in three-D, forget it. "},{"Title":"Dull without 3-D.","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel was originally shown in 3-D format in theaters (widescreen), in which it probably delivered a few shocks.  But it in the standard home-video pan and scan, it is nothing more than Jason coming back and killing a few more ignorant teens.It is well worth the effort to find the widescreen or possibly the 3-D version of this film, because they are much better looking than this video, which is among the worst looking videos of our time.As for the film itself, well, the summary of the film is provided above, none of the characters are given any development, especially Jason's.  The acting is bad to boot, especially from the lead actress Dana Kimmel, who reportedly whined about the film's gory nature, and said she didn't care for slasher movies in general.  I guess the paycheck they offered caused her to compromise her morals...And yes, F13 fans, this one was cut as well to avoid the dreaded X rating from the MPAA; check the IMDB's Alternate versions listing.*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This flick is underrated by series fans and critics. Here, Jason gets his hockey mask and kills some vacationing teens by the lake. Slightly more character development than most others also help it out. Plus, Jason actually runs! It's entertainment, nothing more. On the downside - it isn't scary.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Get this classic on DVD!","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've watched this move hundreds of times since first viewing it in 1983 on the now non-existent Spotlight movie channel.I will admit they do not make horror films now a days like they used to.. Although the acting is a tad bit cheezy the eerie music and 3-D affects made up for it.An extra bonus is owning this film ov DVD where one can once again appreciate the widescreen true aspect. I have compared both video tape format and DVD and enjoy it much more in wide screen..  "},{"Title":"Cheesy but somewhat fun","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just have to say this Tracie Savage is very, very hot! She plays Debbie....and oh my gosh, I wish she could've been the heroine instead of Dana Kimmell (who was pretty but kind of annoying). Anyway...this doesn't have the atmosphere or scariness of the first two films. It is virtually plotless, depicting how teenagers are killed off one by one while staying at a farmhouse by Crystal Lake. The best parts are the finale where Chris and Jason duke it out (great fun!!), and the kills are messier and a bit bloodier than part 2 (kid split in half by machete, knife through neck, impalement on hot poker...etc.). All in all, this ain't great but take a look. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst of the first four, but still good!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is probably the worst of the first four, but it still rocks.  This is the one where Jason gets his hockey mask.  Although it was easy to guess in this movie (especially Shelly knowing that he was going to die and nobody would believe that he was actually dead), it was pretty interesting.  I liked this one. "},{"Title":"An improvement","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is better than the last 2 films.  Well, this one is about a couple a kids who have no reason to, but camp out in the country.  Jason comes, (with a hockey mask!), and slaughters everyone.  May sound dumb, but it is pretty good.Contains  Brief Nudity, Drug use, and Strong Violence. "},{"Title":"3-D Effects.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Released to screen in 3-D was great this is the third in the Friday saga. I ingore Jason, Dana Kimmell (But she is in a great sexy performance though) the flashback footage of terrible 2, and the plot of Camp Crystal Lake. The 3-D Effects are the only thing I liked. Steve Miner did a better job than he did in 2 and better than Cunnigham. Friday the 13th Part 3 is the only good one I seen so far. Jaws 3-D was more better though. My rating- 3*** out of 5 "},{"Title":"It was lots of fun in 3D!!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING **1/2  out of **** (3D VERSION)                **     out of **** (standard version)This review is based on the original 1982 theatrical screening when I saw it in 3D. The film is even with the first two overall, except when watched at the original widescreen ratio as well as the 3D process.The acting by the teens in this film is worse than usual, but the agenda is the same. They're out for thrills but find terror  in the personage of Jason Voorhees, donning his trademark hockey mask. He deals death in new ways, some of which still resound in my brain from when I first saw the 3D version 18 years ago. All I can tell you is that the spear gun scene was awesome on the big screen!The confrontation with Jason and the heroine at the predictable climax is maybe the best so far. It was very intense in the theatres!I recall the audience cheering uncontrollably for Jason's killing techniques. When I saw the film I was on a date, and although the two of us were first on a massive line, we got trampled when the doors opened. Sneakers were on the floor, as people lost their shoes in the stampede! We had trouble getting seats when we finally recovered! This was the film that made me a Jason fan, and I went religiously to each new film on opening night from parts 4 through 9.......and I plan to do the same for Part Ten. "},{"Title":"Good entry in the series","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason is back the third time around, and this is where he gets that hockey mask we all love. This movie really build up the character of Jason as the King of All Slashers. But still, it was a weak entry in the series. It's watchable, and enjoyable, but part 4 is still the best one starring Jason. It's better than 3-D than on flat screen, especially the popped eye part. It's starts off slow, then picks up the speed, then slows, then someone gets killed, and so on. Definatley not the greatest one in the world, but it ranks in at #4 of the series in my opinion. "}{"Title":"Third installment is the worst so far","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After a mediocre first installment followed by a kick-ass sequel, FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3 is the worst so far. How could it not be? Little character development, stupidity beyond belief, bad acting, horrible dialogue, and an almost completely unlikable group of teens create one of the worst horror sequels in my history of viewing.The overacting Dana Kimmell is Chris, a whiny bitch who has survived a near-death experience at a lake (is it Crystal Lake? we're never told) and ventures back for a vacation with a group of her friends, all horribly acted and for the most part, unlikable. The superman killer, Jason, who has survived from PART 2, somehow crawled away and has now decided to wreck the kids' vacation. Lots of false scares created by Shelley the joker (who I couldn't wait to see slaughtered), some T&A, unintentional humor (It's you! You can't be alive!), dialogue worthy of an Ed Wood movie (but worse), and great gory deaths are what make up the 90 minutes. The trick ending rips off PART 1, by the way. Also are some great camera tricks utilized for the 3-D theatrical release that look like they would have worked quite well. Now if only Paramount released this on DVD in 3-D......In the long run, PART 3 contains some great splashy gore effects (speargun to the eye, firepoker through the stomach, cutting a handstander in half, squishing a head with bare hands, knife through the chest), but little else worth recommending to a serious horror film fan. Still, it will remain a staple at teen horror parties for years to come along with its previous (better) and later (worse) installments. "},{"Title":"The best out of all 9","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is an example on how to make a horror movie.I couldnt sleep alone for years after seeing this in 3-D. I just wish they could bring 3-D to video.Nevertheless,part 3 is a classic. Richard Brooker plays the scarriest Jason.Part 3 is in my opinion the best one out of them all. "},{"Title":"Second best of the series (Spoilers)","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th, Part 3 is a lot better than Part 2, where it has more colorful characters, more creative killings and the best chase scene in the whole series. It was directed by Steve Miner who helmed Part 2 and later on, Halloween H20. If one thinks about it, there really isn't any plot in the film. Just Jason finding a new place to hide and hack teenagers in weird, gross ways. Anyway, the film picks up one day after the events in Part 2. Jason is now hiding at another cabin in Crystal Lake where a bunch of teenagers get together for a weekend full of drugs and sex. Not long after they arrive, he starts to kill. That is the main plot. There is also a little subplot about the main heroine being attacked by Jason some years before. Well, if you thought the kids in the first two were bad, this one is the icing on the cake. Let's see the heroine, the heroine's loser ex-boyfriend trying to patch things up, two pot smoking hippies who look twice the teens ages, the fat prankster who has an afro, the nice girl who the fat prankster tries to get with, the pregnant friend of the heroine and the horny boyfriend of the pregnant girl. Oh! Also add in a biker trio. Some trivia This is the only Friday flick where Jason's name is NEVER mentioned. This is the first flick to show him with his famous hockey mask. When first released, it was shown in 3D.This is one of the better installments in the series, definitely better than the later ones. Rent it.  "},{"Title":"SUCKS","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie , and I still don't know why , WHY I WATCH IT. It is such a stupid movie , the WORST sequel of the series, the first one is much better. In this movie there is nothing change from the others two, there is nothing original , the movie SUCKS !! "},{"Title":"Better than the second film","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Out of all the sequels the 3rd film has always been my favorite mainly because the heroine in this film is much better than the previous 2 damsels in distress and of course this is the film where jason gets the infamous hockey mask. There's a lot more scares in this film and the movie goes by pretty fast.The 3rd film picks off right after the second film. Jason is wandering around and soon kills two residents in the area. After this we are introduced to several characters, some more interesting than others, besides our helpless victim i thought Shelly was the best character. when they get to the camping grounds Chris is haunted by an experience where she was attacked by a man with grotesque features. she'll soon realize that the man has come back for her.The acting is good and bad in this film. dana kimmel as chris is pretty good. she's also really hot. the last 15 minutes or so are the best but unlike the second film it keeps you completely interested up until the grand finale.I recommend this one. it's almost better than the original but not quite. at least it comes close. "},{"Title":"Extremely Entertaining","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The second best of the Friday the 13TH series, this picks up right where Part 2 ended.  Jason kills a couple hicks at their home, then heads to a nearby cabin and proceeds to slaughter the group of teens vacationing there.  Follows the formula of the first two films, but is even better than those!  High recommended.Friday the 13TH Part 3 is Rated R for graphic violence and gore, language and drug use, and for brief nudity. "},{"Title":"Nothing New To Offer","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This 3rd entry in the fridays series is best known as the first time we Jason with his infamous hockey mask. I would imagine to get the full effect of this movie someone would have to watch it in the theatres because of the 3d effects. On video the 3D does not work well. Basically the film is the same as any other entry, nothing new or exciting to offer, some of the acting is ok some is outwardly horrible. Plot Jason kills a bunch of teens and bikers in a cabin in the woods. The film does have some eerie and scary moments like the beginning and  the barn scene at the end and is slightly better than the first film but nothing great. "},{"Title":"Effective third movie","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 3 is the third movie in the popular horror series. It's a notch below the first two films, but it's still an effective slasher picture. This Friday the 13th movie is best known as the one where Jason wears the hockey mask for the first time. Another group of kids plan to have a great weekend at a cabin in the woods, but they pick the wrong place to have it Camp Crystal Lake. Jason comes in and does his usual... well, you know. This film was shot in 3D when it was first released. I never got a chance to see this movie in the theater, but I can imagine it was a blast for those who did. But on the basis of watching this on video, it's entertaining and scary. But it started to get a little tiresome. One thing that really offended me about Friday the 13th Part 3 was all the drug use. It was totally unnecessary. Still, Friday the 13th Part 3 is a good slasher film, and much better than some of the later films that followed.**1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Huge improvement over the 2nd one","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   3rd installment of the hockey masked killer franchise is an improvement over the first 2 entries, setting the stage for more good entries to come(And they do, in my opinion.). This time another group of unsuspecting teens spends their summer at Camp Crystal Lake. Suddenly, Jason returns and this time...he gets his hockey mask. Good story, acting, and effects. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Rather lame movie with some good points...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The third entry of this popular series is an average horror movie.It's a typical slasher movie full of cliches,annoying characters and stupid situations(especially this surprise ending that first and second Friday the 13th excelled in).The writing and acting is very putrid,even for this series.I've heard that Dana Kimmell(Chris)was reported to have publicly denounced the entire production stating how she hated doing it and she only took the role for exposure.It shows.I don't blame her.To be fair,some of the killings are quite gruesome(for example meat cleaver in the chest,spear in the eye etc.)and the film isn't boring.At least it's better than complete piece of crap called Jason Goes to Hell. "}{"Title":"More of the same.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason is back to his old ways, stalking more idiotic teenagers staying at a camp. Sequel offers nothing new (unless you saw it at a theater in 3-D), and offers the usual bad acting, and script. Direction is ok however and there is some really creative death sequences, but that can't save this film. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"More like One-Dimensional!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday The 13th Part 3 (1982) was another pointless sequel hoping to ride the wave of the original film's box office success. Not even the 3-D gimmick could save this worthless entry. One positive note Dana Kimmell is by far the series' most beautiful leading lady (Adrienne King from Part 1 being the most realistic; and Amy Steel from Part 2 being the toughest). Since there are 13 survivors from all eight Friday sequels (including Steel,Kimmell,Corey Feldman,Kimberly Beck,Melanie Kinnemann,Shavar Ross,Jennifer Cooke,Lar Park Lincoln,Kevin Blair,Jensen Daggett,Scott Reeves,John D.LeMay and Kari Keegan), a great idea for Part Ten would be for the survivors to return to Camp Crystal Lake as part of a group therapy session...one by one,they are murdered...instead of Jason being the killer,one of these survivors could be suffering from a severe case of psychosis brought upon by post traumatic stress disorder (my money would be on Feldman's creepy Tommy character). Hey,its a helluva lot better than Jason In Space! And Adrienne King could guest star in a dual role cameo as the group's psychiatrist. My score for Part 3 3 out of 10 (all three points earned by Kimmell's beauty; Jason's new hockey mask doesn't even warrant a point...he looks like a demented goalie!).  "},{"Title":"AN UNDERRATED FILM","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday The 13th Part 3 is a very underrated film. Director Steve Miner successfully creates a feeling of impending dread, making this the most atmospheric entry in the series.Despite an amateur cast & script, 'Part 3' is well-paced, developing suspense and tension, as it goes. In addition, many conventions are avoided 1. This is the first of the series to not take place on friday the 13th, 2. The characters are unaware of Jason's identity, and 3. The film is the first (& only?) in the series to be shot in 2.35 to 1 Aspect Ratio, for a true WideScreen feel.Richard Brooker is menacing as Jason, with the best movement, of all the actors to portray the killer.This film is definitely worth a viewing, offering some genuine scares -- 3D, or not. "},{"Title":"The Real Mask and Friday's in general","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I realise the mask part in my Part 2 comment could have been confusing because the sack used in part 2 is not the mask we all know and love, but alas, part 2's mask is gone and the real slaying begins...Onto the usual stuff-->This film is old, there are a never ending string of sequels (including a new one where Jason is in space), this one is not even the original or even the original sequel, the video version does not even have the 3D effects, and the series really should have ended with part 4, (but...) aside from those facts, the original Jason with 'hockey' mask Friday is still an interesting idea with a few good scares (probably a couple more than the original 2 of the series mainly because of the music and some comedy), lots of gore, nude...etc... This movie and the series pales in comparision to the Halloween and Nightmare movies, simply because all of the Friday movies seem to be the same (and hence all of these comments seem to be the same, with minor differences, get the irony?--> love that irony). Anyway,                               The story-line does not transition from movie to movie with ease. True, this one along with the others in Parts 1-4 had transitions, but 1-4 use flashback scenes (not cinematic). Then 5-9 skipped the transitions and instead used flashback scenes to connect to Jason's grave or pre-original movie (part fives flashback does not even make sense) and with minor exceptions the later movies do not have (major) related story lines (even Jason (and his mother) disappears, in the 5th (in reality) and 9th (basically) ones, and he is the main guy).Anyway, this is one of the best in the series (top 5 anyway) because 1- it was the first to give Jason the Real/hockey mask 2- it has juiced up music.  3- it even starts out by mind-bending the viewer (if you saw part 2, the beginning of this is not totally expected).  4- it is in 3D. 5- It even had Steve Minor (Friday director) in a cameo/newscaster role (thus it does have something to set it apart from the rest).In general, While none of the Friday's are terrible (5 and 9 probably being the worst), none of them are tense or suspensful or anything more than the routine slashing and killing. Part 3-D has juiced up music, but the same story. Part 8 has a new story twist, but no new music,etc... The better ones in the series add something (like strip monopoly, or Jason with mask, or Jason with 'hockey'/real mask, or 3D, or a claustrophobic environment of a boat), but none of them seem to put it all together in one film.As horror goes, better than average, a good series, but not one of the greats.In general nothing special.Rating wise, three is better than the usual and it may be the best.However,  the 3D version would probably put it over the edge/tie with a latter in the series. "},{"Title":"Watchable but nothing special.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason is back and they totally leave you in the dark about the what happens after part 2 which is the best sequel of all the Friday movies. What ever happened to the camp. How does Jason go from a camp, to a camp training center, to someone's house. It doesn't make any sense. This is an ok movie to watch if you don't have anything better to do with your night and thats the only reason I would ever watch it again. "},{"Title":"The first of Jason's hockey Mask .","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This happens to be one of my favorite Friday the 13ths . This movie starts out with a few young adults driving in the car to a farm near camp crytal lake . There are tons of characters . Theres the star (Dana Kimmell ). Kimmells boyfriend (Paul Kratka ) . Of course the hot lady who has sex in the hamock then takes a shower and gets killed . Theres the bike punks. The funny guy (Larry Zerner) . And of course Richard Brooker as JASON .The bike Punks get into a fight with the funny guy . Jason then kills one by one every biker. Then Jason go's to all the campers one by one and kills them to until theres Kimmell and Kratka Great horror film but some people may hate it . I give it ** out of **** .  "},{"Title":"This is the only exercise I need!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Whenever people are bashing a slasher movie, one of their put downs is always There was no character development. If a slasher movie does take time to develop the characters, it's lambasted for being too slow. Well, take a look at Friday the 13th part three for an example on how to write characters for slasher movies- just give each character enough personality so we can tell them apart, and then kill them. This movie has the funny fat guy, the horny girl, the stoned couple, the girl who has issues, the guy who loves the girl with issues, and, um, the guy who looks like Scott Baio. That's all I need to know- now kill them!This is one of the most enjoyable Jason movies. The kills are all really good, but the fact that this was shot in 3-D adds an extra element of hilarity to the proceedings. These characters are constantly, unnaturally throwing stuff at the screen. Yo-yos, oranges, pitch forks, popcorn, clothing line poles, human eyes- the film-makers were relentless, and it's all the more bizarre watching it flat on a TV screen.I rank this right up there with Jason Lives on my list of favorite Friday the 13th movies. It's good, good, good! "},{"Title":"It gets better everytime","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well Jason is back. AGAIN.This movie had me a little confused. How could Jason get new cloths so fast.Anyways the death scences are more voilent and the acting is still the same. So not much has changed. Jason is getting alot more tougher to beat in each film "},{"Title":"Omigawd, the van's on fire!","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very bad movie. Bad acting, dumb story, corny one-liners, routine stalking and slashing. But in 3D, it's one of the most enjoyable movies ever made, with some of the best 3D effects ever. If you've only seen it on video, it's flat and cropped and you're really missing out.So there's my review. But now I that I have your attention, here's some interesting useless trivia for youI saw a special screening of this last year, which was a life-long wish for me, after being way too young when it first came out. The 3D supervisor was there to introduce it, and to share a bit of previously unknown fanboy trivia. He said the idea for Jason to put on a hockey mask (instead of a potato sack like in part 2) was an inside joke among the Canadian members of the crew (who were responsible for the 3D effects), who wanted to add something that represented Canadian culture to the movie. Ever since then, while the hockey mask has made an important mark on American horror, nobody ever pondered the reason why he wore a hockey mask, instead of a baseball umpire mask or Quiot Riot mask. So if Jason had also put on a toque, plaid lumber jacket and carried a 2-4 case of Molson Canadian, he'd be the third McKenzie brother! "},{"Title":"One of the best of the series","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wow. A Friday The 13th that actually tried to deliver some shocks instead of just the usual gore, and guess what? They did! Steve Miner did a good job with this movie and if you happen to have a large screen television the movie looks a little better because of the 3D effects. Of course it has the poor writing and terrible acting, but so what? Everybody knows this series is not looking to win awards but scare a few people. This one does the job. "}{"Title":"not too bad MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  friday the 13th part 3, must have been great to see in the movies back when it came out since it was in 3-d, i was only like 3 when it came out so i did not see it, well anyway for the most part there is no plot to the movie, none at all. all it is once again a bunch of sex crazed teens getting gutted, but for some reason i love this movie, this is the part when Jason gets him famous hockey mask, Dana Kimmel is Chris and she is the lead, Dana Kimmell is the best lead in all the friday films. there are some good kills in the movie, as well as a few good scares. Steve Miner once again directed and did a great job once again. the final 20 minutes of the film are so classic, Dana Kimmell beats the hell out of Jason, she knocks a bookshelf on him, stabs him in the leg and arm, it's him over the head with a log, hits him with a shovel, hangs him, then finally puts an axe in his head. i give the movie 8/10. and most of the reason for the 8 is for Dana Kimmell who was just so great, and the movie is good for some scares. check this one out you'll be happy with the outcome. oh yeah and when Jason's mother pulls her into the lake at the end, that was a dream part since MRS. Voorhees got her head cut off so how does she have it back on, it's common sense that it was a dream. "},{"Title":"Jason's Back, In Blood Drenched 3D","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Friday the 13th Part 3 when it was at the theaters.  The 3D effects were excellent.  Storyline wise, it could have been a tad better, but I still liked the movie.  Without it being in 3D, it loses the effectiveness that it had at the movies.  I am hoping the Paramount will put Friday the 13th Part 3 on DVD, but have the whole movie in 3D, the way it was meant to be viewed. "},{"Title":"What would a weekend in the country be without sex?","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  That line from this movie pretty much sums up all slasher movies.  This one is the best of the entire Friday the 13th series, mostly because of the 3D.  I just can't get enough of the cheesy 3D shots, especially the pointless scene with the yo-yo.  This one actually develops some of the characters.  There's Shelly, the lone prankster.  And of course there's the cute pregnant girl who has sex in a hammock (my favorite scene).  Jason actually seems human in this one.  He grunts when he gets hurt and he gets frustrated when he can't find the person he's after.  The best thing about this moveie is when they meet the person who takes the place of Crazy Ralph from the previous movies.  He shakes around a human eye (in 3D nonetheless) saying I have warned thee (I wonder if a pun on the word eye was intended?) "},{"Title":"THE BEST OF THE LOT!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason, better than ever. The bag is gone and the mask had finally appeared. (Even though he gets it half way through the movie) The best part of the whole series. At least in this one he is still a human (later parts he seems like an alien) he has strength to commit great murders in a variety of ways unlike Michael myers (Butcher knife) Jason is back to his old habits at Crystal Lake killing any counsillours who dare to step on to his area. Of course like all Friday the 13th's there is blood and gore and of course an  essential for horror movies sex, and the post sex killings. He still has a motive in this one unlike the later one which are just made so they could slice and dice a few teenagers and have sex. Watch this one, the best of the lot!! "},{"Title":"Check it out if you like Slasher movies.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part 3 is one of my favorites in the slasher genre. It has a good cast, and the suspense is there unlike the late entries in the series. This movie is most famous for it's introduction of the Hockey mask to the series. It is to bad that the 3-D was taken out for the home version. I guess only the kids who saw it back in 1982 got to experience it the way it was meant to be seen.  "},{"Title":"very well done","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The series picked up steam with this installmant, as the briefly dazed Jason (like a machete in the shoulders gonna kill em) drags away from where part 2 ended and finds himself another camp.  Hes a little busier this time around, as theres about 12 kilings in this one, more than the last film, and more than his mom had to tackle in part 1.  All you can really critique in these films is of course the death scenes, and they deliver.  Pitchforks in necks, pokers in stomachs, and the all time nastiest Friday killing if ya ask me, the harpoon through the eye!  Owwww!  Not to be forgotten is that the mask is introduced in this film as its actually supplied by a victim (perfectly nerdy Zerner).  Nothing is really lost if you didnt see it in its original 3-D version as eyeballs popping into the screen is gross anyway you do it. Also has cool sort of disco music (the ch ch ch, ha ha ha is actually put to a beat).  Good ending too, with good undead dead tricks to keep you jumpin'. "},{"Title":"not a bad idea","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad idea for a third installment in the series.  This one was different because it was the only one in the series that was in 3D.  It also consisted of a group of teenagers who wanted to party, but guess who was there with the cake.  I can tell you that this one marked the territory of the hockey mask.  The cast was made up of new comers that may not have lasted long in the movies.   "},{"Title":"CH CH CH - Stay alive!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Awesome, awesome, awesome MUSICAL SCORE. The ending of the movie was a classic one. I really liked this movie a lot. This had a good cast, good plot and it is the PREMIER of Jason's Mask. This is my favorite movie of the series and it surpasses all of the other Friday the 13th movies. Friday the 13th Part 3 is a Great movie.  "},{"Title":"The best that Friday the 13th series has to offer.","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The 3rd installment of Friday the 13th uses a crafty 3d technique to make it one of the most entertaining movies in the series.  I personally love this movie, and think it's a must have for all horror fans.  The ending chase scene is very suspenseful, and the movie in general keeps the viewer on edge.  gets a 9.99 / 10 for me.  kB "},{"Title":"Hockey mask arrives","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The third Friday movie....... OK it was good and Jason does get the mask half way through the movie, but they tried too much at making it a 3-D movie which kind of ruined it. But it is a good movie overall and they did leave it open for a sequel. A 6 out of 10, nice try ....... "}{"Title":"No 3-D on Video","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason is back, and this time he gets the hockey mask. This film, which was originally filmed in 3-D, like all other 1983 horror films such as Amityville 3-D, Jaws 3-D, Parasite, and a bunch of other ones. The video release is not 3-D however, maybe paramount will release the 3-D version on DVD. I highly doubt it because paramount makes some really stupid dvds with almost no features. Your lucky enough to get a trailer here and there.Friday the 13th part 3 is just like part 2. Jason kills most of the campers and then gets killed in the end, well not really. It's a fun movie to watch on Halloween and on weekends. In fact, rent them all and watch them in a row. You'll feel a lot different afterwards. The characters in this movie are dumb as usuall. The movie gets a R rating automatically for some extreme violence and profanity and of course blood and some gore. There never will be a PG-13 friday the 13th movie, ever!!oh well. Parents, don't let your kids see this one until they are older.cya later..check out all my other horror movie reviews. I'm going for all the series possible and some other ones here and there.** out of **** "},{"Title":"A weekend getaway turns into a night of terror!","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like this movie.It's scary,it's fun,and it's 3D! I really like the scene where Rick's eye pops out!Anyway, to the plot.We begin seeing the chilling conclusion of Part 2 and Jason getting took out with a machette to the shoulder,he then crawls away.Next,Jason gets a new outfit and kills Harold and Edna,who own a drugstore.We then see a batch of teens going for a summer vacation in a cabin near the sight of Part 2.But terror ain't far away,because Jason is staying in the barn nearby.A character I enjoyed, Shelly,is a major practical joker,but his jokes begin to make everyone dislike him.We also find out the main character,Chris,was previously attacked by a disfigured man who turns out to be Jason.Also,a group of punk bikers become enemies of the group,and try to set their van on fire,but Jason doesn't want anyone on his turf and he takes care of them.Chris survived the first time,will she have the same luck the second time around?I give this movie a nine out of 10! "},{"Title":"One of the best of the series, also the first one where Jason is truly unleashed.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am a true horror fan, I absolutely love horror movies and Friday the 13th part 3 is one of my all time favorites. Reading the other viewers comments on this movie was quite interesting, not that my opinion means any more than the next. What you need to understand about the Friday the13th series is this If you watch this series looking for acting skills and state of the art innovation, this is not the place. Friday the 13th part 3 is classic old school horror. Remember that this movie was made in 1982, that's 17 years ago, so one shouldn't expect the stuff you see now in todays hi tech horror films. No, there's no top notch or even marginal teenage actors, and Steve Miner didn't focus on a reviting, intricate plot, instead his focus was to throw a scare or two at you.This movie has a certain eerie vibe and atmosphere to it, and at the time it was made a lot of people went to see it because it was in 3D. Upon entering the movie at the theater they gave you these cheap 3D glasses, I mean this was mad cool back then, and funny thing was, the glasses actually helped the effects somewhat. Times were different then and morality could be left behind, you watched and laughed at corny humor and fantasized about what it would be like getting a hot babe and got a pretty good scare while you were at it. It was quite neat to look around the theater and see everyone wearing these neon 3D glasses and wiggling and squirming at each killing scene, I mean the theater was packed and you could tell tension was high. I mean you asked yourself  just how will this guy get hackedEven at that young age I remembered the first two Friday the 13ths before it. The 1st one was just an introduction and caught people's attention, Part II was a little more scarier due to Jason's deranged mindset. Jason Voorhees is a complete homicidal lunatic there's no doubt about it, this is the last guy you'd want to meet in the woods. In Part III, he is released to menace and slaughter. Part I was a little dull, Part II was better, Part III was terror. Sure the music is corny now but back then it gave the movie a sadistic feel. You always remember the biker gang with Fox, the old man in the middle of the road who warns them of the omen to come holding an eyeball, you wonder what it would be like to make out with a girl in a hammock bed, the weed head couple in the back of the smoked out van, Shelly and his unleashing to Jason the now infamous hockey mask, seeing Jason's hideous face with the hockey mask off, the one guy who could do the quirky, walking hand stand getting totally obliterated with an axe down the crouch (oouch!) The sheer ridiculousness of Jason squeezing poor Ricks head in so hard his eyes popped out, Part III is a classic. What about the black bald headed biker guy who gets his arm chopped off? there was just something about this guy, I mean he epitomizes a guy who should be in a horror movie. You don't watch a horror movie to rate acting, give me a break. You want to see the different characters, you want to see the guy who's a stud with the ladies, the one guy no girl wants to make out with, the guy who DESERVED to be killed. Part III had all of these elements. I feel Steve Miner did an outstanding job with this film. Jason was totally ruthless in this movie and kept on coming at you. Jason's relentless pursuit and chase of the lone survivor Chris was intense. After Jason is hanged and she opens the barn door only to see him standing there was nice scripting by Miner, all of a sudden the black biker who we assumed was dead reappears only to be savagely hacked apart, even as Jason is hacked in the head with an axe he still extends his arms at Chris to suggest her demise is his ultimate goal, unrelenting terror.Opinions certainly vary on this film but it is my favorite of the series. Watching it takes me back in time, a perfect getaway  to the days of old!   "},{"Title":"Horay for Jason!","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A new group of teenagers have come to Jason's wilderness. Higgins Haven is the setting for my favorite Friday The 13th movie. There are many reasons for Part III, being my favorite. It has the most atmospheric of the series, is one of the reasons. The movie, also has some of the best death scenes and the most colorful characters of the series. Jason gets his hockey mask for the first time, of course.I love all of the Fridays, but the first four are the best. The stories are very close together in the first four. Making them great sequelizations. However after Part IV, the stories are not as close together. But the later ones are very entertaining. Part VIII, is my favorite of the later Fridays. Still, if it were up to me, I'd somehow bring Jason back as his classic figure in the first four. The first four, seem to be Jason's goldest years. James Robinson was actually going to bring this classic image of Jason back. As well as bringing back Freddy as he was in his early movies, for Freddy Vs. Jason. But Robinson was fired. Part III is the best! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part one was passable, part two really smelled, but this next instalment in Jason's  bloody crusade against teenagers gone camping ranks amongst the best. The killings are slick and often grizzly (because, let's not kid ourselves why we're watching this), but the writers have actually tried to make the characters a bit more distinct too.Some of the stabs at humour actually spark (like the dopeheads in the back of the truck, for one), and then there's the first appearance of that mask.In conclusion, about as good as this series gets.RATING **1/2 (Out of four) "},{"Title":"Now that's better!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, a decent sequel.  This pretty much redeems Steve Miner's lame attempt at part two.  And, I believe, Tom Savini is back, which made it so much more watchably realistic.  Apparently, Jason managed to get away from the last one, and found a hockey mask (instead of that dumb looking bag) to cover his face with.  He makes his way to a farm setting where a group of. .. you guessed it!  A bunch of carefree teens are staying the weekend.  Of course you can guess what happens, but I personally liked the tie in of the biker gang.  And this one features the most intense ending scene of all the Fridays so far!  Great comeback for Steve Miner, the director of the horrendous last episode.  As usual, horrible acting combined with gratuitous gore, a little T&A, and a pretty obvious bad guy who refuses to die.  It all adds up to create the best Friday sequel yet, probably for good.  6/10. "},{"Title":"hooray for the hockey mask!(spoiler)","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The only good thing about this one is the debut of the infamous hockey mask. 3D effects on a 2D tv screen is a bad idea. And who the heck reattached Mrs. Vorhees's head to her body?? Anyway if your a horror movie buff like me then you will get just to complete the series. "},{"Title":"The saga continues on.....","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday 3d is different than the first two.I find its plot is weak.I have always felt Part1 and Part2 are the best of the series.The effects are good.The main trouble is no plot.The series spiraled downed from here.The kids have no clue at all.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This almost like any other before it","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't have much to say about this movie, except that it is basically the same movie, except it is in 3d and Jason finally gets the mask.Other than that it actually is effective in the eerieness and atmosphere, just like its predecessors. Now I can't say anything about 4, because it wasn't on the USA network(see comment on first one). But despite the lack of acting, bad direction, story(if there is one) or plot, it just seems to get under my skin, and that is what makes the first three of the series good! By far to me, the highlight of the film is the showdown between the heroine and Jason. Some parts i chuckled at(that was of course after seeing it 3 times.) "},{"Title":"So that's why goalies wear masks!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  My least favorite of the series, this one is important for two reasons. One This is the one where Jason gets his mask. In Part 2 he wore a bag over his head making him look not unlike the Elephant Man. Two This one was filmed in 3-D and it shows.There's lots of killing with little gore this time and no nudity. This is the first flick that we actually see Jason die in. Oh yeah and mommy makes a special reappearance from the lake in a scene that rips off the ending of the first movie. Jason must be such a loving son to reattach his mommy's head to her body! Why didn't she come back in Part IV to do the killings? Argh!Basically, this is a re-tread over familiar territory except that it's just a bunch of teens going on vacation rather than opening a summer camp. But Jason still kills them all. Except for the biker kids and a few of the deaths, I found this one really dull. There's nothing particularly BAD about it, it's just nothing special.My Favorite Death Pitchfork Through Fox, The Punk Biker GirlGrade C- "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Technically seems a little better than the first two, and there's more frightening scenes to go along with better death scenes hot poker in stomach, harpoon in eye, pitchfork in stomach, plus it was originally in 3-D. Jason also gets his mask from that annoying joker. "},{"Title":"nearly as scary as part 2","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is nearly as scary as part 2,and  just as scary as the first one. part 3 is  also entertaining. this was the last of the  really creepy friday movies. even though  4,5,and 6 were scary. still none of the  later  friday movies were as creepy or scary as the first three. i give friday the  13th part 3. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Effective","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th films are notoriously bad. Part 3, however, is effective as an atmospheric horror. It blends the elements of the original film (shock and gore) with some elements of Halloween (suspense and anticipation). The acting is as good as Steve Miner could pull out of his cast. Actually, the actors make due with a pretty novice script. If you see any of the films, watch the third. You may get a few scares -- especially if you're alone. "},{"Title":"3D Was good, but they used too much of it!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The 3rd movie of the series, the 2nd movie featuring Jason, the 1st movie with Jason wearing a Hockey mask!.It was all in all a good film but, it tried to use too much 3D effects in it. The killings were basically funny and some new styles of killing.I liked the biker gang but the woman of the gang ..... was I glad she got it!!!A good try for a third movie but could of done better, the ending a total remake of the ending of the 1st Friday the 13th movie!!I give it a 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Third one As scary as the second one","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one is scary in the same way Friday the 13th Part 2 was scary. Jason is still out there. Still he kills. However, maybe he should have truly met his demise in this one. "},{"Title":"Where is the plot?","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th, Part 3 is the only one on the series filmed in 3D. It picks up a day after Part 2 ended, Jason is still running around Crystal Lake after being stabbed in the neck with a machete. A group of very horny teenagers travel to Higgins Haven for a weekend of sex, pot, more sex and more pot. Well, Jason has made a hideout for himself in a barn and he slaughters each one of them in various 3D'ish ways. He also gets trademark hockey mask from this fat prankster with an afro. Well, this movie has some good 3D effects, but there is NO PLOT at all. None of the characters even know who Jason is, and there isn't a continuation of the whole Jason-kills-people-cause-of-his-mom's-death like we had in Part 2. The heroine is awful in this film, she can't act at all. Her screams are obviously fake and she is definitely the worst heroine in the series. The rest of the acting is bad, except for the girl who plays Vera, she was good, until she had a spear shot into her eye. It is one of the better sequels that is seen, although this one is definitely the least popular. "},{"Title":"Gore, bad plot, and 3-D effects don't mix!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just because a movie is in 3-D doesn't mean that it's good.  What Part 3 is missing is a decent plot.  Jason (Richard Brooker) gets the hockey mask. Big deal.  If it wasn't for one of his victims, he'd  probably wear a white pillow case, just as he did in part 2.  Steve Miner (Halloween H20) again serves as director.  Aside from the gore, lousy plot, and poor 3-D effects, the acting is pathetic.  Dana Kimmell (as the heroine) is wasted.  My evaluation * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Not as good as part 1 or 2, but still effective.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For you Friday fans out there, this is the one you've been waiting for Jason gets his hockey mask. Other than that its just more campers getting slaughtered in gory and effective results. I still enjoyed this entry even though it was not as good as part 1 or 2. The only thing I didn't like is that Part 3 was originally released in 3D and the video version isn't, so some of the 3D gimmicks and kills look absurd. This sequel will still please fans.   "},{"Title":"Third is not a charm!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th, Part 3 is very disappointing. It picks up where the last sequel left off. Jason is forced to move on down the lake when things get to hot. He hides in a barn behind a cabin that has been rented by a bunch of friends for the weekend. As you guessed, it's not too long before people start getting knocked off. But the death scenes are getting familiar and the acting is worse then ever. The twist ending is also bad. The only good part of this movie is a scene where Jason shoots an arrow through a victim's eye. I give it 3/10 "},{"Title":"Without 3D.....Nothing Special!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Without watching this film in 3D....It has nothing special to it,some gore...But the music was great!One thing that made me glad was Jason finally gets what he always wanted....A Hockey MASK!!But the film basically was bad!Acting - 2.0 / 5.0 Actors - 2.0 / 5.0 Script - 3.5 / 5.0 Display- 2.5 / 5.0 Gore   - 2.5 / 5.0 Suspense-2.0 / 5.0 Music   -3.5 / 5.0 Overall- 2.5 / 5.0   C   "}{"Title":"The last great F13 film.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After this movie, the series started to go downhill, constantly repeating itself sequel after sequel. This movie does have its share of shocks, like poor Rick's eyeball being squeezed out of his head. The ending is great, and the acting is actually not bad. Part 6 was decent, but this is the best F13 sequel "},{"Title":"No doubt that there'd be a Part 3!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a fair sequel. When Jason gets his hockey mask in this movie, it starts off the series of hockey masked Friday the 13th movies. The only one that he is not the killer in is Part 5 (horrible!). His allusions are seen with the hockey mask, but other than that there isn't a hockey mask in Part 5. Part 3 (this movie) has a couple of scary kills. Not a bad sequel! At the end, where she gets pulled under water is pretty cool.  "},{"Title":"Finally, the hockey mask came !!!! Thank you Steve Miner !!!!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Third Friday the 13th movie !!! Here, even one day after the last movie, Jason survived of Ginny's stab on his head and go hide it in a camp house near a lake, where Chris and her friends are passing the weekend. Guess what is gonna happen ??? If you answer right i give you a donut, yeah, Jason is gonna kill the teenagers one by one, and is gonna left just the central girl to kill Jason, but, of course, he will always come back...At least, here Jason get his famous hockey mask and don't use that dumb thing that he was using in the second movie. Oh ! A detail, the beginning of the movie is in 3D, must be cool in the theaters, and the director of this one is Steve Miner too, actually director of Halloween H20.  "},{"Title":"The film i dont like...","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This part (and part 5) is the worst friday the 13th movie!I hate the soundtrack!I hate the acting!I hate the FILM!Its only a little good in this film; when Jason dies and reappears in the final chapter.Don't see this one, see friday the 13th the final chapter.vote of 3 of 10. "},{"Title":"one of the worst...","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Usch. This movie is one of the worst Friday the 13th-movies ever made, only part 5 beats this one. Gulp; 3-D, this film is not good in 2-D (TV). I'll give this one a vote of 3 of 10. "},{"Title":"Fair, but nothing to jump for","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Best Thing it's better than the next one. IT's ok but not great 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The bomb movie!","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, even though it is downed by many people, is a great movie.  The acting isn't the greatest but if you can manage to dismiss that, it's great. I was on the edge of my seat and the ending was.... and I use the term lightly.... killer!  I may be ranting and raving but, would I do it about just anything?  I special ordered it just to see it for a second time!  The effects are great and the plotline is even better.  This is the revolution for horror movies as we know it! "},{"Title":"tasteless","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am normally a big fan of the Friday the 13th films series but this movie is disgusting (Among its highlights are a hitchhiker being stabbed in the throat while eating a banana.) Skip this one. "},{"Title":"Jason is back!!  He gets the hockey mask.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is awesome.  It has the best music in the world, near the end, where Chris is in the cabin alone.  The movie really never lets up.  If nothing is happening at a certain moment, then bang!!! Something bad happens.  It's great. "},{"Title":"A good movie - But now the story was beginning to break...","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Despite the name of the film... It actually takes place the next day which makes sense... It is generally more of the same as parts 1 and 2, so no real surprises.Jason does get more inventive with weapons in this one which is nice to see - And you also begin to get an idea of just how powerful he is even without a blade to use.Obviously, this film was born in the heyday of the first attempts at 3D - I will not insult it by discussing that too much... It is so obvious that areas where they desperately wanted you to go WOW IT LIKE ITS COMING OUT OF THE SCREEN AT ME!!! and that is a major NO NO!!!! Even now this just screws up but thankfully newer directors have figure this out and have learnt to use 3D to much better effect...But hell, this was an early effort and we had no real idea...With that said, there are moments which I dare to say the Director/ Producers never intended 3D effects as such where if you are viewing in 3D - IT WORKS BRILLIANTLY! While far from the strongest of the films so far... It has great scary moments and keeps to its tried and tested formula. "}{"Title":"The mask is here but this sequel fails to live up to the previous two...","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just loved how this film started recapping the last 10 min of part 2 even though the ending in this epilogue was slightly different than we experienced at the end of part 2. I was loving it and than this swanky music takes over the credits with 3d visuals. Arrrrggg I knew the best was behind even though we have a bevy of beautiful brunettes on tap and some of the best innovative kills of the entire series. Jason's look with the mask is great but nowhere near as ominous as the burlap sack. Anyway there is way too much comic relief on hand and thank god part 4 returns to the roots of the first 2. Overall very entertaining but not worth more than the 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part III (1982) 3D Version *** ; 2D Version **1/2","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was thinking how I would approach reviewing this next installment in the ever-continuing Jason Voorhees series. I decided to base my feelings on the very first screening I ever had of the film, way back in 1982 upon its initial theatrical release -- when it was on a big wide screen and in full-blown 3D. I think it rises above its limitations considerably when viewed as it was intended, although most viewers reading this will probably not have had that original theater experience. I would shave off half a star when watching the standard flat 2D version, as the gimmicky third dimensional effects are really the main star of the movie. There's not much in the way of story, of course ... another group of young people head off on a weekend getaway where they encounter the deranged psychopath Jason. The main girl is a cutie named Chris (Dana Kimmell) who is trying to work out some emotional problems while all her friends are engrossed in the usual weed-smoking and bed- hopping. The lack of a real involved plot here is not a detriment because most F13 fans such as myself only require our man Jason to be doing his thing by dealing unprovoked death in a variety of creative ways. The death scenes here are especially fun in 3D, and they include such gory treats as a guy walking on his hands getting split in half, a spear gun being shot straight out at the audience and into a chick's eye, and a crushed head's eyeball shooting forward. The action really picks up during the exciting climax, which is the best part of the film and worth waiting for. *** out of **** (3D Version) **1/2 out of **** (2D Version) "},{"Title":"Best of the first three?","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A new batch of counselors... oh, wait, no... well, someone should tell the people who wrote the text on the back of the cover of this. It's just a random group of young people(the girls chosen for their ability to scream) who go to the woods where Jason(who is now wearing the hockey mask, and who we see more of in this(though he is still built up, we return to the stalking kind of approach here... we do also get daft call-backs to the original), especially near the end, and yet he remains frightening... great performance by the stunt guy) hangs out, and, well, he's territorial, I guess(he also isn't standing on tradition... this takes place on Saturday the 14th and Sunday the 15th, directly after the second ended). The characters still aren't developed(except for the obnoxious Shelly, who pulls pranks to not be ignored and is somewhat sympathetic), if there are a few that you might remember, such as the deliciously stereotypical, look-at-what-they're-wearing, was-that-ever-fashion 80's gang. It's clear from early on who the lead is, and it works out fine... we somewhat get to know her. There are a couple of creative, memorable deaths, the atmosphere leading up to them(in spite of excessive fake-outs) means we get a chance to be scared out of our minds from it(and it isn't gratuitous the way it is today... well, at least not as much), and it tends to work. This has a good opening and excellent ending, but the middle portion is also effective enough. It's the most fun of these three, that's for sure, the one I could most see myself re-watching. We again get the climax of the film prior to this one, at the beginning of this(and they're really not even cutting it anew, they're just showing it again). This does really deliver and go by pretty smoothly. When this was released, it came out in 3D... I can't comment on how well-done it was, if I can say that they certainly make a lot of effort to shove things into our faces every chance they get(a few are nifty). The humor remains poor. This doesn't have a lot of sexuality and only obscured nudity. There is a moderate amount of bloody violence and gore in this. The DVD comes with a decent theatrical trailer. I recommend this to any and all fans of slasher flicks. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Jason Bursts Out Of Your Screen!","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part III is lots of fun and also quite scary and gory at the same time. It's 3D appeal is very hard to find nowadays, as the DVD comes in a standard grainy 2D version. So look forward to many items jumping to the edge of your screen, but never quite out of it. Friday the 13th Part III is a very good movie; the music is fantastically creepy yet upbeat at the same time. The colours are very nice in this film, which shows a horror movie can have nice glowing colours without needing dark rooms to scare the audience. The acting varies, Dana Kimmell as Chris is one of the most appealing and convincing heroines throughout the Friday the 13th series, and she pulls off a very genuinely terrified young woman, being terrorised by Jason Voorhees. Jason Voorhees is also appealingly upgraded in this movie. He is big, sturdy, muscular and menacing; he is a big hulk of horror on two legs. And the legend also gains his infamous hockey mask in this movie. The characters are also very fun in the instalment. Some are humorous and make us feel sympathetic when they are killed off. Some are serious and are easily relatable to, so we also feel pity for them as well. There is also the annoying jester who we come to feel sorry for, and the rejecting bitch who gets her comeuppance. The locations in this movie are really picturesque and fits the Friday the 13th feel very well; a cosy, warm cabin snuggled up deep in the woods. The script is also upgraded as well. Humour and small jokes are inserted here and there, for relief and also to make us feel warm and closer to the characters. The gore is quite well handled in this movie; gruesome in parts and much more inventive in this film. It is enjoyable, however is much more appealing when the popcorn, eyeballs and yo-yo's are flying out of the screen. There are also background stories and flashbacks weaved into the main story, about Chris' past, which tries to give the movie more depth. This is quite unnecessary, but it still works well, and it doesn't bring the movie down in any way. It actually gives a reason as to why these teenagers are visiting these cabins. The ending has it's trademark surprise scare, so look out for that. This third movie in the series is an absolute pleasure. "},{"Title":"Well ...","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Friday the 13th film series has become a legendary addition to horror cinema; Jason the famous Hockey masked killer. however he doesn't begin his killing spree until part 2 and only gets his hockey mask in part 3 which by then is just going downhill repeating the same story at the same camp every time just with a different name. In part 3 Jason is still on the loose to continue his camp counsellor killing spree even though this time it's just a bunch of over aged kids staying at a cabin. In part 2 i assume it's taking part on Friday the 13th but by part 3 Jason is just on the loose and kills 2 victims at the beginning who see the events of part 2 on t.v. and then the victims who get killed later see them being placed in body bags; so it cannot be taking part on Friday the 13th. How ever I watch this film loads of times just like part 2 as they do have a strange power to make us watch them but after Jason obtains his mask it's too late the films have just become pure cheese so watching them makes it hard to believe they're such a historic film series. "},{"Title":"You'll wish everyday was Friday the 13th","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best Friday the 13th flicks. It's kinda almost just like the first flick...but not. First off, since Crazy Ralph died, a new bummy guy Able came and took his place, thing is he didn't just tell kids to beware like Ralph did, he also kept dried out eyeballs to show them why they should beware. So he wasn't as lovable as Crazy Ralph...but he was probably more crazy which is weird in itself because his name was just Able and not Crazy Able, but I digress. The ending is more or less the same in this flick as the first one. In fact the first time we saw it (I was like 13) We were like... What the @$%@ just happened? Who was that? You'd never guess who it is because the person is supposed to have been beheaded...but she's not now. Weird.This movie was also the first time we come to realize that Jason is an animal lover. In fact I'm thinking that the reason he is so mad and kills people isn't because the people want to have sex, but maybe because he saw them mistreat an animal. Like for instance, the first couple to get offed in this flick don't even want to have sex at all, they just want to bitch at each other and poop, but Jason I think kills them because the dude forcibly stops a bunny from eating veggies, and then eats all the fishes food! What a jerk. So that's that. Jason did the right thing and murdered them. If you look at the movie that way. You realize this was a proactive effort to stop animal abuse. What a good message, made better by the fact the movie was filmed in 3-D and had a disco superfly opening theme song. Bom Chicka Wah Wah. Ch Ch Ch Ba Ba Ba. 70's porn got nothing on my man MC Jason. He even lost his Oh so square one eyed sack for the super keen hockey mask. How cool is that? Cool...believe me.If you haven't seen this movie. Do it now. If you have seen it, watch it again. "},{"Title":"Another Decent Sequel","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 3 is the third installment in the long running Friday the 13th series. This is a pretty good sequel, one of the better ones actually. The acting is the same as all horror movie sequels and the dialogue just as corny.This takes place directly after Part 2. Jason is still on a killing spree and his new line up of horny, teenage victims have arrived at a lakeside cabin. As we get accustomed to the setting and the characters, the killing starts.This is the sequel which introduced 3D into the series. The kills in this are just as creative and bloody as in the previous two. There isn't any nudity apart from a quick glimpse but the gore covers that up pretty well.This sequel is a good entry into the series. (Just don't expect a masterpiece.) 2/5. "},{"Title":"Good lead character","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For some odd reason the lead female in F13 Part 3(Chrissy) is my all-time favorite. This is weird because her screaming is annoying. But I did enjoy her feisty attitude towards Jason and she really gave him a good chase in the end(however I wanted to see him kill her off since I hear that its one of the elusive deleted scenes in the series). Anyway I like the scene where she is hanging out a window and Jason's trying to pull her back up and shes hitting his hand like shes all frustrated and also when she bursts out of the closet swinging the knife at him she looks like a true psycho(and quite a hot one too). She even has a sort of back-story to tell involving an encounter with a hideous looking man. Hmm, could it be Jason? One drawback of F13 part 3 is the off screen death of Shelley(who turns up later with a severed throat), and pretty much the rest of the death scenes in this one are not as creative as the deaths from the previous two films. Fox had a good execution but it wasn't even seen. Loco's death was great and looked very painful, and when I was younger I was always grossed out by the bloody cigarette drooping from his lips. The eyeball thing with Rick was pretty cool but has probably seen some better days. My favorite is the handstand one with Andy!! It rocks! The reason I rated it the same as part 2 is because of the last twenty minutes of the film...Chris is running around, she's hiding in the rafters of the barn, she's rolling Jason's head up in the van window, and then she even tries to hang him from the hay rope thingy. All of this gives the pacing a much-needed boost.And I do like the conscious effort of the filmmakers to provide us with an early reason to the classic car not starting (which is in a lot of the F13 films) so we can't yell at the screen. Remember.. the biker gang siphoned the gas from the van so they could burn down the barn! So that was some good foreshadowing...if it can even be called that. My vote is 7/10! "},{"Title":"A big improvement on the first two.","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3 (1982)THE GOOD--Steve Miner seems to have learned something about directing between nThere are some inventive and interesting camera angles in this instalment. I especially enjoyed the yoyo trick used.--I appreciated that Martin Kitrosser and Carol Watson, writers, tried to develop their characters further. Shelly was a nicely developed character with interesting sides to him, and Chris wasn't exactly developed but I at least cared about her and did not want her to die, which is probably a first for a Friday the 13th film.--The final showdown between Jason and Chris was very well done and extremely suspenseful, except for the very ending of the film, which was horrible and ridiculous (see THE BAD).--The disco music is original and sounds really neat. It's a risky move by the composer but it paid off, and gave us something more interesting to listen to when the credits rolled than the usual score.THE BAD--Did they really need that really long reminder at the beginning of the film of how bad Friday the 13th Part 2 was?--The film begins to drag in the middle section. Even the kills are boring and very repetitive. Instead of building suspense and giving the audience frights, it's done a simple bodies-hit-the-floor fashion.--Though some characters are nicely developed, the majority of them are still the same, boring old teenagers with no personality traits whatsoever.--The ending of this movie is so ridiculously stupid. Not only is it a rip-off of the first film's ending, but the makeup is terrible, and it makes no sense. How can Jason's mother jump up from the water, head and all, when she was decapitated in the first movie?--This may sound like an unfair complaint, but it's very frustrating how the movie was made for 3D, and now it can only be viewed in normal form. It would've been such a better experience in 3D, and it seems some of the shots are MEANT for 3D. Steve Miner should've considered this when filming, that later on, viewers probably won't have the chance to see the film in 3D.RATING6/10 - A big improvement on the first two.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE TRYFriday the 13th (3/10) Friday the 13th Part 2 (4/10) Friday the 13th Part 4 - The Final Chapter (6/10) Jason X (5/10) Halloween (8/10) Halloween 2 (8/10) The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (5/10) "},{"Title":"He's on the 3rd round","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 3 i think wasn't a bad movie. Jason is back in another horror movie. He escaped in the last movie, which was Friday the 13th part 2. He's now returning to Crystial Lake to kill more people who live in the same place he did years ago. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"When Jason was scary","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 3 3D  is one of those films that scared me when I was bout 4. I mean a guy in a hockey mask chasing you in the woods? The film wa shot in 3D and features some cool scenes, nudity etc. These films are made to be Oscar worthy they are made to be fun and that what this is now that I'm 21 a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Jason Voorhees in 3-D!!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this film was released in 3-D. Now you're all probably wondering, Is the third dimension the scary one? Well, smartass, it is!      Jason recovers from what happened in Part 2, stalks two people at a lodge, steals some clothes off their clothesline and heads off to terrorize and murder yet another group of naive counselors. They're headed by bossy britches Chris, two hippies Chuck and Chili, Andy andDebbie, Debbie's pregnant, and by Shelly, a poor unfortunate soul whocan't seem to get a break, also he loves to play dumb jokes on his friends. Also along are Vera and Rick. They soon arrive at the resort, not knowing Jason is hiding out in the barn. Well, Shelly and Vera have a run-in with a motorcycle gang in town, and they come up to the resort and syphen the gas out of Chris's van, but they meet Jason first.      Before long, all the friends are slaughtered, leaving Chris to run from Jason, who adorned his hockey mask from Shelly before killing him. Shelly tried to scare Vera by wearing a diving suit and hockey mask and carrying a spear gun underwater. Jason used the spear gun to kill Vera.      Chris soon confronts Jason in the barn and get's him in the head with an axe. Then she drifts into the middle of the lake in a canoe, and is pulled under by Mrs. Voorhees (scene sound familiar)?      There are many 3-D occurances in this film. Such as a clothesline pole pointed at the camera, a baseball bat, Rick's eye shooting out, the spear from the spear gun, and a snake. But in all video versions, the film is flattened to a 2-D.   "},{"Title":"Not the worst of the series, but it's mostly unscary and dull.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****Friday the 13th has never been a great film series, but there's something about it that's morbidly attractive.  It may be because of the fact that it managed to stretch out the relatively simple premise of a retarded serial killer to 9 films (with another one upcoming that takes place in the far future, no less!).  I mean, take Jason's first appearance, which featured him with a pillow over his head, and then take at a look at Jason Goes to Hell, in which Jason is a semi-supernatural being with the ability to hop into other people's bodies.  The series has evolved quite a bit, if you ask me.  It will be odd to see how different the latest sequel will be than say, Part 3, which is pretty much the same as the first two, only this time Jason has his hockey mask and the girls are better-looking.The film takes place only several hours after the events of the previous movie.  The focus is on a group of teens headed to a farmhouse not far from Camp Crystal Lake for a weekend of sex and fun.  These teens are the basic slasher cliche characters, ranging from the heroine to the geeky loser who seems to p*** everyone off.  The heroine is Chris (Dana Kimmell), who actually once encountered Jason.  She's having trouble adjusting to being in a forest and heads out into the woods(!) with her friend Rick while everyone else stays behind at the house.  Jason then arrives and begins his massive slaughter. The story is as simple as that.With a plot that's basically a carbon-copy of the previous two films, it feels a little odd to review what is pretty much the same movie over again. For 70 minutes,  the movie is every bit as boring as Part 2, due mainly to Steve Miner's inability to build up any good scares or shocks as well as the fact that he takes too long to get the movie going.  His direction hasn't improved much at all (only in the finale, which I'll get to in a moment) and he's certainly not helping himself by not trying anything new or different in this film.There are a few memorable death scenes, particularly one guy who gets slashed in half when he's walking around on his hands.  But these moments aren't built up to particularly well, there's no sense of dread and almost no suspense, and what little of it is there is mainly because of Harry Manfredini's very effective and creepy Ennio Morricone-esque score (It's a little funny to note that the score sounds a bit like the one from The Thing, so Morricone might have received a little inspiration from these films).  It's interesting to note that Part 3 was made in 3-D upon its original theatrical release, which probably explains the numerous scenes of knives and other dangerous objects maniacally waved in front of the screen. I'll admit, if I had seen this movie in the 3-D enhancement, I probably would have found a lot of these scenes more entertaining, but without the gimmick, it's almost a complete bore.The gore effects are in more abundance than in the previous two films, but they still look rather cheesy sometimes.  The most laughable effect is the literal eye-popping scene that was obviously shot to get a reaction out of the 3-D viewing audience.  It just looks fake now.  Nudity is also expected out of a Friday the 13th film and there's very little of it here, almost none at all, and none of it comes from the good-looking girls.  It would have been nice to see Catherine Parks or Dana Kimmell topless for a scene or two, but the fact that Kimmell is the heroine already pushes those chances to zilch (the closest thing to nudity that's been revealed by a series heroine is probably from Melanie Kinnaman from Part V, who was featured running around in the rain braless with a white shirt on).The acting is pretty much as bad as the first two films and I suppose that's to be expected out of a low-budget 80's slasher flick.  Though I hate to sound shallow, this cast is easier to bear than the previous installments because Dana Kimmell and Catherine Parks do make for very good eye candy, and at least they're both better than the horrendous Amy Steel, a scream queen who seems to have her fans despite having all the acting skill and charisma of cardboard.But there is a reason why I rate this above Part 2 (and probably the original Friday the 13th, too) despite how much my criticism seems to place it on the exact same level as that film.  It's because of the last 20 minutes, which features the typical climactic chase where Jason moves around trying to get at our heroine.  All the cliches are used here, such as the car that (in)conveniently runs out of gas, the dead body in the closet, the killer who's really not dead, etc., but Steve Miner actually handles the entire sequence quite well, and I certainly felt just how frantic the situation was.  The finale was good enough for me to rate the film * 1/2 instead of just *.  It by no means makes the movie good or even middling, but it was enough to pull it above the worst of the series.There's a grand unmasking scene at the end which reveals Jason in all his non-glory.  He looks a little different than he did in Part 2, probably because this time he has no hair and was played by a different actor. Actually, he looks a bit like the Ferengi Quark from Star Trek Deep Space Nine and that's not a good thing.  Oh, and what's up with all these scenes of women passing out and finding themselves safe from Jason?  In part 2, Amy Steel was attacked by Jason but woke up in a stretcher with paramedics around her.  In this film, Kimmell relates a similar story about an encouter with Jason in the woods and how she woke up in her own bedroom.  Does Jason just not like to kill girls who pass out in front of him or what?It's a little hard to believe that this film was only 1/3 the way through the entire series.  The next installment, The Final Chapter, differed from all its predecssors in that it was actually scary and consistently entertaining, making it the first wholly enjoyable film in the series.  I'd say just skip the first 3 and go straight to The Final Chapter since that film has a good opening prologue that relates what happened in the previous films, but most people seem annoyed at the idea of skipping installments in a series. "},{"Title":"yadda yadda yadda","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Another year, another Friday the 13th film. 1982's Friday the 13th Part 3 was director Steve Miner's second in the franchise and it was also filmed in 3D. In this edition, we learn that Jason is still on the loose, this time in nearby Higgins Haven. Higgins Haven was a farm owned by the lovely Chris Higgins (Dana Kimmell) who is there for a weekend of partying with her boyfriend and her stoner friends. Instead, they become more fodder for Jason and his machete. It is in this installment that Jason first dons his now infamous hockey mask.Interestingly enough, this edition actually has *gasp* character development. Turns out, 2 years earlier Chris had been attacked in the woods by Jason and managed to escape. But will she be so lucky again? Or do we even care at this point? It's a good thing I am a fan of the franchise, because if I wasn't I would definitely give this film a lower rating than I have. The acting is abysmal, the dialog is utterly ridiculous and the idea that the entire area is not SWARMING with police officers (the events of Part 2 happened the night before) is ludicrous.The movie's saving grace is the special effects. I felt like they were very well done, especially if you can see them in 3D. If not, then they look fairly humorous. There is also some decent gore and some of Jason's most brutal kills are demonstrated here. Dana Kimmell is never going to win an Academy Award, but my god is she hot ). Based on these two very important criteria, I'll give part 3 a very impartial 5/10. "},{"Title":"Che che che che... cha cha cha cha","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Che che che che... cha cha cha cha. That spooky music can only mean one thing. Jason Voorhees has again risen from certain death, ready to slash his way through a new group of innocent teens. And although it introduces that horror landmark known as Jason's goalie mask, Friday THE 13TH PART III is pretty average fare.Even three entries into an 11-film (and counting) series, the plot is no shocker. One, show Jason pulling another Lazarus. Two, introduce a group of semi-likable, horny teens looking for a good time in nature. Three, bring Jason and an assortment of blood-spilling weaponry to the teens. And four, allow the last one or two survivors to do in Mr. Voorhees yet again. I don't want to sound cynical, because I have a special place in my heart for these films. But like it or not, they certainly don't deviate much from a set formula.Among Jason's targets this time out are a couple of potheads, a burly man running a general store in the middle of nowhere, and an evil biker chick and her two henchmen. Director Steve Miner did inject some new life, even a chill or two, but unlike several of his predecessors, didn't go far enough. Despite an enthusiastic young cast of unknowns, it could have really used a bolt of energy to liven up the slow spots. To be fair, however, viewers today are not seeing the film as it was originally intended -- in 3-D.Though it's one of the weaker films in the series, Friday THE 13TH PART III is sure to please fans of low-budget 1980s horror. Most others will be unimpressed. "},{"Title":"More like a gory comedy with no laughs","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS, although you wouldn't have been surprised by this movie anyway even if you didn't know what was going to happen, so read on.It's hard to imagine now that the people who made this movie might have been serious. Even in terms of Friday the 13th sequels, this is really poor stuff. I'd already seen the original film many years ago, as well as the sequel, but I somehow avoided this one until just tonight, in the year 2006. I wish I had put it off a few more decades.To pad out the run time to feature length, the movie opens with a long sequence from the last film that is completely unnecessary, because it doesn't show us anything we need to know in order to make sense of the rest. I'm not implying the rest of the movie does makes sense, just that you don't need the flashback sequence. It's only there because the movie would be too short without it.Then we get the murder of a random couple who just happen to operate a small general store in the vicinity of Camp Crystal Lake. You'd think that with all the dismemberment and bloodshed that seem to be a hazard of the area, there wouldn't be any people left there, let alone a store, but there it is. In a scene that seems to be played for laughs, we see a man murdered shortly after sitting on the toilet (which features fairly accurate sound effects). I hope you like seeing men take a dump, because this movie takes you into dirty outhouses with skeezy looking men twice. But anyway, this guy has a deliberately obnoxious wife who looks like she's about 21 and yet wears curlers in her hair and does knitting, probably because the filmmakers thought knitting would make her look like an old shrew. She's watching a news bulletin on TV about how they just discovered eight hacked-up bodies just down the road. The newscast informs her that the killer is still on the loose. This alarms her, but not so much that she feels she must alert her husband and stay behind locked doors. She instead decides it's a good time to go out and collect the laundry hanging from clotheslines in the back yard. Then the murders happen. He gets cleavered, she gets knitting-needled.Yes, a massacre that features at least eight bodies seems to get by everybody in these parts, because pretty soon we have another group of young people going out into the vicinity of Camp Crystal Lake to spend some time in the secluded rural area. Even though the female lead (in other words, the one we know will survive until the end) once had an encounter near that very cabin with a deformed man who tried to kill her with a knife, she doesn't seem to put two and two together, even when she drives right by the police removing the two bodies from the general store (kicking up that body count a notch).That's why I say this movie is like a comedy. Nobody in it behaves like a thinking human being. None of the conversations seem realistic, or like anything real people would say to each other. One especially ridiculous scene occurs when two of our protagonists (and I use that term loosely) encounter a trio of ill-mannered bikers at the grocery store (NOT the store where the murders took place, fortunately). I dare you to believe this scene for one minute, or the halloween-quality biker costumes the unfortunate actors are forced to wear.Let's see, what else sucks about this movie? Oh yeah, the gore. Once the killing starts, it looks really fake. One guy's eye pops out of his head with a wire attached to it. Someone gets a harpoon in the eye, which looks pretty fake. Someone is macheted down the middle, yet we see the body later and it's been cut in half at the waist. A red hot poker goes through someone's body. None of it looks real or shocking, because the director's game plan for suspense goes like this the character is alone. They are unaware of danger. A random sound suddenly startles them. They look around and perhaps call out _______, is that you? Then there's a false scare. Then we get either a dumb laugh (oh, it's just the boyfriend/girlfriend/funny fat guy!) or a murder (ho hum). When the survivor goes out in a canoe at the end, you know what's gonna happen next, and it does a monster jumps out of the water and grabs her. This time it's the rotting body of Mrs. Voorhees, whose head seems to have been mysteriously re-attached post-mortem. Huh? Then as the police take our now-bonkers heroine away in a squad car, the camera pans over to Jason's body, lying there with an axe in its head. Here's where the body moves and gets up, right? Wrong. It just lies there. What the hell? This just might be the most pathetic horror movie I've ever seen, and I've seen a lot of them. In retrospect, Friday the 13th Part III seems more like a boring cousin of the Scream series. There are so many slasher clichs in it that we think This has got to be a joke. Somehow, I think they were serious. "},{"Title":"Again, awful","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As before this starts where the previous film ended but not quite exactly. The start here differs to allow you to see Jason (sorry, he died as a child in the 1st movie so this isn't him) as still alive.The newscaster tells us 8 bodies were found (I only counted 7 murders that I could remember from my review of pt 2), as they were saying the assistant was the only person to live (so they forgot about the boss and the guy who was left at the bar and the dog).1st dead is a totally innocent shopkeeper, closely followed by his wife (I assume, we never see her killed). Now this is clearly the next day so this is no longer Friday the 13th. It's now Saturday the 14th. So no need for Jason to go killing as it's not the anniversary of his death.Now we have a new bunch of people (mainly stoners) going to a place called Higgens Haven and if they say where this is in relation to Crystal Lake then I never heard them.After pissing off 3 bikers in the local town, they soon reappear stealing gas from the truck of the campers. the biker girl is killed next (in the barn, unseen by us) along with her 2 male cronies. The girl whose family owns the cabin finally tells us she was attacked by this unknown terrible looking man (we're supposed to assume it's Jason), although she says he caught her and was dragging her away and she blacked out but she's still alive? Not Jason's M.O. at all that, is it?.Frizzy haired Joker Shelley is next to be attacked (off camera in the barn we assume) and this is how Jason acquires his now infamous hockey mask and he kills the snooty woman with a harpoon next. The couple who were left in the house having sex are the next victims to die, 1st the boy and the girl is killed in the hammock.When the power goes out, the stoner guy goes to check and gets electrocuted for his troubles by Hockeymask. Shelley shows up to try and warn stoner girl only to be ignored and die in the doorway from his slit throat. She is impaled with a red hot poker.Rick gets his neck broken leaving only the girl whose family who owns the cabin left alive out of the group. She discovers one of her friends dead in the bath and finds a dead biker in a tree. Ricks body is thrown into the cabin through a window, she discovers yet another dead friend in her airing cupboard.She stabs Hockeymask in his hand and knee (he cries out in pain both times so is NOT superhuman). For someone recently stabbed in the knee, Hockeymask walks down the stairs with NO hint of any injury.When she finally tries the truck we all know it's going nowhere as the biker gang siphoned all the fuel in the day time before they all died. The bridge breaking a plank was an obvious thing to happen as they'd taken great pains to show us the loose planks when they 1st drove across it earlier that day.When Hockeymask is hung from the barn that should have killed him. I totally agree with her You can't be alive statement (the drop on the rope would have broken his neck) and the pointless reveal of his face was to allow her to remember the face of her old attacker from the woods 2 years ago.The black biker turns out to have not been dead but is killed very quickly (while she makes NO attempt to escape, why?). Hitting Hockeymask in the head with an Axe also would have killed him.The scene of her escaping on the canoe is supposed to remind us of the original movie and it's fake scare (we are now in Sunday the 14th, by the way) and the various non-scares of her hitting the log, being spooked by a duck landing then seeing the very alive and injured Jason without the mask screams this a dream. Especially when she's dragged into the water by dead Mrs Voorhees (who has a head, despite being decapitated in the original) and it dissolves to the cops talking like the other 2 movies did.The final shot of Jason shows him looking bloodied with stabbed knee, hand and Axe still in his head looking very dead indeed and unlikely to be rising for any sequel. "},{"Title":"..and you thought Jason bit the big one....","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So, Jason gets offed in Part 2 and we think to ourselves, O.K., Jason's dead and the series is done, right? Wrong. Instead of counselors this time, we are treated to a motley crue gang of partiers who have nothing on their minds except sex, alcohol and drugs. This is where the slasher film started applying more cardboard cutout actors/actresses and then letting them drop like flies to the maniacal Jason. Although there are flaws, I enjoyed this installment very much, the campiness and corny actors/actresses made it a fun watch. The inclusion of Jason's notable hockey mask is in this film. I suggest, if you can find it, purchasing the 3-D format DVD released by Paramount recently. It is a treat to watch this film the way it was supposed to be watched in the first place, I feel slasher fans have been cheated by being given the 2-D version for so many years. You can tell by watching in 3-D how dependent Director Steve Miner was on getting shots that created a lot of 'depth' to the picture so that the 3-D spectacles we wear would enhance those shots when we watch them. Honestly, this film was made to be watched in 3-D and 3-D only. I really feel that if paramount sold this film to the public only in its 3-D version in the first place, then the rating this film already receives (which I think is poor) would be quite a bit higher than what it is rated as. 10 out of 10. Great job by Steve Miner. "},{"Title":"Stultifyingly Awful!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The FRIDAY THE 13TH films have never been mistaken as quality film-making but even so the first two Friday films, as derivative as they were, were at least okay. Passably competent. Not so with FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3  3D! This film is so amateurish it's stunning. The acting from everyone is cringe worthy. Okay, the acting in the other two first FRIDAYS wasn't stellar too but in FT13P3, they spend loads of time on the actors acting and everyone is painfully bad. Imagine Soap Opera level of acting but 10 times worse! Yep, it's that bad. Coupled with the nails-to-the-board dialogue, having to watch these losers for what seems to be an eternity is akin to torture. Dana Kimmell wins the award of most expressions in a single scene she's inquisitive, introspective, contemplative, sad, happy, giddy, sassy, sexy, in love, plucky, shocked, terrified in one 60 second stretch of film! Image having to watch her for 90 minutes. Another truly annoying thing about her is she often talks to herself (I don't know what kind of games you guys are playing but I don't like it, she says with a pout). The flashback scene alone is worthy of the worst acted scene ever award. And to make things even more dreadful (as if the latter wasn't enough), Kimmell is peppered with an endless series of false scares, something like 15 or 20 false scares! And that doesn't include the other false scares the other characters are subjected to. And when Kimmell screams, and she screams a lot, she sometimes sounds like she's having an orgasm. The mind boggles!Like all slashers epics, the characters are just types the cute and perky virgin (Kimmell), the horny young hunk, the pot smoking hippie, the fat nerd who likes to play pranks. And most annoying of all, the Mae West like sexy broad (she looks like Jennifer Aniston) who talks with a low voice and always dispenses witty repartee (Was it you, me or the hammock?). BTW, she's also pregnant, making her the first pregnant FRIDAY THE 13TH victim to be skewered by Jason. Nice, huh?The subplot of the biker gang is just padding (and more stupid victims for Jason to butcher). The scene at the store where the two youngsters meets the three gang members is terrible. The disco version of the FRIDAY THE 13TH theme playing in the background doesn't help. Where's Jason when you REALLY need him? Quick, kill them now, not later! One of the actors playing a biker looks like Scott Thompson. It's hilarious.This is supposed to be a horror flick and yet it's not scary for one second. A bored looking Jason dispenses his victims with all the enthusiasm of a janitor duly killing cockroaches infesting his sector. Watching Jason repeatedly killing these types is excruciatingly dull. It's anti-horror. It doesn't elicit shock, horror or even suspense. It's as compelling as watching someone working on a factory line and with quotas to fill. There are only two good money shots in FT13P3, the one where the guy walks on his hands gets chopped between the legs and the scene where the hispanic girl gets a harpoon in the eye. Even without the 3D, these scenes are effective. But the rest is a total waste of time! Many of the killings don't even make any sense and the multiple surprise ending is pure schlock.FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3 is so bad, without even realizing it, it's a true post-modern creation. Every scene is so clichd or badly acted or derivative or choreographed workman-like to nth degree that one can easily take the whole film apart like a puzzle and rearrange the order of the scenes, extend them, loop them, or simply let them stand on their own and it wouldn't make any difference. Some scenes are pure minimalism with nothing but a character calling out another character's name for several minutes (Andy... Andy...Andy?). And because FT13P3 was originally shot in 3D, many scenes start or end with or are simply about objects being propelled at the audience (wow a yo-yo!), making for pointless moments. And the look of the film, grainy and really ugly and plastic throughout (most likely due to the type of lighting needed for the 3D effect) only makes the whole thing even more fantastically bad. "},{"Title":"Now In 3-D!","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part III is appropriately presented in 3-D, which had a resurgence in popularity at that time. Set right after Part II ended, this sequel shows that Jason is unsurprisingly still alive, and determined to kill even more teenagers who hadn't yet heard the news about the recent murders, which is deeply unfortunate for them, as they become the latest victims in the ongoing massacres.Little to differentiate this from Part II(Steve Miner returned to direct) except the 3-D F/X, which will mean little if watched on TV, unless you have the deluxe DVD edition which includes the glasses. Shock effects cannot save this film however, though it did make a lot of money... "}{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The way this series is broken into 'Parts' might make it seem that the films make up one long story rather than using the same one over and over again to deadening effect. Not the case. So here's Part 3, in which Jason gets his hockey mask; that's the only interesting thing about it, unless you count the fact that it was shot in 3D.The strange thing about the 3D is that rather than the effect being used on the scenes in which various 2D characters are murdered with knives, machetes and hot pokers, the film-makers instead concentrate on yo-yos, popcorn and juggling balls. Entire sequences are built around this gimmick and it's utterly baffling that a film as sleazy and empty as this one didn't take advantage of the opportunity to increase the trash factor.Aside from that it's nothing we haven't seen in the other films, with boring set-ups leading to the expected bloody pay-offs, although it's all a bit nastier and grimier than before. There's not much to recommend this rather disheartening experience, other than the short running time. "},{"Title":"Or Should That Be 3-D out of 10?!","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The concept of 3-D has been around since the 50s, at least in movies. Although many credit Thomas Edison's THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY as the first attempt. By and large, 3-D is usually a sign of filmmaker desperation. They know that their work is a bomb, so they decide to use 3-D in hopes of jazzing it up. Mind you, there are some good ones the Vincent Price flick HOUSE OF WAX being at the top of my list. But for every good one, there are ten bad ones JAWS 3-D and the MY BLOODY VALENTINE remake, anyone? Fascinating, every thirty years or so, there seems to be a renewed craze in 3-D. First, there was the 50s. Then the 80s. And now in the early 2000s. Deep in the heart of 1982, the Friday the 13th franchise was starting to flourish. Of the original four FT13 movies, this one is my least favorite. Don't think I didn't like it. If nothing else, this movie should be noted as the one where Jason adopted his hockey mask! The movie opens with five minutes of padding, I mean, footage from Part II, another sign of filmmaker desperation in fact. And then for the next ten minutes, it drags through one of the slowest openings in slasher history. We're introduced to a disgusting middle-aged couple who bicker and argue. At this point, I wanted to turn into Jason and hack them up myself. In terms of 3-D, we get an occasional object thrown or held towards the camera. But take out those shots and the movie is still a piece of well-made crap. In terms of favorite characters, mine is the fat dork named Shelly. If only they had fleshed his character out more! And what is the deal with the two aging hippies, or the mixed-race biker gang of three? For early 80s entertainment, watch this for laughs with a group of your funniest friends! Oh and watch out for that flying eyeball!!! "},{"Title":"the iconic episode","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After all these years I'm going back into the Friday the 13th franchise and I'm still surprised how boring they can be sometimes. Part 2 was so slow so I hoped for a better episode. Again it picks up were part 2 left with a flashback, just some scene's taken from part 2. Luckily, this time it only clocks in at 7 minutes. But part 3 has two special things. It is available as 3D on the Deluxe Edition and I must say, it worked out fine. Sometimes the 3D doesn't match and you see some faults but overall it is a nice feature, for example the famous speer coming at you really works. Another thing that became iconic is just the fact when the movie is exactly 60 minutes going on, Jason appears with the hockey mask. Sadly it takes again way too long before things really happens and the, I call it remake of the ending of part 1 does makes it feel a bit shitty. Also here for the first time Jason has some supernatural power by squeezing a head with his bare hands. So far the three parts aren't that bad but there are much better flicks and less known out in the slasher era. "},{"Title":"Cruel and stupid as always. Do it for the 3D.","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason comes back and kill more horny teens just where PT 2 ended. End of the plot. So yes, it's the same stupid premise.O.K, for starters i'm not a big fan of slasher movies, so Friday the 13th movies are only valid for me as a bloody camp waste of time, that sometimes can be entertaining (or boring in the most of the part). But, i enjoy this movie for it's gimmicks. Firts of all, Miner's direction kind of have in some parts a moody atmosphere. Second, there's cool references for horror fans (Savini, Last House on the Left, etc ...) And, as the movie originally was showed, the 3D is very a good gimmick that make you stay; is really fun. Also the main credits - disco music theme sticks with you. Very groovy!So, if you love 3D movies, this is a must and that is the unique reason of why this is more interesting than the others. Still, there is a lot of boring (if quick) gore. The movie beyond of disgust you, makes you giggle when you realized of how stupid it is.So it's stupid but it's 3D gimmick makes you stay with it. The most entertaining of the series. Still pretty stupid and sometimes really cruel.PDThe ski mask comes from this movie. "},{"Title":"If Jason didn't get around to killing Shelly, I would have done it myself","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This third installment in the hit-or-miss Friday The 13th franchise is uniformly lousy by almost any standards. But the old-school aesthetic it shares with the first four Friday films offers it an air of nostalgia that at least makes the film a fun ride. Alhough, the less said about the quasi-disco opening theme, the better. (Naturally, I had to track down a vinyl copy of the soundtrack). Working very hard against any opportunity for this movie to distinguish itself in the series is the assortment of bodies on Jason's smrgsbord, who are far and away the most ridiculous group of future victims to grace not only a F13 film, but perhaps any slasher film ever made. Even if you can deal with a pair of potheads who appear to be twice as old as anyone else in the group, and who offer un-needed and un-funny stoner humor throughout the kill-fest, you still have to contend with Fox, Loco, and Ali, the lamest and least intimidating biker gang to ever set foot on a movie screen. The film is notable for being the entry in which we see Jason don his iconic hockey mask for the first time. Unfortunately, said mask is inadvertently provided to him by a cloying d-bag named Shelly, perhaps the most infamous character in the Friday franchise. Shelly spends the majority of the film instigating funny pranks like sneaking up behind people and stabbing them with rubber knives, and faking his own death, and his witty apex comes late in the film when he dons a hockey mask and sets out to impress the girl he likes by trying to pull her into the water, then lunging out and attacking her with a spear-gun. A brilliant strategy, this. Nothing steals a girl's heart like pretending you're going to kill her.In a franchise that demands we accept the unacceptable, Shelly is the most problematic wild card. You see, I can suspend my disbelief and play along with the idea that Jason can be chopped, stabbed, maimed, hung, etc. and recover from his wounds unscathed. I can force myself to ignore the logistical improbabilities of Jason's ability to stage corpses in such a manner that they fall from a tree at the precise moment our heroine is standing by the tree. I can even begrudgingly concede that it's remotely possible for a killer to operate in a self-contained area with an identical modus operandi for several films and still not elicit any suspicion or vigilance from law enforcement. What I can NOT accept is that a character as unlikeable and annoying as Shelly could not only find and maintain a group of friends who endure his insufferably lame antics, but that anyone would invite him along on a road trip that would necessitate being stuck in the middle of nowhere with him for an entire weekend. That, ladies and gentlemen, is just too hard to swallow.I have yet to mention the 3-D gimmick, which was sort of negated until very recently, when this chapter was finally issued on DVD in its original form. The effects aren't really all that spectacular, despite the fact that the film-makers latched onto any opportunity they could to throw snakes, eyeballs, yo-yos, and pitchforks at the screen. These jump effects are far too clunky to have any impact, even with the 3-D process employed. However, the 3-D presentation offers some improvement, since on the film's original two-dimensional home video release, these scenes just looked stupid. Surprisingly, the more subtle dimensional effects are far more impressive, such as rows of clotheslines blowing in the wind as Jason lurks behind them, and the final haunting shot of the seemingly tranquil lake. Since there aren't a lot of 3-D films available on DVD, this tactic certainly offers an experience that makes the film worth checking out despite its glaring flaws.One particularly mean-spirited aspect of the film that gets glossed over is the revelation that one of our characters is pregnant. Perhaps the film-makers didn't think that this disposable piece of character development was all that important, but the idea of Jason butchering a pregnant woman is inherently worse than him killing a score of obnoxious teens. It also confuses things when you're trying to tally up the body count here. Do we count the fetus as a victim, or is there some sort of asterisk designation involved? The ending is particularly dicey, attempting to recapture the classic final boo of the original Friday The 13th by having Mrs. Voorhees leap out of the lake and pull lone survivor Chris into the water. There are a couple of possibilities to make sense of how this improbable scenario could have happened. One is, quite simply, Mrs. Voorhees leaped out the lake and pulled lone survivor Chris into the water, although that fails to explain how Pamela's severed head moved from the shrine Jason adorned with it and reattached itself to her decapitated body. The other possibility is that Chris was merely dreaming this happened, or that it was a hallucination borne from her traumatized mind. Only problem there is that Chris has no idea who Jason is, let alone who Mrs. Voorhees is, and she has no knowledge of the legend of Crystal Lake. Can you hallucinate being attacked by someone you don't even know exists? This is never explained, and those who took the reigns for future installments wisely left this twist in the dust. Although, the final scene when we see Chris completely paralyzed with madness brought on by her ordeal is a nifty little fade to black.The series would eventually get much worse than this, but Part 3 is not even remotely a high point in the Friday franchise. Recommended for completists and those interested in the 3-D aspect, but this is assuredly the worst of the classic and otherwise solid original Friday quartet. "},{"Title":"This is where the original series should have ended, one of its best sequels","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel was probably even better in 3D, but for the most part, it holds up very well. Jason is shadowed enough for the first half of the movie to avoid diminishing the terror, something today's flicks don't respect. The acting was a little spotty, but this film still has a campy feel. The actors who did the best in this installment were Tracie Savage and Dana Kimmell. Jeffrey Rogers was OK, but the others were pretty bland. What is respectful about 3 is the nudity was there, but minimized and it was more situational, rather than sensationalistic. The only nude actress (Savage) was showering, and we are wondering if Jason is going to butcher her next. It was kind of interesting and iconic the way Andy was walking on his legs, foreshadowing his potential fate. Debbie's death was subtle and terrorizing, as we felt the horror creep up on us as the blood dropped. Chris was pretty determined to take out her assailant, dumping a bookshelf on him, stabbing him in the hand and knee, knocking him over the head with a log, hanging him and eventually axing him. She seemed fairly smart, even going for her vehicle where many of these movies have girls running instead. Unlike almost every sequel filmed, this one didn't involve rain, but another terrorizing weather force, wind. Overall, very good! "},{"Title":"KICK -ASS for Friday fans but everyone else will probably hate it","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Review for non-Friday fans Yet another sequel in the seemingly endless Friday the 13th series (I realize it is only the third entry in the series but hey) (Don't get me wrong i love these movies).The story is (as usual) really bad. A bunch of stupid teens decide to spend their weekend at a cabin near Crystal Lake. One of them has a hackneyed back story about being chased by Jason as a younger girl that isn't particularly interesting or memorable but gets the job done.The characters are all annoying and predictable. I couldn't care a less about any of their lives by the end. In fact I only remembered one of their names simply because he was the one who brought the hockey mask to the camp (I believe his name was Shelly). It doesn't help that they are all acted by complete incompetents. After Amy Steel in the second movie the Last Girl in this one really had a lot to live up to but she ultimately failed. I will cut the actors some slack, as there isn't a hell of a lot you can do with a script that god awful.Essentially this movie boils down to an hour and a half of badly scripted, badly acted 80s trash that is only barely scary and will probably bore you to death.Review For Friday FansFewwwwwww. That gets rid of all the Actual Critique. Now for the fun stuff. The kills were all pretty good with a few that are really kick-ass. Jason is so much cooler in this one than he is in the previous two. THE HOCLEY MASK FINALLY APPEARS. That disco music at the start was just so awesome and the Psycho tribute is nice.Probably my least favourite of the first three but still a must watch for any Friday fan. "},{"Title":"Chuck How come you never scream when we have sex? Chili Give me something to scream about.","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For some reason I could never really get into this film. Some have said it was as good as the first, or even that it was the best version, but I really thought it was lame.You knew the first two were going to get it, just as you knew the motorcycle gang was stupid for going into the barn because we saw him at the door earlier.I think part of it was the characters. I never could care enough about them even to wish them evil.I have to admit that the spear-gun, poker, and hammock kills were really good. Probably the best of the lot. How come the good kills were reserved for the women? Well, the popping eyeball wasn't a woman.The only thing that saved the movie and caused me to give it a watch recommendation was the ending when only Chris (Dana Kimmell) was left. "},{"Title":"Doesn't work anymore","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Needless to say, the plot of Part III is another clone of Sean Cunningham's movie, but by now you may not care. I feel personally that three times around with the same story is one too many. It is starting to get gimmicky, and it is no longer scary. Even worse, Part III is frequently laughable. Whether it is Jason getting his hands stuck in a car window, or a blatant rip-off of 'Psycho', you cannot help but occasionally chuckle at Steve Miner's sloppy film making (no wonder he was not hired for part iv). Even the idea about how Jason gets the hockey mask is ridiculous and random. I'm guessing that Miner was probably in a store one day, saw a rack of those masks, and thought to himself, gee these things look scary, wouldn't it be great if we could integrate this into the movie. It's the little things in life (and film) that cause the big problems. Friday the 13th part III is the ideal movie to prove this point. It's not terrible, but it won't work for anyone other than die hard fans with little plastic masks and machetes. "},{"Title":"Jason Sports a Hockey Mask For the First Time","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Personally, I've always thought of the Friday the 13th series as overrated among many of my fellow Horror fans. There is no doubt that the series is influential, and that every Horror lover should at least see some of the films, but, as far as I am concerned, they are in no way essential, and I must say that, when re-watching the entire series recently after some years, my most prevalent feeling was that of boredom. This third entry to the series is slightly better than Part 2, and yet I couldn't say that the film has anything particularly interesting about it. The most memorable aspect about Friday the 13th Part III (1982) is probably that villainous Jason sports his trademark hockey mask for the first time in this one. Other than that, the film is basically a repetition of the same formula Horny teenage idiots getting butchered by a masked killer, namely Jason Voorhees. That's it. How imaginative. The killings are gorier and more stylish than in Part 2 (which was obviously tamed down due to the controversy over Part 1), and I also hated the teenagers in this one slightly less (except for the idiot named Shelly). For whatever reason, a constantly pot-smoking couple of 30-something Hippies is also traveling with the teens. Then again, Jason's motives are even more obscure than in Part 2, as his victims in this film are neither working, nor even staying at Camp Crystal Lake. Seems like he just took a shine in butchering teenagers, no matter what their occupation is. My favorite character in the film was a crazy old guy with a long beard carrying a severed eyeball. Crystal lake looks completely different than in the previous parts. The lake looks smaller in this one, the ambiance looks more southern, and there's less forest, which is a minus in my book. As always, there's a sole survivor of Jason's massacre in this one. In the end she dreams of Mrs. Voorhees coming out of the lake and grabbing her, as Jason did in the end of the first part. This is utterly idiotic, as she doesn't know who Jason is, and therefore couldn't possibly have any idea about his mother. Overall, Friday the 13th is another silly and utterly unoriginal entry to this generally overrated series, but I cannot claim that it isn't enjoyable on a certain level. However, if you want to watch a Friday the 13th film, it hardly matters which one, as they're basically all the same. "}{"Title":"One of the weaker Friday Movies","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is very little to recommend this rather lacklustre third outing in the Friday the 13th series.The first five minutes takes us over the events at the end of the second movie, explaining that Jason was not in fact killed, but only maimed at the end of the second movie.Jason takes out a couple of store owners outside Crystal Lake and makes his way to a cottage shack and barn where a group of teenagers are staying for the weekend, slaughtering all but one of them, and also eliminating three bikies who try to burn down the barn he is hiding in.Our heroine in this story is Chris, who was raped, or at least assaulted, by Jason years before. She triumphs in the film's final showdown, but has a bad dream where she is dragged underwater by Mrs Vorhees and goes crazy anyway.The effects in this are poor, worse than the first two. It takes a bit away from a movie when a person supposedly gets knifed in the eye and it is obviously a knife sticking out of a rubber mask.The only reason this movie gets a higher rating than it deserves off me is because this is the film where Jason picks up the hockey mask that would define his character from then on. But even that is an anticlimax.Tame sex scenes and mild nudity further drag down what is a wholly unsatisfying entry in the Friday series. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Fridays","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now after Friday the 13th part one and two, we receive part 3-D, which has one of the highest entertainment-levels in the whole series. The killings, stereotypic characters and other events are fun to watch and this is also the first appearance of Jason's classic trademark hockey mask.The movie is placed right after the events of part two; Jason is lying on the floor with a deadly wound on his chest, but he somehow manages to travel to a local grocery store, where he brutally murders two people and gets clean clothes. Shortly after that he arrives to a farm area where - surprise, surprise - a group of teenagers are having a quality vacation. The third massacre is about to begin...Friday the 13th part 3-D has one of my favorite death sequences in the whole series, which are even more creative than in the previous film, for example a harpoon in the eye, machete sliced vertically through a person's whole body, and the classic head squeezed until eye pops out.The characters are obviously ridiculous, at least the tough guys at a grocery store who eventually end up in the same farm as the teenagers and get killed by Jason for being total dumb asses (pitch fork in the neck, stomach and wrench in the face).In the end Jason gets an axe in his head by the last survivor - who just by coincidence happens to be a female - and dies for real. Or does he? The story continues in part four The Final Chapter. This chapter was of course stupid when thinking about it as a movie, but when watching it as an every-day-slasher flick, it deserves 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Needs the 3-D format to be good.","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 3 was released in the cinema in a 3-D format, but unfortunately, the 3-D version of this film has not been released on home video or DVD officially (at least in America). I found this to be disappointing, especially since this movie seemed very dull without the 3-D effects. This movie seemed very slow paced with plenty of scenes which would have been awesome in 3-D, but not at all interesting in a flat format.Friday the 13th Part 3 DOES have some very good and violent kills. While the gore effects can't compare to the first film, I really like the pitchfork scenes. Jason does his fair dose of killings in this movie. This movie also has a clausterphoic environment (which makes you wonder why the stupid teenagers never seen Jason... go figure) The claustrophobic effect really helped with the final chase scene (which in my opinion, is the best in the series), and built some atmosphere to the flick.The thing that really annoys me about Part 3 is the annoying, stereotypical characters that aren't developed at all. This has, however, come to be expected from the series. I liked the side story about the small biker gang stalking the kids, except when looking at it in another way, it was just a gimmick used to fill time. The bikers didn't really take away from the movie, but it definitely didn't add to it.Overall, check this movie out, but only for the kills and the ability to understand the later films in the series. "},{"Title":"Maybe he just needs a hug and a warm glass of milk","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part 3 in the series continues along with Jason wreaking havoc on a new group of youngins who apparently don't watch the days news. Jason, miraculously as would become the norm, survived his last encounter with an emboldened young woman to continue on his murderous rampage.A new group of young adults has headed out to Chris' parents cabin for a weekend of fun (the same weekend where Jason had killed the happy campers of part 2). Chris, the star of the film has a troubled history with Crystal lake as that was the scene of where she was attacked by a hideous freak only a few short years ago. Chris has come back in the hopes of putting this drama behind her and starting fresh with her Crystal lake boyfriend Rick. Pre-marital sex ensues, except for pecker head Shelly of course, and Jason slowly stalks them all one by one.The acting has got to be the worst in the series. Fortunately the ladies of the film look a lot prettier than they actually sound. Shelley, the chubby guy with the white man afro is way too needlessly annoying. He runs like a girl, sounds like a girl, but looks like a clown. Poor bastard. I still like the movie though. Quite a lot in fact. But then I like a lot of cheesy movies, and this one's got lots of the stuff. Speaking of cheese, the movie was originally made in 3D, and this becomes painfully obvious when parts of the film, like when Andy plays with his non-sexual yo-yo are strangely out of place. Despite everything though the flick has its moments, like when Jason dons the legendary hockey mask for the first time, or when it gets knocked from his noggin and you get to see his pretty, pretty mug. If you like any of the other Friday movies then I'm sure you'll get some enjoyment out of it. Just go into it expecting an 80s style slasher and I doubt you'd be overly disappointed. "},{"Title":"The best of the 80s 3-D movies, and that's saying something","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Friday the 13th part 2' is good for a first sequel, but it's not one of the best in the series. However this second sequel, which came a year later, is. But to keep things interesting, the filmmakers had to try something new. 3-D was a big thing in the early 80s, but every film that used the gimmick failed to excite viewers (Personally I've always kind of enjoyed 'Amityville 3-D.'), but this film turned out to be an exception. Not only that, but they upped the humor too because, to be honest, you can't take this concept too seriously.Pros A good score that's at times chilling and others cheesy and dated, but in a good way. Another likable and talented young cast. Moves at an effortless pace. A terrific sense of humor. Some memorable kills. Plenty chills and good scare moments. More blood and gore than the previous film. Steven Miner and Co. do a great job of giving the film a spooky atmosphere, even during the day. One of the scariest portrayals of Jason in the series. A cool homage to the end of the first film.Cons Unnecessary recap of the end of part 2. Aside from the new location and mask this film really is no different than the first two. Too many endings.Final thoughts What an unexpectedly good sequel. It's nice that the makers of it actually tried to make something that would please the audience instead of just slapping something together. It won't win awards for originality, but there's too much good in it for that to completely tarnish it.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Eye-popping!","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If the original Friday the 13th is distilled slasher heaven, the third film is vaporized bloody bliss. Friday the 13th Part 3 is pared down to the fundamental essentials of the subgenre, and is all the better for it. Because it was originally filmed in 3D, it is blatantly clear that significantly more time was spent on getting the effects right than fleshing out the characters and storyline. In any other genre, this would sink a movie, but not in a slasher film. Friday the 13th Part 3 graciously spares us the hackneyed idea of Jason actually surviving the drowning in the lake and coming back to avenge his mother's death and instead turns him into an anonymous killer. Indeed, Jason's name is never uttered, not even once, during the ENTIRE film (unless you count the archival footage from the previous film tacked onto the beginning). The complete lack of a backstory for Jason thus augmented his frightening mythos and, combined with his acquisition of the trademark hockey mask in this film, put him on the trajectory towards becoming one of the major pop culture icons of the 1980s.Our heroine Dana Kimmell is a terrible actress -- just watch her diorite-encased delivery of the line, You go ahead. I'm going to take my bags in the house first and look around. However, she is strikingly beautiful in that glitzy '80s soap star way, and she manages to hit some nice congenial notes that suit the Final Girl trope well (plus, Amy Steel, the Final Girl from Part 2, is an impossible act to follow). And I would be remiss if I didn't mention Larry Zerner, who, as the portly and piteous practical joker Shelly won the hearts of millions of Friday the 13th fans -- who, incidentally, tend to be rather portly and piteous themselves (okay, don't kill me for this, fanboys -- I really am on your side, I promise).If it wasn't for Amy Steel's stunning performance in Part 2, Friday the 13th Part 3 would easily be the best sequel in this lengthy series. It is condensed slasher goodness with less filling. It is the archetypical Friday film. It is, from what I hear, quite a treat in all its 3D glory. It is genius in its stupidity. It is the best kind of cheese, and goes great with a full-bodied Pinot Noir. "},{"Title":"Im not an @$$hole, Im an actor","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ahh, this was certainly an interesting movie in the series. It takes place one day after Friday the 13th Part II. This movie had a few interesting characters, like Shelly (Larry Zerner), the nerd who constantly plays tricks on the rest of the teens while trying to get to know his blind date, Vera (Catherine Parks). There were the bikers Ali (Nick Savage), Loco (Kevin O'Brien) and Fox (Gloria Charles). Also, crazy Ralph seems to have pulled an Elvis, there is another person just like him. An old man lying in the road named Abel (David Wiley)who rants and pulls out an eyeball. Also, the store owner in the beginning, Harold (Steve Susskind) was pretty funny despite his angry wife Edna (Cheri Maugans). This was a good movie, a little bit of a change from the first 2 but not all that different. I personally liked it better than the first 2, but thats my opinion. This is also the first movie to have Jason wearing his famous hockey mask, a step up from a bag. Starring Dana Kimmell, Paul Kratka, Larry Zerner, and Richard Brooker. "},{"Title":"This is where it starts to narrow down.","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Jason saga starts to decline here, but we can't ignore the significance of the first time that Jason acquires his hockey mask. It seems that now, Jason has gotten himself his official stalker/slasher mask. That's too bad- I, personally, liked the whole bag-over-the-face mask thing that he wore in Part 2, but oh well.After this one, nothing really changes, but, hey, it can't really hurt to see them all. This one's pretty good, and it still contains all of the great and famous bloody gore, sex, suspense, and rage of Jason.The thing about it, though... eh... the characters aren't all that lovable. They're all cocky, arrogant snobs, ('cept maybe two of them), that think that they're of higher importance than any one else in the world. Ah well. Stalk 'em n' slash 'em! "},{"Title":"To Many This Might Not Mean A Lot, But This is the Best Friday There Is","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the huge success of the first two Friday the 13th movies, there was of course going to be a third entry. In 1982 the third entry was released into theaters for 3D viewing - Friday the 13th Part 3D. This third entry turned out to be more successful than the previous film in the series and just shy of beating the original's box office gross. Aside from Freddy vs. Jason, Friday the 13th Part 3D is the highest grossing sequel in the series, and at its time was the highest grossing sequel of all time (pretty impressive for a low budget slasher film). Today people regard all the Friday the 13th movies as silly, predictable, and cheesy - they certainly are, but they are also some of the most entertaining flicks you will ever see. Friday the 13th Part 3D is the best in the series, and that may not mean a lot to most people, but to a slasher fan it is certainly a blessing.Friday the 13th Part 3D is most famous for introducing the world to the iconic hockey mask, which as not only come to define the series but come to symbolize the genre as a whole. Anyone who truly loves horror movies should definitely see the film where the hockey mask comes into play. The story is pretty much the same as the first two films - it takes place directly after the events of Part 2 with Jason on the run and hiding out in a barn on Crystal Lake that is occupied by a group of college kids. Also on the barn are a biker gang that truly do make the movie. Dana Kimmell shines as the heroine of the story, and she certainly lands her mark as one of the most likable heroines in horror history. There really aren't any famous faces in this entry, with the exception of Newscaster Tracy Savage who plays Kimmell's best friend.The film really defines the 80's in its own way. You have every type of character; the country boy, the pretty girl, the tough biker chick, the abusive biker, the biker gang leader, the obnoxious wife, the bizarre animal-loving husband, the two stoner's, the bitchy beauty, the athletic fellow, the final girl, the nut-case carrying around body parts, and of course the prankster outcast who was the one to introduce the famous mask. 80's fans will also enjoy the musical theme, which isn't so much a standard horror theme but more of a disco theme that will make you giggle at the time period. The direction is very good and at times the movie manages to be suspenseful, even on today's standards.Friday the 13th Part 3D is available in a single bare-bones DVD with just a trailer or it is available in the From Crystal Lake to Manhattan box set with the first eight Friday the 13th films. In the box set you get a commentary by select cast members including Kimmell, a trailer, a featurette dedicated to this one film, and a lot of extras for the whole series. If you have the money the box set is worth it, but its still a shame that this film can't be presented in its original 3D format. Rumor has it that some DVD's have managed to put this format, however those DVD's generally go for very, very needy prices. "},{"Title":"I want it in 3D","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was quite disappointed with this movie, the killing was utterly predictable and Jason was very weak by his standards set in each proceeding movie. It just didn't do anything for me, if I was watching it before I had seen any others in the series I think I would have enjoyed it a lot more. The most disappointing bit was the ending, the creators obviously got lazy and thought we'll just do what we did in the first one. And there was almost a total lack of female nudity, which was very annoying, A Jason movie can't possibly work without a set of bare breasts/bum from a female actress. The actor that played Jason needed a good shake-up, he just wasn't menacing enough "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part III","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Set after Part 2 and directed by Steve Miner Friday the 13th Part III sees Jason returning again and killing more people, this time a group of kids that are staying at a cabin in the woods that belongs to one of the kids but it seems that she still has a problem being in Crystal Lake since she was attacked by Jason a while ago.The first half of the film sees Jason without his mask so they use camera shots that don't show his face until he kills the practical joker Shelly and takes his Trademark Hockey Mask and then kills off the remaining kids leaving the girl he attacked years ago all alone to face him.So she hides off in a barn and hangs Jason only to find he's still alive and once he shows her his face she learns he's the same man who attacked her.So after killing a man he knocked out earlier Jason goes to kill her off but she picks up an axe and rams it in his head killing him for now.A good sequel to the Friday the 13th franchise that introduces the Hockey Mask. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Reasonably entertaining Entry in the series!","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part 3 (1982) is a good entry into the classic Friday the 13th horror series!!! I found it to be fairly fast paced with some good characters and some very good death sequences too!!! Jason finally gets his trademark hockey mask in this one, and it makes him look even more mean as he goes on his killing spree! This certainly isn't the best film of the series but it's a good effort and should please most horror fans, and should certainly please fans of the Friday 13th series. 6/10 for this one. "},{"Title":"first F13 with hockey mask, a good entry in the series","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this is a pretty good movie. no one thought that this was the first film with the mask. this movie shows realistic traits of the teenagers. it shows the insecurities in a hillbilly kid. it is also very gory. after the last film the one girl somehow survives and her boyfriend is thought to be dead. this starts out with a flashback from the second movie (Jason was nailed in his shoulder with the machete) then it shows a couple being slaughtered to get you in the mood. after that 8 teens go out to crystal lake for the weekend. Jason steels a hockey mask and wears it. then the teens fight throughout the movie.the acting is OK. the plot is the same as all of the movies. it is an older movie in the series but a good one. if you liked the first two movies you will like this. OK slasher.Rated R for Strong Gruesome Violence and Gore, Drug Use, Nudity, Brief Sexuality, and Some Language "},{"Title":"A Bit Goofy","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part 3 is another important part of the series. If your not familiar with the series then you should know that this is the one in which Jason gets his trademark hockey mask. For the first half of the movie you don't see anything above his chest. Though this one is an important part of the series, it is not quite as good as the other first four in the series. That's not to take away from the fun of the movie as this one has some extremely memorable moments.The story starts right where part 2 left off. Ginny (only surviver of part 2) is getting taken to the hospital thus ending her tale. The police start a search for the killer and have no trace. Of course, Jason starts killing immediately. Now we introduce the teen characters to be slaughtered. They seem to be on vacation and decide to stay at an old barn house. A perfect place for a massacre.Pretty standard for a slasher movie. Some of the ups for this movie are the gore scenes and the fact that this movie was released in the theaters in 3-d. I was a bit to young to see this one in the theaters but I can imagine it would have been a lot of fun. The few scenes of gore are side splitting hilarious. A scene where a guy walking upside down is almost to funny as Jason makes short work of him and the scene where Jason decides to crush this poor saps head is probably the funniest moment in all of the Jason films.The downs for the movie are only very few. I am sure that seeing this in 3-d was completely awesome but it seeing without the 3-d effect is kind of sad because most of the movie has things that jump out at the screen and what not. Without the 3-d effect it just looks incredibly goofy. Also, the opening music that plays with the credits is just so eighties. I like the eighties but man, stick with the original theme. At least they didn't change the rest of the music as we here the original score for most of the movie.This is a must see for the fan of the Friday the 13th series. A whole lot of slaughtering fun. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Friday The 13th Part III AWESOME!!!!","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was 12 in the theater in 3-D. This was totally cool! Not as scary as Part 1, but it sure had a lot of action. The film just kept you focused and felt like it was moving with terror and enthusiasm. I like the scenes where you can see the back of Jason watching his victims. And in the beginning when he's behind the barn door you can barely see his face. The camera effects did a superb job.Dana Kimmel was sexy! Richard Brooker did the best in any sequel playing Jason. He was flawless, intimidating and huge! And his face was perfectly scary and evil. In my opinion, they should have ended the saga in Part III. I thought part IV,(the final chapter) was worthless. It was boring and dragged out. The ending was the only action in the film. They should have extended F13 Part III about 15 minutes longer and killed him in a more violent way.The music in this one is almost equivalent to part 1. Awesome!! What I hated about part 4, is that Jason looked totally different. Black Fingernails and a totally different face.Part III his fingernails were clean. You didn't see much of Jason in part 4, and the acting was terrible. There was no spark in part 4. Part 2 was good as well. The first 3 had a plot and suspense to the movie. I give Part I and III an A. Part 2 an A-. Part 4 really ruined the saga. "},{"Title":"Part 3 - One Of The Better Ones","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th Part 3 is one of the better sequels in the franchise. The movie features the introduction of Jason Voorhees trademark hockey mask, which is just awesome to see Jason wearing. This movie was back when Jason was human and it's great to see. It was also directed by Steve Miner (Director of part 2 and later on, Halloween H20) who is good in directing this type of movie. The storyline is good, except for the part suggesting Chris was attacked by Jason years earlier. The characters are likable, except for Shelly who is somewhat annoying with all of his jokes. Expect to see some great kills in this movie! The movie is one that i would recommend seeing if you haven't see it yet! The whole story, characters, and death scenes are great to watch! "},{"Title":"Disappointing sequel","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason kills a bunch of teenagers who come to Crystal Lake. This time, one girl has already faced the monster, and she must face him again. Couldn't stay away, could she?First of all I must say that I'm a big fan of the series. The original is a classic of the genre but the sequels are hit or miss. Director Steve Miner, who did a good job on part 2, struggles a bit this time around. No doubt the fact that this film was shot with 3-D in mind helps to hinder the film's look. The extreme closeups probably looked swell in theatres back in '82 but now look kinda hokey.Pacing is rather off, as well. While Parts 1 and 2 had mostly pointless middle sections, the one here goes by rather painfully. Perhaps the fault lies mostly with the characters, here they're not interesting at all. Potentially funny moments are wasted, like the two junkies who look like they're going to provide some comedy relief but don't. The actors are way below average this time around as well. Dana Kimmell (who reportedly had some influence in downsizing the film's gore) looks pretty enough but her acting talents are mostly confined to screaming a lot. At least she does that well. Paul Kratka has to be a huge contender for the worst actor in the series, his performance is bad beyond words. I bet most people are cheering Jason on when he's crushing his skull. All others are pretty bad as well, the two junkies seem to fare best. And those bikers...pretty lame.One other thing, not really the film's fault, but rather those blasted MPAA pruners; It's drastically cut and it hurts the film badly. You can clearly see some sloppy editing at the time when some gore seems to be coming and it's terribly annoying (but this is mostly evident in the British cut of the film).But not all is bad. Once Jason gets going the film comes to life and Miner manages to extract a decent amount of suspense. The cinematography looks good in a widescreen version and it makes quite a bit of difference. Plus it's here that Jason dons the fine mask.Now, if only they'd release an unrated version of this film and maybe in it's full 3-D incarnation I'd be a happy camper. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Friday the 13th.","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th 3D has a lot going for it. A great cast, great California location, a very freaky looking Jason and brutal deaths. This entry is the least like the others in the series.I am a big fan of most of the Jason movies, but feel that this 1982 entry is the high water mark and has never even come close to being surpassed.If you have not seen this movie and are even the slightest bit interested in the slasher movie genre, you owe it to yourself to check it out. Try and get the widescreen version, as one scene really suffers from the pan-and-scan VHS edition. "},{"Title":"Should Have Been The Last One","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" To make it a true trilogy, this should have been the last sequel to the Friday the 13th series. But why do that? There was more money to be made. The opening credits to this movie is a short film in itself. It runs over 10 minutes and brings the audience up to date with what has happened in Part 1 and Part 2. Although it was a little too long, it works as PART 3 begins where Part 2 ended. Just like the endings of the first 2 films, the ending of PART 3 is just as good. While the 3D is corny and very retro for someone in the early 80's, it worked for the cinema version. One of the better of the series of Friday the 13th films, the gore is better that the original and just as good as Part 2. "},{"Title":"The one with the hockey mask!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Picking up where #2 left off, sweet, innocent little Ginny has survived the nightmare of Jason's rampage, but Jason (this time played by Richard Brooker) isn't quite dead yet and so he gallantly ventures forth from Camp Crystal lake to stalk people elsewhere, and just his luck, there are some idiots hanging out a barn, one of whom, a cute virgin with frizzy brown hair (Dana Kimmell), actually escaped him before from a previous incident. While here, Jason picks up his trademark hockey mask and he keeps it for the rest of the series. The misfit character Shelly is strangely sympathetic, which is weird because the victims in these movies are almost never sympathetic.Not much sex or nudity here, but plenty of senseless violence, like the trademark throw dead body of obligatory ill-fated cute hunk through the window so as to scare the hell out of the pretty, sexually inexperienced virgin. Jason himself is actually well played by the imposing Richard Brooker.  "}{"Title":"Nothing new","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This second sequel brings nothing new to the series . One noteworthy event in this film is the fact that this is the film where Jason first gets his trademark Hockey Mask . The make up effects aren't bad if you can get a hold of an Uncut version . The US release was once again edited to obtain an R rating . "},{"Title":"More of the same","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *some spoilers*The third Friday film is pretty standard as slasher movies go. It's just like the previous entries; plotless and often tedious, but with fairly entertaining climaxes. I have to admit the ending made me jump once, and the next-to-last scene actually managed to grip me. However, up till then, I kept getting impatient, waiting for things to get going. After dispatching that white-trash couple, Jason doesn't even kill any of these young people till the movie is nearly half-over. In the interim, we have to put up with that awful motorcycle gang, which is a subplot introduced merely to provide Jason with more fresh bodies; at least they get killed off before annoying us too much. Still, the deaths themselves aren't too bad. Best of the lot the part with the spear-gun.This is the very first film where Jason wears his now-legendary hockey mask, since revered as one of the icons of horror. It is interesting to note that the infamous killer is still more or less human at this point in the series. Towards the end, he is stabbed, and actually shrieks in pain. It's a far cry from the nearly invulnerable undead Jason who would haunt the later sequels. It even strongly implies that he has raped the heroine in the recent past. While few have cared to ponder his sexuality, it is certainly plausible that part of his rage stems from repressing his basic urges.Friday the 13th, Part 3 arguably has the best-looking heroine in the bunch, played by Dana Kimmell. At this point, it is very well-known that she had requested that the producers cut down on all the violent and sexual material in the script. If that is the case, one wonders why she agreed to appear in the film at all. Didn't she know that it's a slasher movie, and that people would expect graphic violence? Still, she does an okay job, at least for this type of movie. The young characters are at least more sympathetic than their counterparts in subsequent sequels. I was amused by the presence of an aging hippie, obviously a homage to Cheech and Chong.Looking at some of the shots, it's clear that the film was originally intended to be viewed in 3-D. I am aware that some midnight theaters still show it in this format. I suppose it plays better that way, but it's still a gimmick that obscures the fact that otherwise it's just an ordinary slasher that doesn't carry the series in any new or unexpected direction. And is it just me, or do all cheesy 1980's horror sequels have to have flashbacks? Is this a law or something? Most of the Friday the 13th movies had them. Even Hellbound Hellraiser II did. Surely there must be a better way to carry the plots forward?*1/2 (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures "},{"Title":"Very good 3rd entry","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much it's one of my favorite Friday the 13th mostly because of the gruesome violence and the music witch is supposed to scare you and I mostly like it because Jason gets the hockey mask because he couldn't keep going around killing with a bag over his head this one is much better than part 2 hated that one but number one was still O.K but not great but still I can't say that the acting for number 3 is very good but still I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Goes more for fast thrills than substance.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday The 13th, Part 3 3-D was Paramount's third chapter in this slasher/horror feature film series. The film was released during the new interest in 3-D movies in the early 1980's, and was a success at the box office. Once again the plot is very simple (possible SPOILERS ahead) Jason of Friday The 13th, Part 2, continues his rampage of gruesome murders close to the lake where he just slaughtered several people at a summer camp. This time he stalks a married couple at their grocery store home, a trio of bikers, and a group of young adults spending the weekend at a country home. Chris (Dana Kimmell), the main character, was attacked by Jason a few years before. Little does Chris know people are being murdered, and she will soon have to fight for her life. A highlight of this movie was the excellent 3-D. The depth in the scenes created by the 3-D process was excellent throughout the movie! The opening credits were simplistic as the cast and crew's names are presented in 3-D, but yet fun and well done. The opening credits also feature the funky, fun, disco-like Theme From Friday The 13th, Part 3. Some of the 3-D effects that were to pop off of the screen, and come at the audience included a baseball bat, a rat, a yo-yo, popping popcorn, a snake, an eyeball that is held out in someone's hand, and an eyeball that pops out of someone's head. Most of the 3-D effects were well done. The gore effects looked gruesome and real for the most part (from the theatrical viewing experience, and not from viewing on video or DVD where you can freeze or play in slow motion to see how fake some of these effects look.) However, even on the big screen a couple of the gore effects looked unrealistic. There are a couple continuity errors between Friday The 13th, Part 2, and this one. One contradiction is Jason's appearance Jason is a much larger man in this film, and he has no hair. Harry Manfredini's original music helps set the mood as it did in the first two films. The change of setting from a summer camp to a country home with a barn makes the atmosphere of this film somewhat different than in the first two films, but this change does not seem to hurt. The acting is more balanced on an average level in this part, but Dana Kimmell (Chris) doesn't seem to be able to pull off here scenes of upset as her character remembers being previously attacked. Kimmell does very well with her scenes of terror, but the more dramatic parts in this film are not her best. Friday The 13th, Part 3 3-D does attempt to give the main characters a little more character development, but it is clear to see this film goes more for fast thrills than substance. The last shock in which Chris is pulled into the water by Jason's previously decapitated mother is a fast thrill low point. Friday The 13th, Part 3 3-D was a breakthrough film for 3-D advancement, but not a solid or totally entertaining production. Still, the film was more entertaining than many of the other slasher-type movies released in its era. "},{"Title":"Richard Brooker is on a par with Kane Hodder for the honours of who the best Jason is.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Without a doubt, my favorite Friday movie of all time! Richard Brooker is on a par with Kane Hodder for the honours of who the best Jason is. The setting goes away from the camp and settles in a remote region called Higgins Haven, this time it is not only some college kids,including my all time favorite Friday character, Shelly the lovable loser with the world's coolest afro,  but some bikers getting in on the action as well. Sadly, i was unable to see this classic on the silver screen in all of its three dimensional glory back in the slasher hayday of 1982, but the Paramount DVD is at least in 235 widescreen! This Friday film even got a two star review from Leonard Maltin! Now go to the videostore and see this classic Friday for yourself! "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now i havent seen Jason X..so excluding Jason X this is the best of the series..cuz its a good storyline...good acting..and very different direction,.,which rocks!!!I strongly urge you guys to get this out..This is the only one of the series you should see. "},{"Title":"Simply the best Part","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Its really the best part of the Friday-Series. Its the goriest backwood-slasher I have ever seen. The actors are really bad- but that doesn`t matter -because Jason is here..and he is here to kill them all..10/10 watch it!! "},{"Title":"Weak entry in the series","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel isn't much better than the myriad of Friday the 13th imitators that were clogging up theatres and cable TV by this time in the early 80's.The story is only slightly different, the killer this time is terrorizing teenagers staying at a residence near the fabled Camp Crystal Lake. The filmmakers don't even try to hide the killer's identity, and as a result, there is very little suspense in this film.The movie was shown in the theatres as a 3-D movie, and certain scenes do still have a 3-D-ish quality to them, even when viewed on a standard television. These scenes range from somewhat effective (the harpoon...), to goofy and frivolous (the popcorn, the laundry line pole).The ending though, still has me scratching my head after all these years. Not to give anything away, but one of the last scenes in the original Friday the 13th is recreated, just with a different ghoul... Cool effect, but completely unexplainable given the plot of the earlier films. "},{"Title":"A new dimension of cheesiness.....","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason Voorhees, having barely survived a wound to his shoulder from his own machete, is back to revenge on all that visit his woods. A group of friends come over to party at an area close to the campsite. This time, Jason will be stronger than ever, and getting a hockey mask from one of those friends.....The most memorable thing about this film is that this is the one when Jason got his iconic mask. The rest of the film is basically a rehash of the first one but with the added effect of 3-D.I had more fun with this in 2-D, because its hilarious to see characters and object blatantly point at the screen for no good reason.Other than that, we have the same rag tag group of friends who want to party and then some, and Jason stalking the camp to kill them in increasingly silly ways.It's not a bad film by any means, it's one of the better movies of the franchise, just nothing spectacular. "},{"Title":"Much better then second movie","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like this movie so much more then Friday 13th part 2 , it was more scary, more creepy and even more nudity and Jason was so much more scary.This movies start of by telling what happened in Friday 13th Part 2, then we get to see married couple being stalked by Jason, Then we get introduce to bunch of teenager, some are hooked on Dope and one of them makes a lot of jokes that pisses everyone else and others can not wait to get naked and go skinny dipping.it takes while for kills to start again but it was worth the wait, as some really great gory deaths scenes in this movie and I really like the deaths scenes in 3D was fantastic. As this Friday 13th movie don't expect the acting to be great.The 3D in this movie was spot on (Unlike The Final Destination 3D was poor but My Bloodly Valertine remake had great 3D but poor on the plot wise) Friday 13th part 3 outstanding on plot and the 3D effects.I going give this movie 9 out 10 "}{"Title":"Long","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A few yards spend a summer in a summer camp called Camp Crystal Lake, what they don't know, that the camp horn on a bloody history about a serial killer called Jason Voorhees. On by one disappeared and around the camp it begin to be worrying.It is very exciting and horrifying horror-movie. The acting is in this way good on of them is Dana Kimmell which acts very well.It is very beautiful nature and environment. Sometimes I think about the environment when I see this movie.This is one of the best Friday the 13th-films I have ever seen! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Even worse than the first two films.","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Plot Synopsis Jason Voorhees survives a machete wound to the head & emerges to attack & kill a group of teenagers who have arrived at a nearby farm to party.This third entry in the Friday the 13th saga is fairly much the same routine as the first two films. However this time there is the added gimmick of 3D. The first two films were bad enough with their poor writing, crappy dialogue, cheap scares, rampant nudity & lacklustre direction. Part 3 would have to be the worst entry in the first generation of Friday films (Parts 1, 2, 3 & Final Chapter are first generation, A New Beginning, Jason Lives, The New Blood & Jason Takes Manhattan are second generation & Jason Goes To Hell & Jason X are third generation). The 3D gimmick is the main reason this film sucks hard. Every few minutes the film flogs an object into the camera. So far we have snakes, poles, baseball bats, mice, TV antennas, joints & a biker's fist wrapped in a chain. The unintentionally funny highlight is when Jason squeezes a victim's head, causing his eyeball to pop into the screen (by the way, it's impossible for an eyeball to pop that way) & into your face. "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable and most entertaining in the Friday the 13th series.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A few days later after the strange brutal killing at the new camp. Now Jason (Richard Brooker) is heading towards a private ranch. Which this killer finds himself with new victims. Which he decides to murder one by one.Directed by Steve Miner (Lake Placid, My Father The Hero Remake, Texas Rangers) made an entertaining, campy, thrilling sequel to the Friday the 13th movies. Which is one of the best sequels of the Slasher Series and the most colorful also. Perphas a bit too much humour in places but extremely fast faced and always fun. This is the classic third film to filmed in Widescreen scope (Only one to be shot that way in the series), To be showed in 3-D, Some explicit graphic kills and of course, where the hockey mask is been introduced.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an good-Dolby Digital 2.0 Mono Sound. DVD's only extra is the original theatrical trailer. The Friday the 13th Box Set includes an entertaining, joyful commentary by actorsDana Kimmell as Chris, Paul Kratka as Rick, Larry Zerner as Shelly, Brooker as Jason and AuthorPeter Bracke from the book Crystal Lake Memories. Which the actors talked about how fun, complicated the shot was and also how technical it was most scenes to be filmed in 3-D. Which sadly the DVD isn't in 3-D. DVD also includes interviews with actorZerner and Cinematographer of the film.Which this movie was the most successful at the Box Office for a 3-D film. It was briefly re-introduced in the early 1980's (expection of the truly campy Jaws 3-D did a little more at the box office than this one did). This sequel also has its share of flaws, especially around the conclusion of this one. The movie also has some gaping plot holes (Which Zerner pointed out in the commentary track).The novella by Michael Avallone is enjoyable guilty pleasure trashy book. It remains faithful to the movie but there's some character changes and the conclusion is different. Also Petru Popescu co-wrote the screenplay but he is uncredited. This third picture has likable characters and it is all in good silly slasher enjoyment. Harry Manfredini's disco theme music in the opening credits and closing for this one is a camp delight. Origianlly filmed in ArriVision 3-D. (*** /*****). "},{"Title":"Best sequel to the series and just good old slasher fun!","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love this film and I love the funky soundtrack that opens and closes the movie, fantastic. Good old slasher fun as when it was at its best late 70's and in this case early 80's. Best sequel by far, pity they did not leave it here and stop milking a good story, but as in everything they do. Anyways if you like the first and second, this is an excellent sequel. I prefer the funky music opening and closing to even the original. Especially the dramatic music at the orginals end, rather have this 3rd installments funky music puts you in the mood for a good old kill everyone in sight movie! and we love that sort of thing, especially in the late 70's and 80's where slasher movies where at its best! "},{"Title":"Don't bother unless.....","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...you have a bootleg copy of the 3D alternating shutter/field sequential glasses version (usually available at various auction sites)....This is just an awful, predictable piece of trash. There is no understandable reason why these idiots are getting killed in this movie. I saw this in 3D at the movies back in the early 80s, and the 3D gimmick was the only reason we were there (same for Jaws 3D and Spacehunter 3D). However, if you can find a 3D DVD for the shutter glasses (3D shutter glass system available at http//store.yahoo.com/razor3d/3dvidviewsys1.html), the 3D stuff is pretty fun, and the movie is bad enough to laugh at in that respect. I wouldn't turn my head sideways to see the 2D version! 3D version gets a 5. 2D version gets a 1! "},{"Title":"The Mask Arrives!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Steve Miner returns to direct this installment with a major highlights one being the deaths are more gorier and yes, the mask arrives!!!!!!!!!!JASON(Richard Brooker) is still alive haunting the woods of Camp Crystal Lake, waiting from new pray to step in he's boundaries. When stoner pals get ready for a high weekend, they find out that all roads in & out of town are closed. Giving JASON a chance of killing freedom. And this time he has found a new mask to hide he's awful face.... A HOCKEY MASK.The gore factor is at a nine on this installment, with surprise death sequences that are truly amazing for what's it worth. This may have scared me into stop doing handstands. The acting is still fair game by the leads Dana Kimmel & Paul Kratka, but who really had the upper hand at acting is Richard Brooker performance as JASON. He make the mask JASON wears feel like a face. A face we would fear every Friday THE 13TH. "},{"Title":"Birth of the MASK!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 3 presents another chapter in the life of Jason, a boy who drowned in the waters of Crystal Lake. Camp counselors have proved to be no match for Jason in the earlier films of this series, but this time he encounters more formidable opponents in the form of members of a motorcycle gang. The action takes place on a rustic farm that provides both the serene setting and the privacy Jason desires when stalking his prey. Unlike part 2, where Jason used a pillow case to cover his face he dawns the now infamous hockey mask.A step down from Part 2 which was actually scary. This film (like the first), copies the Halloween franchise, which is were its downfall begins. I never saw it in 3D (as it was filmed), maybe that would have made it better. "},{"Title":"Friday fans will love this!","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Third instalment in the on going Friday The 13th series, finds Jason skipping the camp grounds in order to hide out in a barn located near a cabin deep in the woods. When a group of teens converge on the lot to spend the weekend, Jason sets out to dismember them one by one, using whatever he can get his hands on to put them away, while donning his trademark hockey mask for the first time. Highy enjoyable third entry, to the long running & very entertaining slasher series, this time does all it's gory business in some rather fantastically done 3D effects. What makes F13TH PART III, work even after repeated viewings & what I feels keeps the film fresh, is the atmosphere, the creative kills, (& the already mentioned 3D effects) & great performance by RICHARD BROOKER as Jason (Jason's never been more terrifying than he has been here!) Like GUNNAR HANSEN'S performance as LEATHERFACE, in the original THE Texas CHAIN SAW MASSACRE, Brooker is able to invoke a disturbing presence when he is on screen, that is not easily shaken & stays with you no matter how many times you see the film & goes to show what a talent Brooker really is, as he is able to pull off such a feat for a monster who's face we only see for roughly a minute through the whole film & who never once utters a word, while at the same time wearing a mask to conceal his looks, Brooker, in what is surely one of the best, if not the best performances of any of the Jason actors, could so easily have played the role with almost no acting whatsoever, but he is able to convey all of Jason's actions & emotions just perfectly, not an easy feat for a faceless & non talking movie monster. What a shame he never played more monsters after this!. The suspense really shines here, with director STEVE MINER able to pull off some pretty good edge of your seat thrills & chills in many scenes, that still hold up despite constant viewings. All that aside however, the film does have a few faults, most notably in the wooden acting, with many of the actors looking much to old to be playing teenagers (Like Chuck & Chili, who look well into their thirties!) & just like his work in Part 2, Miner & company seem to be to afraid to shy away from the formula established in Cunningham's original classic. Like Part 2, the film is a complete remake of the first film, this film even more so than Miners last outing, simply because many of the scenes & scenarios that were played out in the first film, is redone here, such as a victim who falls from a tree right in front of the heroine, a crazy old man who warns of the dangers of Crystal Lake, the stock characters you usually see in films like this, the practical joker who pulls one to many stunts on his pals only to be ignored when he really is set to bite the big one, heck even some of the deaths from the first are repeated here! The ending of the first film is also ripped off, as we see the heroine dragged into the lake by a person long thought dead (the first film had Jason pulling a stunned Alice into the waters, this one Mrs. Voorhees) perhaps this is the most disappointing part of the film, since it doesn't make a lick of sense, for starters, Chris, the lead heroine, doesn't know who Jason is, doesn't know the legend, if she knew of the legend, the ending would certainly be understandable, you could say she dreamt about his mother coming back for revenge (Mrs. Voorhees is seen here as a corpse that looks like she's been underwater for the past five years & oddly has her head still attached to the shoulders & not rotting away on a altar like we seen in Part 2!). But again since she doesn't, it makes for not only a confusing, but really lousy ending. Now I understand that Miner & company thought this would be the final entry & probably did the scene to make audiences wonder if Mrs. Voorhees would come back to avenge her son's death yet again, but since there were tons of sequels afterwards it's really lame, making one wish that the filmmakers used one of the alternate endings instead especially the one that see's Chris decapitated by the masked maniac, in a scene that was reminiscent of Alice decapitating Mrs. Voorhees, only with maniac killing the heroine instead. It makes one wonder just how much this would have made the equally scary & entertaining fourth instalment, all the more scary & suspenseful, since with Alice, the heroine of the first dead, Ginny left for dead & her boyfriend Paul killed in Part 2 & if Chris would have died here, how much more terrified would we feel for the fate of the brother & sister as they were being terrorized at the end of Part 4, would Jason kill them like he did to Alice, Paul, Rick & Chris? It makes you think...All that aside however, F13TH PART 3 makes for a highly enjoyable viewing experience, if you can look past the bad acting, daft dialogue & repetitive storyline, you should find this highly amusing & scary. Followed by Friday THE 13TH-THE FINAL CHAPTER**** stars "},{"Title":"The Same Formula Repeated for the Third Time","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A group of couples goes to an isolated camp area to spend some days. One by one is killed by Jason. The same formula of the original movie and Part 2 is repeated. The basic difference in this one is the presence of Jason, showed many times with his traditional mask or with his deformed face.  My vote is five. "},{"Title":"Gotta love the 3-D","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part III sequel number 3 in the Friday the 13th series, actually not a bad one. I know when it comes to the 3-D movies, we are hitting into a major flop territory, but in my opinion I thought this was a fun movie. I wish I had the glasses though, I just loved how weird it looked. Jason is back and he's bigger and badder than ever. Finally, he has his hockey mask that at least I was waiting for. I've said it before and I'll say it again, Friday the 13th Part III delivers when it comes to the bad acting, silly sex scenes, and just all in all the bad behavior that leads to the horny teenager's demise. I'm still trying to see what is the big fuss over Jason, but he truly brings in a cool story and plenty of gore.Leaving off where the second movie ended, Ginny and Paul escaping, Jason kills off two people and finds his hockey mask that makes him oh-so-menacing looking. A group of horny teenagers just decide to go on a trip, that trip happens to be at Camp Crystal Lake and they have no idea what is in store for them when Jason sees all the bad behavior. Not only that, but he's coming at them in 3-D! This is a slasher not to be messed with.Friday the 13th Part III is over all a cool sequel, I would say that this is worthy enough for the series. But as always it's overly cheesy, but I'd say it's cool enough to watch in the dark. Just get the 3-D glasses, for me, it was cheesy to see things coming at me but not. Jason delivers some cool death scenes, my favorite is the store owner's, it's fun and suspenseful. Is Friday the 13th Part III the best I've seen yet? No, but I'm looking forward the next 6 films I get to watch.5/10 "}{"Title":"This is a fun movie.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, having nothing better to do and renting the whole video store out, I went to the horror section, to desperately rented a video I did not see before.  It caught my eye, because of the 3-D edge to it, I told my wife what the hell lets rent it, its gotta be better that badly dubbed Italian film Zombi.  Anyways, I always wanted to see a 3D film, and when this came out with other 3D films in the early 80's my dad didn't take me to any of them , because the fad ended faster then it began. I tried to envision the 3D as I watched it in 2D, and this film probably was alot freakier in 3D, with the effects of yo-yo's, juggling, flaming cole pokers, spear guns, eye poppings, pitch forks, and flying pop corn.  The opening credits would have been great on 3D too.  My dad said they got the yo-yo idea from Vincent Price's House of Wax.  Not to drag on, I found this movie much better then the first.  One the budget is much higher, and two the film does not take it self to seriously.  This is a date movie, with alot of cheese in it, they made this film with alot of shock in a humorous way.  It had a great post disco  theme music, and gags like, (remember this is before safty seals, and after watching this I am happy they put them on products.)  a store owner who eats and drinks out of containers before resealing them.  He eats some of his fish food while feeding the fish, and finds out it has poo in it.  The prankster who does stupied trick, to keep you guessing if its the real killer.  The pot heads who act like Jim off Taxi. The plot here is not that scary, Jason does not talk, there is no motive, etc, he just walk around and kills. (well I work at the post office and people do motiveless stupid things all the time, but thats besides the point)  Motives help horror films, and the acting is better then the first, but the actors don't have mush room to play with the script.  The ending is a bit scary, but in all this is a movie that will make you laugh at sick humor, more then scare you.  3D shock horror. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th - Part Dull","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are not too many good things to say about this movie. I had gone to the theater and saw it upon its release in 3-D (wearing the 3-D glasses and all) and for the life of me I could not find one scary thing about it. The 3-D effects abound in the movie and were not that good to begin with. The worst part of the movie was the character 'Chris' and her issues she was dealing with (drama!). Plus there was quite a bit of ripped off scenes from the first movie. I also found it amazing how Jasons' appearance changed from the ending from part 2 to part 3. Then to make matters worse I ended up buying it on DVD to go with the first 2 parts...and it looked even WORSE on DVD as far as effects go.I am a true hardcore fan of the original, the second one was just o.k. and in this one, Jason allegedly dies...(but of course he didn't due to the endless sequels that followed and the sequels just got worse and worse and worse), so to me there are only 3 Friday the 13ths. But Part 3 is just gimmickry with cheap 3-D effects, really bad acting, a ridiculous opening soundtrack (Friday the 13th dance music? lol). Just a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Cheesefest good and bad","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Chris Higgins had a dangerous encounter with a deranged attacker. It's years later 1982 and college student Chris has invited her friends to Higgin's Haven for a weekend. Jason Voorhees returns to attack the new group of friends. This time Jason gets his iconic hockey mask for the first time.This is done in that hokey 80's 3D where they throw things at the camera. In this one, they actually used a yo-yo in one of the most cheesiest effects. It is cheesetastic. The problem is the really weak acting from the cast of nobodies. It doesn't help that the dialog is a horrible cheesefest. Cheesy dialog is only good for one liners. It is really difficult to endure the rambling for a full 90 minutes. And it doesn't help that the ruffians look like Village People rejects. The whole thing is a joke. Sometimes it's a funny joke but mostly it's boring. "},{"Title":"Kind of Silly Installment!","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yeah, the Friday the 13th series ain't exactly in the same league as The Godfathers, but this third part doesn't get going until the body count goes crazy in the final half hour.Plus, this was originally in 3-D, and the hilariously over-the-top 3-D gags (Yo-Yo's, spears, knives, etc. coming at you!) instantly take away from what's happening. I'm guessing they got snickers in the theaters too when the movie came out!It's all routine otherwise, with the one last character left at the end against Jason (that ain't much of a spoiler!). The ending does work, but you have to get through an hour of silliness to get to it. I thought that Part II was the best installment of the series, personally.It's funny that make-up legend Tom Savini is shown in a magazine article, but the more-feeble-this-time makeup effects are by others. Instead of having Savini getting a homage, better to have had him working on the film!Plus, all the 3-D silliness leaves a fair amount of the film kind of hazy image wise, even with the High-Definition transfer showing on EPIX.p.s. Get a load of Harry Manfredini's occasional disco-like reworking of his classic theme! Pretty funny.**** (4 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Offers nothing new but an easy way to spend 90 minutes","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Carrying on the Friday the 13th tradition, Part III is yet another re- run of the events of the first film, only using different actors and character names. The action picks up just a day after Part 2, with Jason surviving the attack and fleeing to a nearby lakeside resort called Higgins Haven. Amongst the group of naive machete-bait is heroine Chris (Dana Kimmell), obligatory horny couple Debbie (Tracie Savage) and Andy (Jeffrey Rogers), annoying and self-loathing prankster Shelley (Larry Zerner), and hippy stoner couple Chuck (David Katims) and Chili (Rachel Howard). Some little one-dimensional character building later, Jason Voorhees (Richard Brooker) is soon hacking them up in various entertaining ways.After the blandness of the first two Friday the 13th movies, I was expecting more of the same here, which I indeed got (it even replaces Crazy Ralph with a demented religious fanatic they meet on the road). There's precious little in ways of scares, originality or surprises, but it does have a couple of decent deaths that don't seem to suffer given Tom Savini's absence. The most memorable being someone being hacked clean in half whilst hand-standing. The third entry into the long franchise is better remembered for being the film that introduced Jason's hockey mask, which is now a well-recognised piece of pop culture. I was never expecting anything great here, and while it is formulaic, predictable, and often very dull, it's still an easy 90 minutes of slasher entertainment.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is an absolutely routine movie of its type - a group of young people are gathered together for the sole purpose of being violently slaughtered by a motiveless quasi-supernatural lunatic. Which he does in 3D. Quite a lot of wandering around behind people, being menacing while they can;t see you, goes on.Some of the 3D is very attractive.Unfortunately, the movie is marred by a tendency for contriving situations where objects can be thrust at the camera. After this happens a couple of time in the first few minutes, and regularly from then on, you start watching for it. It is distracting and irritating, "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part III","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" From director Steve Miner (Halloween H20 20 Years Later, Lake Placid), this second sequel gave the iconic killer his two most famous traits, and if you're lucky you can see it in 3D. The previous film saw supposedly drowned but living killer Jason Voorhees (Richard Brooker) looking dead, but he did survive and still wants revenge for the death of his mother Pamela (Betsy Palmer). A new bunch of dumb teenagers are renting the house Higgins Haven belonging to the family of Chris (Dana Kimmell) near the area of Camp Crystal Lake to party and camp out. Soon enough Jason shows up in new clothes (including a green jacket), and after killing the guy carrying the hockey mask, he dons this, and goes on to kill some of the others. In the end, after seeing him hang, Jason eventually looks dead on the floor with an axe in his head, and survivor Chris is taken away for being mental, but Jason will return. Also starring Paul Kratka as Rick, Tracie Savage as Debbie, Jeffrey Rogers as Andy, Catherine Parks as Vera, Larry Zerner as Shelly, David Katims as Chuck and Rachel Howard as Chili. There were some alright moments in 3D with objects and body parts coming at you, Jason gaining his iconic hockey mask and the gruesome deaths are worthwhile enough, but it was a slightly disappointing film, all in all a not very good horror. Adequate! "},{"Title":"More of the same again but the characters are fun.","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Basically when you put this movie against the first and the second movie, this movie is really more of the same and it doesn't offer much new or surprising story-wise. The movie again gets set at an abandoned camp in which a couple of youngster are being killed one by one by Jason, who for the first time puts on his hockey mask.What makes the movie still good and enjoyable to watch at all times are its characters. The characters make the movie somewhat light and bearable and the movie obviously doesn't take itself as seriously as the previous two installments did.As you can expect from a movie of its kind, the movie is being filled with some graphic deaths, that are nice to watch for the fans of horror and gore but of course aren't all very surprising anymore.What I didn't really liked about this movie was the portrayal of Jason. It shows that you can not just put any actor under the mask to make his character threatening and scary. Also his look differs so much from the first two movies that it becomes quite distracting. They probably did this to avoid confusion with the Halloween movies, in which the killer has a sort of similar look and hockey mask. Jason in this movie never works out as a scary or threatening character, perhaps also because he gets featured, full frontal, in too many sequences. In the first movie there still was mystery and suspense because you never actually got to see the killer until the end. The second movie already abandoned this but it still knew to create and threatening, dangerous, murderer, that above all also had a good look, even though he was wearing a ridicules sack over his head.It's more of the same, only in 3D this time. A watchable sequel but also one you can easily do without ever seeing.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Be a man, man.","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Be a man, man. I can't really dog 'Friday the 13th Part III' for the terribly and possibly unintentionally humorous dialogue, especially when they're talking to themselves (2x Where's this (blood) coming from?) Or the stereotypically bad actors playing stereotypically bad characters. Or the completely overlong and pointless death of a couple you actually wanted to die in the opening. These are just trademarked &#150; or soon to be &#150; 'Friday' clichs. But I can rip on the hideously bad idea of the 3-D (and hilariously awful and annoying props when initiating the 3-D magic) when that's generally a gimmick to bring people back to a dead series. This series was just beginning (not that they knew there would be another eight additional films to feature Jason Voorhees) and already had a cult following &#150; hence the fact that one new 'Friday' movie was released each year (or less.) And people complain about the recent 'Saw' films that have severely trumped Jason's box office year after year. This all being said, this was the first 'Friday' movie I saw as a kid. I remember getting our first VCR and taping this off of network TV &#150; edited out scenes I wouldn't be able to see until years later &#150; and falling in love with the Jason myth. I had no idea the audience wasn't privileged to see the psycho up to this point, so I took for granted we can finally see the killer Jason (for about 1/3 of the film, but still) and that this is one where he finally dons the hockey mask. If they only knew what an actual icon they were creating. 'Part III,' despite its flaws, does pick up a lot of steam once the man behind the mask shows up and even digs up some absolutely decent chills. "},{"Title":"this edition was filmed in 3D,but there are no 3D glasses with it,so it's annoying and gimmicky","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" i remember watching this movie way back when it first came out on VHS video.it was the first horror movie i had ever seen,and it scared the crap out of me.i had nightmares for days.but,that was then,this is now.this time,around,i wasn't scared.in fact i found the movie to be boring in parts.plus,this movie was originally filmed in 3D,so it looks gimmicky(and annoying)when viewed in 2D,since there are no 3D glasses with it.and there is no option to view it without the 3D.this particular edition is part of the 5 disc box set From Crystal Lake to Manhattan and features the first 8 movies in the series,along with a bonus disc of special features.i'm pretty sure the version i saw on VHS in 1982 wasn't in 3D,so there must be some more 2D versions around somewhere.anyway,to me,this movie is a bit more mundane than the previous 2.plus,Jason(the killer)swaggers around like a macho man,which is laughable.my vote for Friday the 13th Part III is a 5/10 "}{"Title":"My favorite Friday the 13th","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just caught this on TV last night, since it's close to Halloween. This is my favorite Friday the 13th movie probably because it's the first one I ever saw. It's got the standard morality tale (young kids go away for a weekend of sex & drugs & get killed because of it) and this is the sequel in which the hockey mask first appears, giving Jason his scary persona for the rest of the movies.The movie was filmed in 3D, and it sort of works on the small screen, but must have been a blast to see in the theater. The part where Jason is squeezing Rick's head and his eye pops out must have looked really cool in 3D.That being said, I can really only give this movie 4 stars since, after all, it IS a Friday the 13th movie. The plot is the same as almost all the sequels Group of young kids shows up at Crystal lake, Jason shows up & starts killing people, young heroine survives to kill Jason in the end, only to have him brought back to life in the next sequel. The acting, while OK for a Friday the 13th movie, would be sub-par in any other. Some of the special effects are obvious, such as when the girl gets hit in the eye with the spear fired from the spear gun, you can tell she's wearing makeup over her eye. But all in all, it's a fun movie if you keep in mind it's just a Friday the 13th movie. "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels...","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part III is the film in which Jason finally gets his trademark hockey mask, and thus creating a horror movie icon. The movie was made with 3D film, which I guess is sort of a throwback to the old 1950s movies of yesteryear. The effects are still evident even if you aren't wearing those cheesy 3D glasses, when you see such items as arrows and popcorn make their way at the screen.Overall, the film is a definite improvement over the first two films in the series. If you're looking for something different plot wise, you won't find it here. All the Friday the 13th movies are basically the same, you've seen one and you've seen them all. However, they are still worth watching if only to say you've seen 'em.Will Jason ever die? Probably not, at least not until the grosses go down. Then they'll just remake 'em all from the beginning. Rent it if you want, it is certainly one of the better sequels in the series, but that's not saying much. "},{"Title":"Nature Trail to...","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason Voorhees just keeps on coming, this time tracking down some hippies, their friends and a motorcycle gang. Everyone needs a break from camp counselors, I suppose. Otherwise it's pretty much the same thing here... hack and slash.Part three picks up the day after part two, and Ginny Field (falsely identified as the sole survivor) does not appear other than in footage from the previously film (and sadly, has not returned to the series yet). The rest of the cast is all-new.This film doesn't really offer anything the first two lacked. The gore gets slightly better here, and there is a noteworthy scene involving a harpoon gun. The character of Shelly is somewhat interesting, but not enough to carry the film. Lastly, this film features not one but two men using a toilet. And don't worry, this isn't the last time we see such sights.Director Steve Miner returns, and this time tries a gimmick filming the movie in 3-D. Most of us will never see the film in 3-D as was intended, but you can still tell from many scenes where the good parts are a yo-yo, a snake, and many other objects that come at your face.Not much else goes on here. The music slightly improves, especially during the opening credits. But more kids getting killed and another long flashback in the beginning recounting what happened in part two (with a little retconning done). So, really no reason to see this one. It bridges the gap between parts two and four, but only slightly. Personally, in my opinion, the series doesn't really pick up until part four. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 3","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Steve Minor turns the notch up in graphic violence and cheese stuck with the gimmicky 3D to foil any chance of a true terror in this third film(his second)in the Friday series regarding a fresh crop of teens(led by Dana's Kimmel's Chris who somehow survived a presumed attack by an unmasked Jason Voorhies at one point two years previous stating she blacked out)who get butchered in numerous ways by Jason Voorhies, who goes without a mask at the start eventually placing the hockey mask(taken from the porcine prankster Shelly, played by Larry Zerner)on for good. The 3D gimmick really does the film no good as watching a yo-yo come towards the screen or juggling fruit aren't that awe-inspiring. Especially goofy is when an eye-ball pops towards the screen from a victim's face as Jason crushes his skull(it's quite obvious that a string is pulling out a fake eyeball from a facial mask). Probably the best gag is the harpoon sequence that darts a spear into a victim's eye(Jason has quite the dead aim). There's a motorcycle gang who are about to get even when Shelly nearly runs over one of them with a car..they make perfect fodder for Jason to destroy.You have a pitchfork protruding a man's chest, a fellow who likes to walk on his hands who is stabbed by a machete then later seen above his soon-to-be dead girlfriend sawed in two, a girl who receives a blade through her throat, one man gets his arm chopped off, another gets his throat slashed, a woman who is stabbed through the stomach by a flaming poker, etc. Paramount studios surprisingly let Minor get away with some violence on-screen this time. The ending of course has poor Chris running for her life..this is by far the best part of the film as it mostly abandons the 3D gimmick ascending into an act of survival. Chris will be driven mad as the ending toys with her and the viewer in fine fashion even incorporating a jump scare that worked so well in the original. Interesting element is that Jason's grotesque face is shown as an adult in all it's glory leaving an impact. "},{"Title":"Very good, yet I felt they were holding back.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a very good addition to the Friday the 13th series, It may contain some weak acting but otherwise I thought it was a good slasher with a great beginning. As I say in my summary I thought it was holding back with how gory it was, I know the mpaa already cut it so they couldn't have done any more but it left me wanting more. There were some plot holes in this one but nothing to major to ruin the movie. I thought the direction was really good, some chilling camera shots made this movie great, great job Steve Miner! So overall I thought this one was a fun, gory, and actullly really well done slasher flick with that classic score! "},{"Title":"Grossly Underrated","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First off, let me just explain that so far, I have only seen the first, second, and last two films of this series other than this one. I saw the original as a kid and recently re-watched it with the second nearly back to back and only after watching this third installment am I actually excited to watch the rest. I found the first two to be simply okay in terms of watching a movie in the year 2006. This movie was great. I rated this movie based on its appeal and enjoyment as a movie-watching experience. I am sad and ashamed to say I wasn't able to enjoy it's 3D features as intended, but they were great nonetheless. This movie is full of hilariously enjoyable 3D gags with or without any glasses or a big screen. Each kill is unique and interesting. Unlike many other horror movies (especially of its era), this movie doesn't spend a torturous amount of time developing character for people you don't care about nor go obnoxiously slow at any given point. If you're looking for another Jason movie, this is obviously an answer. If you enjoy a hearty laugh while watching someone get an object lodged through some twenty-something year old you don't care about, this movie is for you. In fact, I'm not going to bother to comment on story further than to say that I was very much entertained all the way through and if you're interested in this movie for great plot and character development, look elsewhere... look to a doctor because you should know better. Good times had by all. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Way to Live 3","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Three films in as many years. Wow Paramount was rushing these at a break-neck speed. This one however rushed is better than part two. This film is the one that gave Jason his hockey mask and put him into the nightmares of children for decades to come. Dana Kimbell does a great job in this film as Chris the new last girl. She even gives Jason something to remember by, with the famous Ax Cut wound to the head she inflicts on Jason giving him a chip on his mask that is still there today even though he has changed out masks no less than three times sine then. Richard Broker as Jason does a fine job in all the murder scenes and the walk he does rules. He does not run like the last guy. Richard is third only to Kane Hodder who is number one and Ted White who is number 2. Thats good for there having been seven guys to play the role. Now as for Steve Miner, I don't know how he did it. It's certainly a fluke because this is the only good film the man has ever directed. This film being in 3-D takes something away from the DVD edition, but in the theater I'm sure it was something to relish. I pray to Jesus and Paramount Studios that someday they will release this thing uncut, with the alternate endings and in 3-D AMEN LORD STUDIO HEAD!!! "},{"Title":"They should have stopped at Pt. 3","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film years ago with my family at 1 a.m. on HBO and just recently on FX. This film was best as a trilogy. The series completely got ruined with each sequel after sequel after sequel. This pt. 3 makes sense. Jason is finally killed after a climatic showdown and a scary but cheesy hallucination of seeing Jason's mother lunge out of the lake. And then pt. 4??? The man was stabbed in the forehead with an ax!! A ram couldn't survive that. Was Traci Savage (Debbie) hot or what? Yummy! And a real smart a**. I like a girl with a sense of humor. Shelly was an idiot. Retarded if you ask me, although he did triumph when he stood up to Ali by running over his bike with a Volkswagen. Very funny! Anyway, definitely better than the original. "},{"Title":"Jason has his mask in this tepid third installment.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 3D (1982) was made during the early 80's short revival of 3D films. When part three was released on video it had three things against, 1.) No 3D, 2.) No widescreen and 3.) no gore. By now the film-makers should have been hip to the fact that all the blood and gore would have been chopped out of the movie, they wern't. So, when the film went to video all you saw was an altered film with gimmicky 3D effects that couldn't be seen. No 3D and no gore make a horrible movie. This mess of a movie reminded me of drinking Kool-Aid with no sugar (blech!). Recommended for die-hard fans only. "},{"Title":"Cool theme music","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While Friday the 13th films all pretty much suck on some level, part three is slightly more entertaining than most. I give it a 4 out of 10.Forget scares, 'cause there isn't much of that to be found. What you do get is a pretty efficient demonstration of horror cliches.  I found it amusing how cardboard the characters were.  One scene features two guys juggling. Two other scenes feature a character walking on his hands. You get the feeling the director asked all the actors what tricks they could do, in a desperate attempt to make the characters more interesting. Two of the characters are the stereotypical stoners. One girl is deemed pregnant in a conversation near the beginning- this info sorta distinguishes her from the other women, but the subject is never dealt with again.  We are also treated to two scenes of somebody using a toilet, just another time-filling substitute for actual dialogue.   As lame as the characters are written, I don't think the actors are all that bad. Except for Dana Kimmell's sweater-wearin' boyfriend. His acting is very flat. He sucks, but that's what makes him cool.    The unironic script also treats us to two different characters in two scenes saying the same thing (Where's this coming from?) for different reasons (blood from a body above, water dripping from the floor above). And perhaps the most awkward line is when a girl,speaking of a past run-in with Jason, says he had a knife... and he attacked me with it!.  It's not a hilarious movie, but is funny at times. If you first saw it as a little kid in the '80s, nostalgia can be your ready-made excuse for watching it now.  But anybody else watching this has some serious explaining to do. "}{"Title":"Cheesy fun.","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I actually like this one.  I am not a big fan of the series as a whole, but for some reason this one is one of the few I like (4 and 6 are the other two).  This is the movie where Jason first puts on the hockey mask he is known.  Shot as a 3-D movie some parts get a bit annoying as people shove things toward the camera for no reason, but you get used to it.  I would have loved to have seen this one in the theater.  Is it a bit lame you ask?  Sure is, but this one is fun to watch as long as you don't take it to seriously.  Some pretty good kills in this one as well.  Is it a masterpiece...most definitely not!  Not every movie though is out to be a masterpiece and you can't judge movies the same.  I love the part with the eyes. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, take the plot from Part 1, 20 something's go to Crystal Lake, share in immorality, violently die. And you have the plot for this, which is also the plot to Part 2.Only this time the acting is even worse, with not even one good performance. The one quirk in this plot is that it is based around this girl who had a run in with Jason sometime between Part 2 and this movie. Cool thing, Jason lost weight and his hair. I guess being an undead, parentless person can be hard on the hair.The characters in this one are mildly likable but also annoying. But this movie also was 3D which means for us we get a bunch of stupid shots of people sticking things in front of the camera, which have no effect on DVD or VHS.Not to mention I think I coughed up something that looked just like that eyeball.Anyway, Jason finds some cool ways to kill people and we are even treated to useless characters who are clearly here to merely be slaughtered. They are a biker gang, because we know how much biker gangs love the small backwoods towns.Two other notes, Jason gets his hockey mask and this is the movie in which he gains his superhuman strength which in my mind takes a lot of the charm away from Jason.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Without the 3-D effects that made this so entertaining in theaters this entry bores and even heavily copies key scenes and characters from the original. Even some good shock scenes can't save it. Yet another group of unlucky teens fall prey to Jason yet again, but this time around Jason gets his hockey mask. Rated R; Brief Nudity, Mild Sexual Situations, Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"3D and a Hockey Mask.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Typical installment has Jason terrorizing those unlucky enough to be around Crystal Lake all over again. The only things that are different are the facts that Jason dons the hockey mask for the first time and the film was in a three-dimensional format originally in the theaters. The silly gimmick worked as the film would be a box office success and spawn more stupid sequels. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Boooooooooooooooooring","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 3 is dullest of the first 4 films. However it is the best film ever made when compared to some of the sequels that followed the Final Chapter.The music in this film is the worst in the entire series it sounds more like a seventies porn film than a horror film. The acting ranges from awful to painful and the actress who plays the main character in this film is soooooo grating that Jason should have ignored everyone else and just focused on her - I've seen better acting on Sunset Beach than the campfire seen where she is explaining how she was attacked by Jason at the camp years earlier.To say this movie is set about a day after the events in Friday the 13th Part 2 it seems Jason has changed quite a bit. His look is totally different than it was in the first sequel.While the film is boring for almost its entire running time there are moments within the film every once in a while that keep it watchable. So while it would be better to ignore this and just watch Parts 1,2 & 4 the film is far from unwatchable.  "},{"Title":"A bit crap on the small screen in 2D","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well I'd have loved to see this one in the cinema in 3D, unfortunately I wasn't old enough back then. On video the movie sucks, just look at that guy swinging a yoyo into the camera for 30 seconds (yawn) They relied on the 3D effects too much to carry the movie. Some of the killings are cool. Andy's in particular. Well I cringed when he got his anyway. Trimmed down in the UK for video- Debbie looks up at Andy's chopped body & we don't get to see it! it looks so silly.  "},{"Title":"Jason's Big Rip Off","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let's be honest. No one with a modicum of common sense would approach a movie like this and expect it be any good, in the strictest sense of the word. There are, however, at least two things which one expects to see in a cheesy slasher flick. The first is some serious gore, the second is boobies. Unlike most of the films in the Friday 13th series, this pathetic entry fails to deliver the goods on both counts.The plot is hilarious. It seems that, in spite of the savage murders that occurred at Camp Crystal Lake both last year and the year before (as well as the murders fifteen years earlier), yet another group of unsuspecting and apparently mindless teenagers go to the camp for a bit of fun and frivolity. In a huge twist, Jason returns from the dead - again - and starts killing them.As always, the first seven minutes of the film is just a replay of the last seven minutes of Part 2. One can't help but think that they were trying desperately to bump up the lousy running time, and they still couldn't make it to 90 minutes. If you think that's a rip off, keep watching.The only interesting thing about this film is that this is where Jason pioneered the iconic killer in a hockey mask look, having opted for a hessian sack over his head in the second instalment of the series. This is mildly diverting for about 30 seconds but is a long way from saving this turkey.The murders are all pretty tame here compared to the first two movies. Most of the violence happens off screen as the scenes all cut away just as the blade (or weapon of choice) is about to hit. We get to see the bodies afterwards, but there's nothing even remotely shocking about most of the shots here. The one exception is a body sliced almost in half (from the groin up), delicately balanced on a roof support beam. Personally, I couldn't help thinking what a lot of effort it must have been for Jason to lift the body up there and balance it just right, but by this point I was seriously bored.The real tragedy of this schlock-fest is that, despite the presence of some fairly hot (in an 80s way) teenage girls, none of them get their baps out. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure this is a flagrant violation of horror movie etiquette not to mention the fact that we had all come to expect some boob from this series as if by right! Ultimately, for me, this proved to be the last straw.This is a movie for die hard Jason fans only as it is easily the weakest in the series. If you've seen any of the Friday 13th, you'll know just how great a compliment that is. "},{"Title":"Comin At Ya Jason style...","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not even going to recap the plot because to do so would indicate that whoever reading this, is dumb enough to need a plot recap for a movie in that it's plot is non-existent. More teens, Jason in a hockey mask armed with various weapons, you connect the dots. This entry emerges as one of the duller entries, there are moments of inspired gore, such as the Head in the fridge but basically this is genre formula done without much attempt to make it suspenseful or even fun bad. Friday The 13th Part 3 did open in 3D which I missed out on and although I highly doubt that the 3D would make this entry any good it certainly must have been more watchable then it is on video. This time the action takes place in a barn and a couple of bikers show up unfortunately though this just makes for tedious going. I hated this movie.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"One of my favourite Friday the 13th installments.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 33D was originally shot in 3D and it's now almost impossible to find in that format.Returning to Camp Crystal Lake,the remorseless killer Jason Voorhees encounters a wide variety of partying cottage dwellers and other area visitors,including a tough biker gang and a portly practical joker who enjoys fooling his buddies with elaborate fake murders and accidents.Soon a series of gory murders is set in motion...Friday the 13th Part 3 has a special place in my heart.It's schlocky and stupid,yet somehow scary;it's goofy,yet often gory,and it explains the origin of Jason's signature face-wear(filched from victim Zerner,a corpulent,unlikable prankster).The 3D effects are sometimes laughable,but I don't care.Headlining star Dana Kimmell,who played Chris Higgins,was offered the role because the producers liked her performance in a previous slasher flick entitled Sweet Sixteen.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 2, to my surprise, turned out to be a pretty enjoyable piece of schlock. So much so, that I even fronted up to the video shop and hired part 3 hoping for another hilarious Jason rampage. Right now I wish I hadn't.Friday the 13th Part 3 is one dreadful film. As soon as you hear the twanging disco music over the opening credits you know you're in for a bad night in front of the box. Picking up straight after Part 2's night of carnage, a group of campers (or something like that) head out into a farm/camp thing in Jason country for some weed-smoking and more sex.The characters this time aren't the typical mob of teenage jocks as per the first 2 Friday's. This time, apart from the teens, we have a college geek, 2 hippies, and a really sad looking bunch of bikies. Sounds promising, but these guys aren't interesting in ths slightest. Annoying is more like it, and I was praying that they'd be mown down pretty quickly, but alas, Jason takes his time to get things going.From here on, things travel along much like the last 2 entries in the series. Campers get randy and are picked off one-by-one in the usual disgusting manner by a (this-time) hockey mask clad Jason Voorhees. Unlike part 2, the death scenes are incredibly boring and come about very suddenly with no tension or buildup (much the same way part 1 did). Not only that, they look incredibly fake. Watch for eyes popping out, arms being hacked off and a harpoon through the head for prime examples of this.Speaking of fake, get a load of the flashback sequence towards the middle of the film. This was meant to be a serious scene, but some of the worst acting you'll ever see turns it into one big joke. I think this was about the only time I laughed (or even smiled) the whole time during this piece of trash. Sure, nobody expects oscar-winning performances from these flicks, but there's got to be better than this.And finally, what is it with the vague endings in this series? Setting up for a sequel is one thing, but did they really have to rehash the same thing as the previous films? Worse still, this time the ending defies logic completely if you've seen part 1 and 2, and if you haven't, you'll be wondering what on earth is going on.This was a big disappointment for me. I hope part 4 reverts back to the gratuitous sex and violence and campy fun which made part 2 very bearable... and please, no more bikies.2/10  "}{"Title":"How could anyone find this scary","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie at a special showing and I did get to see this in 3D. This movie is quite bad. I mean really really bad. It is still not as bad as Manos and Hudson Hawk, but is still quite bad.  This movie tries to use the 3D effect but mostly its just cheesy. I mean it only used the effect ten times to any effect through out the movie and one of them was someone putting up laundry. Don't get me wrong a couple of times it worked great.  The Harpoon was excellent if not still quite cheesy.  Watching this movie with people that know how bad is was great, but I have to review this movie based on its artistic merits, which it had none. I'd give the experience a 9 because it was funnier than anything the Wayans have ever attempted but I give the movie a 2  "},{"Title":"More of the same.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Again get ready for Jason to kill more teens at the bloody and dark Camp Crystal Lake. Once again the strange and chilling music is played just like in the other Friday the 13th movies. Pity the sex crazed teens! Jason is a cut above them! "},{"Title":"Piece Of Trash","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know know where to begin 1. First of all this movie had NO storyline whatsoever. Typical, Jason walks into a camp and slashes anyone he sees. How simple. 8 people, on a holiday, having fun, next thing you know BAM! There dead.2. Now about Chris's story about Jason trying to whatever he was going to do. Come on. This is garbage.They think trying to add a story to the movie like this would help. NOT AT ALL! So what,we don't even know if ts Jason or not. Why would Jason wander into town and start slaughtering everyone he sees? 3. The acting was terrible. The motorcycle gang was not even necessary to have been put in. The actors barely spoke at all.4. The death scenes. Please, they spent 10 minutes building up the suspense to every single death scene just to past the time. Well, they didn't have anything else to film! All the killing was the most silliest thing. I spent laughing for half an hour.5. The only thing i found appealing was Jason and how he got his mask.Please people, if you haven't watched this yet then... Don't WATCH IT!!! "},{"Title":"Adding 3-D Doesn't Help","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If possible, the third installment in the hit hack-up derby is even worse than the first film, which is really saying something. The entire Friday the 13th series is like a ten-car pile-up for me I know I should avert my eyes, but something compels me to stare. These movies are an insult to my intelligence, yet I keep coming back for more, mostly because I remember these from being a kid and so they have a nostalgic tug to them.At least this one is the most 80s of the series...it's like a slasher version of Roller Boogie. We get punk motorcycle gang members with puffy hair and chains...one of them looks suspiciously like Debbie Allen. We also get a groovy disco space-agey them playing over the opening credits, announcing that the series has officially accepted its place as pure camp. Jason dons his trademark hockey mask for the first time, and proceeds to do quickly away with another batch of teens, who for their pure lack of anything intelligent to do or say deserve to die, if for no other reason.The 3-D effects are a riot in this--especially when you watch the film in 2-D and can realize just how far out of their way the film makers went to work 3-D into the film. Some of the effects were inventive Jason shoots an arrow into a girl's eye, and the arrow comes right at the screen; he squeezes a guy's head until his eye comes squiggling out toward the camera. But I have to assume that some of the other 3-D effects, like an overhead shot of exploding popcorn (Oh my God, it's coming right at us!) were less than terrifying to experience.Jason outdoes himself with the body count this time around--whole scenes exist for the purpose of introducing someone he can poke, prod or skewer. Is he working on commission? Grade F- "},{"Title":"1D story, 1D characters, 1D acting... yeah, you can almost call it 3D!","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I guess if you add the singular dimension for the story, characters, and acting, you get three dimensions. Aside from being (quite surprisingly) skilfully photographed in Arri's three-dimensional process, the film has very little to recommend it. Indeed, aside from the unconventional manner in which Jason X was processed, this marks the only episode in the franchise where the photography wasn't strictly by the numbers. No other FT13 director has even attempted to use the 2.351 aspect ratio, and it is quite a surprise to see it used so effectively here.The 3D effects, to give the makers some credit, actually work well. Not in the sense that they enhance the story, but at least to the extent of giving the audience something to be entertained by. The shots of arrows, eyeballs, or yo-yos flying out of the screen are well-realized here. The wide angles, while nothing that the likes of Clint Eastwood or Sergio Leone would be impressed by, still give the film a dynamic missing from its predecessors or successors.Unfortunately, skilled photography and well-realized special effects are not enough to save a film by themselves. Without at least a good story, any film is doomed, and aside from the recent tenth installment, a good story and the FT13 franchise are mutually exclusive. The story content in this episode could have been easily written on a single leaf of A4 paper. Somehow, you have to give a director credit for being able to make ninety-four minutes of feature film out of something so patently uninteresting. Okay, eighty-seven minutes if you discount the stuff that was recycled from the previous film.The acting, as is always the case in an FT13 film, is largely reflective of the script. In other words, you'll find more interesting or convincing performances in your average grade school play. You know a film is garbage when the most memorable performance involves a man sitting on a toilet. Then again, the sound effects and dialogue involved tend to deliver a summary of the film that few other scenes can. Every bit of dialogue here is truly abominable. It seems a trademark of FT13 directors that they cannot even make a conversation about a day's work feel vaguely natural.The characters are probably the worst feature of any FT13 film, but this is an exceptional example. Try to name one unique aspect of the characters shown in this film, and you'll soon see what I mean. If there has ever been a film more reliant on stereotypes to fill character space, I have yet to see it. Probably the funniest characters in the whole film are the biker gang, and they're hardly distinguishable from the rest of the largely white-hat cast.Two stand-out features of this film, widescreen 3D photography aside, are the truly riotous disco music during the opening credits, and this being the episode in which Jason acquires the signature hockey mask. I have to say, however, that with the hilarious break-dancing motif of the opening theme, it would have suited the style a lot better if Jason had held onto the cloth bag.Not surprisingly, I gave the third FT13 film a one out of ten. They were obviously expecting that simple 3D effects would make the film. While this is supposedly the most profitable 3D film ever made (which is nothing to brag about considering how much most others have grossed), history will otherwise not remember this particular 3D film in kind terms.  "},{"Title":"It's beginning to not make sense anymore,....","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like many franchise starters back in the 1980s, most of them always seemed to find a home in the horror genre. The 1980s were a big time for theaters to capitalize on the slasher craze that was going on at the time. The best known being Freddy Krueger, Leatherface, Michael Myers and of course Jason Vorhees. All of which these particularly iconic characters had significant entrances respectively. Yet it seems as if so far they all managed to decrease in quality as their subsequent sequels were put into production. Of course not every entry was the same, but at some point the facts in the story began to either contradict itself or totally deny its previous installment. Why haven't these famous production studios paid attention to their competitions' mistakes? Of course, the reason is to make money but really?Like many other third movies to a series, most people end up seeing the flaws and begin to know that the series has run its course. Then again, Part III to this series serves an even more mixed bag than Part II but without being extremely frustrating to watch. The story for this new opening takes place two days after the last movie by showing the aftermath of Part II (interesting how it already contradicts itself by taking place on Sunday the 15th). Here, the audience is introduced to another new set of stock camp characters. Leading the group is Chris (Dana Kimmel) a girl who's trying to confront her fear of returning to the camp (not Crystal Lake) where she had a frightening encounter with Jason. Aside from this particular reason, there isn't much a plot besides this. The writing provided by Martin Kitrosser and Carol Watson obviously did not think that much of a story was needed. Sadly, more is required though. A good question is what was Jason doing when he ran into Chris? Not explained.Kitrosser and Watson also included two other characters in the group who sounded like they were going to be developed but weren't. These two characters belong to Larry Zerner as Shelly and Catherine Parks as Vera. At the beginning they were supposed to be hitched and do try to get to know each other, but their arc is so short the audience cannot establish an attachment to them. The rest of the characters are the typical bunch seen before. You have the two that are just joining so they can run off and have sex, then there are the drug addicts and even a punk biker gang. It doesn't get more 80s than that. Another gaping issue in the story is the transformation of Jason Vorhees and his newly unexplained powers. In a matter of days, we went to what was a young teen looking for revenge to what is a massive hulking monster (played by Richard Brooker)? How'd he get so large? Also the fact that he is now depicted as a superhuman brings into question how he attained these abilities. Where is that writing you guys are credited for?Even more embarrassing is that director Steve Miner, who directed Part II didn't see a need to do anything differently either. The other two factors that do not work are its cinematography and the point of being a horror film. The cinematography provided by Gerald Feil is just another repetition of prior DPs' work to the last two films. There are lots of POV shots, perhaps too many. The way Feil tried to get 3D shots was somewhat okay but also looked forced too. Lastly, the film just isn't scary anymore. There were so many false jump scares and the amount of times somebody asked who's there? became more obnoxious than creepy. There are only a few areas that work to this film's credit. The biggest note is the same for every viewer - we all learn where Jason got his mask. Since that is the thing everyone associates him with, that is important.Of all the protagonists, Dana Kimmel as the main lead is again the only character to really stand out. This reason stands alone because she has a connection (although weak) with Jason. Another good aspect are the kills which run between already used but also new. Like previous films, the kills are gruesome and would surely hurt if it happened to you. However, just the fact that it's Jason as a massive force the impact of each murder feels that much stronger. This doesn't let him get away with the mistakes in continuity. The final aspect to the movie that continues to work in its favor as best as it can be is composer Harry Manfredini's score. For the most of the composition, Manfredini keeps the tone and atmosphere the same with minor alterations. The biggest difference is in the main title which substitute strings for synth keyboard. This is the only subtle change though. It's not adding any layers of thoughtful writing to its ongoing series of entries and this is where it begins to not make any sense. The writers completely ignored Jason's backstory and hardly develop its main cast. Instead, a flimsy coincidence is thrown in just to have a reason for Jason to appear. The only components that try to help this mess of an installment are the revealing of Jason's final form, the music and somewhat creative kills. It's slightly worse than Part II. "},{"Title":"More Padding Than a Kotex Commercial","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is 95 minutes long. Cut six minutes out of that for recap (because this is a series that has a story so involving, you need a recap, let alone a recap longer than one given the season finale of an involved TV series) leaving us with 89 minutes. Cut about three minutes of that for the end credits. 86. Then cut the ten minute opening sequence of two shop owners who are killed by Jason and have nothing to do with the movie. So this is 76 minutes. Then you can cut any variety of bits and pieces out and you're left with a very bare bones film.A bunch of random teens get together to go to camp and get systematically murdered by Jason. The back of the box likes to tell me they are all camp counselors, the victims of Jason's attacks, but nowhere in the movie does it say. It seems that the revenge killing that was the driving force of the previous films has been replaced with killing for the heck of it.Despite the fact the plot is paper thin, the characters stale stereotypes (a jock, a loser, eighties bikers, potheads), and the movie is so padded out you could skip half of it, it still improves the series in a few ways. First of all, gone is the The cameraman's gonna kill you directing of the other two. I prefer to see the killer doing his stuff and rather than keep the killer behind the camera, we see him, making it a lot more exciting. Also, the gore is much better with a couple of ultra-ridiculous deaths rather than the boring ones of the previous two films.That said, the formula is getting stale. The ending of the woman surviving and going insane has gotten extremely boring. They could at least try to do a different ending. Instead, we're given a padded piece of crap that is, once again, a terrible movie overall but so bad it's good. Easy to riff, hard to take seriously. "},{"Title":"Part 3 not so good, not all bad.","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The gore is the biggest plus in this rather cheesy third act. The cast is the least inspiring I've seen so far, even if Shelly's pranks and how that eventually works out, is good fun. The leather gang is hilarious in a bad way (or perhaps good, I'm still undecided), the love interest for Dana Kimmell's character is a boring log, and the girls are pretty, but lack character. The opening with the quarreling couple feels out of place. The setting is not a summer camp, but a farm, and rather disappointing. Hardly any nudity this time, which does not have to be the biggest problem, but still...Disappointing on the whole, though for slasher seekers still one to grant a little peek. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"How do the writers keep it so fresh, time after time?","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the original Friday 13th, you had a bunch of horny teenagers in the woods being stalked and killed. Whereas in the second part, you had a bunch of horny teenagers in the woods being stalked and killed. Now (and wait for it) you have part III, where a bunch of horny teenagers are in the woods being stalked and killed. I can't wait to see what part IV has to offer! So, is it any good? Well... if you liked the first two it is, as it's basically the same movie (again). However, if you didn't like the first couple then this one won't win over any new fans. It's not violent enough to compete with today's slasher offerings, so it might seem a little tame to today's youth.At least Jason finally dons his infamous hockey mask, making him look more like the killer we're eventually going to love (well, recognise anyway). "},{"Title":"3D...2D...Why Would You Want to Watch This in Any D?","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Badly aging geeks will happily inform you between nose picks that Friday the 13th 3D was the first one that Jason Voorhees got to wear the hockey mask. What a delightful bit of trivia. It's also one of several dreadful 3D films released in the early 80s including; Comin At Ya!, Spacehunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone and Starchaser The Legend of Orin. Sadly, Friday the 13th 3D was the only one that made money ensuring the unnecessary sequels would follow. In this one a mass killer slaughters teenagers with hot pokers, machetes and pitchforks no doubt to the delight of the drooling imbeciles who get off on this sort of thing. The film pretty much opens with a man squatting over a toilet taking a dump and maintains that tone throughout. PASS! "}{"Title":"Mass murder in 3D!","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When 3-D enjoyed a brief revival in the early 80s, it wasn't at all surprising to see the third chapter in the Friday the 13th series hopping on the bandwagon to 'add a new dimension in terror' (as the film's poster proudly boasted). With Part 2's competent director Steve Miner returning to offer more effective frights and gore, whilst taking every opportunity to thrust assorted objects, weapons, and body parts right into the audience's lap, the result was a fun entry that starts off as a semi-comic piece of silliness packed with stereotypical characters and genre clichs, but ultimately ends up in full-on scary horror mode.After a brief recap of events from the second film, Part 3 starts proper as a group of teenage friends set off for a break at a cabin located near Crystal Lake, the scene of not one, but two horrific massacres! This fact doesn't seem to bother the kids, who proceed to make out, play pranks, smoke dope, and generally behave in a manner guaranteed to make them ideal victim material for legendary deformed killer Jason Vorhees (Richard Brooker).As in the previous two films, the number of teens is gradually whittled down until only one girl remains to fight back Chris (Dana Kimmell), the pretty survivor of an attack by Jason several years earlier.Although this entry in the series is less serious in tone than the previous films, offering very cheesy dialogue, dumb plot development, and some silly death scenes, it is still a very enjoyable film there's plenty of killings, a fair bit of gore (although some of the deaths were trimmed in order to avoid an 'X' rating), a shower scene featuring a hot 80s chick, and several effective jump scares. Oh, and let's not forget that this film is also the one where Jason first dons his hockey mask!Even when watched without the benefit of the added third dimension, the film is a total hoot, with the moments designed to make the most of the 3-D technology often resulting in hilarity rather than horror gratuitous 'in your face' shots include a yo-yo going up and down, a snake lunging at the camera, falling books, popcorn popping up in the air, a harpoon flying towards a victim, a pitchfork handle poking at the viewer, and best of all, an eyeball shooting from a crushed head. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I find this film to be my second fav besides part 8, and 1 maybe.  Here, Jason returns, no ptato sack, but still undead, and hunting down teens who oppose him (but not directly).  First film to gain a hockey mask, courtesy of a stupid teen, and that applies gross things (I nearly spewed when Jason crushed the eyeball out of the guys socket, uggh).  Entertaining to the masses, unless you have a hatred for these slasher films.  B+ "},{"Title":"Third-DUHmension....","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You'd think by now that all the kids around Crystal Lake would get the message.  But no, then the series would be over and no more franchise rights.  Oh well....Friday the 13th Part 3 sallies forth with more kids going out towards the lake, wandering about at night in the woods, in the water, partially dressed, basically asking for it.  Then Jason shows up and....You've seen the other movies, do the math.By the way, this version also happens to be in 3D (where available in your area.  Don't delay!), so you can see yo-yos spinning at you, flying spears, eyeballs, axe handles, pitchforks and so on.  Ah, the creative minds of studio suits at work.Jason dons the mask here, after which he could be identified no other way.  Well, it's easier like that, should a new hulking guy take over the role next time.  What forthright thinking!  I'm in shock!It even ends on a quasi-parallel of the first Friday the 13th (How?  You'll have to see it, it's just too confusing to get into.).  Suffice it to say, you can't keep a good maniac down; atta boy, Jason!Three stars, for the 3D and Jason's unsinkable spirit.  Keep up the good work!   "},{"Title":"Keeping Up the Expectations!","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Steve Miner directs a cast of nobodies in Jason's third epic outing. The film opens with a scene of a previous victim being chased by Jason wearing his sackcloth over his head. We have a brief flashback sequence with Betsy Palmer as the disembodied Mrs. Vorhees and then cut to the present as a van full of teens, soon to be the cattle for Jason's slaughterhouse by the lake, drive into the woods where a girl was once attacked by Jason but survived. She has let two years pass and feels compelled to make herself stay at this cabin - even though the body of the murderer Jason was never found! This movie is just as futile and pathetic as its previous sources, but, because it thinks it is doing something innovative with 3D special effects, it is all the more laborious to sit through. Those special effects - we get juggling fruit, a yo-yo, a spear, a pitchfork(both ends), a fake snake head, an eyeball out of socket and one in, and several other cheap ways of utilizing this once-thought dead art form - the 3D method. The cast is nothing great in any way. No one really is an actor. Clich characters are in vogue though in this third installment the older (and I mean MUCH older) boyfriend of the girl driven away two years ago, the two potheads smoking and sleeping all the time, the trio of bad youths out to settle a score, and, my favourite, the fat, unappealing kid who acts like he is dead with blood and an ax in his head just to get the attention he so desperately craves. The murders are robotic, and there is no real compassion or feeling to be generated toward any - ANY - of the characters. It is so very sad that a movie like this, a sequel to a barely superior film, could help keep the sequels churning out. This film should have ended it all. It really sucks! Oh, one last thing - at least in this film Jason finds his hockey mask. Big Deal! "},{"Title":"this sequel fails on just about every level","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While the first two Friday the 13th films were nothing more than a manipulative recycling of the scare tactics of Psycho, Halloween, and even Mario Bava's Twitch of the Death Nerve, they were at least able to utilize a brisk pace which kept the audience's interest, even at times adding a dash of inspiration to the proceedings (the reverse Psycho angle from the first film; the use of the sweater in the second), in addition to a not-bad grasp of how to build atmosphere and suspense.  Well, this third entry fails on just about every level--it's actually pretty amazing to watch for its sheer badness.  Let's bring another bunch of particularly bad actors to yet another camp where that kooky Jason is still hanging around!  Let's count on awful 3D effects to cover the non-existent plot, the lack of suspense, and the inept pacing!  Yes, this stinker was released to theaters in 3-D, that tried-and-true gimmick used by makers of B-movies in the 1950's to spark interest in what was usually an inferior product.  Part 3 is no exception--after a somewhat spooky opening, it devolves into a pointless, poorly-acted, and awfully dull slasher flick, with makeup effects that are rough and often laughable (be sure to hold back your chuckles during the 'unmasking' scene).  Even more laughable is the fact that TWO writers are credited for this rubbish, one of which I'm determined just picked out stuff to be thrust at the screen for the 3D process.  The lead actress is one of the dumbest heroines I've had the displeasure to put up with since watching Bloody Moon.  And Jason himself, once he dons the now-famous hockey mask, seems to go from a clever, cunning killer to a bumbling idiot in no time flat.  Actually, that's all prospective viewers of this tripe need to know (the debut of 'the mask') before picking something else off the video shelf.2/10 "},{"Title":"I don't know why they bothered.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This, of course, sucks. I don't know why Paramount would give the ok for this sequel to two other movies that were stupid anyway. Jason is more of the same in this gory slasher. Maybe if they made these movies without putting in much of what we've already seen than it might have been better. Maybe there is a reason why it sucks third time is NOT a charm. We didn't have much fun with Halloween III Season of the Witch or Alien3 or Leatherface Texas Chainsaw Massacre III. Why does the third movie in a horror series suck? I don't know and probably never will. The plot has Jason still killing kids who just want to have sex, take drugs, and listen to rock 'n roll. What's so wrong with that? The 3D stuff would have been cool to see, though. Friday the 13th Part 3 3D F "},{"Title":"What's the death toll now?","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There's not much I can say about this film. If you have seen the first two Fridays, this one isn't any different. The same teenagers, the same deaths, the same scary music, but lo and behold IT'S IN 3-D!!!  Boy that just changes everything. Let's add a few things coming at you and it adds a new twist to the old formula right? Well it may if there was some way this flick could be viewed by that. But the video version just has the regular stuff. Jason gets the hockey mask, and boom... 6 more sequels were born, with part 10 in the works. The only good thing in the movie is beautiful Dana Kimmell as the girl who loses her mind.  "},{"Title":"Jason develops his personality...","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ****SMALL SPOILERS, maybe ****Woooooooooooow, this movie has the most highly original and intelligent plot that I've ever seen !!! It's about a group of young, horny teenagers who go spend a vacation near Crystal Lake and they all get slaughtered one by one by a horrifying murderer !! Isn't that the most inspired horror idea you've ever heard ?  Pardon my sarcasm...I shouldn't be too harsh when reviewing a Friday the 13th sequel. Obviously because this entire series never intended to win any important awards. Friday the 13th is a money-making franchise and, as long as the story contains a few nasty and inventive killings, the audience is happy. So why should I be any different. I enjoyed ALL Fridays up till a certain level and I even think this third installment is a huge improvement over the second one. I might even say it slightly surpasses the original.Part 3 was directed by the same person who brought us episode 2. Steve Miner obviously learnt a few techniques in the time between his two efforts. I watched Friday the 13th part 2 only a couple of weeks ago and I already don't remember anything about it. I just know it was slow and boring with no killings worth remembering. And that's in fact the only thing that counts when making a slasher !! Memorable killings ! In that point of view, Friday the 13th part 3 is far more superior. Jason becomes a bit more creative when he's wasting the lives of his young victims and ... even more importantly... he develops his personality and own style that he'll continue to use for the rest of career. In this movie, he becomes the slow moving brute with the typical hockey-mask. Let's just say he got that mask as a gift from one of his preys. Furthermore, there's not much more to tell. Except for a few weird details. Crazy Ralph from the first two movies is being replaced by an even bigger weirdo, although his appearance is rather short. It also seems like Jason once left a survivor behind ( this sequence is explained through a flashback )...that was hard  to believe for me. And - last but not least -  even though this movie was shot in the early 80's, one of the leading characters is an authentic hippie !! Friday the 13th part 3 ranks pretty high when all the separate episodes are compared with each other, in my opinion. Plus, I think it's a pretty important movie for the series. Along with episode 6 ( which remains my personal favorite ) this movie was responsible for making Jason Vorhees the immense horror icon that he is. A must for the fans. "},{"Title":"The series trudges on...","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Chris (Dana Kimmell) and a bunch of her idiotic friends decide to have a peaceful weekend on a beautiful lodge on Camp Crystal Lake. Naturally Jason (for no reason) starts to attack them.OK--I LOVE horror films but I don't like films that treat the audience like a bunch of idiots and are lacking in logic. This film does both. The characters are all stereotypes--the funny guy, the slutty couple, the stoned ones, the good girl (always the one who survives). The dialogue is truly horrible and you want all these idiots dead QUICKLY! It starts off with a DISCO version of the theme song!!!! You think it can't get worse but it does. A white trash couple is introduced, killed...and never referred to again (?????). Kimmell is given a back story (she was attacked by Jason years earlier) but it goes nowhere. When people are killed in this film no one hears a thing...although they're all staying the same house. The gore is fun and the deaths are inventive but that's only a small part of the film. It all leads up to an ending that makes NO sense and is a direct steal from Part 1.There are some good things here--Paul Kratka is very good as Rick and I like Vera (Catherine Parks) too. Kimmell is beautiful but pretty terrible as an actress until the end when Jason goes after her. There is one GREAT effect when a man's head is crushed and his eyeball pops out (looks great in 3-D). There is a nice touch of showing somebody reading Fangoria magazine. Also this is the first movie where Jason wears his now trademark goalie mask. That's about it.I originally saw it in 3-D in 1982. It was fantastic! They kept throwing 3-D effects at you so often you didn't have time to realize how pointless the story is and how stupid the characters are. In 3-D this is lots of fun--in 2-D it's a boring mess. I give it a 3.For anyone who cares the body count has been upped in this movie--there are 11 killings --- 6 guys, 5 girls. I really wonder why people keep calling these films misogynistic when more guys are killed than women. And it's ALWAYS a woman who lives in the end. "},{"Title":"As a real horror movie, it stinks. As a slasher movie, it's so bad it's awesome.","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rating 1/5 So Bad it's Good Rating 5/5I have a hard time deciding if Friday the 13th part 3 is better than Part 2, or if this third installment is the worst chapter yet. The story is completely non-existent this time, with characters placed at the Crystal Lake Campground just so they can be slaughtered. There's barely a reason for them to be gathered in the location except for the fact that Part 2 made a lot of money. It's largely without any genuine scares but at least the characters present are entertaining, so their deaths have a greater emotional impact (which is good). The saving grace of this slasher film is the 3D. It's the cheesiest, most shoehorned, stereotypically bad 3D you will ever see, and that bumps the movie into So Bad It's Good territory faster than a machete through a horny teenager. You get yo-yos, juggling, geysers of blood, eyeballs and more coming towards the screen thanks to those cheap cardboard glasses, and the credits are so ridiculously over-the-top you can't help but be entertained. As a horror film, it's completely inept but as a fun movie that just happens to star a lot of dead teenagers and a maniac with a thirst for blood, there's a lot of entertainment to be had. Just make sure you watch it in 3D (or pretend that you do) so you can come up with some witty comments to make your friends laugh. There's a lot of entertainment to be had at the expense of Friday the 13th Part 3 so if you're a fan of the series (which is not a serious of good horror movies, it's just bad gory fun) this will be quite entertaining. I'd probably go as far as to say that it's my favorite installment. (On DVD, July 13th, 2012) "}{"Title":"Jason-Entry 2 80's Horror Thrillers SUCKS even in 3 Dimensioned !","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like horror movies but I hate 80's slasher thrillers.Friday the 13th Part 3 3D (Spoilers******) Director Steve Miner who directed the revisited F13th second part returns once again to tell the continuing story of Jason Voorhees, this time the third installment of Friday Franchise in a new way, with 3 Dimension.For those People who came late, the original film tells the story of a psychotic woman Pamela Voorhees who lost her child Jason in the Crystal Lake camp. She eliminates a group of teenagers who have come to reopen the camp, but in the end she dies. Then in the second chapter her son comes back as a grownup (masked) man taking revenge for his mother. (In my view since sequels II-III-IV occurs on same continuing periods, they can closely consider as F13th SECOND PART TRILOGIES!).This sequel starts from where the previous film left off, continuing from same day of the last movie, Jason wakes up from the machete stabbing then walks towards for the next mission. With a body count of 12 and some chilling 3D promoting camera works with very excellent unexpected scary moments, this sequel features a different tone on Friday franchise.Scripted by Martin Kitrosser and Carol Watson, did their best for extending Jason's image as a horror icon. The killings, the camera pans, and the situations they wrote for the screen were good but the problem comes from the story narration. There are lots of boring moments, stupid dialogues, and silly cheap suspense we have to go through for getting some thrilling scenes. Or did they aped those 80's usual suspense tricks.Soul of the movie is provided by Harry Manfredini, in this chapter he done a nice job for creating tensions especially in those chasing scenes. Editing by George Hively was not good but O.K when it comes to 3D setting views.And as for the second chance of Jason, the man behind the mask, Richard Brooker did a great tremendous work. His effort to play Jason by keeping that character as the same maniac, but adding an unexpected scary element was just outstanding. Having an historical importance, in this movie Jason first time wore the now-familiar hockey mask.Richard Brooker was the first one to appear in the most appreciated outfit of Jason. He was good on that mask, and also in unmask scenes. Last moments while he appears with his own JASON face, totally AWESOME! Brooker was the first one who added the Scarier element to the HORROR ICON Jason.Overall it's a great movie if you can bear with some uneasy boring moments. The last 30 minutes have the best moments, especially Chris (Dana Kimmel) boat scene seeing Jason in the window was the greatest moments in this movie! But anyway I can't take it's typical 80's boring suspense works so I give this movie 1 out of 10.Friday the 13th Part 3 3D = Scarier this time, but Sucking, same time. "},{"Title":"What's this about 3D?","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So I've heard that this is the Friday the 13th installment that was released in 3D. I wish I could have seen it in that version, because it would probably have made it a lot more interesting. I imagine the makers decided to add that little bit of cinematic trickery to create another surge of interest in the series, which really hasn't done anything new by the time the second sequel came out to add on to the original idea. I've been going back and re-watching all the old classics, I'm working on the Nightmare on Elm Streets and the Friday the 13th films right now, and in comparison it's amazing how much more callous and brutal the Friday the 13th films are, while the Nightmare on Elm Street films, while equally campy, I tend to find much more entertaining and well-made (not that that's saying much.).Watch, for example, A Nightmare on Elm Street 2, and then watch just about any Friday the 13th movie, and you can see what I mean right away. The Elm Street films are peppered with low-brow and goofy (although quite often effective, even when it's not really meant to be funny) comic relief, butthe Friday the 13th films (especially part 3, I've noticed so far) are little more than strings of scenes of teenagers doing teenage things at Camp Crystal Lake and getting brutally murdered by the relentless Jason Voorhees.Friday the 13th Part 3 concerns yet another crowd of idiot teens who go out to Camp Crystal Lake, bypass yet another ominous warning from a crazy old man along the way, and proceed to engage in a lot of the exact same antics that we saw in the first two movies. There's the addition here of a hopelessly geeky kid with them who have an annoying habit of faking his own bloody death in order to scare all the girls (after which he wonders why none of them like him), but at least providing the only bit of mystery in the entire film. As I watched the movie, my roommates and I were betting on whether he would get killed, then someone wouldn't believe him and then get killed themselves, or if someone else would get killed, he would think they were trying to get revenge for his bad jokes, and then he would get killed for real. Kind of sad when the only thing that it really interesting in a movie like this is in what order the teens will get killed.That strikes me as a definite sign that the movies are starting to lose their thrill (either because of the 20 years between the film's release and now or because each sequel really does nothing new). I wonder if the 3D element really did add that extra needed bit of excitement. One thing that was really funny was the motorcycle gang. These people were awesome. Seriously. On their way to the Lake, the kids stop at a store to get some junk food essentials, and are confronted by what I assume was supposed to be a hardened gang of bikers. These people were HILARIOUS. After harassing the kids in the store, the geeky kid accidentally backs the VW Bug into their motorcycles, knocking them over. The lead biker responds by calmly walking up to the car, smiling brightly at him, and then smashing the windshield and the driver's side window. Angered beyond ability to just leave, the kid decides to circle around and run over the bikes head-on, which he succeeds in doing because the aforementioned biker couldn't KICKSTART his motorcycle in time. Maybe had the poor biker realized that street bikes don't kickstart but are started with a key and an ignition button, he would have been able to save his pimp ride. He and his friends might even have avoided their fate as pointless fodder for Jason to slice and dice later in the movie. Ah well.So there was certainly no shortage of comic relief, and I really don't think it matters that the comedy in these movies wasn't originally meant to be comedy. At least they're still entertaining. The thing that really drags the movie down is that it is literally nothing more than a flimsy clothesline of a plot that is punctuated by gruesome killings of idiot teenagers. There's only so many movies that you can make about a lot of kids who decide to do something dangerous by going out to the haunted lake to taunt the legend of Jason Voorhees and then not realize that he's really there killing them all one by one until only one is left, and even then she hits him with a shovel or stabs him in the thigh and then starts clawing at locked doors, not thinking to maybe make a little more certain that Jason's not going to get back up. You would think that at least ONE of these last victims would realize that the best time to get the best of Jason is when he's lying unconscious at her feet. But no.The second sequel of the Friday the 13th saga is little more than a rehash of the old Camp Crystal Lake legend, and given the proliferation of sequels that followed, hopefully something new comes up later. Given the final scene, I would really like to see a character in a later movie throw out some jokes about Jason's mom. Can you imagine? How cool would it be to see some bonehead teenager laughing his head off around the campfire or something as all of his friends look at him in horror because Jason is approaching him from behind with a gigantic butcher knife as the kid says, `Hey Jason, yo momma's so ugly, she won't even come out of the lake! HAW HAW HAW!!!'  "},{"Title":"See What It Feels Like To Be Psychic","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK. I honestly don't see why they didn't stop making these movies here. The stereotypical characters add a somewhat comedic appeal to the film, but other than that, the movie is utterly ridiculous. I would suggest this film to people who are curious to understand the attachment Jason has with that hockey mask of his. Even though this film is in 3D, it isn't worth the watch. It could have been made into virtual reality and still been stupid. The story is way too predictable. If you want to see what it feels like to be psychic- watch this! You'll know everything that's going to happen before it does. This movie is that poorly done! Also the characters are so underdeveloped that you don't really care if they end up living or dying. This movie is bad, but much better than the ones that follow it until part 8. Either way, watch it if you must, but you won't be missing out if you don't see it. Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Alternately dull and repellent.","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This third entry looks cheap, lacks suspense and has only a few gory, often repellent murders to interrupt the long stretches of general boredom. It's not as corny as the original, but it's extremely repetitive - just one slashing after another - and the ending, in which Jason constantly dies and then comes back to life reminded me of some cartoon heroes I like. At least the acting IS decent... "},{"Title":"Standard Friday the 13th sequel...","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part III starts the day after the events of Friday the 13th part 2 (1981) as seven friends drive to a farm called Higgins Haven situated not far from Crystal Lake. Once there Chrissy (Dana Kimmell) becomes reacquainted with her boyfriend Rick (Paul Kratka) who is also staying with them. However there is someone else there, someone uninvited who wants to gatecrash the party, it's the homicidal maniac Jason Voorhees (Richard Brooker) who intends to carry on his killing spree...Directed by Steve Miner Friday the 13th Part III is pretty much the same as any other Friday the 13th film which in itself isn't a particularly bad thing as I rather like the series. Any 80's slasher fan worth their salt will know what to expect from the script by Martin Kitrosser & Carol Watson, a group of teenagers gathered in an isolated location being killed off one-by-one until only one survives & in that respect Friday the 13th Part III doesn't disappoint. So why do I like this? Well I like Jason as a film character, he's probably my favourite horror killer, the character's are slightly better than usual with OK back-stories, it moves along at a nice pace, there's a decent body-count & the murders are pretty cool although it's a shame they had to suffer at the hands, or should that be scissors, of the censors... There isn't really much else to say other than if your looking for a slasher film that ticks all the right boxes as far as the slasher sub genre goes then you could do a lot worse than Friday the 13th Part III that's for sure. This is also the first time that Jason wears the now infamous hockey mask although he takes until about halfway through he film to do so.Director Miner does OK although the big point of interest as far as Friday the 13th part III goes is that it was originally shot in 3D & it is to date the only Friday the 13th film to be shot in the full 2.351 aspect widescreen ratio, so make sure you pick up that DVD version of it! Obviously the 3D effect is lost when viewed today although I thought it was quite fun to spot all the scenes where the 3D gimmick would have been used, from washing line posts shoved into the audiences face to juggling fruit, from a yo-yo to a chained fist shooting out of the screen & then there's the kills which use it as well like when Jason shoots a harpoon into someones eye, when he sticks a pitchfork trough someones throat & a strange bit when he crushes someones head & their eyeball pops out! While the kills have obviously been trimmed there's still some decent gore, someone is cut in half with a machete, someone is impaled on a hot poker, there's a slashed throat, someone has a meat clever stuck in their chest, there's knitting needles in the back of peoples heads, there's a knife stuck through a girls back which ends up coming out of her breast & someone has their hand cut off.With a supposed budget of about $4,000,000 Friday the 13th Part III is well made & is certainly a lot better than most of the straight-to-video horror film crap that's been released lately. A special mention goes to the absolutely awful opening & closing credits theme music which is hideously bad! Thankfully the music used during the film itself is more fitting. The acting was alright, the girls are suitably good looking & that's what counts in films like this.Friday the 13th Part III is admittedly just another slasher in a limited & overcrowded sub genre but the Friday the 13th series is my favourite horror film franchise & I actually like all of them, anyway it's not for everyone but Friday the 13th fans like myself will lap it up. If your a slasher/horror fan the this is a must, anyone else would probably find little here to impress. "},{"Title":"the  most rubbish piece of crap i have ever saw","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is maybe the worst Friday the 13th film ever made. the characters are just the same as the last 2, there is always a geeky guy and there is always some one that no one wants to die. The plot is all over the place and it is poorly written there basically isn't even a plot its just people getting killed i don't know what paramount were thinking when they decided to make this film. when i was watching it i was in hysterics because it was so funny to watch the crappy reactions on the actors faces. If you want a good laugh then this is the film for you because this is the most rubbish piece of crap i have ever saw. i don't recommend you renting this out its only good for watching when there is nothing else on "},{"Title":"Sequels , Sequels , Sequels , That`s All You Guys Think About","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why on earth did film makers in the early 80s decide to make films in 3D ? It`s a worthless gimmick that died out in the 1950s when cinema audiences realised they looked completely stupid wearing the sort of specs Larry Fishburne later wore in DEATH WISH 2 . On top of that 3D films are always badly directed in an unnatural manner with objects poking through the screen. FRIDAY THE I3TH 3D gimmick isn`t as intrusive as JAWS 3 but that doesn`t stop it from being a poor movie . Strangely its failures aren`t down to the 3D but down to its script which involves nothing we haven`t seen before . A bunch of teenagers get stalked by an axe wielding madman , gee now where did I see that plot ? To be fair to the screenwriter he does change the formula slightly by adding a couple of hash heads and a trio of multi ethnic bikers to the list of potential victims but this is the third film in a franchise that didn`t need any sequels .Note to directors  If you`re going to direct a movie in 3D with a woman in a shower can you ensure she`s filmed from the waist up facing the camera otherwise it`s a waste of time filming in 3D  "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 3 (1982) ** (out of 4)Friday the 13th 3 is best remembered for being in 3-D and this too hampers the film when watching it normally. Various scenes look so incredibly stupid on television because objects are simply walking towards the camera for no apparent reasons. Of course this was done for the 3-D effects but since we can't view the film that way then we haven't much use for it.This film here will always remain famous for being the part where Jason gets his hockey mask but outside that it really doesn't offer anything too enjoyable. I'm really not sure what it is about the film but director Steve Minor seems to be sleepwalking through every scene because nothing interesting really happens. We get the typical teenagers and the typical murders but everything because the murders and naked girls is just pure boredom, which I believe is due to the leading lady.Dane Kimmell was certainly a drop down from King and Steel and she offers nothing to the role and makes the film all the more boring. The supporting victims aren't too interesting either so we've got nothing fun added outside the murders, which once again are quite good including one scene where a man is split in half. Director Miner also seems to be going for more humor since one of the characters is an actor and we also get a quite humorous scene inside a grocery store where a motorcycle gang gets involved.**The below is for the 3-D version of the film. Mild spoilers as I talk about various killings.**** 1/2 (out of 4)Only God knows how many times I had watched this film in 2-D but this here was my first chance at viewing it in the original 3-D format. It's no secret that I've never been a fan of this movie and sadly it's only marginally improved with the added gimmick. If you haven't seen the film then minor spoilers are going to follow so that I can judge the 3-D effects. For the most part I thought the recent Paramount DVD was pretty good in terms of the effect but I've read it's going to depend on your television size. For the most part I thought the effects worked quite well even though there are a few that were poorly done. Both the snake and rat sequences from the grocery store didn't look too good in 3-D. The scene where the biker punches through the glass also looked rather weak. I think the gimmick worked the best when people were holding objects and pointing them towards the camera. One good example happens at the grocery store when the guy lifts the pole up and points it to the camera. His death sequence is also pretty good. Another great sequence is when arrow through the eye happens as you can certainly feel this one if you know what I mean. The infamous eye coming out didn't work as well as I had hoped but it still looks okay. These added 3-D moments improved the film slightly but I still consider this a weaker on in the series. It's obvious that everyone was worried about the gimmick that they forgot to write very good characters. I think most of them are quite forgettable and that includes the lead who was certainly a step down from the previous two films. "},{"Title":"Friday THE 13TH PART III (Steve Miner, 1982) *1/2","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one's only marginally superior to PART 2 - and that's mainly due to its extensive use of the 3-D effect; other than that, the situation is as before numerous obnoxious teenagers (including a couple of dope-smokers and an obese prankster) go to camp and are stalked - for no reason - by Jason (a motorcycle gang whom the campers fall foul of also end up among the victims). At least, we get a couple of inventive deaths (accentuated by 3-D) the harpoon through the eye and the squashed head - the latter leading to a hilarious moment as an eye spurts out at the camera! The first fifteen minutes of the film are actually wasted on yet another reprise of the climax from the previous entry - followed by an endless and irrelevant murder set-piece! This film also answered a question I had put up in my review of its predecessor, in connection with Jason's mask. Despite my obvious Iack of enthusiasm for this type of film, I went ahead and rented the next two installments in the Friday saga - and should be gradually rounding off the whole series by Halloween. Yawn... "}]