[{"Title":"TRON 'All that is visible&#133;'","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"246 out of 289 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON. Now here's a film that seems to generate a wide spectrum of reviews.As for my take on this landmark motion picture, I have to admit that I will always be able to reflect on it in its original context.In 1982, TRON (along with Blade Runner) was nothing short of breathtaking. And, although it was originally panned by critics, those who have taken the time to look closer, have noticed that there is more to this film than there first seems to be.One of TRON's greatest strengths lies in its extensive use of parallelism. There is the world of the user (almost a god or demigod motif), contrasted with the world of the programs (very much a metaphor for our world). And, just to enhance this metaphor, Dillinger's helicopter is shown with neon-red lines, and the final fade to black is preceded with a time-lapse of the city &#150; suggesting data running along traces.The obvious parallels are with the use of the same actor for each character's counterparts in the digital world. Flynn and Clu, Alan and Tron, Laura and Yori, Gibbs and Dumont, Dillinger and Sark.However, we see a number of other characters show up here and there, in more subtle form For example, there's Sark's second in command on the bridge of the carrier. He shows up earlier in the film as Peter &#150; the suit who was watching Dillinger's office. Then there's RAM's human counterpart asking Alan if he can have some of his popcorn. I find it surprising that many are critical of the 'unbelievable' aspect of this film. However, never is the audience expected to believe that this is the way the computer world really works or that a person could ever be zapped into a computer. In fact, to allude to the type of story that the audience is being presented with, TRON does a near-quote of Alice In Wonderland, with 'Stranger and stranger.' Perhaps Kevin Flynn fell down the rabbit hole&#133;. And &#150; for those who think TRON is a Disney film &#150; watch the production notes and you'll discover that this is not a Disney film (although they did fund it).Of most obvious interest is the fact that TRON pushed the computer graphics technology of the time to its limits and beyond. And &#150; despite many who have said that its graphics are primitive, they're confusing resolution with texture-mapping. The truth is, the number of colours displayed and the resolution shown in the computer-generated components in TRON is higher than most desktop displays &#150; even today. To output to film with the level of sharpness and smooth gradients seen in TRON, you'd need at least 24 or 32-bit colour, with a horizontal resolution of approximately 3000 to 4000 pixels. On top of that, it was the first film to use transparency in 3D CGI (the solar-sailor simulation). To my knowledge, texture-mapping didn't exist in 1982. Fortunately, the lack of texture mapping works well with the stylized look of the film's 'world inside the machine.'As a film, TRON is definitely both unique and entertaining. And, for those who are visual in nature, it's full of splendid eye-candy. The design work is top-rate, and is best appreciated when viewed on film. I recall watching this movie when it first came out in 1982, and have to say that it was nothing short of total immersion. Unfortunately, most of the modern transfers of this film have been pretty rough (with the exception of the out-of-print Laserdisc box-set).The plot for TRON is actually quite simple. Despite this simplicity, it is cleverly used for the purpose of -- hopefully &#150; making the audience think about our world, and how it may relate to some 'higher world.' If we are programs, then who are our users? Is there a level up from us, and do they know all the answers? There is certainly a metaphysical angle to TRON, which the audience can ether pay attention to, or disregard in favour of the simple thrill of watching Light Cycles square off against each other on the Game Grid.Many elements are combined in this film the gladiatorial film, the exodus, the revolution, the sentient AI, the battle of good vs. evil, and &#150; of course &#150; the almost prophetic depiction of the computer industry. Encom and Ed Dillinger are very much parallels to real themes that took place in the computer industry in the years that followed the release of TRON. These themes are very much repeated in more recent trilogy of films. I think the actual name for the Light Cycle game that Flynn mentions will give you a clue as to which trilogy I'm referring to.Finally, there's Kevin Flynn. Some may be surprised that I left this one to the end. However, I thought I'd leave the best for last. Fact is, Jeff Bridges did a brilliant job with this character. Over the years, I have actually known computer-industry hot-shots who are remarkably similar to Flynn. He made the character believable. And, this carries over to the film itself. No matter how much of a leap you're expected to make when approached with a script or screenplay, be compelling. Jeff Bridges and David Warner do exactly this. TRON is a movie that really entertains. I like to think of it as a big small movie. One that was definitely ambitious and is presented in 'glossy' and vivid wide-screen, yet has a sort of nice-light-snack kind of feel to it. It's a movie with a great deal of replay value, and one with compelling characters. In short, TRON &#150; like its video game counterpart &#150; is fun.And for that, and a host of other reasons, it will remain on my list of favourite films.End of line. "},{"Title":"Put Tron Back In Theaters!!!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"192 out of 240 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hope some smart person from Disney is reading this if ever there was a movie crying out to be re-released into movie-theaters, it's Tron, the dazzling sci-fi film from Walt Disney Productions. If it were released into theaters today, Tron would be a smash hit, 'cause the movie-audiences of today would understand it a heckuva lot better than the movie-audiences of 1982.Tron tells the story of a young computer programmer named Flynn (Jeff Bridges) who gets sucked INTO a computer, and must fight for his life playing life-or-death video games, run by the evil Master Control Program. With the aid of a good warrior program named Tron (Bruce Boxleitner), and Tron's significant-other Yori (Cindy Morgan), Flynn must put a stop to the MCP and set things right in the computer world once again before returning to his own world.With breathtakingly beautiful computer-animation (and the very first film to use computer-animation extensively), and presenting an original, dazzling world where energy lives and breathes inside a computer, Tron was way ahead of it's time. This may explain why the film was greeted with incomprehension from critics and audience members alike back in 1982.The problem was, back in 1982, there was no such thing as the Internet, and, apart from business types, most people didn't really know diddlysquat about computers yet. As a result, the computer jargon heard throughout Tron went sailing over most audience members' heads, and for many, the story was difficult to follow. Critics complained that Tron was all special effects and no story. And, for the final insult, Tron wasn't even NOMINATED for Best Visual Effects at Oscar time, presumably because the Academy in 1982 didn't recognize computer-animation as genuine visual effects, i.e. it's animation, not visual effects, they thought to themselves. The Abyss changed all that in 1989, but that was a big seven years after Tron. Obviously, everyone in 1982 had missed the film's point.But the passing of time has been very kind to Tron. Today, the film has a major cult following, and is recognized by many as the landmark sci-fi film that it truly is. Looking at Tron today, the movie has aged very well indeed, like a fine wine. Now that time--and people's knowledge of computers--has finally caught up with Tron, now would be the PERFECT time for the world in general to take another look at this amazing film.Message to Disney put Tron back in theaters! Clean it up with a new remastered print & remastered sound, and let the world rediscover this sci-fi classic. It WILL be a smash hit! In 1982, people just didn't understand Tron. Today, they will. Trust me. -) "},{"Title":"Poetical cyberadventure","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"124 out of 163 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excuse me, but  wow ! I feel sorry for those who are disillusioned, but Tron (1982) is nothing to me but pure magic ! A poetical cyberadventure where the cyber world is a methaphorical representation of the real one. And to think that those images were produced, and more unbelievable, imagined, in the early eighties ! OK, by today's standards, it might not look so impressive to some viewers, but still... And the imagination behind that movie, those graphics  wonderful ! I wish to be yet surprised by unexpected ideas such as Tron. And I am not necessarily thinking about a sequel  just surprise me ! Tron (1982)  a classic of the 7th art !Eric Quebec, CanadaP.S. Excuse my English, I am French-Canadian.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful film that presaged the future of film making.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"86 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was terribly excited about Tron when it came out theatrically; I was all of 8 years old, but was already a computer geek.  15 years later, I ended up purchasing the $100 Archive Edition laserdisc box set as my very first LD.  Tron definitely made an impact on me.Tron has survived the years- more so than many other contemporary SF films, and more than I think most critics would have guessed.  Instead of looking out-dated and corny, as the years have passed, Tron has aged gracefully.  Sure, the monochrome-screen terminals might look a bit old, and the arcade is a distant, fond memory, but the SFX are still beautiful, and the storyline, in this era of the Internet, seems shockingly modern.One of the reasons Tron's SFX have aged so well is because they did not try to simulate anything already existing.  We have no basis to determine if the architecture of the MCP's world is out-dated or not-hip; everything is styled so uniquely that it's never going to look wrong.  Much like the design of Maria in Metropolis, the look of Tron is never going to be laughable or quaint.The storyline is lacking a little bit; you can see the ideas the script writers wanted to insert, but there are too many ideas for only 2 hours of film.  There are quite a few points in the film that are mentioned and then ignored (Grid bugs, anyone?), and occasionally the film digresses from the plot for no other reason than to digress- the digressions being unimportant to the story at hand.  But, despite the problems, the philosophy of user/program interaction, and the handling of technophobia are both handled admirably.I recommend every video game, computer, and SF fan to watch Tron at least once.  I echo the call for it to be the widescreen version, but I am disappointed with the DVD's extra features- or lack thereof.  The LD is much more full featured, and better for fans, despite the side breaks every 30 minutes.  "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking and still entertaining today","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"79 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I still remember having seen parts of this movie when I was a very little kid and I thought it was incredibly cool, I hadn't seen anything like it. Now I have bought the 20th anniversary DVD and this was the first time I watched the movie in its entirety (and with a developed brain). And I still like it. Not in the same way as when I was young, because now I understand the story (I didn't understand English back then and I couldn't read the subtitles) so it's different from what I imagined back then, and now I have seen a truckload of modern movies with CGI effects.However, even though the effects in this movie are somewhat 'dated', they are still unique. While listening to the audio commentary (which is a must if you wonder how they managed to make a movie like this in 1982), I heard someone stating my thoughts exactly the unique thing about this movie is that while modern movies use CGI in an attempt to simulate the real world, in Tron one tried to simulate a computer world with real world images. Because they did succeed in this, the movie will never become 'dated', while movies trying to use limited CGI effects will become dated as soon as CGI evolves. The limitations of computer graphics at that time forced the makers of the movie to be very creative. E.g. all camera motions in the CG scenes (including the swinging motions in the chase scenes) had to be calculated by hand, there simply was no software for it! Nowadays computer graphics are nearing perfection, and that's why a movie like this will never be made again.If you haven't seen this movie yet, to fully appreciate how groundbreaking it is, you must be willing to imagine that you're back in a time where the most complex computer animation to be seen were the moving blocks in video arcades or the 5 seconds of wire-frame models in Star Wars. You might expect that the resolution of the images will be very low and the pictures will be blocky, but this is totally untrue. The images were created at film resolution, often using methods which don't even involve the rasterization of images, so they look perfectly smooth. Some might say too smooth, due to the lack of texture mapping (which hardly existed at that time), but IMHO this is what gives the depicted 'digital world' its unique appearance.The story is not of great complexity, but it's original and entertaining enough. Of course it's a Disney movie, so there aren't many 'sharp edges' to it (a scene with a mildly erotic undertone was even removed), but don't expect 'Bambi' sweetness either. Grown-ups will probably be more amazed by the kind of effects they managed to pull off in 1982, while children will be enchanted by the strange world shown in this movie. If you want to entertain young kids during a hour and a half, this movie will be perfect. They will like every bit (pun intended) of it! "},{"Title":"Someone had to try it","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"78 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is not for everyone. This first sentence should make you think that Tron is a cult movie. Well, maybe it is. My parents abhor it. My sister detests it. But my friends, who were born in the early 70s (very early, actually) and me see it as an amazing piece of work.Is it stunning? Yes, even though more than half of the film is colorized b&w. Is it computer animated? Yes, although I am betting your home PC might be able to render the images you will see there without any problem. Maybe not in real time, but almost. Is it special? You bet. Even though CGI had been tried before, Tron took it to the next logical step creating whole CGI rendered scenes (e.g. tanks, cycles, Recognizers).The film is confusing at times, and 18 years later you can safely say the script wasn't actually the best. On the light of the Internet, though, it all makes a lot more sense, and it plainly demonstrates that the writers really loved computers. In fact, they were so ahead of their times that I am betting too many people who saw it the first time didn't understand it. That was its failure only computer geeks could get the whole picture (no pun intended).Still, I guess Toy Story I and II are the direct development of Tron. And that cannot be bad in any way. "},{"Title":"The film that The Matrix wishes it was","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"134 out of 231 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1982, the concept of artificial intelligence was advanced enough that a gamer could easily defeat a computer opponent if he memorised the sequence of moves that the AI followed. A computer capable of handing the intense mathematical calculations CGI entailed often took up an entire room. Video games were strictly two-dimensional, and often consisted of video displays that a legally blind man could make out the individual pixels in. Yet they were considerably more fun than most of the annoyances we have to bear with today. The reason for this is as simple as it is obvious. In 1982, programmers realized that graphics are not what make a game fun because graphics could not be made as real as they are now.Tron fell flat at the box office because the concepts it dealt with were not in the public consciousness. Home computers from many manufacturers were duelling for market share, and the idea that the market could one day all be controlled by one monolithic corporation was far from anyone's mind. This little fact is what keeps Tron relevant nearly twenty-five years later. However, as the information age grew into focus, the number of films that openly steal from Tron are numerous. They try to capture the same level of excitement and intrigue, but they fall down because of an inability to make the audience care about the characters.Tron begins with simple interactions between the world of the programs and the world of the humans, some of which are programmers, or users as they are called here. The sequence in which one user, Flynn, is sucked into the world of the programs, well, let's just say that the Wachowski brothers obviously watched it very carefully before they penned the screenplay for The Matrix. Only in this case, it is done with much more credibility and impact.Many have talked about the curse that plagues film adaptations of video games. Tron was the first of many films to have a video game adapted from it, the reasons for which should be clear when one watches the game sequences. During the middle act of the film, Flynn is made to compete in a couple of video games, the first of which, while quite clearly based upon Pong, was adapted more or less element-for-element into a crude tennis game. The latter is more notorious, however. The concept of bicycles that create walls behind them as they move, into which one tries to run an opponent, is one of the simple concepts that kept old 4-bit video game machines like the Atari 2600 profitable for so long.It has been said that it is difficult to understand what is going on, which is hogwash. Once you learn some of the basics of computing, or rather the concepts that Microsoft would like to keep hidden from the user such as input-output addresses and the like, and learn to pay attention to dialogue, it is incredibly easy to follow this story. It is, in fact, one of the best renderings of computer concepts on the big screen to date, which is a sad indictment upon Hollywood when you consider how far technology in both areas has come since 1982.I gave Tron a ten out of ten. It entertained me immeasurably when I was a child growing up on the cusp of VHS technology. As an adult who is having endless fun with the recordable DVD technology, it entertains me even more. Few things grow more relevant with time, in both happy and sad ways, but Tron is amongst them. If every science-fiction film in which computers and artificial intelligence figured heavily were up to this standard, film critics would have a lot less to do. "},{"Title":"The More You Drink The Better It Gets","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadDid I read that right? The effects have not aged? The effects sucked when it was released; they evoked loud giggling in the theater I saw it in which was half empty by the way. They used these cheesy effects on 1984's The Last Starfighter which also bombed. After that they abandoned them altogether. Please, the cars and tanks look like plastic toys on a badly created grid. The plot, if you can call it that, is that Bridges gets his panties in a bunch because Dillon stole his game, what until you see it, and he wants to get into the system and prove it is his. He gets sucked, the right verb, into the silicon world where, apparently, silicon looks just like Gray spandex jumpsuits that light up in attractive blue and red. This blowing your skirt up? No, it did not thirty years ago either. Throw in terrible acting, which Disney has a patent on, getting lousy performances out of good actors; Warner is the only one who gives a good performance. Even Jeff Bridges, a good actor, delivers a wooden, insouciant, boring reading. Tron shows why Babylon 5 was canceled. Cindy Morgan should have worn a tighter jumpsuit; maybe we would not have noticed she could not act one scene. There is an uprising, I know, try not to laugh, where apparently silicon chips have a religious devotion to carbon based monkey boys over their own kind. I know, non sequitur, please Disney stick to kiddie movies. Getting that sinking feeling about their Star Wars? I would if I were you, go watch The Black Hole, their last attempt at science fiction. Look, just the sight of these actors wearing fluorescent spandex tights with funny hats and throwing Frisbees around was enough for laughter in the theater. The effects are painful; no, they could not age well because they were awful in 1982. Like all Disney movies, it is full of cringe worthy moments. My friend Eric got the whole room to laugh; Clu bends over his dying friend and the friend purses his lips, for no apparent reason, Eric yelled,Kiss Me!! The entire theater died laughing. Disney is incapable of making a good serious film. This film features several more unintentionally hilarious moments. The acting matters, because given the utter absurdity of the premise, the bad acting is the death blow. The film was received as almost a comedy given bad effects, acting, writing and the stupidest premise ever conceived. If you like seeing actors in glowing spandex jumpsuits babbling on about the sanctity of the users while flinging their glowing Frisbees at the plastic objects; this is your movie. For everyone else, who has read a book, I recommend drinking to lower your intelligence to the level of the brain dead idiots who made this piece of crap. After a few drinks, it will seem cutting edge and stunning; it just takes the right amount of alcohol. It was awful thirty three years ago and guess what it still is awful. The effects look worse if that is possible. "},{"Title":"Dated.....But Still One Of Those One-Of-A-Kind Movies You Should Check Out","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"57 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this came out, about 25 years ago, the special-effects were eye-popping. I was stunned and saw this twice at the theater, something I rarely did. Nowadays, it looks primitive. It's like when video games first came out, compared to what they are now.However, a few years ago when the DVD came out with the widescreen and 5.1surround sound, it made it somewhat-respectable again in parts and made it still fun to watch.The story was never that great. There was too much technical talk and the characters were the kind you really couldn't get involved over. It's nothing super, but if you've never seen it, I still recommend it. I don't recall any other movie quite like it. "},{"Title":"Tron works","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"67 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For the average viewer, 'Tron' is a puzzling film.  The language is loaded with jargon, the world experienced by Clu and Tron (inside the computer) appears strange, forbidding and two-dimensional. It is a world that seems to work though, but how does the human Clu instantly know how to adjust to its peculiarities?Viewers have come to expect that techno-babble jargon in SciFi flicks is completely meaningless.  That isn't entirely the case for 'Tron', much of it is firmly based in computing.  Even more importantly, this strange world Clu and Tron inhabit is equally firmly based on the way computer operating systems work, and that is the reason why Clu (in real live a computer hacker) knows how to handle it.Using this world as the basis for a movie was pretty audacious, especially in 1982. Thankfully, the writers did not compromise on their idea, and consequently the film not only worked but it stood the test of time.'Tron' works, because computers work. "}{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"56 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" More than just reminiscent of Lang's Metropolis, Tron is a beautiful, well made exercise from a main stream producer (Disney) which reminds us of the time before Jurassic Park and Episode One where creative skill was left to human perception rather than a computer's digitally correct ideal. Owing more to the human colourists than the now outdated computer effects, this film is evidence - similar in a way to Kubric's pre-Moon landing, pre-CGI 2001 - to the creative and more sensory-pleasing abilities of the human artist over soul-less programmers, from a time before when a box would 'parse' it all for you. It's difficult to express how high-powered computers fail to create an image that is satisfactory to the human eye; there is always something that rings false about it. Tron was created in a period of wire diagrams being the best you could coax from a computer; anything else was added by human hand. A film that makes you nostalgic for the time when Disney made films that were accessible for all, almost Bakshi-like in its disregard for the mainstream. There is struggle against adversity; there is an oppressive, evil regime; there are two heroes who survive despite all odds; and there is love conquering all (a token woman is included as love interest. Ironically like the IT industry). The naive use of technical jargon merely adds to the computer program style setting and this film is ideally suited for today's retro-chic society. As a Disney film this is aimed predominantly at children, so if you fail to understand the plot then I would recommend sticking to the Lion King or some other pabulum. This is a great film - watch it. "},{"Title":"Sadly Overrated","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The idea of a hacker transported into a computer having to destroy an evil program was brilliant. But something was missing in TRON. A more developed story, substantial dialogs and, yes, a director capable to do his job in a better way than Steven Lisberger, master and commander of this sadly overrated movie. How in the world Disney green lighted such a good project in the hands of an amateur?I'm dazzled with the positive reviews of the many viewers of this wrecked project quoting that this was an underrated film when the time of its release. Sorry, that's not just the case. The story wasn't that appealing as Matrix was. The real life sequences were far more interesting than the whole visual effects side, that got overlong, boring, and nowadays dated. I was trying not to sleep in many parts of that long race between the characters (something like a car chase scene but instead of cars running chips and programs chasing each other). Jeff Bridges holds this movie very well and David Warner plays the usual villain as he almost always does. But, if you want to see these two actors in a good movie go rent The Big Lebowski (in which Bridges star) or Time After Time (an awesome sci-fi movie starring Warner as villain). I only watched this movie because 1) In 2005, The Strokes (one of my favorite rock bands) made a video clip for the song 1251 in which TRON was used as reference to the whole thing. Very Interesting by the way. And 2) I heard that TRON Legacy is going to be released this year so I thought Let's see what this movie has of interesting. And the result came to nowhere. And I'm glad that Supertramp, another of my favorite groups, wasn't available to contribute to songs in this wreck. The music in the movie, by the way, is so strangely executed.The dated visual effects has some charming things that remind us of the 1980's with a twinkle in the eyes. After all who doesn't love the movies of that decade? I loved the visual concept of the movie along with the brilliant and themed costume designs (Oscar nominated). But its slowed rhythm story and its lack of expectation, lack of a better climax just ruined the movie for me. I hope that TRON Legacy became a better project. At least, I know it's going to be because Lisberger is not directing the movie, but his hands are in the screenplay again so let's hope he makes something good this time. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Hal Rebooted","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" And to think as lackluster, boring and trite the year 2010 for movies has turned out, I was really looking forward to Tron Legacy. Even without seeing the original. Ever.Maybe it was because one of my all-time favorite arcade games was, and still is, Tron. Perhaps it was the wonderful trailers? Or the fact, I love Jeff Bridges and give The Dude kudos for making a well-made decision on making a movie/sequel.So, naturally, I have to see the first one first before venturing into the winter of 2010's only promising release. After growing up on the game, the theme music and the anticipation of the (almost) 20 year-follow-up I must say what a letdown.I don't want to take away from what the original writers/director created here. Surely, they had something going for them in 1982 an original idea, a complex action film with futuristic graphics &#x96; for its time. Does it hold up? Apparently not, in my opinion, since I had the privilege of watching for the first time in 2010.I'm not knocking the graphics. I simply can't &#x96; that was the technology back then. And they even showed things (like the touch screens) that had years left to be developed. So good for them. But, my problem was that there was just too much. They wanted to be too many movies wrapped into one without focusing on the center of the plot. Or any heart. You wanted to care for some of the characters, but they were so thrust onto the screen with little to no background and then yanked away to make room for more plot developments. And speaking of which, there were so many plots and subplots, it was hard to keep up where this movie was going.Recently, I watched Disney's other big live-action blockbuster relatively in the same era, The Black Hole and as much as I rated only 3/5 stars, at least that had a central idea and went with it. Tron is all over the place and requires several viewings to get it all straight.Let's see, it's been about a week since I've seen Tron and I'm going to try to remember all that it was about, or all the subplots Oust developer Kevin Flynn (Bridges) is recruited to thwart a supercomputer (i.e. Hal from 2001) master program who is gaining a bunch of power from mini-programs to be the ultimate dominator. Years later, this would be portrayed in The Lawnmower Man, Terminator Salvation or The Matrix.Meanwhile, there's the corporate bigwig who wants the same thing, a rouge ex-girlfriend bent on stopping the madness and Flynn who's inadvertently thrown into the game or program to prove himself against the computer's main competitive baddie.This is how forgettable this movie is, aside from those who first viewed it in 1982. It has only been a week and I've already forgotten the dozen or so subplots and reasons for the movie. I guess suffice to say, it's a heart-whelming story of the dangers of technology and despite the limitations of 1982 graphics, it will be really fleshed out in decades to follow with much better products. A good idea at the time, but just have patience, audience and you'll have a much better movie to watch. And to follow.Will I still see the sequel? Of course. I'm still looking forward to it and hopefully will watch the progression and ironing out the problems with the original. Also, I give a plus to Disney for not following the recent trend of rebooting and sticking with the time-honored tradition of simply releasing a SEQUEL. "},{"Title":"why does this movie have a cult following?","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't like Tron. There I said it. People regard this film as a cult classic but personally I don't see why.For anyone that is unaware, Tron is a film released in 1982. It's about a video game creator's idea being stolen by a big company head. He goes in to get proof that the idea was his, only for a machine to get him sucked into the game he created. He needs to work with programs that he created in order to get out as well as fight against viruses inside the game in order to get out. The plot was probably one of the best things about the film. It was quite a unique idea at the time and was interesting to see this new sort of plot being taken on.The main thing that's praised about Tron is its visuals and I'll come to agree. The movie's effects were really impressive for the time and even live up today.The one thing I noticed about the reviews of Tron was that they only seemed to talk about how good the visuals were and didn't talk about anything else. I find Tron stupid. Some questions are left unanswered and it also has a few confusing and unnecessary parts. I will go onto list them here. At the start of the movie a scientist says his whole life he's worked on a machine and that machine's purpose is to make objects disappear and then they reappear a few seconds later. I don't know about you but I think that's his life wasted. I can't think in one way how that sort of machine could be useful. The guy who created the game is introduced in an arcade playing a video game which he for some reason sweats from, I don't know one person who sweats from playing a video game. It might have also just been an excuse for that actor to take their top off to reveal his pecks for no reason and yes that actually happens. There is a scene when he's about to have a fight to the death with a program. I'm not sure about you but if I was going into a fight to the death and I was just a video game creator, I would be terrified, but this programmer isn't as he goes into the fight to the death grinning like an idiot. There's a huge dramatic moment where one of the programs dies and despite this program appearing in about 2/3s of the film, the other characters don't seem to care. I'm actually going to type the dialogue that is delivered after he dies.Where is he? He died *gasp* alright* I'm not joking, that is actually what is said. There's another part where one of the programs is tired from lying down. I'm not joking about that either. He literally lies down, gets up and is gasping for breath.I fail to see how other reviews of this movie haven't considered that this movie is so bad that it's good. That's how I see it. Yes the plot is creative and the visuals are cool and still hold up today but everything else falls flat. The characters aren't given anything to be called characters, the acting given off feels like the actors were held at gunpoint to perform, there are scenes that don't go anywhere, and most of all it suffers from bad writing. "},{"Title":"This Is Why We Have Pixar Movies","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Lasseter once said that without Tron, there would be no Toy Story. While working as a Disney animator, Lasseter caught a glimpse of the light cycle chase from Tron and his eyes opened up to what could be accomplished with computers and computer technology. Thus, he would go onto be one of the founding fathers of Pixar, which of course has spun a massive web since it's inception in the mid 80s. Of course Lasseter and the people at Pixar weren't the only ones inspired by this film. The French band Daft Punk was inspired by the film's electronic score and video game like sound effects, so much so that they even assisted Hans Zimmer in composing the score for Tron's sequel. But for how groundbreaking Tron was when it first hit theaters back in 1982, is it even a good movie? Is it's story compelling and relatable and can we see ourselves as parallels to the characters of the movie? I would say so. It's all how you look at it. Tron still holds up incredibly well 31 years after it's original release and while the effects can be a bit wonky from time to time, they give the movie a certain edge and stylized feel. When I think of this movie, shades of blue, red, orange and black come to mind, for those are the colors seen frequently throughout the picture and the fact that some of the effects look grainy at times really makes the film's environment look more digitized in my eyes. I also like the look of the characters, particularly Tron, Sark and the Master Control Program, who looks like Zordon's cousin three times removed. He spins around, freezes when he wants to talk to someone and his voice (provided by David Warner, the same guy who plays Sark) is one of the most intimidating voices I've ever heard. You could take this guy's voice and put it over Darth Vader. It's just that awesome and mighty.The acting is pretty decent. Jeff Bridges is great as always, playing the fun loving schmuck Kevin Flynn who plays video games better than anybody and Bruce Boxleitner is a gallant Alan Bradley/Tron who is determined to take out the MCP and bring balance back to the cyber world. He's the Chosen One in some ways and the most heroic out of the programs, although Kevin Flynn builds up his bravery and assists Tron in the MCP's defeat. David Warner has that presence to him that really makes him a force to be reckoned with and his portrayal of Sark and the MCP stand apart from all the other film's performances. Every time this guy enters the picture, you can just tell that some crap is going to hit the fan. He's plays two of Disney's most memorable adversaries and he's probably my favorite player out of the film. He also plays similar characters in Titanic, Star Trek 5 and 6 and he even plays the voice of Ra's Al Ghul in Batman The Animated Series.The last thing I must talk about is the film's awesome score and sound effects. As I said before, this is what inspired Daft Punk to do what they do and it's not that hard to see why they got so enraptured. The film's score, composed by Wendy Carlos is an electronic feast for the ears, with a very exciting, blood rushing excellence only accomplished through computer chips. It's so catchy that they even used the music in the Tron arcade game, just listen to the film's score and then listen to the music from the game. It's identical. And the sound effects really make this film feel like a video game movie. Every time a character walks, there's this slight clink noise and the sound effects for the disk throwing, the light cycles and the character deaths makes me feel like I'm standing right in front of an arcade cabinet playing a game from the golden age. They really do a good job of making you feel part of the Tron universe and adding that bit of magic that takes you out of reality and places you in the realms of a digital fantasy.Tron is an all around great thriller and would change Disney forever. Perhaps without Tron, there would be no Toy Story 3 or Monsters Inc. or Finding Nemo. Maybe Disney wouldn't have had their grand Renaissance. Maybe special effects wouldn't have progressed the way they did. Maybe Jeff Bridges wouldn't be the highly profitable actor he is today. It all makes you think, doesn't it? "},{"Title":"Tron Version 1.0","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having seen Tron Legacy at Christmas, I've spent the week or so since then trying to track down the movie that Legacy is a sequel to 1982's Tron. If you're like me and have been doing the same then the following will come as no surprise it has become rather hard and/or expensive to find thanks to it being out of print and highly in demand. So imagine my surprise when I went into a local Blockbuster with a friend and found a DVD of it sitting on the shelf. Needless to say I scooped it up and rented it! So, given that I had seen the more recent sequel first, what did I make of the original movie? For starters it has a pretty good cast. Leading the cast is Jeff Bridges as computer programmer turned arcade-owing hacker Kevin Flynn whose attempts to prove that his work was stolen by a rival programmer leads to him being sent into the digital world of the movie. Bridges gives Flynn an eccentric yet everyman quality that, while perhaps not serving the character best in the opening part of the movie, works perfectly when the character of Flynn ends up trying to make sense of the digital world he finds himself in. Bruce Boxleitner plays computer programmer Alan Bradley and his creation the heroic security program named Tron. The two are very different characters and at times it is hard to believe that are being played by the same actor. Aiding them in both the real and digital world are Cindy Morgan (as Lora and Yori) and Barnard Hughes (as Dr. Walter Gibbs and Dumont) who, like Boxleitner, find ways of making each of their characters different from the other. Opposing them, and perhaps giving the best performances in the movie, is David Warner as program stealing executive Ed Dillinger in the real world as being both the digital world menace of Sark and the electronically distorted voice of the the dictatorial Master Control Program. Put all these actors together and the result is that they give this digitally set movie a human grounding.Which brings us to perhaps the most iconic part of the movie the digital world the majority of the movie takes place in. Given that the nearly thirty years that have passed since the movie was made have seen a true revolution in special effects, one might expect that the effects (including some of the earliest CGI effects) would look rather passé now. The truth of the matter is in fact quite different the digital world of Tron is a truly immersive, and highly original, one.The production design, costumes and effects all go towards creating that unique world. The production design imagines a digital world that is both alien and yet familiar with its take on tanks, ships and perhaps most famously cars in the form of light cycles. Then there are all of the unique costumes of the digital characters with their stark whiteness contrasted by the illuminations of the apparent circuitry on them with a truly unusual look being the result. Last but not least on this list is all of the effects work. The effects would seemingly be the most dated part of the original Tron and to some extent this is true on the surface. But if you scratch below the surface you'll discover that those seemingly dated effects are surprisingly effective. Two perfect examples can be found in the light cycle gaming sequence where there is a point of view shot that gives the viewer a true sensation of speeding along a maze of lines or during the chase sequence that follows directly on from it when the camera follows two ships that are pursuing the escaping light cycles. If you are however looking at the effects of the movie cynically from the viewpoint of today's CGI here is another way of looking at them within the logic of the movie the film is set and uses early 1980s computers and therefore it makes perfect sense that the digital world reflects the technology of the time rather the more advanced and evolved digital world seen in Legacy. Back to the main point the result of all these elements put together is that the digital world setting of the film remains both unique and immersive almost thirty years on.No review of the film though would be complete without a discussion of its script or storyline. The basic plot of Tron are quite simplistic in the real world Flynn is trying to prove that Dillinger stole his programs to further his own career while in the digital world Flynn and Tron end up on a quest to save to free that world from the tyrannical reign of Dillinger's Master Control Program and its minion Sark. The dialogue too is often as simplistic as the plot and can be at times either corny or cringe-worthy. Yet Tron's script and story are full of fascinating ideas Programs acting as avatars of their programmers with deletions being their literal death (or derezzing), information and programs being sent along by incredible vehicles with energy or light used as paths, and and even religious undertones to the relationship of programs to their users. Tron then, on the script and story level, is very much driven by its ideas rather then its own plot. As a result Tron on the script and story level is very much driven by its ideas rather then its own plot.While it may be lacking in plot, Tron makes up for that in other ways. That includes the cast which makes the most of the duel roles that most of them have. Where it does that mainly though is in the immersive digital world it is set in and the ideas that lie behind it. Tron therefore is perhaps more a triumph of style over substance but it more then makes up for that fact. "},{"Title":"Momumental for its time, nostalgic to the last.....","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weaving an adventure story out of the principles of computing in 1982 was sheer genius and visionary as hell!! Mr. Lisberger and his team were like the real life Kevin Flynns embarking upon a quest to bring something groundbreaking to the screen.I watched this again after having recently gone and watched Tron Legacy (which was an unforgettable experience, especially in IMAX 3D), and I know now why Tron left an indelible impression on me from when I first watched it in my pre-teen years. Even now, although admittedly for me I'd go with the Tron Legacy generation of effects, if I put myself in the shoes of someone in the early to mid eighties, this film sweeps one off their feet.There's something otherworldly yet familiar about the world Lisberger propels the viewer into, with programs and the interface with users. The characters are great, the story is something you can follow enjoyably and the created world is a treat for the eyes, especially the gladitorial combat scenes (give me a light cycle any day).One thing that I have felt from watching Tron Legacy is that it has kept the spirit of Tron, in terms of what the film and the characters strive to achieve, free data movement and uncorrupted access amongst the aims. Tron is as much the perfect prequel as Tron Legacy is the perfect sequel. They work hand in hand and 28 years apart, it couldn't have been done better I think.I'm so glad I have watched this film again, it will shine looooooong into the future as a landmark moment in movie history. All CGI films owe their effectiveness to the first throw of the dice that was TRON!!! Watch this film again and again to be entertained with a simply excellent movie ) "},{"Title":"The sequel is much better","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have no idea how this is considered a classic. Even in 1982 the effects were very, very bad. The acting is pretty bad as well, the music is annoying and the movie in general is boring.The only two good things are that this is a short movie and it spawned an amazing sequel. The only ones who would have liked this were programmers back then.This movie has so little plot that, watching the much better sequel can be done easily.And the sequel is the only good thing that came out of this crap.Avoid the original. "},{"Title":"Forget realism and just enjoy the adventure","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) is convinced that former colleague Ed Dillinger (David Warner) stole his games for his company. With help from Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner) and Lora (Cindy Morgan), he sneaks into the company. However Dillinger's powerful A.I. the Master Control Program (MCP) digitizes Flynn and sends him into the world of the computer programs.Does the science work? No.Do anything here seems the least bit realistic? No.But it works as an action adventure. The visual design is completely unique and absolutely iconic. Forget about believability. Just allow yourself to enjoy the adventure. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic for its time and entertaining even if with its flaws","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If anyone knew that this science fiction adventure was on its way, my bet would be on the viewers who saw Disney's The Black Hole (1979) three years before. It started out with an electronic grid that digitally introduced the opening credits and it resembles what director Steven Lisberger's most famous film uses in CGI. My question is, why didn't Lisberger go any further than the 80s? Sure he was a producer for long awaited sequel, Tron Legacy (2010), but he hasn't done much else since. Did he lose the Hollywood bug? He made a decent film here.The plot is about a computer whiz named Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges), who created an entertaining gaming software for a company called Encom. That is until a corrupt co-worker named Ed Dillinger (David Warner) stole his ideas and became the head of the department. Along with Dillinger, is an electronic associate named the MCP (Master Control Program) that is self aware of its ability to collect data. One day Flynn decides to go back to the building he was fired from and regain the files that were stolen from him. But as he tries to hack into the system, he is zapped into cyberspace from the MCP. There, he must find a way to get back home with the files he needs to reclaim what's rightfully his.What's neat is how Lisberger visualized the world of the computer. It is stylistically creative. Each character or program in this electronic universe wears a suit that is either colored blue or red. Red means they belong to the MCP. And amazingly, this is not done by a physically lit suit. It was all CGI. That's pretty impressive for 1982. But as everyone knows, the most famous thing Tron (1982) is noted for, is its lightcycle races. Tiny motorcycles that can only make 90 degree turns. It's unusual but its cool anyways.As Flynn navigates himself through this new world, he also makes new friends. Tron, a program created by a real friend of Flynn named Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner) and Ram played by Dan Shor. My favorite character was the bit who only knows how to say yes and no, very humorous. What was also clever about these characters is that they are all played by their creator. Boxleitner plays Tron and Bradley, Bridges plays Clu (a program he created) and Flynn and so on. I do have to call love interests into question though. There were a few times where it looked like there would be a love interest but it was never addressed. Did Lisberger forget to write an ending for it? I don't get it.I liked the special effects a lot. For their time, it was quite an inventive feat to pull off such cinema magic. The action that takes place using these effects were well performed as well. Each sequence looked authentic, like they were really apart of that world. I also enjoyed the music that Wendy Carlos' scored for the film. It did have a reoccurring theme although I don't think it was prevalent enough. But it did go together well with each scene. Since the movie took place inside a computer, it is understandable to why Carlos had synthesizers in her soundtrack. Fairly entertaining.Tron is the first movie to literally dive into the mainframe of a computer and its visuals are one of a kind. The characters' relationship to each other can be confusing and Wendy Carlos' score isn't John Williams scope, but it works. "}{"Title":"Good 80's Sci-Fi Flick!","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jeff Bridges, Bruce Boxleitner, Cindy Morgan, Dan Shor, Barnard Hughes and David Warner star in this 1982 sci-fi film. Bridges plays video game designer, Kevin Flynn who used to work for company, EMCO. Warner plays the company's ruthless CEO, Ed Dillinger who stole Flynn's game design plans. Flynn tries getting them back from him by hacking into the company's mainframe of the M.C.P (Master Control Program) with help from his friends, Alan Bradley (Boxleitner) and Lora (Morgan). The M.C.P decides to beam Flynn into the system where he must battle against Sark (Also played by Warner) and his other computer baddies. Bridges also plays user program, Clu, Boxleitner also plays user program, Tron, Morgan also plays user program, Yori, Shor plays user program, Ram and the late, Hughes (The Lost Boys) plays both, Dr. Walter Gibbs and computer memory guard, Dumont. Together, Flynn and his program allies battle Sark and search for the memory file containing Flynn's plans. This is a good 80's sci-fi flick featuring a good cast, great score and neat digital effects which still hold up very well today. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Badly dated","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON is ridiculously out of date, but it should be fondly remembered and watched at least once, not for the poor pacing, silly story or horrendous, hammy acting (Boxleitner and Morgan are the real offenders; Bridges and Warner are over the top but are entertaining and effective); but for its visual innovation, which was uniquely monochromatic for its time (early influences on both The Matrix and Sin City, perhaps), and for the fact that it created a computerized world with no CGI whatsoever, making it several years ahead of its time. It's of little interest to anybody other than CGI and design enthusiasts, but it still deserves a little spot in the time capsule. "},{"Title":"My TRON Review","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON is a Disney box-office bomb from 1980's that was outranked by parodies, its video game counterpart and its sequel. (IMHO, the sequel only grossed higher than the original, but the sequel is still a good movie). You might not want to say this movie sucks by poor special effects because it came in the 80's and though they did have special effects, there are still very crude things to come out of it like this. Kevin Flynn, computer genius, finds himself in a virtual video game world where he is forced to play games. The plot is interesting and the acting is good. I recommend this to anyone who likes video games or movies.***/***** "},{"Title":"Great special effects. . . for 1982","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie with my wife on DVD, and she promptly fell asleep. Oh well. But it does have it's moments.Before the impact of Toy Story, followed by successes like Monsters, Inc. and Finding Nemo, Disney brought us this science fiction adventure complete with imaginative computer animation. Basically computer hacker Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) is digitally broken down and zapped into the Cyber world by a villainous software pirate known as Master Control. In this colourful 3D graphical world, Kevin joins forces with Tron (Bruce Boxleitner) to try and defeat Master Control and the many challenges it creates for them to face, in order to get out of the system. Also starring David Warner as Ed Dillinger, Cindy Morgan as Lora, Barnard Hughes as Dr. Walter Gibbs, Dan Shor as Ram and Peter Jurasik as Crom. It is obviously very dated by today's standards of computer animation imagination, but to see where cinematic territory was broken is interesting I guess, it did appeal more to video game fans. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Costume Design and Best Sound, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects.Back in 1982. "},{"Title":"Tron","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron may seem quaint by todays standards but It as definitely ahead of its time and very original when it came out in 1982.to me,it still looks very good,especially in Blu-ray format.it's a very fast moving film,though it doesn't seem like it at the time.but it's over before you know it.and if you're like me,you'll want it to keep going.i think it could have been longer.but that's just me.the movie certainly has nostalgia appeal.i really enjoyed watching it again.i think it stands the test of time.though i know a lot of people won't agree with that statement.as an aside,the extras are extensive on the 2 disc Blu-ray/DVD combo pack.for me,TRON is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cult-classic still enjoyable today, an intriguing sci-fi adventure!","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Under appreciated in its time, Tron was a unique film undertaking that produced an above average film with way above average lasting power and name recognition (as evidenced by the 2010 remake). It pushed the envelope of possibility and made it's way into the venerable world of cult classics with its unique vision.I love science fiction, and the epic struggle between man and machine provides terrific fodor for a great story. The computer world of Tron might have been primitive for special effects, but is still visually intriguing and believable.Perhaps a little bit tough to understand conceptually (ie. why would programs have free thinking) it provides memorable scenes that have been part of our culture ever since. The human element is present, even in the computer world, and we connect with programs like Tron and sympathize with those who fight the oppression (a definite human trait) of the MCP.I always thought the sound effects in Tron were superb, my favorite being the unique sound of the flying ships. Another unforgettable scene filled with original sights and sounds are the iconic light cycles. Add some great music throughout that fits the mood and style and it's no wonder it has survived the test of time.When Flynn (Jeff Bridges) emerges from the computer near the end of the movie, we feel like we've been to another world and back, and I really enjoy Tron for bringing us through that journey. A great adventure, and a sci-fi classic. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking visuals and original idea for it's time","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay so I give credit to this movie for it's visual for it's time and the original idea for it's time as well. But despite that I just didn't really find this movie to be all that compelling or felt like it pulled me into the story. Maybe it's cause a lot of aspects of this movie is outdated and cause it was made way before I was even born. But for it's time it really did have some groundbreaking visuals, it's basically what launched computer animation to the mainstream and is the first full length feature that had this much computer animation. The thing is, seeing it now, everything about it just seemed way too outdated and boring since the story although original for it's time was that intriguing or gripping in anyway. But for what it accomplished for it's time I give it a 6.4/10.6.4/10 "},{"Title":"Where the story?","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The idea of a hacker transported into a computer having to destroy an evil program was brilliant. But something was missing in TRON. A more developed story, substantial dialogues and, yes, a director capable to do their job in a better way than Steven Lisberger, master and commander of this sadly overrated movie.I'm dazzled with the positive reviews of the many viewers of this wrecked project quoting that this was an underrated film when the time of its release. That's not just the case. The story wasn't that appealing.The real life sequences were far more interesting than the whole visual effects side, that got overlong, boring, and nowadays dated. I was trying not to sleep in many parts of that long race between the characters (something like a car chase scene but instead of cars running chips and programs chasing each other).I'm only watched this movie because I heard that TRON Legacy is going to be released this year so I thought Let's see what this movie has of interesting. And the result came to nowhere.The dated visual effects has some charming things that remind us of the 1980's. After all who doesn't love the movies of that decade? I loved the visual concept of the movie along with the brilliant and themed costume designs. But it's slowed rhythm story and its lack of expectation, lack of a better climax just ruined the movie for me.I hope that TRON Legacy became a better movie. "},{"Title":"TRON was a mostly awesome trip back to my movie viewing years as a teenager","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having not seen this movie since it first came out 28 years ago (and missing much of the beginning to boot), I've now watched the whole thing on YouTube in anticipation of watching the sequel, TRON Legacy, tomorrow. Writer/director Steven Lisberger is fine when visualizing the computer images and they're as awesome to see now as then but the actual story in the live-action sections are just a flimsy reason to hang the ongoing action story on. Still, seeing Jeff Bridges bring his cool self as the leading character Flynn is well worth a look, having Bruce Boxleitner as the title character and his user counterpart Alan is a good normal counterpart, and seeing Cindy Lacey Underall Morgan as the girl between them with her eye candy looks make all the sparks fly when they're all on screen together. Add in David Warner as the villain with all those cliché orders he keeps barking and Barnard Hughes as the father figure and you can't go wrong with a combo like that! Oh, and Wendy Carlos-who I've long admired from when she was Walter Carlos and had scored A Clockwork Orange-does fine with the music here. Like I said, great computer images, not-so-great story, but overall, TRON is well worth the watch and I just can't wait to see the sequel tomorrow... "},{"Title":"The Silent Type","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some movies that you enjoy and have no idea why. When I was growing up in the 80s, TRON was one of those movies. My memory is that I really loved watching the film, I didn't understand it, but the act of just watching things happen on screen was a joy. Looking back on the film today, it's not hard to see why it is such a joy to look at. The film was a visionary work of art. Not dramatic art, not character driven art, just something purely visual. In this way, TRON is much like the early, experimental silent films people paid in droves to see. These audiences wanted a new type of experience and that is exactly what TRON was in 1982.Of course not everybody liked the film. Critics either hated the film or they praised it for what it was. Often times, jaded moviegoers or critics are fed off of conditioned reflex. Character A meets Character B, conflict happens and then resolution ensues. The credits roll. Nope TRON is a movie about MCPs and hacking. There were lightcycle chases and Group 7 access clearances. These McGuffins were not the ones audiences and critics were used to. Screw them. TRON grew its audience over time. Much like Blade Runner, another peculiarity from 1982, and Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey decades before, time has been kind to these films. Where established critics of the time ravished them in reviews, a decade or two goes by and they all became classics or more.Movies are not filmed plays. Every film should provide a unique experience. Some movies are about love and loss. Some films are about cowboys and bank robbers. TRON is just one of those films about a security program out to kick the MCP's ass. TRON is not a drama, it is an experience like a ride at Six Flags or Disneyland. Nobody gets off a roller coaster and says, Well I'm not sure they got the plot right. No, you just want to get right back on and enjoy it for what it is.8/10 "}{"Title":"Very far ahead of its time in so many ways","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently rewatched TRON with my 7 year old son as a prelude to viewing TRON-Legacy; so here's my review.I first saw Tron in the cinema in 1982/83ish. I was dazzled by it; simple, immersive, visually stunning. Very enjoyable - an image of another reality which was credible and new. There is a large element of dark/light dualism which generates and maintains interest and inertia from within the story. The look of the film sustains this interest. Obviously technically highly advanced - far ahead of any other kind of cinema experience. This was an iconic film of its time that every cinema goer had to take in. Back then I would have graded it 10. As a film in my 9 - 10 band it sits proudly in my DVD collection.Over the years I have felt that time was not been kind to this film; by todays standards it looks 80's - in ways it's too simple and for todays energy packed kids - too slow moving. For one thing, we don't have Video Arcades like Flynns anymore, we have Ninetendo DS and Wii in our homes, so this element is well out of its time. Nevertheless, TRON still looks great - dark, inviting, intriguing, its wonderfully stylised look still grabbed the attention of my 7 year old! He liked the battle scenes and the general feel - the Goodies Vs Badies aspect of the piece; the malevolent computer and its servants Vs good guys trying to save the day Tron & Flynn - A Hit! My 9 grade is a joint effort with my son - who is becoming a bit of a movie buff! (I thought 8, but I was overruled!) TRON is a film which should be seen. It was a landmark film in the history of cinema for a variety of technical and thematic firsts.Watch this film. It is dated by todays standards - but still worth a viewing.Now go and read my review of TRON-Legacy.End of line. "},{"Title":"A Frisbee that kills people","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has been awhile since I watched this film. So I had to watch it again to get the full effect before the newer one was released. I have a lot of things against this film though as a movie. The concept for its time was amazing. I will give it that. But the filming was a bit off. The cast was half and half. Jeff Bridges was great. He basically made the movie. Bruce Boxleitner who is Allen and Tron did a decent job. As Allen he didn't seem to fit well, but did fit as Tron. Cindy Morgan was the love interest of both Bridges character and Boxleitner. She was not a very good actress. It was like her emotion was shut off. David Warner was a excellent bad guy. Even though Master Control was pretty much the main bad guy, Warner was a close second. Like I said, the concept was great. It really had something going for it. The Grid world was excellent and how most of the small characters were named after computer terms was clever. An example would be Dan Shor's character named RAM. The film on the grid was shot combination rotoscope and hand drawn. This gave the film more of a fantasy feel when you were in the Grid. The use of colors in the film were vibrant and interesting to keep the viewers attention. Now they needed this since some of the scenes were just really boring; making you wait for the more interesting parts. The music was orchestrated, but at sound parts sounded like a Sunday afternoon made for TV movie; which didn't fit with the epic feel of the film. The only other problem was the ending of the film. It just stopped. Very undeveloped with the characters and the story. They were trying to set it up for a sequel, but the way it was done, you couldn't even tell. You just felt like everything was left out. Tron was a gem of its time. But if you look at it as a whole, it is just a decent movie. "},{"Title":"Wow. The Alternative Universe Is  A Carousel Of Color.","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" when i was a kid the old 'Wonderful World of Disney' on Sunday nights would start with a song that went the world is a carousel of color.... that must also be true for alternative universes too because i just watched the original 'Tron' for the first time in years and boy...i didn't remember it being quite so psychedelic and colorful. it was actually almost blinding.i have always loved this movie and have defended it from it's many critics for so long that i never imagined it would finally start to get the attention it so rightly deserves. it really was a ground-breaking film in terms of film effects, and along with the 'Black Hole', was among the very last live action features to come from Disney's original Burbank studios. it was also the last film by Ron Miller, Disney's son in law and long time Disney executive and producer. not to mention Disney FX man Art Cruikshank's last Disney flick.i always felt the Disney classics that Ron Miller produced were some of the finest live action films the Burbank studio ever made. films like the 'Black Hole', 'Candleshoe', 'Napoleon and Samantha', and the original 'Freaky Friday'. he really threw himself into the productions of 'Tron' and 'The Black Hole'. even though nobody has ever really verified this to him until now, those films were well worth his effort. there is even a poster of 'The Black Hole' in the boys bedroom at the beginning of 'Tron Legacy'. all i can say to Mr. Miller and the original fans of those films who have stuck by them through neglect and forgetful memories is, hey, we've all come a long way baby.i hadn't seen the original 'Tron' in so long that i was delighted to find that it is still a marvel and a lot of fun. the colors of the original film are even brighter and more Technicolor looking than the muted monochromatic colors of the sequel. and because of the vibrant colors, it also bears more than a passing resemblance to the Disney hand drawn animated features. i sorta felt like i'd been blown over the rainbow into 'OZ' or something.i also think it's kind of amusing that fans are into a movie that had a music score that was composed by a trans-gender composer. Wendy Carlos a.k.a Walter Carlos. the brilliant composer behind such cinematic Goliaths like 'A Clockwork Orange'. the music score for the original 'Tron' has always been so memorable for all of us original fans, and the score for 'Orange' is one of the very best in cinema.the original 'Tron' also shows how wrong a lot of mainstream taste and critics can be. a lot of people i knew back then were fond of 'Tron', but always kind of embarrassed to admit it because of the critical lashings it received. i am proud and vindicated (if not a little scornful) to say i NEVER underestimated this film when everybody else seemed to. oh well. now everybody is going to claim to be a big fan now. it's always that way. being amongst the first is often a lonely and unrecognized thing to do. i can't tell you how many people have trashed my opinion only to find...oh well. you're all the way you are and that's it i guess.this is a wonderful Disney classic and even has some interesting messages about the suppression of religion. i'm so glad that it's reputation is coming into it's own. it's a incredible FX film and deserves more respect than it has generally been given in the past.to all the people who suddenly decided to join this film phenomenon after having trashed it for years...you s--k. to all the hard core Disney buffs that have been faithful and remembered the original Burbank studios, hats off for keeping this film alive and well. we've all been vindicated here. 'Tron Legacy' the sequel, is a true homage to the forgotten and neglected Disney classics. i plan to see it in 3D as soon as can. "},{"Title":"Interesting Film Especially For Its Time","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, Sherman, set the Wayback for ..... What made this film very enjoyable for me were the references they used. That first line above is Flynn sitting in his room talking to Bradley (and maybe Lora). Taken from Mr. Peabody's Improbable History, a segment of Rocky and Bullwinkle. Now, forward to Bradley's cube, which was a perfect replica of cube farms that were quickly populating the countryside. And there on Bradley's wall was the phrase 'Gort, Klaatu berata nicto'. Taken from 'The Day the Earth Stood Still' which were words that Michael Rennie told Patricia Neal to say to the robot.Two little sequences, two references to popular culture, just before Trivial Pursuit (I was there at a pivotal moment for that icon)and I have do doubt there were more, that had to endear the movie to computer nerds and geeks everywhere. Not much, but seeing those, I knew somebody 'got it'. And to me, that is very important in movie making and relating to the audience (something I slammed in my review of the 2009 movie 'Land of the Lost'). I went to work for the old Burroughs Corp. right exactly at that time, 1981, and guess what their mainframe operating system was called? Yep, 'MCP'.The rest was interesting but straight forward storyline, some plot holes, and great graphics that still hold up. And a great sequence of lines 'here goes nothing' ... you mean 'here goes something, here comes nothing'.The light racer program was one of the first I played on a computer (just after Colossal Cave and StarTrek and that irritating Mouse game). I have always thought that Flynn's program name was Klu or short for kludge, because that's what he really was...or did, as his presence kludged the program giving Tron's user the ability to get in.Reading some of the reviews here, makes me realize that you had to see it in 1981-2 and understand what was going on at that time, and how much, or actually how little everyone knew, to really appreciate the movie. They didn't get it entirely right, but they were on the right track.And anyway, at that time I happened to enjoy Bruce Boxleitner, Jeff Bridges, and Barnard Hughes. Cindy Morgan was nice as was David Warner being evil. See him in this and see him in the George C. Scott 'A Christmas Carol' and you'll have a hard time believing it's the same person. He was in his 'Titanic' persona for this one.I'm seeing hints that the new movie seems to reference this one, bringing back actors and roles, etc. That gives it a head start for me. The original 'Tron' is worth the watch, if only to see the beginnings of cg. "},{"Title":"The 2nd Sequel is lining up","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Boy, I enjoy watching the 2nd Sequel today in theaters, very great dimensional-techno game to strike points with the enemy. Jeff Bridges who played Flynn (The first Tron hero) who was stuck in the video-game world where he goes out on a battle with every team player who gets to win or loose ? I got this movie on DVD first around Christmas 2002. In the 2nd Sequel called TRON THE LEGACY The Origin of Tron has moved on. Iam so excited to see this movie which came out 25 years later. Garrett Hedlund is terrific playing The Son of Flynn in this film. Just like Indiana Jones and The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull like Shia Labeouf who played Mutt Williams. "},{"Title":"just as good","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alone I saw Tron Legacy for the first time on Thursday (16th December). Tonight (18th December) I saw it with my 12 year old nephew. When I put my comments down I realized I had not said anything about this movie, the original 1982 Tron. I was only six when Tron came out. I am not sure how old I was when I first saw it. I do know that I fell in love. The special effects were revolutionary for the day. The story dealt with concepts relating to a world that was changing so quickly and seemingly had no limits. Where was the line between humans and technology? Would technology become intelligent enough to think independently of their programming, of humans? There was even something for romantics. The story in Tron was a little less complicated, a little less philosophical but it worked! I think that to truly appreciate Tron Legacy, you have to appreciate Tron. As I explained to my nephew... the premise is really about viruses, virus scanners, programmers and computer users - timeless! "},{"Title":"Everyone's fantasy of being inside a video game brought to life for the screen","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you were a kid in the 1980s you played video games. Colorful landscapes, interesting creatures, collecting items, and more are all part of the fun. They sure have evolved over the years and now the graphics look almost as real as reality. But that hasn't put an end to gamers love of the classics. Their growing popularity in the 80s was bound to lead to a film about them and Disney saw this opportunity and grabbed it. What they came up with ended up being one of the most iconic films of our time and the kind of film that can bring back memories of the fun you had with these games as a kid. Better yet it's held up quite well.Pros Cast is game, especially Jeff Bridges who really has fun with it. Cool score and sound effects. A neat story. Though dated by today's standards, the visuals are still awesome to look at today and don't look cheap as the effects in other films of the time do now. Zips along at a fast pace. Amazing production and costume designs. Crisp, beautiful cinematography. A few really exciting action sequences.Cons Plot wears thin pretty quick. This was a concept with a lot of possibilities, but the film doesn't quite reach it's full potential. A bit predictable.Final thoughts An overdose of nostalgia can be annoying, but in moderation can really feel good. 'Tron' is the kind of movie that can make one remember being a kid and playing all those fun games, and there were a lot of choose from. It's also a movie that holds up very well and is thoroughly entertaining. It's a feast for the eyes sure, but there's plenty else there to keep one engaged and give them that tingly feeling that all good films give.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Virtual world","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember, was it akkurat after the first Matrix. I spoke with one fellow who was (and still) older and wiser than me. Then I was not skeptical critics and excitedly told me how cool the film received from the then Wachowski brothers, and how cool that finally removed the film about the people in virtual reality with awesome special effects ... the response was brief and unexpected You just do not seen Tron.Naturally, in the next few months I found on the disk referred to the collapse of the film and looked. Not at all impressed.Ten years later, I'm almost a graduate who is knowledgeable in several programming languages, has a shelf worn notes on Mattanah and theory of AI. Only at this age, I finally matured to the correct perception of the movie Tron. A man gets a reality inside a computer where the program around him walk, ride a lightsaber, fly to the light packet data transmission, fighting on the lightsaber ... drives. The idea on which the film is based, is excellent, in the spirit of exciting fantasy paintings of the time (in some relatives even a TV series «Star Trek»). But with the gradual unwinding of its 90 minutes of screen time drive is lost, and the layering of the secondary plot moves with style, They stole my code line does not support. Fighting the user and a supercomputer at all possible magnitude is very limited.Alas, tightness in the media are not allowed Lisbergeru Stephen and his companions to modify plot component - too much attention to itself required special effects, vector graphics, glued Tanchiki and soaring arch. They, of course, by modern standards, the polballa, but I, for all its self-confidence and professionalism for a month could not draw a two-dimensional shimmering ellipse as a child of another object. And then the three-dimensional figure with a large number of angles in the motion on the technique is not 2010, and 1982 - built-in monitor, mouse, the size of a brick (if any), the operating system without windows, without doors (solid line commands). In my opinion, there should not pucker, and a standing ovation.Actors in this film, no doubt, it was hard. Now all accustomed to the green and blue cloths, and then any non-existent object, designated flags or points, was a novelty. Plus, many artists have played at least two roles (in the main and virtual reality), then there would have to think two personalities, one of them was dressed in a hurry, but soundly tailored leggings with elements of light bulbs.Unfortunately, the hero Jeff Bridges - savvy programmer and understand your software creation with a bang, but the viewer to follow the progress of his thought is problematic. And I think that the main drawback of Tron is not disclosure of the average global ideas, not the level of special effects and editing - all it could to please not another wave of spectators. The main disadvantage, banishing the audience - the film is not a full-fledged character, who would ask questions of what is it?, And how does it work?, What will happen now?. The viewer to seek answers while viewing tape, no one with whom to associate himself, because he was not a master programmer, like the hero of Bridges, was not a program, a gladiator, an embodiment which introduced Bruce Boksleynter and much more so was not reasonable superprotsessorom. Responses, respectively, many have not received, the rules of the game, respectively, did not understand.In the sequel, which was brewed on the studio shelf for 27 years, the main character, as far as can be judged before the release of the blockbuster, the typical popadanets into the unknown, and it will be the element-pioneers who did not have in 1982. These rakes passed, problems with visual three-dimensional twists, like, too, should not arise.So, at the junction of the next decades will be a new movie, which will say how cool ... finally ... with awesome special effects .... A response will be heard wishes to get acquainted with the legendary throne in 1982. "},{"Title":"The Original Avatar?","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Way ahead of its time when it was released in 1982, it could be argued that Tron would go on to influence James Cameron's Avatar. Much like the latter, Tron was a groundbreaking achievement in cinema at the time and like Avatar, it portrayed its characters as having extensions of themselves in another form. In this case, those extensions of the characters are in the form of computer programs that resemble their human counterparts but instead of sharing the host human's personalities, the programmed characters behave similar to what task they were programmed to do. In other words, the computer characters lack human emotions and their actions are based on logic.Jeff Bridges is great as Kevin Flynn/Clu, a video game programmer who gets wronged by his boss when his ideas get stolen. Seeking justice, Flynn creates a computer program called Clu that will be able to hack into his bosses mainframe computer undetected to find the proof he needs to convict him. Things go awry when the mainframe catches on to Flynn's activities and scans him into the cyber world where all the programs battle in gladiator type games.Helping Flynn in the virtual reality world are Tron (Bruce Boxleitner) and Yori who is portrayed by the sexy Cindy Morgan, who was Lacey Underall in Caddyshack. Both of them also portray the programs' human users, Allan Bradley and Dr. Lora Baines who are also dating.Tron is a stylistic adventure that takes you for a virtual ride on its light cycle. It's not just a game. It's a movie. End of line. "},{"Title":"Not very good acting, but still a visually groundbreaking sci-fi piece with a fairly stimulating plot","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sci-fi film came to the silver screen 28 years ago, which was four years before I was born. I never heard of it for a very long time, but last month, just before I finally watched it for the first time, the title sounded familiar. Maybe it was one of the TRON video games I had heard about, since there have apparently been a number of those made since the movie which they are based on. When I first watched this movie, I found it to be dull for quite a while, but then it improved. I felt that it could be better with a second viewing, so with the sequel, Tron Legacy, coming into theatres soon, I watched the original again, not long after my first viewing. This time, it still wasn't quite as good as I had hoped, as I still found the significant flaws in it which I remembered from before, but I was hoping I was right in believing that it would be better that second time, and I think that happened, even if it wasn't exactly a major improvement.Kevin Flynn is a former employee of a software company called ENCOM, but now runs a video arcade. He developed several video games while working for ENCOM, but Ed Dillinger, the senior executive, took the credit for these games, presenting them as his own ideas! Flynn has been trying to hack into the software company's mainframe to find evidence to prove that Dillinger is a fraud, but all his attempts prove to be unsuccessful. One night, Flynn sneaks into ENCOM's laser lab with the help Alan Bradley and his girlfriend, Dr. Lora Baines. In here, Flynn tries to break into the system, but the very powerful Master Control Program does not approve of this, so he digitizes Flynn, sucking him out of the real world and into the digital world, where programs have the same faces as their creators from the real world! Here, the former ENCOM employee is held captive and forced to take part in gladiatorial games with captive programs until he is killed! In order to have any chance of escaping this and getting back to the real world, Flynn must work with other programs, including Tron, developed by Bradley, and somehow put an end to the MCP and his oppression of the other programs in the system! Throughout the film, the acting is continuously lacklustre. There aren't too many cast highlights, if any. For this, 1982's TRON definitely loses some points, but it's not enough to completely ruin the experience. This sci-fi flick is known for its groundbreaking CGI effects, which certainly look primitive by today's standards, as there have been so many advancements in technology since this was made, but they still look good here, with some nice colours. The digital world in this film basically looks like a video game from around the time this was made, with graphics which are fairly simple but still pleasing to the eye. Plotwise, the movie isn't quite a stunner, as it is a little dull as we watch Flynn, Bradley, and Baines conversing before they go to the ENCOM laser lab, but TRON does get better after this, especially after Flynn is forced into the digital world, with the adventure that ensues, which features some good exciting moments, even if the film as a whole could be more suspenseful. For me, trying to stay into it could be a bit of a struggle, probably largely due to the acting and how hokey the film can look, but overall, I certainly can't say the film completely bored me. I can imagine many people today watching this movie and thinking that everything about it is terrible, but if you want to see a milestone in CGI and know not to expect the visuals here to be anywhere near as advanced as computer effects are known to be these days, this innovative 1982 feature is one you might want to check out. "}{"Title":"Opens up and ends great but the middle drags on far to long","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start off by saying for a movie that was made back in 82 I got to say I loved the visuals even if I was only born in 1994. The film is good like a lot of people are saying it is. The score for the film is good, the visuals were good and the acting was decent for a movie made back in the 80's. The film opens up great with the main characters. We meet our hero and our villain we even get to see a little bit of the computer world a little early on which I found to be really great to show. While the opening was great, the middle was just OK and nothing what I was expecting or hoping for to be honest with you. The problem with the middle is that it drags on far to long, there was not enough action. The story was just not going anywhere and at this point you really didn't care to much about the characters, except for Flynn and maybe Tron himself. The middle was really the only thing I didn't like about the film and like I said it dragged on to long. But that is only a small nitpick compared to the rest of the wonderful and beautiful film, it's no wonder why this film is loved so much by the fans it's because it did something that no other film back then dared to do. Tron is a very good film that only suffers from the middle half, if you like good movies then you might want to look at Tron. Now bring on Tron Legacy. "},{"Title":"Still holds up today!....","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In anticipation of the forthcoming Tron Legacy, I thought I'd go a bit retro and take a look at the 1982 original. I remember being blown away by the whole concept when it first came out, but now I'm a tad older and several tads wiser, it's maybe lost a bit of its awe. Don't get me wrong, it's still a pretty enjoyable film&#x85; But more of that later, here's a short summary before I tell you what I really think (summary haters please wait on the game-grid until the end of the next paragraph).Kevin Flynn is a programmer who has been swindled by his old boss, Ed Dillinger. In order to find evidence of Dillinger's con Kevin must break into the system holding the data. He is assisted by his friends, Alan Bradley and Lora. Little do they know a rogue Master Control Program (MCP), written by Dillinger, has taken over the system. Flynn is digitised and sucked into the system, where programs take on the form of their programmers. He is forced to take part in gladiatorial games, at the behest of the MCP, but he escapes with two other programs, Tron and Ram. Now Tron was written by Alan Bradley and is designed to take down the MCP. The trio must make their way to the MCP before it becomes too powerful. They are pursued by the MCP's most powerful warrior, Sark. Will they make it in time? Well, I guess I'd better leave it there, don't want to give too much away.Although it does look fairly dated by today's standards, I think the effects stand up pretty well. You can tell they spent a lot of time and money getting it to look as good as it does. Unfortunately some of the dialogue is a bit wooden, particularly in the first half hour, and the musical score doesn't exactly set your toes tapping, but I can forgive that. Performance wise, Jeff Bridges did a decent job as Kevin Flynn / Clu, as did Bruce Boxleitner as Alan Bradley / Tron. Honourable mentions also go to; David Warner as Ed Dillinger / Sark / Master Control Program and Cindy Morgan as Lora / Yori.I found it a little dull for the first thirty minutes or so, but after Flynn is sucked into the computer it soon grabbed my attention. It brought back so many memories, I used to love playing the light cycles game at the arcade. But enough nostalgia, although is seems a little dated, it's still perfectly watchable today. I really enjoyed it and I hope the younger generation will also get the chance to see this one&#x85; Recommended.My score 6.8/10 "},{"Title":"Bringing  back in circulation","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this Movie in the Theatre, Then on Video, Why is that now I'm trying to locate the Film to see it again, I can't find any version on VHS. The should have been saved to be released on DVD in a future date. I worked in data processing for 25 years and the thought that some one was so creative and thinking about a way to take humans into inner System and move thru the Computer circuits was just sure genius. I thought for the time it was a futuristic Film that should have saved for Future distribution on DVD for their are so many of that would like to have in our collection especially since now the New Release of Tron Legacy is being released in the Theatre. "},{"Title":"A reminder of an age gone by","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron is a reminder of an age gone by; today's Hollywood is a hallmark of amazing CGI to create real real world scenarios. On the contrary Tron uses more traditional techniques and real world elements to generate a virtual world, that of inside a computer. This is a movie for those who at some point in life shared an undying excitement for pong, pac-man and upright cabins of arcade games. Inspired by animation techniques of MAGI and the gaming excitement of Pong, director Steve Lisberger had a vision of integrating the two and bringing the spectacular of video games and computer visuals to silver screen. Tron is a story of a game designer/ hacker Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) who is cheated by an ambitious ENCOM programmer named Ed Dillinger (David Warner) who locks Flynn out of the system and presents Flynn's work as his own. To prove Ed Dillinger's wrong doing Flynn tries to hack into the ENCOM mainframe to find evidence of Dillinger's wrongdoing, but his program, Clu, is caught and erased by the Master Control Program (MCP).MCP is this big-fat AI antagonist who thinks it can do thing 900 to 1200 times better than any human. and decided to take on Pentagon. Meanwhile, Alan a.k.a TRON (Bruce Boxleitner) and his girlfriend, Dr. Lora Baines a.k.a Yori (Cindy Morgan), friends of Flynn sneak him into ENCOM's laser laboratory, where he forge access to mainframe. Lora, who has been developing a method of digitizing real objects into the computer, sets Flynn down at her terminal in the laser lab. As Flynn attempts to break into the system, he is confronted by the MCP, who takes control of the laser and digitizes Flynn into the ENCOM mainframe. Flynn finds himself in the digital world, where Programs resemble their human creators, the Users. Here Sark, a MCPs minion forces the captured programs in a gladiator combat till they are eliminated.Tron is almost wholly a technological movie, of a computer world where programs make themselves romantic and display human nature; first of its kind with many to follow in its footsteps.It's exciting, it's fun, and it's just what video-game fans and anyone with a spirit of adventure will love&#x97;despite plot weaknesses. "},{"Title":"Still cool","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Tron in the theater when I was 16 and at the time it was a very cool movie. The kids here saying it's old and boring better be in for a shock when 30 years from now their kids call District 9 and Transformers boring, but neither of those films broke any new ground, they just repeated what is popular. Tron came out at a time when there were barely computers, I had three in my high school and you had to spend multiple hours on it to write enough code to make a fake looking boxy bird flap it's wings on a monochrome screen. Video games were all the rage but even they were in the infant stage so when something like Tron came out it was like being trust into that world in the coolest way possible.This is not a Disney film like most think though they did fund it and it was light years ahead of it's time. I feel this was more of an experiment than anything else, sort of saying let's see what we can do, almost like Fantasia was in 1940. It is still a visual treat for the eyes and I can't wait to see it in Bluray. The movie has an eerie look and feel to it and though most of it is just overlays of humans on a backdrop it still works in it's sharp coldness. The live action parts are pretty straight forward fare, the acting is good with Tron himself being the best part. Cindy Morgan (who was delicious in Caddyshack) is just lovely here but this is sadly her last film lead.All in all a fun time. For those naysayers, stop comparing generations of film, it will always change and what you think is cool now will later be corny, the trick is to be original and it will last. "},{"Title":"Like the Matrix, but with The Dude as neo...","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron is one of the best films of the 80s. Fact. Never mind the smart Alec at the back telling you its nerdy and dated, or the small skit on the Simpsons which automatically made you (and I admit, me) think it was rubbish, Tron is an intelligent, groundbreaking movie that not only holds up incredibly well visually, but when viewed today, seems to foreshadow the Matrix to such an extent that the Wachowskis should hire a damn good lawyer when Disney notices. Obviously, it isn't as dark or as philosophical, its a fun sci-fi action film, but the fundamentals of plot and the main characters are very similar.The film follows Flynn, a slacker computer programmer who was fired after his work was plagiarised by the hissable David Warner. He tries to hack into the computer to download the eponymous Tron, an antivirus software which will stop the powerful Master Control Programme from taking over the world. So far, so cheesy. However, when it goes wrong he is beamed into the computer and things get distinctly more interesting.Flynn is now captured by computer game villains and force to compete in gladiatorial computer games he devised. After a while though he meets Tron. Tron is a chosen one who must get to the mainframe of the computer and upload a virus in order to stop the villainous computers. Along the way, Tron and Flynn meet an old man who was a remnant of the original programming and are pursued by one of the system's villainous agents. Sark, the villain could very easily be Agent Smith, with Tron as Neo, the old guy as the Oracle and Flynn as Morpheus, the huge chasms of difference in style between this and The Matrix masking very similar plot mechanics.The acting in the film is mostly strong, with the standout cast members the always excellent Jeff Bridges (whose Flynn is almost a precursor to The Dude) and David warner doing the token English bad guy thing as Sark and his real world counterpart. The biggest strength is the visual effects though. You have NEVER seen a film like Tron before, wonderful neon landscapes stretching to infinity in the imaginary computer world. The funny thing is, while people mock, if you try to imagine living inside a computer world, Tron is unavoidably what you come up with.So if you had trepidations about Tron in the past and are open for watching an entertaining, intelligent, exciting and visually stunning piece of work, I recommend you to seek it out.End of Line "},{"Title":"Too bad it has aged so much","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" That was maybe an interesting film when it came out but now it is obsolete and old-fashioned. The plot is too complex to be clear apart from the thief who steals the intellectual property, and copyright, of someone else and gets the profit and the fame for a computer game he never produced. Then the attempt to introduce a super controlling software to take over all games is slightly over-dramatic and leads to a messy situation in which we hardly recognize the characters, apart from them being red or blue, because of their costumes or uniforms or whatever that hardly let their noses and eyes peep out of the dark grey plastic. The special effects are today very old and lack a lot of elaboration. They are simple and the whole film becomes humdrum after a short while.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"A question of existence.","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Or, My two bits..., or Goddard, for the masses This film was way ahead of its time. If you view it as a simple CGI adventure mixed with live action, then you'll think it something quaint, or, at the very least, cute in a nostalgic kind of way. But this film is so much more, and it implores you to open your mind.I have to admit that I was a Star-Trek/Star-Wars sci-fi snob back in the late 70s, and much throughout the 80s. And, I am ashamed and sad to say that I rode the they cheated with computers SFX hype that haunted this truly wonderful and deeply insightful film. The film makers experimented with then cutting edge technology to enhance the theme they were trying to convey.As stated by director Steven Lisberger the point of this film wasn't simply to dazzle the audience of the early 80s with new visuals. It was to introduce a burgeoning world outside the general public's experience with stunning visuals that complimented the story and theme of the film.What we get aren't the nearly photo-realistic CGI images we're so used to in today's big budget productions. We presented a machined world that operates with precision, but that can be regimented under tyranny or opened to create fantastic beauty. This, in and of itself, comments on the real world counterparts who have created Tron's world.But the film goes deeper than that. It's not merely an adventure story, nor a story of seeking restitution, nor some mere social commentary. No. This film truly digs at the soul of mankind by asking what and who we are as a self aware species. It's dressed up with a few zingers, some light adventure and derring-do, but, if you pay attention to the story and dialogue, it truly hits upon primal themes.Who are we? What are we doing here? Good sci-fi takes those questions a step further, and it's given to us in a very clever piece of cinema that's not only interesting to look at, but also fun to watch.There's a lot of contemporary criticism of the dated CGI by some of the other user comments. This bothers me some. One wonders what they were expecting from a film made in 1982. Having worked in SFX, seen cutting edge graphics on high end computers of the 80s before the days of 3D accelerator cards for Pentium computers, all I can say is that I'm still impressed not only with the scope of the visuals, but the sheer scale of imagination. Tron's world looks like a world a living breathing piece of software would live in and spend time in. The tanks aren't CGI M1 Abrams, but something truly unique. A design unto themselves to accentuate the mood and feel of their environment, and the mind of the creator.I'm going to go out on a limb here, but one can also truly say that this is also a very religous or spiritual film. It doesn't just contain an existential theme, but it also alludes to the notion of a higher existence. A life after this one. A creator, or perhaps pantheon of deities. And yet, like all great sci-fi allegories, the message is cleverly wrapped, camouflaged if you will, in a nice elegant tale of adventure.And that's why this film is so good. It's not just about people, computers and people uniquely interacting with computers with some whiz-bang SFX. It's a real exploration of the human soul.Oh sure, there're some jokes, some stunts and moments of high energy, but there're also some very tender moments. When the film starts to wrap up at the end. As an example, it is truly comforting to witness true love and romance in the electronic world, and a manifestation of it as introduced by Jeff Bridge's character, who plays a kind of Prometheus in matters of both heart and mind. And that adds a whole new layer of profundity to an already hearty film.I personally gave it a pass when it was in theatres, and am sorry to say that I did. But, after seeing a little bit of it on HBO, my sci-fi snobbery changed to one of welcome acceptance, and I soon went out and rented the VHS. It's a film that's stayed with me for a long time. And when the special edition DVD hit the shelves, I grabbed it right away.Truly a remarkable film. If you didn't get anything out of it the first time, then give it another chance. If you simply like it for what it is, then that's all anyone can ask. If you're a little curious as to what I posted here in my comments, then I urge you to view it once more with an open mind. You won't regret it.Enjoy -) "},{"Title":"The myth-like Tron","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron was a landmark film. It did fail at box office but I remember the movie fascinated me as an eight year old in the Atari era. Then the arcade game came out and everybody loved throwing blue neon discs at each other.Far ahead of its time. Yeah, like no other. It presented to the laymen world (even hard science fiction had barely touched this subject yet) the concept of a world in the computers. Other films had shown AI gaining consciousness already but none had created the binary based computer reality that this one showed.Its antagonists were a cadre of Imperial like overseers. Its mother brain had gone mad. The titular hero was like a Greek champion. And humanity prevailed against all odds. Excellent.Modestly the story and simplicity in some scripting was shallow at times,despite of that this film holds up remarkably well due to its mythic fable like qualities. "},{"Title":"the visual effects and animation are so incredible you might forget how thin the plot is","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON made me believe in how ambitious anyone working in animation and visual effects, like those working on TRON in 1982, could ever try to be. It's a film with such an incredibly loaded palette of sights and colors and shapes and contours and technological things that pop up, one might be distracted just about long enough to forget that the story at the center and the characters aren't very memorable. Which maybe is just as well - the director Steven Lisberger and his co-writer leave it all to what can be seen, as 'show, don't tell' becomes the mantra in delving into the simulated world of TRON. It's a computer game, the biggest and most elaborate one, and it's really great for two audiences kids who love simple adventure/drama put to the smashing graphics, or those looking for the next 2001. Better yet, put it on a double bill with Wachowskis' Speed Racer and see if you come out on the other side unscathed.Then again, Lisberger isn't entirely reliant on the trippy-goes-tech mind-set. He also has Jeff Bridges as the lead, at ease a charismatic and too-smart-for-his-britches gamer who's a whiz at it but wants to hack back into the system to get the evidence that he really created the games that a business hack (David Warner) is claiming credit for. Just as he gets close enough to the source, he's copied and pasted (to use today's computer lingo) into the actual computer simulation that he created to 'play the game' against MCP- the Master Control Program- who runs like HAL squared, completely indomitable (seemingly anyway) and the puppet master to villain Warner.So yeah, a lot of this sounds like ripped off of cheesy 50s sci-fi magazines. Which, in small doses, is part of the fun. None of this is very brainy, despite what the filmmakers might want you to believe or that it has any kind of 'statement' to make about the horrors or dangers of technology. It doesn't pretend to be anything else that it isn't, which is why it (mostly) succeeds. While it doesn't cross that same barrier it's CGI descendant Toy Story or other Pixar movies did- it doesn't have the solid story worked out or with enough humans to care about- it holds up fantastically well some 25+ years later. It's also probably best to seek it out at a revival screening or midnight showing somewhere, as it's also a must for a big-screen viewing; you get lost in this world, so much so you'll just stare at it, bewildered, maybe too much so. It's its own... world, for a little while. "}{"Title":"Don't overpraise it yet","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron, to me was a one of a kind movie....pioneering the age of CGI movies, it had an immense task to accomplish. Of course when watching the movie, i wasn't expecting Lord of The Rings graphics but i didn't expect what i saw. It was incredibly simple and frame like and the dialog was corny...if there was any at all. The soundtrack was especially annoying due to the monotony of the computer generated noise. It wasn't all bad for me though since i found the concept behind the movie very original and well put out...a good plot was lacking however and the plot had more holes than a sieve. Anyway, it was painfully entertaining but i must say that what i enjoyed the most was relating the characters and setting to the modern day computer. The similarities are astounding considering that the film was made in the early 80's.Oh and another thing, how in the world did the writers expect people to understand the film fully when 99% of the populace dint know what a computer was??? Just asking... "},{"Title":"Profound themes and allegories, as well as being a great action movie!","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Truly a movie ahead of it time in many ways and yet the conflict between good versus evil in this movie could easily represent the Cold War that our nation was dealing with at the this movie was released(1982). The MCP represents the evil, atheistic, and dictatorial communist threat. The the programs looking to bring down the MCP represent the god-fearing American ideals of freedom, innovation, and well-rewarded hard work. What makes the film ahead of its time is the use of a setting that was still very foreign to many people at the time the inside of a computer. The computer in every house boom had yet to take off, and many people still didn't even have them at work. But yet it worked because the creators avoided making the parameters of that world overly technical, and instead, made it seem almost fantastical. The filmmakers employed everything that their cutting-edge animation style was providing. The digital landscape had varied terrains, perilous cliffs, and natural elements, but you never lose the thought that the action is taking place inside a computer.The continuous power-seeking, and fear instilling motives of the MCP parallels the worst characteristic that we were taught about communist regimes at the time. The MCP denies the existence of Users (God), and eliminates any program who believes otherwise. Furthermore, it has turned its own user into a servant, much like the core ideals of communism demand that the party be served at any cost, especially over a single humans desire to rise above.More interestingly though is how the American ideals represented by the protagonist actually divert from the aggressive capitalist and conservative ideals that prevailed at the time with Reagan in office and his efforts to deregulate and restrict the governments role in general. For Tron, the lead program out to destroy the MCP, is ultimately an oversight program, powerful in its own right. Even more than his user, a rigid programmer who needs the assistance of his more daring friend to bring help bring down MCP. More to the point Tron ultimately wishes to organize a more benevolent order to the digital world where programs live free, but ultimately have their fated-function. To me this represents a more socialistic view point, where class exists free of persecution under the guidance of a strong governmental infrastructure.Aside from all that above-theoretical mumbo-jumbo, it is all just a great little action movie, with great performances by David Warner, and Jeff Bridges, who plays the daring Flynn who Serendipitously gets shrunk down and injected into the computer to help Tron. "},{"Title":"The Story Is Silly--But The Visuals Are Still Stunning","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disney's TRON received mixed reaction when it debuted in 1982, but now it seems even more visually amazing than when it first appeared. The story is slight when computer hacker Jeff Bridges attempts to access a computer system to find proof of theft, a self-aware master program responds by digitalizing him and transporting him into the computer itself. Once on the other side of the screen, he finds himself embroiled in a conflict between programs personified as humanoid beings, some of whom battle against the master program's control.TRON was possibly the first mainstream feature-length films to incorporate computer generated graphics; surprisingly, however, the film relies much more heavily upon various animation techniques that give the appearance of being computer generated. Much of the art concept was inspired by arcade games that were popular in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and as such some viewers accuse the film of being primative in design after all, our ideas about computers and computer graphics have changed quite a lot in the past 30 years. But in fact, computer graphics have moved increasingly toward simulations of reality; the complete unreality of TRON is part of what makes the film both effective and enjoyable.TRON is visually fascinating, seemingly made with DVD in mind, and I found the DVD transfer quite good. The anniversary edition includes a second DVD with bonus material that ranges from a fairly lengthy Making Of documentary to storyboards and art designs; the Making Of is quite interesting and gives the viewer a good sense of the challenges the technicians faced in creating the film. Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Charming special effects mile stone","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is perhaps not the most important movie ever made story-wise, but it certainly is a mile stone along the road of special effects. With Star Wars having been released five and The Empire Strikes Back two years earlier a person watching the movie for the first time today may not think that its all that amazing even in that aspect, but what's so special is that it helped divert special effects into a whole new direction - obviously into a far more computer oriented one. The effects may never have been considered as stunning as the previously mentioned Star Wars movies were at the time, but they do possess a certain charm that gives Tron quite a unique feel to it. And unlike most movies you see today Tron comes with a tricky little post-movie challenge. After having seen the movie, try telling your friends about it and convince them to see it - without sounding like you've completely lost it.Well, its about a guy who's like sucked into a computer and forced to participate in computer games from like the Pong era... but he decides to revolt and fight this master control program (sort of like Windows or MacOS i suppose)... and to his assistance he has this guy, who's like a fire wall or something. Didn't quite get that part... it's good tho. You should rent it somedaySo, yeah, good luck with that.  "},{"Title":"Now a period piece","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is, for all practical purposes, a cult movie once one got beyond the dazzling animation. Acting isn't great, and one gets few memorable lines (this isn't Casablanca!) The script, which entails the usual anthropomorphism that one associates with Disney, has obvious limitations due to the story. For an exercise in expressing technology at once both mesmerizing and menacing, one now has a period piece. So the tables are turned and a videogame devotee becomes a part of the game with all of the dangers that one associates with the artificial objects and characters of the game once he breaches the security devices of a game which an 'evil corporation' has stolen from the player; it's Alice in Wonderland with testosterone but little charm. This time one can't simply insert another quarter when the game ends; one could be de-rezzed (that is, obliterated like one of those videogame characters when zapped. Good but not great; I give it a '7' out of a '10'. Several movies handle some of the same elements of plot far better than does Tron; 20001 A Space Odyssey far better treats a machine gone bad; Metropolis (1927!) holds up far better because it better establishes the seriousness of the situation; the original Star Wars trilogy far better delineates good and evil so that one has more cause to associate with the hero. Settling a personal injustice and getting what one deserves isn't quite as admirable as saving the universe.         "},{"Title":"DEFINITELY FOR THE VIDEO GAME BUFFS!","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It maybe an early 80's film, but it is a must for all the die hard video game buffs in any generation. Who can forget the Ataris, Colecovisons,Intelevisons, game systems. Tron is an all-time game classic. If it haven't been for this movie there wouldn't be any hit video games that are here today. Jeff Bridges was great at playing Flynn, he really fixed that no-good boss of his, and he saved both worlds, I hope his heart doesn't get put out of place. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Adventure for Its Time","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When people watch this movie today for the first time, I think they need to try to imagine that they are watching the movie in another context--the early 1980s.  This was a time before there was an Internet, before E-mail, before Windows and even before the graphical user interface operating system of the first Macintosh.  Almost no one owned a computer and many educated people had no idea exactly what a computer was or what it did.  However, I think people were aware or at least suspected that a new world might be on the horizon.  Computers were very sexy and there was a huge buzz in the air about them.  Coin-op video games had just come into existence (Asteroids, Space Invaders), the Atari 2600 was around, and schools had begun to set up computer labs full of Applee's.  Still, computers in everyday life were non-entities.  They were the wild frontier.I watched TRON two or three times when I was a kid and I really enjoyed it.  What a fantastic, original adventure for its time and a hint of the kind of computer-based adventure (the Internet) that was to come.I think this movie is important because it encouraged and inspired people who like science and technology with a glimpse into the kind of computing power that might be available in the future and its suggestion that our society and way of life would change dramatically.  (Did more than 5% of the population in 1982 spend more than one or two hours a week on a computer?  No.  Today, probably 90% of anyone between the ages of 10 and 40 spends at least 14 hours per week on a computer and our means of exchanging and obtaining information over the Internet is unprecedented--I'd call that a radical change.)The movie itself does not have the depth of Shakespeare (which can be said for 95% of all), but it is still a fun movie when you maintain the context I presented and it's better than 75% of the movies produced today.  The plot and premise are good and it deserves many points for originality and it's great looks.I have not watched it recently. but many of its images and scenes still play out vividly in my mind and I remember being swept away as a pre-teen.  It grabbed my imagination and it will always have a nostalgic value for me. "},{"Title":"Even better on DVD......","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is amazing how formatting a film can change your perception of it. In it's original VHS full frame version, much of the impact of TRON's special computer fx were lost in the transfer and some of the darker scenes of action and adventure didn't quite come across as well. Also, the opening voice over and card looked out of place.It was with some reservation that I bought a copy of the 2-Disc DVD Special Edition of TRON and found it to be even better this time around. Granted, the fashions and video games of the 80's don't really match up to some of the games you can now get on PS2, XBOX or GAMECUBE, but the passion for the video game in the early 80's is still apparent.The effects seem simplistic, but as are effective as they were on the original release in the cinema and the light cycle sequence is up there with anything the makers of THE MATRIX can turn out. "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie made a great impression on me when I was a youngster because of the cool setting. Sure it looks dated today, but the strength, the timelessness, of this movie is not in the special effects but in the acting. Jeff Bridges, Bruce Boxleitner, Cindy Morgan, David Warner, and Barnard Hughes are great. There are so many memorable lines. It isn't the characters and what they do that are interesting as much as how the actors play the characters. If you have fond memories of playing computer games on an Apple IIe, Tron will probably strike a chord with you. "},{"Title":"Inspiration for The Matrix","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hi,After seeing this movie again recently I was amazed how much the computer world full of software and hardware metaphores was similar to the computed world of The Matrix. You've got guards that are comparable with the agents from the Matrix, guardian tanks etc. that are comparable with the spider-like robots from The Matrix. The computer programmer that gets into the computer world turns out to have extraordinary powers, like Neo. And so on. I'm pretty sure the Wachowski brothers got at least some (maybe unconscious) inspiration from Tron.I still think the design and storyline of Tron is fantastic. I think it's the honourable godfather of 3D animation on the big screen. My deepest respect to the creators for realizing such an amazingly visionary movie in a time the world wasn't really ready for it yet.Cheers,Metin "}{"Title":"Never fails to make me want to play the game","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, the movie wasn't great.  But to clear something up, the movie came first.  The game(s) came later.  So if for no other reason, this movie is great because it brought us what was perhaps THE greatest arcade game EVER.The movie itself does kind of drag on a bit in the middle.  Could have been better, but considering what it took to make it, I think we can cut everyone involve some slack.  Not the best movie, but not the worst.Watch the movie once.  Play the game forever.  (And don't forget the game Discs of Tron.  A game that is more related to the movie.) "},{"Title":"Milestone of Backlight Animation","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me get a few thigs straight The plot is nothing great, but not bad. Same goes for the actors. But there are a few things that make Tron more than just another cybermovie. It is the first computer animated film. It is quite interesting to see, how the did animation back then. Sometimes one has to laugh about their blue eyed ideas of how to animate some sequences. Other scenes are incredibly well made.And the backlight animation is now as great as ever. It has never been done, because it is that expensive. But the results are amazing.However, if you are interested in the techniques used in this move, you will really like it. The pictures are great, but the rest is just average.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is one of the best films of the 80's that uses superb technology and very impressive graphics based on a straight but not a very simple storyline.The story is of a hacker who breaks into a system to get proof of the control of a master control,and in doing so gets zapped by a laser and before he knows it he is inside the machine playing against all the programs as a user. He escapes but is still trapped and must find a way to stop the master control and escape.The storyline is strange but very intelligent. I think children who watch this might not understand it fully but will love the action sequences.The acting is great and Jeff Bridges is great as Kevin Flynn. I rate 5/5. "},{"Title":"Tron,it's all nostalgia to me","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just bought the 2 disc DVD of TRON and I'm already in love with it. The graphics are still great and although the story isn't really what I'd expected from Disney (Toystory 1 and 2 were excellent, This movie will always be in my heart.Play the free 3D game of Tron lightcycles. This game looks exactly as the game in the movie does. I'm certainly hooked to it. have fun, "},{"Title":"One of Disney's only good movies.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never really liked Disney or their movies, but back in 1982, Disney wasn't so bad.  Tron is an amazing film even 20 years after it was released. Even though the computer graphics and sythesised music seem odd, they were top notch back in 1982.  I love this movie. I think you have to be really geeky, like myself, to really enjoy it.  The plot in the beginning of the movie goes fast and is kind of hard to follow but most of it comes together later in the film. Overall this movie is great if your either really into computers or really into the 80's (Who isn't? ;P) "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wouldn't say this is the coolest movie I have ever seen but it is fantastic in special effects and original in the storyline.  I enjoyed watching the discus-throwing games and the racing and the characters of Flynn, Tron, Ram, Yorgi and Sark were pretty well thought out.  It is great for sci-fi fans, computer freaks and people who understand that this movie was before 'The Matrix' in a time when special effects weren't what they are now.  I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly done, 7.5 out of 10","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I want to give this a 7.5 rating, I seen it fully for the fist time only a month ago on sky cinema channels. Although the story line is a bit hard to follow it is brilliantly done for the time, still looks good, although computer graphics look to simple compaired to now.I like the bit where there is bike race inside the computer program, you feel as if you are there. Nearly all the cast play two parts, on the outside world and the computer world.David Warner playes a bad guy role in the outside and as a head computer program, David Warner plays a typical baddy as in nearly all his films, he is a good actor.Summing up a must see for people who are into computer graphics used in filming etc, and I think this film has influenced the likes of The Matrix. Reading up on Tron, this film was highly praised for visual effects by computer, although graphics look slightly basic it is still brilliantly done. 7.5/10 for visual effect (for the early 80's) by computer.  "},{"Title":"Think about the future exploring Tron","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The year is 1982, and Disney, still in the grip of its what would Walt have done? era under then-Chairman and Executive Producer Ron Miller, has, in a rare fit of innovation, hired Boston-based animator/director Steven Lisberger to create a spectacular sci-fi revolution. It will eventually be titled TRON.At its core, the basic plot of TRON is a standard right-the-wrong story. Kevin Flynn, the film's central character (Jeff Bridges), is an up-and-coming videogame-arcade owner, recently fired from his job at a top electronics conglomerate named Encom. Flynn, however, has reason to believe that his firing was unjust; and the story follows his bid to correct that error. As we hear him tell his former co-workers, Dr. Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner) and his girlfriend/colleague, Laura (Cindy Morgan), Flynn had been part of Encom 3 years earlier, and had hoped to launch his own game-making enterprise on the strength of the game Space Paranoids, which he himself had designed. Fate, however, intervened --- and his name turned out to be Ed Dillinger (David Warner). It is Dillinger, Flynn explains, who was responsible for stealing the original Paranoid program; the problem is, Encom's all-powerful --- and power-hungry --- Master Control Program (MCP) has shut down access to the entire system, preventing Flynn from obtaining the evidence he needs to prove Dillinger's treachery.To secure that evidence, Flynn must journey into the heart of the MCP itself.... and what a journey that is! We are taken into an electronic society whose inhabitants --- exact doppelganers of the humans who programmed them --- wage intense video-battles for the right to survive and flourish. This, I think, would say something about the career of Steven Lisberger himself. Many of those responsible for TRON came from Lisberger's Boston-based animation studio --- among them, producer Donald Kushner and supervising animator Roger Allers. They had just come off of filming the 1980 feature Animalympics, and were all set to sell the rights to that film's characters to NBC, the idea being to use said characters as Saturday-morning hosts for the duration of the Summer Olympic Games. Alas, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and President Jimmy Carter's boycott of the Moscow games put the kibosh on those plans (even now, Lisberger's Animalympic characters are gaining a rebirth of sorts on the web); so now, two years later, they hoped to have better luck with the Mouse Factory.While the visuals of TRON were fairly exciting, the film was a limited sort of success when it was originally released; indeed, it did little to boost director Lisberger's subsequent career. He claims to be in negotiations with Disney to conceive, direct and supervise an alleged sequel, to be called TRON 2.0 --- but, as always, I'll believe it when I see it. Still, there can be no denial that TRON was the first movie to really fuse together the worlds of motion pictures and computer technology. I watched an excerpt from a retrospective making-of documentary on TRON in which it was revealed that the Academy refused to even nominate the film for a Visual Effects Oscar because neither models on hand-drawn animation was used in creating TRON's visuals. This got me to thinking Were we all that nearsighted, even in a post-Star Wars generation? Perhaps we did not know it at the time, but I would imagine that some of us believed we had reached the future of special-effects based movies. Wrong. It would be up to Pixar and Toy Story some 15 years later to raise the bar in terms of the future of the marriage of computer and film. John Lasseter hit the nail on the head Without TRON, he said, there would be no 'Toy Story'. And even today, there are some who have no choice but to agree. I happen to be one of those people.In fact, I for one would not only like to see a renaissance of TRON, but also a renaissance of the original legacy of director Steven Lisberger, in the form of his characters from Animalympics. If Disney secures the rights to that property, and hires him to supervise and direct a new version, that likewise would be the coolest thing of all! Hopefully, those who are now re-embracing TRON will let the Mouse Factory know.In closing, though, just this there will always be controversies in films and filmmaking --- spearheaded by men and women who are more than willing to think outside the normal way of filmmaking. Such a person, I think, is Steven Lisberger ..... and his epic saga called TRON was, and is, among the first pioneer films to represent this small breed of controversies.  "},{"Title":"Underrated science fiction classic","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron rarely gets the respect it deserves. It's been a cool thing in recent years to mock it, as they have done on The Simpsons, yet Tron is still once of the greatest science fiction movies ever made... and by DISNEY??!!The storyline is a recognizable one, borrowed somewhat from the Harlan Ellsion story I have no mouth and I must Scream, about a supercomputer that becomes something of a god. However, unlike the Ellsion story in which the computer actually takes over the world, the computer in Tron has its own innerspace world contained within itself.The special effects in this movie were astounding for the time, and still look great after the passing of time (and are a lot cooler and more imaginative than the modern day CGI obsession). Jeff Bridges is always a solid performer, and Bruce Boxleitner (later of Babylon 5 fame) is very good as well. Cindy Morgan plays the primary female character, who is probably best known as Judge Smails' sexy niece from Caddyshack, of all things.Uppity look down your nose types will probably find plenty to mock, but then, when is that not the case? Ignore the fact that it's made by Disney, and sit back and enjoy a great science fiction adventure classic. "},{"Title":"Thank you Wendy Carlos","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a man of few words, I am truly awed by the musical score for this film. That said, I am inspired to make the following commentThe world would be greatly benefited by an even more futuristic re-make or sequel to this fanciful yet believable story of another world created by man's quest for knowledge. "}{"Title":"A Milestone in the History of Film","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is one of those movies that comes along every once in a while that you either like or don't like. But, like it or not, all of the special effects you see today with CGI are the result of Tron's pioneering efforts.From the moment I first saw it, I loved Tron. The imagination and the artistry writer/director Steven Lisberger and his crew used on this film was just staggering. Not just CGI was used, but so was traditional animation and backlit animation. All of these tools were combined maginificently (for that time).The story centers on a computer programmer named Flynn (Jeff Bridges) and his quest to prove that he was the creator of several video games Dillinger (David Warner) stole from him. In the process he gets sucked into the computer and is forced to play on the Game Grid for the Master Control Program. Along the way, he is aided by Tron (Bruce Boxleitener) and Yori (Cindy Morgan).The characters can sometimes be a bit static (especially the programs), but the movie is enjoyable overall. The sets and production design add greatly to the believability of a computer world. And an interesting notion was the fact that everyone in the real world has an alter-ego in the computer world.Tron has a lot of imagination and a lot of work put into it. All the work paid off in the end. It was a proving ground for a new filmmaking tool, a tool that is still used today. It still captures my imagination, even though the film is somewhat dated. And as John Lasseter, director of three of the Disney/Pixar film says on the DVD, Without 'Tron', there would be no 'Toy Story'. "},{"Title":"A breakthrough in movies, and a heck of a lot of fun.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Along with Star Wars, Indiana Jones, and Star Trek movies, I grew up watching Tron countless times. I'm 19 now, and when I first watched Tron, it was during the rise of Nintendo, and like many kids my age, video games were it. The idea of Flynn going into the computer world and playing video games as it were, was enough for me. The Lightcycle scene still brings a big smile to my face.Upon the purchase of the newly released 20th Anniversary DVD, I was reminded of why I loved this movie so much growing up. While the special effects might not be great by todays standards, this movie was a breakthrough for it's time, and I think it still looks good today. People may find the plot a little confusing, and a unbelivable, but hey, this is fantasy. It never hurts to sit back and enjoy. It's also fun to see a young Jeff Bridges in action. I consider him a very talented actor, and Tron is definently not his best performance, but he still does turn a good one. What about his scream when he's playing Clu and hits the wall with the tank? Am I the only one who finds that hilarious? The rest of the cast does a fairly good job. I like David Warner's delivery You're nothing!.All in all, I think if you give Tron a chance, and not expect realism, there is a lot of fun to be had. Tron has a special place in my DVD collection, and I'll continue to enjoy it for many years to come. Sit back and enjoy the world of Tron. By the way, take a moment and read peewees review right below mine. Very clever use of movie quotes. Thanks for the laugh!                         END OF LINE "},{"Title":"What REALLY happens in your computer!!!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What REALLY happens in your computer!!! A move way ahead of its time.  The best CG in all of the early eighties! A must see for the computer nerd, especially for programmer/hacker type. Enjoy one of the best computer movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Tributes to other sf films","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Look for the poster in the back of Alan Bradley  (Bruce Boxleitner)'s cubicle in the early part  of the movie.  That always gets a few titters  in the audience when it's screened. "},{"Title":"Has anyone ever seen the movie Tron?   YES !","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must have seen that episode of the Simpsons 4 or 5 times before actually having an interest in seeing Tron, and I can see why they put that in the show. If I would have seen this in 198X and had not been in computer technology, this would have moved me to that field the next week.  The story and the effects lose you in the movie, and even for 2002 they are quite impresive.  Rather than just having a computer sim. animal/ fight scene/ gun fight, you are in somewhere trying to survive, with bright graphics and new machines that have never been seen before are commonplace.  Very imaginative, makes this movie a cult classic for nerds and sci-fi people alike. Worth watching for everyone, a must see for fans of computers and special effects, because this was the first movie that put Star Wars to shame in that department, and only a few years after the release of it. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok my summary was hardly jaw dropping but what else can I say? If you love the 80's,computers or storys that are certainly not so run-of-the-mill,then you must see this movie! I am in no way/shape or form a Disney fan (actually I generally hate Disney movies because of all the musical gak in it) so this is truly a stand alone Disney flick. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The greatest leap for computer graphics since Star Wars.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although many people may now write it off as cheesy or dated, or even as a quaint example of 'how things used to be', Tron was a huge step forward. The red and blue flourescent lighting lend it an atmosphere like no other film ever created, of a completely artificial world. The immense contrast between the real world and the computer world is shown perfectly by this, as things which were once perceived as small and insignificant are now highly dangerous. Yes, this was also done with Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, but this was also a breakthrough film for other reasons.For, as video games became an increasingly more important part of everyday life in the US and worldwide, Tron was the first film to have a video game tie-in. For a modern film to have a video game released concurrently is nothing special, and often they're not spectacularly good. But Tron was the perfect way to start this phenomenom. And, as an example of how computer games of films should be done, this is upstaged only by GoldenEye007. The range of game types, from the car racing to the shoot-em-up sections, taken from the film, could be perfectly represented on the 4-bit Spectrums, Amigas and BBCs of the 1980s.As Disney movies go, it's far from the most famous and far from the best loved. However, as a huge sci-fi fan, this is almost up there with Toy Story as perhaps the greatest Disney film ever made, simply because it makes a significant effort not to fit with the formula of their cartoon films, and that is why it is probably the best film of the 80s. "},{"Title":"Stupid Premise, But What AMAZING Special Effects!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a must see!The idea of a person getting digitized and sucked into a computer is ludicrous (as attested to by the fact that Digimon used the premise).  The plot seems very loose, and some concepts are raised but never explored.But the special effects are incredible!  Especially considering the time period.  While today's technology could do things differently, it could not make the movie look any better.  TRON is one of the greatest pieces of eye candy ever produced.  If you haven't seen it, you are definitely missing out. "},{"Title":"The Gospels!?!?!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me tell you... If you haven't seen this movie go away, there are a few spoilers in my review.I just wanted to know if anyone has seen the common story of Flynn and Jesus. Now I know I'm going to be wrapped in the mouth for this but bare with me...We have an Inventor that creates a world(video game world). The world is stolen from him(from a man dressed in red). So he must go down to the world that he created and save the programs that he created. On this world all the weak and downtrodden programs believe in The USER. Well all of a sudden there is this new program on the scene that can do things that they've never seen before. Like fix vehicles with his bare hands and heal weak programs(people). He starts to develop followers. And at the end what does he do but sacrifice his own life to gain his world back. He also ascends back up to the world he came from. Sound similar to me. But you can also find a common source of material in E.T. and Gladiator. So I guess the Story of Jesus is a good one to go by.I'd really like to know what people thing of this.  "},{"Title":"stunning visuals","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mostly when someone says stunning visuals it means there are a lot of convincing monsters that get blown up in terrific and bloody ways. I really mean the whole look of the thing. The story of Tron is kind of wonky, but not as wonky as the internal logic of the film. But how this virtual world looks! Incredible, even now. I think in the geometric figures and the colouring, the film is very stylish and unique, especially to todays standards. "}{"Title":"An oldie but a goodie","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** As a young programmer, 17 to be exact, I vaugely remembered bits of this old movie. As you grow up I think everyone has memories of stories ,or in this case movies, they heard/saw when they were kids. Having a chance to see this movie again was GREAT. Now you don't want to watch this if your looking for great graphics, on the other hand for 1982 these are as good as it gets. I've heard that the plot wasn't easy to follow so let me help you out.A young and talented computer programmer named Kevin Flynn wrote a few games but before he gets the chance to make his programs public another programmer named Dillenger steals his programs and takes credit. Dillenger, who is now a top boss, inserts a program he wrote called Main Control. The program main control is designed to basically break into systems/hack if you will/ and steal information to make itself better. Now Flynn is not happy for having his programs stolen by Dillenger and losing his job so he starts doing some hacking of his own to gain evidence against Dillenger. Unfortunately the Main Control program is now very powerfull from stealing information from all other programs and won't let Flynn into the system, also Main Control is getting very irratated with Flynn's seemingly non stop hacking.While all this is going on two programers make two other programs. One is called Tron which is a security secretly designed to destroy Master Control, and the other is Yori which is designed to turn Matter into data. Now to make a story short Flynn has to go to the companies building to hack into the system. Master Control has had enough so uses Yori on him thus turning him into data.Now he is in the computer, where ironically every program looks like it's user/programmer. Here Flynn is like a god because he can generate data as he needs it. Eventually he mets up with tron and together they destroy Master Control. Since master Control is now destroyed Flynn gets into the system and gets the evidence and boom thats the story.It's really a great movie. A classic for any computer person. "},{"Title":"80s classic sci-fi","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A classic of 80s cinema. People who slate this film for having dated effects are really missing the point. Of course they look dated when held up against the likes of Toy Story or Final Fantasy, but when you consider the year this film was made, the effects become pretty damn impressive. To me, this is always what I will imagine the inside of a computer game looks like.  "},{"Title":"A fun adventure that is extremely dated but in a good way","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is very much a movie of the 80's. The special effects,the story all sing 1982.  Despite that, or perhaps because of it, Tron delights me time and time again. The Lightcycle scenes especially delight. If you have not seen it go get the DVD "},{"Title":"classic cyberpunk story that's chock-full of good stuff!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is incredible.  Why?  First off, examine the plot.  It's man versus computer in a techno-psychadelic universe.  Second, look at the visuals. It's pure classic cyberpunk.  It's a dark world lined with Atari graphics. Perfect setting for a story like this.  Add these two together and who would want it any other way?  Sure, the graphics are long outdated.  Sure the animation bleeds a bit.  But this set the standard for those modern day 'matrix-type' movies we all love so much.  Give Tron a chance.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Good for it's time","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Taking into consideration that this movie was made in the early 80's the visual effects and graphics are mind blowing and sometimes look ahead of it's time.  Although those were the days of blocky graphics and it looked like everything was made out of lego bricks, this movie is still very fascinating and visually stunning.However, the movie doesn't really take my fancy.  I tend to get lost and confused with the plot. If it weren't for the cool 80's computer graphics I'd probably throw this movie on the garbage heap.Like Highlander, Tron has created a good cult following, I wonder what Tron 2.0 will have in store for us?6/10 "},{"Title":"Grandaddy of the computer animation revolution","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this movie as a wee lad it blew my mind.  So the computer animation in the film may have been eclipsed and the mythology about what goes on inside a computer may call for suspension of disbelief in a more computer-savvy America - but by 1982 standards it's way ahead of its time.For those of you who had an Atari or Collecovision in the early 80s or dumping pockets full of quarters into the arcade games of the era, this film is a stunning interpretation of the look and sound of those games.  The Wendy Carlos score brilliantly incorporates electronic music to add another texture layer to the world of Tron.  This film is worth checking out for its unique visuals alone, but also sports a very good (if perhaps more child-oriented) story. "},{"Title":"For die-hard techies and computer geeks only","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  TRON is a visually stunning film. There. I've stated the only redeeming feature of this, one of Disney's early forays into non-juvenile films, that in at first viewing looked cool but now is tiring and exhibits a distinct lack of character development. Difficult to follow anyway because of all the technical jargon in the dialog, plot takes a back seat to computer-animated sets and costumes. The weird neon lines of the costumes and monochome colors of the actors' faces induce eye-strain. A good concept that should have stayed a concept. "},{"Title":"Truly this movie is the MAtrix of the 80's.","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a kid, i grew up loving all things Disney. Tron i would say was about my favorite of most disney movies because it was so unique like others such as the Black Hole. Jeff Bridges has come a long way and even though he is most well known with the Last Picture Show, I assume him as this video game character. But Bruce Boxeleitner is the real stealer. With his all-american looks, he does a wonderful job as the main character. "},{"Title":"Truly a classic.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is, so far as I am aware, the first motion picture to be based on the paradigm of a computer as a place for programs to live and work, and it argues quite eloquently for that paradigm. The combination of computer animation, colorized black-and-white footage, photo-rotoscoping, and creative set and costume design gives the world inside the computer a striking appearance, and the score, combining live orchestra, live chorus, analog and digital synths, and the Royal Albert Hall organ, is one of the finest to come from the pen of synthesist/composer Wendy Carlos. "},{"Title":"Truly a revolutionary film.","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I'm sure to many people it seems dated by today'sspecial effect standards, this movie blew me away as a kidand still looks sharp and colorful today.  The neon futuristiccolors inside the computer world are as trippy as they come;and even if the acting is not brilliant it's certainly morethan qualified to tell a story which is ultimately the age oldbattle of good versus evil.  These days PG movies which don'tfeature animated characters or cute animals seem few and farbetween, but Tron harkens back to an age when a good filmcould be made for all audiences without insulting the intellectof anyone attending.  I'm proud to call this one of the tenbest movies I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"A lost near-masterwork","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How sad this little miracle of a movie has virtually disappeared from people's memories since it debuted almost two decades ago. Maybe I was just a subjective, overly impressionable yute when Tron opened in 1982,( I was thirteen.) but I don't care. I know it was a major box-office disappointment, most critics reemed it ( only Siskel and Ebert raved about it ), and I admit a noticeable portion of dialouge borders, if not cross over, to nerdy or just plain stupid, but I don't care. ( I noticed the occasionaly clunky dialogue even then. Tron was a fantastic feast for the eyes AND ears with it's quirky sound effects.( And I'm sure it STILL is with the right entertainment system) It's true sometimes I couldn't figure what was actually happening, or why, but I was so mesmerized... Tron really was a groundbreaker. Maybe I AM tainted with nostolgia, I suppose it is a geek's flick, but if the studs had more fun, at least we had, and deeply appreciated, other people's imagination. I'm actually greatful to this movie for giving me some pleasant memories. What a sad loss.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jeff Bridges best film is also one of my favorites. Saw it as a kid in the theater and loved the video game. It's like a two hour long Atari game.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Hacker dukes it out with Computer","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Set in today's world.  Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) is a hacker who writes programs to break into a corporation's security program, as it is noted for stealing programs.  In the background, Ed Dillinger (David Warner) has been using the Master Control Program to steal all kinds of secrets and pirating programs to figure out what they have.Flynn is friends with Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner) and Lora (Cindy Morgan), fellow programmers.  Bradley has written a top-level security program known as Tron, which has gone missing.  Bradley gets Flynn into the corporation late at night one night, and Flynn gets zapped into the system, where he must play in the deadly games where programs are pitted against each other.  (Fabulous computer graphics for the primitive technology!) Some of the games include deadly disks, lightcycles, Paranoids (the tank game), and lightball.Flynn must learn to work with Tron, and also must master his abilities as a User to destroy the Master Control Program to get out and survive, and to bring Dillinger to justice.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a movie from '82","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie last night for the first time in my life and I was quite amazed by the special effects and computer simulation. Usually you can see when a special effect is a special effect in movies, which can be annoying/irritating and can destroy the whole movie, but not in this movie.In Tron it is also funny to see the feared relationship between humans and computers/machinery, which is similar in the more popular movies Terminator and The Matrix. Although Tron has not as much action as in the movies I just mentioned, I definitely advise people to see this movie. Why? Because I think Tron is a milestone in movie history the first battle between the human and the computer in a movie. "},{"Title":"Classic SCI-FI, classic Disney, the perfect antidote...","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron was an important film in the making of my adolescence - full of flashy sequences and escapism. And today it still plays very well - the computerFX were ahead of their time (think if it were made today!), the BIG BROTHER idea a haunting possibility, the gladiator scenarios (back in vogue!), and the nomenclature startlingly inspirational for a supposedly clunky Disney Pic. Yeah it has some downsides - but it follows the Hero's Journey very closely, and SARK is a nasty piece of work indeed. I had the good fortune of meeting David Warner on an airplane in Canada a few years back and all I could blabber was how exciting it was to meet SARK in person! He did seem rather proud of the film - saying it was quite a groundbreaker. Yes - long-live TRON and his disciples... "},{"Title":"Almost 20 years later they still haven't topped it.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was about 10, a couple of years after it came out.  It still amazes me that people of the day could look at video games like Pong and what was happening on the Atari ... even in the arcade, and come up with the great visuals that they produced for this movie.  I realize that on the story level, TRON will win no awards, but it has a lot of groovy one-liners and moves the story along where it needs to go.  This movie has a lot to show us in terms of visuals and is just a lot of good clean fun.  Almost 20 years later I can't think of many movies I remember more fondly.  I've always thought they should do a sequel but I know that Hollywood would just screw it up.  So do yourselves a favor and see the original, before they turn it into a special edition or something lame like that. "},{"Title":"watch it again","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you haven't watched it in awhile, watch it. Not only had nothing been done like this before, but it still looks great and is more relevant than ever. It's about faith, power, corruption, revolution, and video games. Bridges and Warner are awesome. The sound effects are amazing. I'm sure this movie will makes it's overdue resurgence soon. "},{"Title":"good film. a bit ahead of it's time","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this was a good film. a bit confusing due to the time of talking about bits and bytes now it's easy to understand the movie but back in 82 computers were just getting going. but it was a good entertaining film that i enjoyed several times. also had a good soundtrack with journey in it can never hurt.fun movie i enjoyed  "},{"Title":"Underrated 80's cyberpunk film.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in theaters when I was a kid and really liked it. I recently saw it for the first time in ages and it was a real trip down memory lane. While the computer images and effects could be done nowadays by a 14 year old on a Mac, they were real state of the art in 1982. While this movie may not have been fully appreciated in its time, you can see the influence it's had on other movies that followed. It spawned a really cool arcade game as well. Worth checking out. Or re-living if you've seen it. "},{"Title":"Star Wars of computers","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you ask me, this movie was the Star Wars of computers.  When Star Wars came out, space flight was the big technology.  When Tron came out the first IBM's where coming out.  This was a movie full of special effects.  The plot was great, and the characters were believable.  The only thing missing was a sequel. "}{"Title":"Geeky! but way cool","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is way geeky!  The electronic and computic puns and references are ones that only a geek could love.  It's got a good story and it's pretty creative.  Well as far as geekdome is concerned ;-)I say this as a geek ) "},{"Title":"Not typical Disney fluff.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bruce Boxleitner, the actor in the title role of the film, once said What the hell is a Tron? and that perfectly summarizes my initial reaction to the idea of seeing this movie. I thought it was Disney fluff, like The Shaggy Dog or The Barefoot Executive. Instead, I have discovered that Tron is a very cool adventure through a computer where programs are people and commands are given via throwing frisbees. Even today, in the shadow of vast special effects, the look of Tron remains believably fantastic. It's also great for any family, as there isn't a gun anywhere to be found. I find that very refreshing. "},{"Title":"A magical cinematic experience.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember this film.I remember how some programmers and arcade buffs appeared in a bizarre computer world,full of soldiers,sur-real enviroments,strange creatures and an sinister mastermind behind it all (similar to lord Herumis in the anime, LensmanSecret of the Lens).It seemingly never gets old and stale,no matter how out-dated it may seem.See this,you dunno what you're missing!!!  "},{"Title":"Why I like this film","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie because of the story line, as well as the graphics. I do feel the graphics could be updated, but I feel that the David versus Goliath story is timeless, and is still true for today's society and culture. Especially when I think about the little guy against a big corporation. Besides, for the graphics, it is still appropriate to use the neon lines they put for the graphics because in The Matrix, near the end of the movie, it shows a lot of similar graphics, a tribute to this movie. I love it every time I think about it!   "},{"Title":"Function Access Zone Inc.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know that the only people that would actually comment on this movie are people who really like it or people who really hate it, but Tron is excellent!  It might not be a classic, but it's fun, interesting and really cool.If you're any kind of computer dude this movie is a definite must for you!!!  "},{"Title":"Fantasy adventure set in metaphorical computer workings.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unforgettable images and concepts brought to life in an intriguing movie. General understanding of computers and software concepts will greatly enhance your enjoyment.  This is one of those movies that should ONLY BE SEEN IN WIDESCREEN FORMAT!  You will miss very cool settings and even a subliminal silhouette of Mickey's head near the end (watch the ground when the beam/umbrella vehicle is traveling along).  If you work with computers or enjoyed the old video game, you should definitely see this movie. "},{"Title":"TRON is a trip down Memory Lane.","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember playing the arcade game at the Chuck E. Cheese's when I was just a kid. That was fun. TRON managed to flash me back in time when Pac-Man was king. The movie stands out only above average at best, but the high-tech visuals were extremely amazing for its time, and it appeared to be TRON's greatest feature. Much of the action was faithfully duplicated from the old TRON videogames of yesteryear, and has been a lot of fun ever since. One problem, though it's too old in concept. That isn't the film's fault, but it shows how technology has dramatically evolved during fifteen years, which means it won't appeal to the teenagers of today who are addicted to Pentium power. TRON will bring back memories of 25 cent machines and crowded arcade weekends that's now gone forever. Are any millennium newbies going to be interested in '80s nostalgia? Hmmm...         "},{"Title":"Enjoyable cyber-fluff","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Al Gore's favorite movie was one of the first films to feature a great deal of computer animation, and the first to create (or at least enhance) an entire environment.  Tron was also one of the first to deal with the fear of computers taking over, from the computer's point of view, which is a fairly well executed theme.That said, aside from some wonderful graphic concepts and the usual good work from Jeff Bridges, Tron doesn't have much below the surface.  Anyone looking for philosophy will be disappointed, but if you're in the mood for some atmospheric family action, then Tron isn't a bad pick, especially if the family has a video-game junkie. "},{"Title":"Unique gladiator movie with a beautiful futuristic setting","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is an interesting fantasy/gladiator movie.  The setting for most of the movie--sort of like a futuristic city at night time--is nothing short of spectacular, and the plot is quite distinctive.  Imagine, a man having to risk his life by playing dangerous video games in a strange new world in order to get back his OWN video game software that was stolen from him. I had to see it a couple times before I understood everything said in the movie, though.  They pass that computer terminology by rather quickly in those conversations.  Nevertheless, Tron is still a pretty cool movie. "},{"Title":"Still holds up visually","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unique in its effects using light. A great concept that is current more now than ever. MCP's becoming self aware, you wrote it but it will control you. Great story-line about stealing a genius's creation and taking credit for it. Imagine if an m.c.p became self-aware and online you got framed for a crime you didn't commit because it was forged on all news sites. This film opens the door to that concept. The visuals are unique so they still hold-up 33 years later. It should have made the kind of money back to the future did, it's that great. Lovely music score too. Jeff Bridges gives a joyous playful performance too. I highly recommend you tune in to TRON. "}{"Title":"A Revolutionary Film, A Dazzling Delight.","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A computer hacker is abducted into the digital world and forced to participate in gladiatorial games where his only chance of escape is with the help of a heroic security program.TRON is a revolutionary movie, it's a dazzling delight which has some of the greatest special effects ever to appear on a movie screen. Having previously heard about all of the things that have been said about this movie, I decided that I would give it a watching, and I have to say, that I was certainly dazzled by what I saw. TRON contains what one would expect a movie to have, its well written, well acted, and especially, it contains absolutely outstanding special effects. Basically, the effects in this movie are like no special effects that you have ever seen, they are so extraordinary, you might not believe your eyes. This movie wasn't nominated for The Academy Award For Best Visual Effects, because it was considered cheating to use a computer at the time, although this was later changed, but it would have made a bigger difference had this film been nominated in that category. Anyway, TRON is a very exceptional film that is guaranteed to dazzle just about anybody who watches it, and that is the truth.Also, we've got a good line of performances from the cast. The always talented Jeff Bridges is very good in his role as Kevin Flynn, the computer hacking protagonist. Bruce Boxleitner and Cindy Morgan also are very good, but the best performance in the movie would have to be that of David Warner, who plays Ed Dillinger. Warner has usually been known for playing the villain more than the hero, and if you ask me, the villain role suits him perfectly, as he was hands down the best one in the movie, not that the other cast was bad, as they did good, but Warner was the best. But as one all knows, the highlight of the movie would have to be the absolutely groundbreaking and breathtaking special effects, which for the time were like nothing anybody had ever seen before. Today, most modern movies get criticism for revolving mostly around special effects, but this movie is not like that, as for the time, it was revolutionary.All in all, if you want to see a movie that is a major milestone as far as special effects are concerned, then TRON is the one. Nowadays, movies do nothing but revolve around cut-rate CGI and special effects, but not TRON, as this film has more than just special effects in it, it gives special effects a whole new meaning. So if you want a movie that puts a lot of emphasis on visual effects, then forget about most of the movies of today and see this movie, as it will satisfy what you are looking for, and it will probably do more than that in the process. The year after this movie came out, The Academy changed the rules for the Best Visual Effects category to where one could use computers. However, we can only imagine a what a difference that would have been made had this movie been nominated.9/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Solid!","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Credit IMDb) A computer hacker is abducted into the digital world and forced to participate in gladiatorial games where his only chance of escape is with the help of a heroic security program.Tron is a cool movie that knows how to entertain you. I wouldn't call it a favorite of mine, but I definitely enjoyed it. The effects are slightly dated, but they hold up well for the most part, and it's quite imaginative. Jeff Bridges is terrific in it as well. I haven't seen it in a while, but I do remember that I enjoyed it. Take that for what it's worth. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Trace ON","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there was no TRON then there might be no Pixar or no Toy Story. There have been films with CGI before but it was TRON that showed John Lasseter what was possible yet the film makes cunning use of CGI, there is less of it than people think.The film underperformed on its release and did better as a crossover arcade game. The light cycle sequence certainly helped. 1982 was the year that home computing was taking off in the UK with the BBC computer, Sinclair Spectrum, Commodore 64 entering households in greater numbers and TRON was riding on that wave, even its film score was acclaimed.The story is simple although it has to be noted Jeff Bridges is not Tron. Bridges is Kevin Flynn a programmer who has been cheated by a rival Dillinger (David Warner) who has taken credit for his work such as best selling arcade games and taken control of the Hi Tech company Encom. Flynn breaks into the Master Control Program (MCP) which has gained its own AI and become a super computer and takes Flynn inside a computer world in order to delete him.Flynn is helped out by Tron a legendary warrior in this computer world and he also looks like Flynn's friend Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner). They along with others seek to destroy the MCP and get rid of Dillinger.Critics at the time were not impressed by the story but the film's graphical content, its cutting edge for the time representation of a Matrix style world and use of synthesised music has made the film endure leading to a belated sequel almost 30 years later. "},{"Title":"A great achievement.  But not a great movie.","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON is a landmark film. Wonderfully visionary, a monumental technical achievement. It made possible so many later films which we came to know and love. There, now that we've got that out of the way can we point out that TRON is not a good movie? It has plenty of technological wizardry but the film is sorely lacking in entertainment. The story is weak, doing very little to grab the viewer. It doesn't matter how much of a visual spectacle your film is if the story doesn't engage. Director Steven Lisberger seems to have lost sight of that. Give Lisberger and his crew credit for pulling off something which in 1982 seemed truly impossible. But the innovative technology is all this film has going for it.TRON takes place largely inside a computer. Have you ever wondered what goes on inside your computer? Apparently Jeff Bridges and Bruce Boxleitner are in there tossing Frisbees around. Now that just sounds silly. But that's OK, silly can at times be entertaining. This is not one of those times. Entertainment here is in desperately short supply. Bridges gives the film a little juice, providing some humor and creating a character you care about at least a little bit. Boxleitner on the other hand is a dud, a total wet blanket with all the personality of a doorknob. And that's a problem since Boxleitner plays Tron himself. Or is it Tron itself? Because you see these characters are playing computer programs. Well, except for Bridges, he's a person but he's in the computer anyway. Yeah, it's all very weird. Could have been wonderfully weird but it isn't. The story just kind of sits there, it's never developed properly. There's the requisite villain and the requisite girl but really it's just a big light show. For 1982 a very impressive light show but still just a light show nonetheless. It takes more than a light show to make a film. You need to actually have something happen. In this film there's not nearly enough going on to hold the viewer's interest. The dazzling (for their time) visuals only take you so far. In its time TRON was something special. But time has been unkind. What was revolutionary in 1982 is mundane today. And the film doesn't have a story to fall back on. We see it with so many big-budget visual extravaganza films today. It doesn't matter how good your film looks if the story stinks. Story is always the most important thing. And the story lets TRON down. Bravo for the vision. Bravo for having the technological know-how to bring the vision to the screen. TRON was a wonderful technological achievement. But there are other films you can say that about which were also wonderful entertainment. Here TRON falls well short. "},{"Title":"Tron - review","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The computer graphics for Tron may not been as much of a sensation in 2011 as they were back in 1982. But I still enjoy watching this movie for one simple reason the special effects are in service of (rather than a replacement of) a great plot with interesting characters and intelligent dialogue. Jeff Bridges does a great job as the computer genius Kevin Flynn whose invention (several video games) is stolen by a very convincing villain Ed Dillinger (David Warner not only plays the villain part to a tea, but he even looks sinister). With the help of two friends Lora (Cindy Morgan) and Alan (Bruce Boxleitner), Flynn is determined to prove he authored the video game programs (which Warner claims to have invented) and to take back his own company. Flynn (and we in the audience) assumes that he only needs to break into the company building and hack into one of their computer to find that crucial piece of evidence proving that he authored the video games. But Flynn is unexpectedly sucked into the vortex of the computer system by Master programme, who is even more evil (this is given away by a very strong, aristocratic sounding British accent) than Ed Dillinger himself, and forced to fight for his life. Will he survive? Well I won't answer that question, except to say that there are enough twists and turns, enough interesting characters who are given interesting things to say and do to make this movie well worth watching.7.7/10 "},{"Title":"I feel it must be evaluated in context","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem I see with some reviews is two-fold. One, the movie was not viewed in it's context. Perhaps that's a bit fair, but if I watch Metropolis and I give it a 1 / 10, people will flame me.When the movie was made, the graphics were so ahead of their time, they had to hire multiple companies to do the graphics. And they used super computers.The graphics are mostly important as impressive for the time. The costumes, did not fully work, nor did the sets. But forgive the movie makers that (The visual effect work for the costumes alone, was an amazingly difficult and tedious process, and could be considered a brave experiment.) Instead of focusing on that, I focus on the story. I think of it as a classical myth of sorts. You have your archetypes such as Tron as the night, and Dumont as the wise man, etc. It could be viewed in a religious or philosophical vein...there's a higher power of some sort you put your faith in blindly. Or there's technology vs the spiritual aspect of nature, etc. You can see many messages in the story.Good defeats evil. People's faith is rewarded.The weakest part is the dialog. Perhaps they simply had too many technical issues to concentrate on better dialog. I think Bridges is entertaining, if nothing else. No one else is really given the dialog to shine, except maybe Dumont and his real world self.I liked it then when I saw it, and I like it now. But I understand a modern audience may not see what I see. "},{"Title":"The campy cult classic won me over","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone and anyone has at least heard of Tron but I imagine it got its second wind with the recent big budget release of its sequel 30 years later. That is when I finally decided to watch the film. I think when I saw trailers, posters, and even the arcade game as a kid it kind of freaked me out. You don't get any campier than Tron. Because the film is so heavily reliant on technology it is hard for the film to be timeless. The technology from the film seems almost silly now and yet at the same time some of the ideas underneath it all were literally revolutionary. And I have no doubt that at the time the technology and special effects in the film were cutting edge. Regardless, even now, the film is one of the most visually unique films I have ever seen. I wouldn't call it stunning but very, very unique in the way that it is filmed. The world that Disney built with Tron is fascinating. In a way I'm surprised that it didn't pick up more of a following right away given how submersed the world and the sci-fi elements are. But make no mistake Tron is campy at its core. Whether it be most of the performances, the crazy costumes and the story is geek heaven.The legendary Jeff Bridges plays free spirited and zany Kevin Flynn. On the surface Bridges' character seems a little empty, not a lot of depth but he has enough charisma and chemistry to keep you watching him regardless. For all intents and purposes he is not the focus of the film anyways but he definitely is memorable in the role. Bruce Boxleitner is Bridges' friend and partner and also the heroic program Tron. He does a good job but he brings a lot of the campiness to the film because he is downright hilariously campy in his role. Its not on purpose, you can tell Boxleitner takes this role very seriously but in the process makes it almost funny. I don't mean that to sound terrible but its true. Cindy Morgan was an 80's character actor staple in everything from The Love Boat to Caddyshack. Morgan plays the lovely and cute program Yori. Morgan has good chemistry with Bridges but somehow her performance is rather campy as well. She also shares even better chemistry with Boxleitner (maybe their campiness binds them together.) An amazing character actor, David Warner plays Ed Dillinger, nemesis to Bridge's Flynn, and the voice of the Master Control Program. He doesn't have a big impact on the film but he always is a pleasure to see on screen.Writer and director Steven Lisberger doesn't have a ton of credits to his name and this is really his biggest piece of work but I'm sure when he saw what he was dealing with as far as special effects and the story. I don't even know if anyone from Disney to the film makers knew that they could potentially have a classic on their hands or maybe it was something they wished for although it took years for it to become a cult classic that it is today. I have no doubt that Tron isn't for everyone. It takes a certain breed of geek to really follow the more technical stuff but when you watch that from 1982 and then look at what we have today its almost frightening how much they touch on despite the technology still looking so retro back then. The concept is cool and I actually think they could have delved far deeper into it. Tron was made as a family film so you don't get the kind of depth that some would like but if you're a geek or a geek at heart or just want a cool family adventure unlike any other you'll enjoy seeing Tron and the way technology used to be. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Way ahead of its time","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this film 28 years ago, I honestly did not get all of the technical references in it. I was not part of the early computer crowd that this movie was written for. I was into video games and hanging out at arcades. But all of the character and dialog references to the world of computers was totally lost on me. I loved the arcade game based on the film. The film itself, was an oddity, an interesting one, but nothing I invested much into.Spring forward to this year, when all the talk of a sequel coming to theaters was in the air, I had to revisit the film that I literally had not watched since 1982. What I found was a lot more than I originally remembered. I think a lot of that has to do with my knowledge of computers being much greater than it was in 1982. Watching the film now I am able to appreciate the characters based on computer references and the dialog which at the time, didn't make much sense to me. What is commendable is that the film was way ahead of its time. The effects, though antiquated by today's standards, set the foundation for the CGI work we have today. Disney was reaching, perhaps a little too far, but none the less, they were trying to push people beyond what they had experienced at the time.There is no doubt watching this film again today that the Wachowski brothers were inspired to create The Matrix from a love of this film. There is so much about TRON that is echoed and mirrored in The Matrix.A film that was way ahead of its time and a fun revisit today. I am by no means hardcore devote of the film, but I do recognize the effort and the desire to stretch beyond the borders Disney tried. A fun film to watch, kind of cold, but none the less fun if for nothing else than seeing a studio trying to take the audience on a new ride. "},{"Title":"Astounding","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After many years, I watched this movie again last night. I was fully pulled into it, which surprised me. I had seen it many times on our old BetaMax way back, thought I would yawn a bit and fall asleep, but it still kept my attention.It's well worth watching and is one of the influences from the early 80's that ended up leading me to a career in IT.And yes, Flynn is cast perfectly - Bridges does a perfect job at portraying an egotistical overgrown nerd kid. This movie, I believe laid the foundations in many young minds for much of the IT we have today. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having an early interest in computer games as a child I was completely in awe of this film. For its day the visual effects were ground breaking and there was nothing ever like it around (and still hasn't been). You do get a sense and feeling of actually being absorbed inside a computer world, and any film that can achieve this has halfway accomplished what it set out to to.The actors are all good especially David Warner who proves what a very good villain he can be. Where Tron fails, somewhat, is the script which could have been better but this is a minor quibble. I enjoy this film as much as I did when I first saw it at the cinema.Tron for me will be remember for two notable features The superb cycle scene and the soundtrack which I believe is one of the best film scores ever produced. "}{"Title":"A milestone","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON is a milestone in movie making.It's one of the first (if not the first) feature length movie that relies mostly on CGI.For many readers this will not mean much, but I invite those to imagine the year 1982, just one year after the IBM PC had been released. Owning that (any) kind of computer at the time meant parting with most of your annual salary. And for what? People didn't really see why and how they would benefit.I think TRON was a milestone in changing this sentiment and it had took a naive, but critical approach to the dangers of the virtual world (back then...?) To me it definitely seems underrated here on IMDb. "},{"Title":"Fascinating...","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's why I watched 'TRON' I was reading Jeff Bridges's Wikipedia page, where I saw 'cult classic' written before they pronounced the name of this 1982 sci-fi flick 'TRON'. As Bridges is one of my all-time favorite actors, I just called for DVD and here is my analysis Steven Lisberger's 'TRON' is amongst the most daring & interesting films to come out in the early 80's.'TRON' tells the story of Kevin Flynn (and his program counterpart inside the electronic world, Clu), & his journey then against the villains who have stolen his talent. This classic released way back in 1982, when technology was just getting better. The computer graphics are simply astounding; each time you look at it, you're in love with it. 'TRON' stands out because of the graphics is has, it's a joyride all the way! 'TRON' has a interesting start, middle & end. It's high-packed action & fun! Lisberger's direction & screenplay deserve an ovation, he made a path-breaking film, what he thought then will be remembered for ever! Bruce Logan's cinematography is top-notch. Coming to acting, Bridges steals the show, the veteran is superb. Bruce Boxleitner as TRON is excellent, giving his character a style of his own. Cindy Morgan is fantastic. Others are perfect.'TRON' is a fascinating fare, Two Big Thumbs Up! I am dieing to watch 'Tron Legacy'!!! "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking visuals but un-interesting characters...","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1st watched 6/28/2009, 5 out of 10 (Dir-Steven Lisberger) Groundbreaking visuals but un-interesting characters make for a good concept of a movie but not as good as it could have been as entertainment. The basic storyline is about a company controlled by a master control program and a programmer who cheated his way to the top. The programmer who was cheated from, played by Jeff Bridges, is trying to find proof of this and is transported into the program by the MCP to play games to survive. We are then transported into the computer world, where most of the rest of the movie takes place. A small band, including the tron program(which is a security system), a girl(of course) and the Bridges's character try to conquer the MCP and free the system from the evil dictator. The light cycles are pretty cool and the master control program is pretty well done but the problem is we never really care for the people and the characterizations are pretty lame. David Warner, plays the evil MCP and is believable but Bruce Boxleitner as Tron is not. Good try by Disney to enter a different type of film-making world but the story doesn't lift itself enough to make this movie a winner. "},{"Title":"Computer-oriented adventure came out just a bit before its time.","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A landmark film of its kind with regard to special effects, this sci-fi saga failed to ignite the box office, but has gained a certain amount of respect over the last couple of decades. Bridges plays a computer game programmer whose ideas have been stolen by corporate bigwig Warner. With the aid of fellow programmers Boxleitner and Morgan, Bridges attempts to hack into the mega-computer and regain his property but instead finds himself sucked into a completely different world where he's treated like a high-tech gladiator and forced to fight for his life. Boxleitner and Morgan (as well as their associate Hughes and the arch-villain Warner) also appear in this world in alternate identities. It's a mad dash to dispel the master computer using the vehicles and weapons of the computer universe while Warner's henchmen are always in hot pursuit. Bridges is an appealing enough presence in the film and his co-stars are also likable, but they are never allowed to develop much beyond human props locked in this neon and day-glo world. Hughes tries to inject a bit of texture into his role, but is hampered by some unintentionally amusing costuming that includes a massive, phallic hat and a large, immobile get-up. Warner is threatening, but not to a degree that makes for a really memorable villain. Also appearing for a while is Shor as a fellow neo-gladiator. He actually gets to display a modicum of characterization in his role before being eventually dispatched. In short, the visuals and the gadgetry are pretty much the whole show. The opening scenes, which take place on 1980's Earth, are mostly quite horrible. The film doesn't catch fire much at all until the participants are placed into the computer world. Once there, there's enough dazzling imagery and unique surroundings to hold the viewer's attention. The actors are shown in black and white with glowing costumes and sets surrounding them, giving them an eerie, but appealing, almost silent movie look. Fans of sci-fi and of unusual cinematic images will surely get more out of this film than the average viewer. One memorable sequence involves a face-off between two men on a set of rings, which disappear once they are struck by a Frisbee-like device from the opponent. Oddly, Bridges wears a toga-like covering while in the alternate world while no one else does. This was allegedly due to his too-full-for-family-viewing tights, though he is seen briefly in them without the toga in an early sequence involving a prior attempt to beat the master computer. A computer game, based on the movie, was far more popular than the film itself and was a staple of arcades for several years. "},{"Title":"Agent Smith, MCP is the first rebel program","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before Virtuosity, before The Matrix, and other similar types of movies, there was Tron, a movie about a rogue program eliminating all other programs so there would just be him Master Control Program (MCP). I decided to check this movie out again being that I hadn't seen it since I was a kid and all I could remember were the race car scenes. Looking at it again I can honestly say that Tron was ahead of its time. Now you have seen the concept played over and over again machines/computers gaining awareness and cognizance then seeking to break free of their creators, most times violently. Tron was also innovative with the computer graphics overlay with real people. Sure it looked very elementary, but at the time it was all new. The movie was great in my opinion and the story worked really well. I did find myself chuckling a bit at the obvious Atari sounds & icons used in the movie. Galaxian was clearly audible and there was a picture of Pacman in one scene. "},{"Title":"What could have been","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to say, I just now got the chance to see Tron on the big screen for the first time. When it came out, I was younger and I wanted to see it but didn't end up seeing it till it came out on video. I never liked it. And even now, after seeing it in 70mm on the big screen, I think it's a failure. The movie is totally gorgeous, the visual look of the thing is unique. But the characters just do not appeal to me and I've never gotten drawn into the story.The effects are to this day very high quality. Nobody really laughed at the effects in the audience, and it was a packed house. The only scene that looks a bit laughable is when Flynn (Jeff Bridges) gets laser scanned and transported into the digital world. That's because that scene takes place in our real world and has digital effects imposed on top of it -- the entire rest of the film is so stylized that everything in it is aging or dating really well. Everything takes place within that stylized universe, so as long as it fits into the special look and feel of this movie it feels right. And the look and feel of this movie seem to promise something of a very high order. It's a bit like Metropolis, with its weak story and boring characters, except that Metropolis ended up being a truly great film because it had a truly great director, Fritz Lang. Tron on the other hand had a guy who seems to be a really lame director, Steven Lisberger. He has only done a few movies, but he did direct Slipstream, with Mark Hamill. That was another movie, like Tron, that could have been really cool but ended up pretty flat.Jeff Bridges brings whatever moments of warmth or genuine humor that the movie has. The only laugh I really got was when he was supposed to be drinking some kind of liquid that was like pure energy, and he was getting high off it and didn't want to leave with Tron right away. There's a funny shot of he and Ram (Dan Shor) watching Tron walk away, looking at each other like what the heck? and going back for seconds (or thirds). And his performance at that point was like he was high on coke. That was pretty funny to slip into a Disney movie. But there wasn't enough stuff like that. It's way too serious overall considering how ridiculous the whole thing really is. A bit more of the self-conscious cheezy like Lucas' Star Wars and De Laurentis' Flash Gordon would have improved it.Bruce Boxleinter is not a name that ever lit up too many cinema marquees. And for good reason, because the guy is like a cinematic black hole, consuming all the energy in the scene despite Bridges' and Cindy Morgan's valiant efforts and nullifying it completely. Cindy Morgan by the way is very cute in that skull-cap and glowing body suit; I thought she was Kim Cattral actually, they looked a bit alike at that time. I see looking at her list, I probably recognized her unconsciously from Caddyshack where she was Ted Knight's horny niece, Lacy Underall. David Warner's performance is the most unfortunate of all because he's a truly great actor. Here he's got some value, but the audience laughed at things in the movie that he was forced to play straight. Around the same time as this movie, he played Evil Genius in Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits, where he got a chance to show off his villainous persona with a humorous wink at the audience. There's not enough emotion in the screenplay of Tron to even enable Warner to give the audience a wink or a nod, or to make the villain really fun in any way. He just sort of represents the generic mindset of corporate greed, which ironically enough is basically what produced this movie itself at Disney if you ask me. I read that there was a much more interesting story concept for Tron in development at one point but it was dumbed down by the higher ups in the company.This could have been a really special movie, with a few changes to the production and the cast. I'm glad I saw this in the theater, because the effects and the visual aspects of the movie are by far the reason it's remembered and valued. I just can't rate the film highly even for kids, because I didn't enjoy it myself at the time. Kids are just like adults, they still want some emotion from the characters and something to the plot besides just a one dimensional quest. "},{"Title":"A Movie Beyond Its Time","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A computer animated classic that was ahead of its time in 1982, Tron mixes technology, action, love, the classic battle of good vs. evil, and the belief in the super natural together for a very entertaining movie. It is the story of a real world programmer, Flynn, who lost out on fame and fortune due to the deceptive actions of a co-worker named Dillinger. Flynn losses his job and opens an arcade, spending most of his time trying to hack into the mainframe at his former work looking for evidence to prove Dillinger stole his work. Dillinger, now a senior executive has allowed an aggressive artificial intelligence computer called the MCP to take over most of the control of the company and it has even begun invading other systems. When Flynn gets an opportunity to look around the MCP from a computer terminal inside the company, the MCP digitizes the real-life Flynn and sends him to the game grid to compete in Romanesque gladiator competitions against programs that have lost all usefulness to the MCP. It is here that Flynn meets Tron, a program created by an acquaintance of Flynn in the human world. Tron's purpose is to monitor the MCP and shut it down if it violates its original design. Because the danger Tron poses, the MCP has imprisoned Tron in the game grid. Flynn and Tron end up fighting together on light bikes - vehicles resembling enclosed motorcycles - and make a daring escape from the game grid. Their goal is to make contact with Tron's user, get the information needed to shut down the MCP and accomplish that task. Working together and separately Tron and Flynn make their way towards a final showdown with the MCP and its henchman program, Sark. Tron and Flynn are able to defeat Sark and destroy the MCP using the data given by Tron's user. The computer world is freed from the stark dictatorial rule of the MCP, Flynn is transported out and re-digitized to the human world and given a copy of the file containing the evidence he needs to bring down Dillinger. The movie ends with Flynn back at the company in a senior executive position, vindicated and happy. One of my favorite elements of Tron are the spiritual overtones that exist in the computer world. Instead of humans pondering the existence of God, it is programs pondering the existence of their real world users. Belief in the users is denied by the MCP and those who profess belief are persecuted. Enter Flynn, a true user who is transported to the computer world and has special powers, including the ability to heal and repair. I do not believe it is too far-fetched to compare the Flynn character to the biblical Jesus. I say this especially considering the sacrificial act by Flynn of jumping into the MCP so that Tron could have the opportunity to destroy it with his data disc. Without Flynn jumping into the heart of evil, there could have been no victory. Makes one wonder if the writers had taken a stroll through the bible's gospel stories during the creation of the screenplay. If you have not seen Tron, then you should rent or buy it soon, just don't get too hung up on the advanced graphics of 1982. Greetings, programs! "},{"Title":"an important film...one we'll look back and give more credit to as time goes by...","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron, behind maybe Blade RUnner, Toy Story, and 2001, is one of the most important visual films that you're likely to see. The film's concept was ahead of it's time and it has steady performances and great music to boot. Tron takes the audience on a magical trip. When most kids saw this they didn't understand the computer jargon but somehow, despite not really understanding the plot, it was still a completely satisfying movie experience. Now that I better understand it, Tron has solidified it's spot as one of my personal favorites, and one of the most innovative films of all-time. Not too many films that fall in the 'never get tired of it' category....but this is one of those for me. Today movies are just remakes or rehashes.. no innovation, no breaking the mold....not this one. It created the mold.Ask Pixar about the importance of this film. The studio may not exist today if it weren't for this ground-breaking film. 75/100 "},{"Title":"Steven WHO?","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The writer-director on this misbegotten piece of cinema history did practically nothing before or after, yet here he is manipulating the then-bankable Jeff Bridges through a quite recognizably Disney production that my coworker dubs The Black Light Movie. Damn it looks good - I love the way the neon impinges on the sepia-toned faces. But this script does not represent months of thought. It suggests a desperate and short brainstorm session that started with an old man saying OK - computers! Mission retrieve quarters. Results negative. The Wizard of Oz construction suffers the absence of any real-world resolution, the 'bit' character is one of several clever ideas that has no story function, the ending is incoherent and way rushed, and the 'user'-as-deity is promising in theory and nothing at all in practice. The latter totally undermines the thing's basic selling point, which is grandeur. Sure the computerscapes are vast, glowing and seductive, but the center of it is as hollow as a vector asteroid. Kind of like a Disney movie. "},{"Title":"One man and his computer.","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before there was The Matrix, there was TRON; a wonderful and fascinating film about friendship, dedication and survival. TRON is an art film, an animation film, a film that utilises computers in such a way that they are integrated as characters into the actual film; something that hadn't really been done to my knowledge since the great HAL 9000 in 2001 A Space Odyssey &#150; only further cementing the brilliance of that particular film. But TRON is so much more than an action film set in an unreal world where survival is key &#150; this plays out like Star Wars, The Matrix or Lord of the Rings in basic film form but when you watch it you only then realise how tense, dramatic and innovative it actually is.TRON deserves whatever plaudits it gets merely for the fact it was made in 1982. Its references through dialogue to computers and artificial intelligence is stunning given when it was made &#150; one such character states that one day, 'computers will be able to think for themselves' and this is so true, not only in the world of film but also in real life computers can beat us at Chess; most famously when Deep Blue beat Kasparov and computers in film were shown to think on a massive scale a mere two years later when The Terminator was made. Of course, HAL 9000 predates TRON by twenty years anyway but TRON reinvents the evil, psychotic robot character in some style, updating it to the size of a table and giving it it's own kingdom of which to rule over in another world within the film &#150; it's sort of an antagonist within a world within a world within a film and it's fascinating to watch.Like I said, TRON demonstrates a film's ability to switch between two worlds. The Matrix did it with Neo, Star Wars had Luke go through with it and The Lord of the Rings had Frodo ripped out of simple, everyday Shire life to battle monsters in a setting opposite to that of The Shire. Here, TRON transports Flynn (Bridges) into an even today mind blowing world of a computer where massive blocks of data form corridors and look down at whoever travels down them; a place where hovering two legged things float down the corridors and remain a constant threat throughout; and a place where the HAL 9000 for the 80s puts different systems and such into death or glory games involving physical and mental skill. One thing that struck me is that when I or anyone else plays a computer game, physical skill is not required &#150; a character you control can sprint or dive through the air or play a sport to a level you can't yet in TRON; you'd need to be at that physical peak to ultimately win.Of course these two worlds provide different aims for each character. In the 'real' world (as the film puts it) Flynn is bitter as someone stole his gaming ideas and made money out of them, hence why he can beat the high score without breaking sweat since he programmed the damn thing whereas on the inside, Flynn and his buddy Tron (Boxleitner) just have to survive and their mission basically consists of that narrative of chase which can be so effective. Tron is also after a new order of peace within the alternate world which I found to be very touching because of course Neo is after a new order in The Matrix, Frodo is after new order and one thing all these films have in common is that the evil kingdom must be brought to a halt and peace restored but this time, it's actually inside a computer &#150; given the technological advances made since 1982, it makes for one hell of an interesting ride.I would recommend TRON not only for novelty but for its effects, its story, its numerous memorable scenes involving chase, duels and problematic situations as well as for its general laid back, 'hero vs. villain' routine which is done very well. TRON is in a way; a masterpiece and in another way; a guilty pleasure but one thing it most definitely is, is pure entertainment. "}{"Title":"Better than a lot of the sci-fi crap that is produced these days.","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A totally original 1982 sci-fi film that got little recognition and flopped when it came out. Sound familiar? Blade Runner. Tron, of course, isn't nearly as brilliant as the outstanding BR, but it is a visually impressive and entertaining film - even 25 years later, which is when I saw it for the first time.Tron has a unique feel to it, totally unlike any other sci-fi film. Made by Disney, but fortunately not Bambi-like in any blatant way, the special effects look good even now. In fact, perhaps I should say especially now, because this movie's overall look is a refreshing change from all the (sometimes mediocre) CGI that we're bombarded with nowadays. "},{"Title":"Visual paradigm shift to 3D freedom","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My parents taught me that cinema had cultural and entertaining value. But when Tron was released I had already seen Star Wars and learned another, perhaps more basic, lesson you go to movies to see things that you had never seen before (like that huge space ship in the opening of SW). Could that wonderful loss of visual virginity be experienced again? It could, thanks to the computer wizards of Tron and futurist designer Syd Mead (Blade Runner) equaled in imagination only by Jean Giraud (Moebius).Like in SW, the camera could fly freely everywhere, no longer limited to slow travelings, zooms or attachment to the wing of an airplane. The virtual point of view was free and truly tridimensional. What in SW was achieved thanks to Dykstra's computerized camera, in Tron was by means of a fully digital world, and the camera motion was only a matter of calculation... Enter amazing networks and awesome ever-shifting perspectives over apparently infinite geometrical patterns, faceted mountains and very original hypercool vehicles (even the real helicopter is cool, with those red fluorescent lines).Computer world strict, military hierarchy, adopted its aesthetic from video games, or was it the other way around? Anyway, I saw Tron at age twelve and understood the computer concepts very well. I had seen other sci-fi movies with less realistic robots or computers, and many scientific documentaries on computers, and Tron was a confirmation more than a revelation. In fact, I felt anchored in the past during years, until very recently (now we have Internet, cell phones and multimedia laptops). Even the idea of molecules suspended in laser beams has turned not only real but routine.That flight of transition into the computer world made me move in my seat, with real feelings of speed and acceleration, something I had only experienced with, again, Star Wars films (nowadays it's a usual feeling with all that CGI). No need of 4D moving seats I even feel the motion when I watch Tron or SW on my TV at a normal distance.And that butterfly-shaped solar sail... What I said I go to movies to see (beautiful) things I have never seen before.9 1/2 out of 10 Make a sequel now! "},{"Title":"To Steal the tag line from Akira...","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... Which, by the way, I do not fully understand why it was used...No TRON, no Matrix... It's that simple.!!! Whether or not you are a fan of either move (and I am not a fan of The Matrix), there is no denying that both films used the technology available to them to really bring something special to the big screen.Tron's storyline need not have been complex, need not have been about following white rabbits and other nonsense, it was about a computer, modelled on every classic James Bond villain, who loves to toy with his victim usually to their ultimate downfall, and a human who, as fate decrees, has the knowledge and skills to defeat this menace.No blood, no guts, no guns... just beautifully crafted sequences that please they eye of the jaded computer geek who had seen everything on their Spectrum or C64.Films nowadays are not this wonderful, do not induce such wonderment in the young...It is such a shame no lessons have been learnt! "},{"Title":"Zooooooom, zooooooom......","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disney just about closed up its classic theatrical shop temporarily with the 1982 live action classic Tron. This was the very first movie ever to rely heavily on computer graphic interface (CGI), as I remember from a History of Computers report that I worked on as a freshman in prep school; that totally convinced me to see this movie someday.The movie We start off in an arcade. Later on, a scientist was working on a large computer experiment involving an apple. Suddenly, the laser shot the man, putting him into the world of computers! It's so exciting, and from that point forth, it's nothing but action, racing, fighting, flying, and a whole lot more! Totally 80s!!!!!This used to play on the old Disney Channel a lot. I've seen the DVD about a year ago and I thought the movie was awesome! What I also liked was how the 80s rock band Journey worked on a song at the end of this film. I like 80s stuff (mostly the music), and anyone who loves the 80s or old Disney should see this movie right away. It's not the best, but at least it's watchable!!!!!10 stars "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was eleven years old when Tron came out in the theaters and I loved it. I loved the characters and the whole world of Tron, I felt that we were really inside the world of the computer. I loved the characters, the story line, the monster effects of the MCP. The cast does a great job, it's Disney magic at it's finest. Plus it was a pioneer in computer animation. If it wasn't for TRON, movies like SKY CAPTAIN AND THE WORLD OF TOMORROW could never have been made or a number of other movies which depend allot on the computer to make effects. Tron is a true classic and if you haven't seen it yet, then where the hell have you been? See it, learn it, love it. Tron is one of the best movies ever made and I for a party of one can't get enough of it. I give the perfect movie, the perfect score...10 STARS "},{"Title":"The ancestor to the common CGI movies.","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I got to see this movie for the first time recently.And it's a cool movie. Tron is taken place during the early 80s involving this highly advance computer company that hold the smartest computer of it's time. The Master Control Encom, able to detect software pirates, and has the power to run other computers throughout the country.A new device is made at that company that's able to digitalized objects into a computer.A computer expert named Kevin Flynn has be digitalized into the company's computer.And a computer word is different from the real world. Video Games are a survival of life, love isn't a common thing there, and escaping from this computer world is merely impossible.Kevin Flynn must find a way to defeat the Master Control, and find a way home with the help of Tron a program that's able to defend and fight off evil.It's a unique flick. I recommend it to those who like movies that have early done CGI that's different from today's standards. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this movie when I was a kid. Probably when I was ~10, in the 80's and it had a impact on me. I hadn't seen anything like it and it was obviously unique and stays unique in my mind to this date. The background scenes and environment was computer generated (CGI), as I understand it. Someone says that computers rendered the wire-frame and the rest was painted by animators. If the later is the case... wow! That is definitely not easy to do. I also bought the game (Tron 2.0) and it surprised me that it stayed true to the original theme. The graphics look superb. Lot's of transparency and movements is used. It looks Tronish. The glow effect is perfectly suited for this game. It is part game & part movie, probably because it was intended as a movie originally. Visit the Tron 2.0 page on IMDb and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"one of the great sci-fi films of all-time !","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron is even to this date one of the best sci-fi films ever made. simply because it's a simple and complex film . a film that does count on s/f's but that's only a part of it, another story of good vs. evil. good performances from the leads,fun story ,and at the time really jumps on the very 1st video game craze. the landmark in special effects and film-making . not much credit at time of at it's release but at 23yrs old it's still one of the best. today to many films count on special effects to carry them . stories get lost in them, you tend to forget what the film is about and the effects is one of the main reasons you'll see them tron still performs on the highest level even today. as effects have gotten so real the stories have gotten more lost. films like the great minority report is also like tron shows respect for story telling & great effects and when it's mixed right you'll have films that will never be forgotten. "},{"Title":"most underrated science fiction of the 80's","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON (as it should appear, all in caps, that is), did not fail because it started EXTREMELY slowly, but because its context was misunderstood at the time. In the outside world, things move much more slowly than in the computer world. This was the foil of the movie. Not that two characters were foils, but that the worlds in which existence occurred were the foil.When Flynn came back, very little actual time lapsed, but in the computer world, the events that took place could have taken days, if not weeks, to transpire. TRON is underground like that. The general public (at the time) had not idea whatsoever about how computers processed information. That's why only very few people really understood it. I was only a small child when I saw it in the theater (not even 10 years old), but I LOVED it. And I still do. Go TRON!! "},{"Title":"Like this isn't the mother of all Comp/Human movies...","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, Jeff Bridges throws it down. Second, this is what put together any mentality for the matrix. Third, this is a great little MS vs. the man (User requests are what computers are for! Doing our business are what computers are for!) movie... take a gander if you haven't (don't know how you could've ;)Also, as much as anyone hates Disney, even here they provide the imagineering material to last an entire generation (is not more). With all the new computer gadgetry we have, I wonder if animators ever miss drawing on film cells with markers to create SFX... hey, Homestarrunner started on Mario Paint! "}{"Title":"Never tire of this film","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best movies of all time. I don't know why this movie has a combined rating of 6.3, perhaps some users have defected to the MCP. The amount of work that went into this film is simply staggering. 12 to 24 layers per frame in many cases! Animated graphics programmed the old-fashioned way, in code. The sound effects and the music are unforgettable. A more original movie has never been made. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How TRON has an average 6.8 score on IMDB I don't know, as it is surely one of the best and most important films ever made.  There are very few films that can actually claim to have changed the world, but TRON is one.  TRON changed the way we view computers, programs and games indelibly - it shaped the future, and now seems almost prescient as a result. Most importantly, TRON made *me* cool.  It's hard to believe, but prior to TRON computer games were considered geeky.  Now of course everybody recognises that programmers are heroes and video games are sexy, and a video game programmer like myself can rightly take his place at the top of society.  Thank you TRON.What's most extroadinary about TRON is the consistency and creativity of its vision.  How does a computer program see the world? and How will the world see us when computers become smarter than man?   Humans are largely in denial about it, but that day IS coming... machine intelligence is a reality, and it's only a matter of time before the first electronic lifeforms are created.  In fact, who's to say this hasn't happened already - it's perhaps only due to our anthropomorphic definitions of life that we haven't recognised it in our own creations. Admittedly, in 1982 the prospect of artificial lifeforms looked even closer than it does now, after initially great successes in artificial intelligence creating machines capable of logical thought that way outstripped human ability.  Unfortunately, that success brought about the realisation that humans aren't actually much good at logical thought anyway, and it isn't that important a component of what we call intelligence.  There's still some way to go before we can create programs that perceive the world and their own relationship to it in a similar way to us.Anyway, TRON isn't set now, it's set in a future when man has succeeded in creating just such programs.  Developed by man to perform his tasks, the programs have evolved to a state where they develop awareness of the world they live in.  Not the bricks and mortar world that we recognise, but a global network of software, systems and information.  TRON realises that world brilliantly, giving us a great visual analogy for how a computer program would perceive reality.  The special effects were incredible in 1982, and frankly they're incredible now.  Technically they look very dated and primitive in an age where special effects have attained the look of absolute reality... but artistically they are still unsurpassed.  The goal was never to create a digital copy of our reality, after all - it was to create a truly digital reality, another world entirely.  TRON set the standard for this, and even now presents the best and most accurate representation of the computer system world.Truly, TRON was prescient as much as it was influential.  It was made by people who really understood the technology of the time, and the potential it contained and what this meant for the world of the future.  Perhaps the low IMDB score is because even now the majority of the world audience haven't understood this as well as they did.  Humans still fear technology but imagine they can control it.  They can't - it's something we've created but now it exists it has a life of its own.  Technology will improve, will become more powerful, will supercede its creators in every respect.  When that happens, what will our relationship with our creations be?  THE MATRIX gives us one possible answer, though TRON's suggestions are 1000 times more realistic.  The human race really has no idea what its future holds though, and I only hope to live long enough to find out some of it for myself. "},{"Title":"Still one of the best SciFi Movies ever.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved Tron when I was a Kid (and did not own a computer, but loved video games) and always turned in when it was on TV. That problem is solved, almost 20 years later, because I own the special edition DVD now.Its still a superb movie for kids and adults as well.1982 Special Effects do not mean, bad special effects.This movie has the advantage, that it did not tried to create a real fantasy world. They created a complete fictional world without trying to get even close to reality.The effects of the 1982 production are as good as any 21st century production could be, or may be better, because the old fashioned effects made the world, they intended to create, more realistic in their own way. The world of bits and bytes, which was a world I did not understood when I was a kid and now can relate to as an adult working in the IT business.This movie earned its place between the other great SciFi Movies I own, such as 2001 Space Odyssey, Hitchhikers guide to the galaxy, Enemy mine, 2010 the year we made contact, stargate and matrix. "},{"Title":"Childhood favorite","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was in elementary school and I loved it.  I then saw it again in college and I was still impressed with it.  Even though it was made in the 80's the special effects are still wonderful.  I loved the movie becuase of the idea of it.  The idea of going into a computer is awsome and the characters compete in death/life games.  The cylces are the most exciting part of the movie, but all in all this movie is a great movie for kids and adults alike.   "},{"Title":"An underrated piece of sci-fi genius...","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lisberger's 'TRON' is a very competent and enjoyable sci-fiextravaganza.Despite being a 'flop' when originally released this seriously is anunderrated classic. Ok, well, maybe the word 'classic' is a tadstrong but it certainly deserves alot more credit than many naivemovie-goers originally gave it. It's also rather annoying to see thatpeople still insist on giving the film a bad review even today.Special-effects-wise 'TRON' is a very original film; certainlyahead-of-its-time. The use of back-lit characters and sets helps tocreate a 'glowing wonderland', and considering the time, moneyand effort it took to create the computer-generated sections I feelthat this film more than succeeds in giving the audiencesomething truly unique. Erroneously mistaken for a film that was constructed entirely fromCGI, only around 15 minutes of 'TRON' is a result of this. However,considering that the film was made at the beginning of the 1980sthis is seriously impressive.The film obviously looks terribly dated now but for nostalgicreasons it still strikes a tender chord. The story is relativelystraightforward (then then again...aren't most 'Disney' features?)and the acting is everything that one would come to expect from akids action film. Jeff bridges gives a 'chirpy' performance asFlynn, and his alter-ego Clu. 'TRON' isn't a film that's simply forkids though; there are deeper issues regarding the threat oftechnology and obsolescence...but I'm not going to go too muchinto that now (not enough time...).I did and still do enjoy this movie. I recently wrote a detailed thesisabout it for a University assignment fully justifying and supportingit. I just wish that some viewers can go back to 'TRON' at a laterdate and appreciate it slightly more. It is a great movie andseriously underrated. The 'light-cycle' duel is a great scene too! "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is a milestone in film-making, glimpses of CGI, but mainly cell animation, this film is a visual 80s trip.The film is not dated, it's a period piece set in a specific time, 1982! It's not about the future per se, it's really set in the early years of computers. The computer world is really interesting, the design and style is very innovative. The kids will love it.The film does lack a strong story outside of the computer world, there's not enough to satisfy, but positives do out-weigh the negatives. Computers taking over man? It's possible!The acting is tremendous, I can't fault it. Bridges owns the picture. The direction is excellent, shot in Super Panavision 70mm, the entire frame is used very well. It looks disgusting in pan and scan.The effects are excellent, despite the grain, film's looks are stunning.The screenplay required beefing up the human story but overall it works.Innovative, stylish and fun, don't miss Tron!  "},{"Title":"Retro Graphics","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie in a long, long time.  I asked for the DVD for Christmas. Upon viewing it for the first time where I could actually comprehend it and appreciate it, I loved it. I had to remember the fact that this movie was made back in '82 and that computers were a lot different than they are today. Remember, the mouse was just about to become a new piece of technological innovation that would revolutionise the way we use computers today!I am a graphic designer and I also work on website aesthetics, so I love to look at things in a sort of artistic-beauty-mode. This movie is the first of its kind to implement a computer generated three-dimensional painting matted with real-life subjects. The colors, though simple, effectively portray a digital mode of exhistance. The Lightcycles are definitely the most retro, futuristic, righteous part of the movie - I think. The gladitorial aspect of the story is definitely timeless as well.To think that a TRON 2.0 is in the works only excites me to imagine what is capable right now in the field of computer generated effects, and what the TRON producers of '82 were limited to are mindboggling. A new representation of this movie now in the present will also surely be appreciated as most of us are now users whereas back then only a select number of computer jocks knew what all the lingo and concepts meant. TRON was way ahead of its time, and to remember the technical limitations under which were worked, only makes me think that we need that kind of innovation here and now where virtually anything can be infinitely portrayed. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, a cinematic masterpiece","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one man's creative and adaptive biblical vision of Jesus, and symbolizes the greatness that Disney so rarely exhibits in it's cinematic productions  A world of computers is controlled from a mythical super-realm by a being known simply as the user which no one has ever seen.  But this world has now fallen under the tyrannical control of the Master Control Program, who seeks nothing except complete domination.  A whimsical hacker (Jeff Bridges)is transformed into electrical energy and brought into this pseudo-reality against his will.  Trapped within the confines of this tech-world, he finds his video game fantasies turned reality, and his life in peril.  Once the battle has begun, he becomes the realm's greatest crusader for freedom by realizing that as a user he holds powers unimaginable.  By his sacrifice the entire world saved. "},{"Title":"Special effects look dated","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed tron when I recently saw it, but it is clear that the computer generated effects were done in the infancy of the technology. The quality of the effects doesn't compare at all with Toy Story II.Wooden acting. Passable script. Great first attempt with the technology. Certainly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable for 1982!!!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every time I watch this movie, I'm surprised at the computer graphics. This movie is 17 years old, and there are probably as many effects shots in this movie as there are in Phantom Menace... all back in the days of the 286!!! "}{"Title":"Best beautiful, breakthrough sci-fi/fantasy movies in the 80's","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This cool movie Tron came out in 1982 when I was a baby. Now I'm 17 years old and saw this movie two years ago. this is one of the best Disney movies ever made but the movie itself wasn't a BOX-OFFICE hit like other 1982 sci-fi flicks like E.T. and got mixed reviews by sorry a** critics. And you know that this flick broke animation barriers in sci-fi. They should re-release Tron in the theaters and it would make big bucks which it didn't 17 years ago. This was the movie that Bruce Boxleitner starred in before he became famous in the sci-fi show (OF COURSE!) in BABYLON 5. My favorite sci-fi veteran star David Warner rocks as the evil MASTER CONTROL villain (THIS ACTOR HAS GOOD TALENT PLAYING VILLAINS!) and Jeff Bridges was great as the hacker who was zapped in the computer world. So great about this movie is the music.  "},{"Title":"The Best Video Game Movie Ever Made.","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember the iconic speed bike scene when Jeff Bridges manages to box the enemy in and defeats him? What do you think goes on in his mind when he looks back and laughs?! Onto the review.Tron, probably remains one of Disney's favourite movies for males. It's very self aware, yet its visuals are out of this world. Largely considered the first movie to ever include a CGI world, it is actually minimalist computer imagery and very well back lit animation. Considering the earlier days of computing software and how it has advanced over the years, I feel Tron's visuals are perfect for its time and still has moments to dazzle. Wendy Carlos's music is also wonderfully immersive, ever cascading highs and dizzying lows. Jeff Bridges is as wonderful as ever, and how memorable was Bruce Boxleitner as TRON?Tron is a film that is also extremely important to the history of the sci-fi genre, but sadly no one really ever talks about it that much seeing that the movie had spawned video game adaptations and many comic books. Sadly, a lot of younger generations will now deem it bad and be put off, but I love Tron as much as I love the camp-ness of Barbarella (1968), and Flash Gordon (1980).Final verdict Great vector graphics, highly imaginative & Jeff Bridges (Can't get enough of him). 9/10. "},{"Title":"A Neon Wonder","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw TRON (1982) when it first came out - I was 10 years old. I enjoyed the at home Atari and Intellivision games as well as time in the arcades. I also loved science fiction movies and I was awestruck with TRON (1982)! The movie was breath-taking from the viewpoint of a 10 year old kid in 1982. I did not fully understand the movie at the time because I knew very little about computers outside of what I saw in film and on TV. What I did understand about the movie I liked. And, of course, the amazing neon effects and the action going on in the film.I re-watched TRON (1982) as an adult and I like the film even more that I did as a 10 year old kid - strange isn't it. As an adult, I know some things about computers now (although I am not a computer whiz) - and with that little bit of computer knowledge I have now I am able to understand and enjoy TRON (1982) so much better as an adult.The story of TRON (1982) is very good - I find it quite interesting. The special effects were top-of-the-line, cutting edge for 1982 and they still hold up to any modern day effects we see in movies today.TRON (1982) has never been just an ordinary science fiction film - so I do recommend it to fans of sci-fi, computers and gaming.Rated way to low on IMDb - it's a great movie! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good for its time but it hasn't aged well","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron was one of those films that upon its release was a hallmark of filmmaking, like Metropolis, or Terminator 2. But this film, unlike the other two, has not held up with the passage of time and fails to provide a gripping narrative. The special effects and the black light suits can be hard on the eyes, and the acting is serviceable at best (even the Dude himself, Jeff Bridges, is flat here). The plot itself is mildly interesting (hacker gets beamed into a computer) but the storytelling bulldozes along without any explanation of what's going on. And one can't help but think that's just like that scene in Star Wars every ten minutes. A few highlights do present themselves, though. The famous lightcycle scene is still vastly fun to watch, and Bridges' hammy acting is laughably bad at times (but in a good way, mind you). In conclusion, Tron is an important piece of film history and should be viewed, but don't expect anything amazing. "},{"Title":"Tron is a missed opportunity","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron has an extremely weak plot and poor character motivations. But with a little more work by the story editor and with the inclusion of a few short scenes, it could have been a lot better. Hearing the film makers talk about the making of Tron, it sounds like they spent all of their time worrying about back lighting Kodaliths and animating and not much time writing the script.SPOILERS AHEADIn its villain's monologue with Dillinger, the MCP tells how it is taking over the world by stealing and integrating the programs from all the banks and governmental offices, the Pentagon and the Kremlin. So the stakes to stop it should have been really high. But as the movie actually plays, this information is pointless. It is never paid off by any other character acknowledging it. Flynn's sole motivation is to find prove that Dillinger stole his games. So he commits felonies to prove it? And Alan's and the Lora's motivations are what, friendship? Flynn and Alan never know that the MCP is sentient or that it has a plan. And while Flynn's life is apparently at stake in the electronic world, there's no peril for Alan or Lora. Alan is worried about his program and being locked out of the computer system that his employer pays him to program. It makes no sense. The film makers were trying to riff on the centralization of computer resources that was happening at that time in the corporate world, which was limiting and annoying for programmers and stifled innovation, but makes for a really boring movie plot point.To fix it, the writers could have had Flynn discovered what the MCP was doing. Maybe discover it had nuclear launch codes, or some other thing that would pay off the MCP's monologue with Dillinger. They could have made the stakes relevant to all of us in the real world. In Tron, nobody finds out what the MCP was doing.In the real world Alan and Lora could have discovered evidence of what the MCP was doing. Lora could have witnessed Flynn being digitized. They could have discovered that Flynn wasn't just stored in the grid, he was actually alive and aware inside of it. They could have added peril for them that they had to help Flynn from the real world to get him out of the grid before taking down the MCP. There could have been a lot more suspense. In the electronic world, in addition to running into accounting programs and actuarial programs, Flynn could have met CIA programs, Pentagon programs, Kremlin programs. He could have pieced together the MCP's intention.Tron could have been a good movie instead of just innovative in movie making techniques that is in people's hearts and minds because it was unusual. "},{"Title":"It's like you always thought there are little people in your computer!","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" On the other side of the screen, it all looks so easy.It's all-out war inside a powerful corporate computer, as the evil Master Control Program and his villainous user hold sway over all the other programs that fall into their grasp. It's up to a few determined programs and a human User with godlike powers, to restore order to the system.It would be a massive understatement for me to say that I'm excited about Tron Legacy. It has Olivia Wilde in it, it looks really cool, it has Olivia Wilde in it, the teaser trailer was awesome, and, did I mention that it has Olivia Wilde in it? I thought that since there's a pretty strong chance I'm going to see it, I should watch the original movie so that I'll know what's going on. Thankfully, Tron is good enough that it would have been worth watching, anyway.It's definitely an 80's movie. You'll be able to tell that not only from the characters, language, and the settings, but from the special effects. Some of them are really cool, like the light cycles and the costumes of the programs. Others are incredibly cheesy, like the giant face of Master Control (he looks like Zordon from Power Rangers). The plot takes a little while to get going, but once we get inside the computer, it's an exciting ride until the end of the movie. It helps a lot if you're somewhat familiar with computer programming and video games, but it's not totally necessary. Tron is a fun movie that is pretty impressive if you judge it by the standards of the time it was made. If you're a fan of the 80's, want to see a young Jeff Bridges showcasing early signs of The Dude, or the story sounds interesting to you, you shouldn't hesitate to check Tron out. "},{"Title":"A triumph of style over substance","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One must acknowledge Tron for its vast importance in terms of bringing computer graphics into mainstream movie making. Yes, the graphics in question look fairly dated these days by reference to their simplicity, but I don't count that against the film (and I certainly didn't do so at the time). Tron still looks pretty impressive all these years later.But looks alone aren't everything. Performance helps, and Tron is saddled with forgettable performances. I can't even remember the names of the people who were in it once you get past Jeff Bridges, David Warner, and Bruce Boxleitner (wo was always going to be the next big thing and never was).Tron is also saddled with a story which should have been wonderful, fantastical, and completely gripping, but which never quite manages to climb out of ho-hum.As a result, the finished movie lands squarely halfway between success and failure. Let's hope that the forthcoming revisitation does better. "},{"Title":"Geek guilty pleasure","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's no doubt that you have to be a bit of geek if not a lot of a geek to love Tron. At times the production design looks like a cheesy neon laser tag set and the special effects are ancient -- especially more than 25 years later. The plot of course is amateur while somehow also confusing. But to love Tron is to look past all that and see the adventurous soul behind this imaginative computer-world fantasy. It's a one-of-a-kind work of imagination that was decades ahead of its time.Tron stars a younger Jeff Bridges as Flynn, a former software program developer who wants to get back at the head of his former company, Ed Dillinger (David Warner), who stole some of his computer game programs and used them to get to the top. To maintain and expand the power of his cyber network, Dillinger created the Master Control Program. That's not too weird, except there's a whole world inside that computer system where programs appear as people or machines. Trying to access the files hidden away that prove Dillinger stole the programs, Flynn is sucked into the computer world by the MCP. Teaming up with his friends' programs, one being Tron, Flynn tries to take down the Master Control Program from the inside.The world of Tron in conceptual terms is what makes this movie so interesting. Not the way it's visually put together, though it kind of has a unique retro high-tech style to it that in some circles might be cool, but the thought process behind it. When Flynn enters the computer, the first thing that happens is he's sent to the game zone where he's forced to compete in games where the loser is deleted. The trademarks of the film such as the flying discs, digital jai alai and the lightcycles come out of these scenes early on. The inventives of these games are what makes Tron good for those apt to like it.Discussing the finer plot points of Tron is to forget it's a wacky Disney movie. There's nothing great about the acting and there's nothing too suspenseful about their adventure either -- it's all about watching what creators Steven Lisberger and Bonnie MacBird come up with next. I do have to mention the very cool aerial shot of the city at night where Lisberger speeds up the tape to make it look like a computer chip. Also, Wendy Carlos' score is a perfect fit for the movie.Then you also have to look at Tron for the achievement that it was in 1982. This movie predates James Cameron movies and he's looked at as the director who is always ahead of his time, working on the cutting edge of technology. As cheesy as it all seems now, it was ground-breaking and 28 years later, it's simply the only of its kind. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie was the first movie with a computer in it.It also has various arcade games(mostly at Flynn's arcade,did I see Atari Football?)I know I saw Asteroids Deluxe.my favourite scene in the movie is possibly the lightcycles one.I also like the bit where the recognizer takes of part of the bridge and a tank with it.Ha ha!Took him a long time to get into the computer though.Could have been quicker.I have this movie on Special Edition DVD. It has great quality.Not bad for 1982.1982,whoa.I wish i was around then. It would have been so great.I also would have liked to like in the 60's and the 70's.This is one of my favourite movies and,as I've read,they are making a remake of TRON in 2010. "},{"Title":"The Genesis of the Cinematic Digital Revolution","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Tron. I thought it was great when I was kid. And, I still think it's great. I've never understood the hate it gets from so many. I can understand some people's issues with the world outside of the computer in the film. But once Flynn is sucked inside the supercomputer, Tron is magic.This has a lot to do with the groundbreaking look of the film the mix of black and white film stock with neon computer generated imagery. There hasn't been anything quiet like it since, but it's influenced the look of countless movies AND video games. One would think a film with such a groundbreaking look would be critically hailed, but Tron still remains mostly ignored in cinematic circles. It's knocked down for it's story, character development, etc; I personally find the story inspiring.The sound of Tron is almost as great as the look. Wendy Carlos' score takes electronic synthesizer music to a sublime and other-worldly high.Cinephiles praise Fritz Lang's Metropolis for its groundbreaking look(as they should.) But, please note they're not praising Metropolis for its story, characters or acting; it's all about the cinematic vision. Isn't Tron basically a digital age reboot of Metropolis? Metropolis ushered in the age of early sci-fi; Tron ushered in the DIGITAL age of sci-fi cinema. It's time Tron got the respect it deserves. "}{"Title":"A Unique Stylistic Treat","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is not a lot to say about this movie that has not been said many times, and much more eloquently than I will ever manage by other reviewers. But there is one thing I would like to add...The story is very simple (verging on the simplistic) and mythic in quality; it lends itself to any, or many, interpretations an allegory on belief systems, global capitalism, the Frankenstein story of the creation becoming the master etc.. Take your pick. The actors do their jobs. The writing is not particularly clever or witty but tells the story well enough. What makes this film a big fat 9 for me is the visuals.The visuals are still stunning; when I first saw this movie in the cinema when it was released I was blown away. Now, many many years later watching it on a battered second-hand VHS I am amazed to see how well they have stood the test of time. I think ,and this is the point I want to add, I think this is because they were never imitated.The Star Wars style was ripped off, copied, duplicated, and watered down by other jump-on-the-bandwagon filmmakers, and so merchandised to death by Lucas that the freshness, novelty, and sheer fun of the first film is unrecognisable now. It's been buried under millions of tons of expensive cheap toys, tatty imitations and huge bloated pre/sequels.Tron never suffered that fate. No other movies co-opted the Tron style. It is one of a kind. This is not to say the movie has not been influential; no one can read William Gibson's books without seeing that, but in movie terms Tron is a unique stylistic treat.Watch and enjoy! I'm off to buy a DVD copy and yes Babylon 5 fans, that IS Peter Jurrasik (Londo) in a small part. "},{"Title":"You'll never see its' kind again","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron is a one of a kind experience, and that's according to the creative staff who made it. Its' uniqueness resides in the filming process used for figures in the computer world scenes via a process called back-lighting. See the trivia section for more information on how this was done, but let me say that back-lighting creates the image that has stayed with me over the years and keeps bringing me back to this milestone movie. The world of the Programs is unlike any other visual setting I have experienced in a movie, with buildings, landscapes, characters, and vehicles that have to be seen to be believed. Like most fans, the Lightcycles and the battle discs are among my favorite images from the story, which while simple, is profound in the context of the evolution of the computing world. Having viewed the documentary on how this movie was made, I also have the utmost respect for the Lisberger team that had to invent the wheel to get this world on film. Bravo for their efforts, and shame to the MPAA for refusing them an Oscar for Special Effects. Finally, while I like David Warner as Sark just fine, it would have been cool to see what Peter O'Toole could have done with this part had he stayed on. "},{"Title":"Grievously underrated cult movie.","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron was made in 1981-1982, at the time when home computing was in it's infancy. The greatest home computers at the time were Commodore 64, Atari XL series and Apple 2 computers, all which were quite expensive. Computers were the new uncharted land, and there Tron established it's realm of fantasy.Tron is sci-fi only superficially. It's roots are deep in the fantasy, translated into a modern-day high-tech world. The creators knew they weren't doing an essay on how computers worked. In today's computer-savvy world the story might appear as anthropomorphic naivety, but the pseudo-realistic hacker movies of the '80s (and the '90s) have fared much worse.Computer time was very expensive in the early '80s, and the software wasn't too advanced. The brilliant idea was to use the CGI to depict the immaterial world inside the computer, instead of trying to mimic the real world, which really wasn't feasible until some 10 years later. At the completion of the film, the technology used for Tron was cutting edge, and the CGI was the best seen so far. Today, the graphics are outdated, but in their role, depicting the world inside a computer, they are perfectly sufficient.I believe Tron is not for everyone's liking, but as a modern age fantasy, it's a great movie. "},{"Title":"To the cyberculture this film is nearly apocryphal.","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron has truly imprinted itself in the industrialized world's subconscious. Those of us who grew up during the Computer Revolution this film (Tron) was almost a life altering experience. Even by modern (21'st Century) standards Tron is an exceptionally creative and unique movie. Many have tried to retread this now well established land but even now it still remains only merely dated by the trappings of the characters and settings in the real world scenes. Most of Generation X had dreams of the Network looking like Mead and Lisberger's vision of the Computer World. And to be honest I'm still surprised it doesn't. The dye for visuals of an entire genre' were struck with this film. From 'Published Fiction', Role-Playing Games, Movies, Television, and of course Video Games, they all have been affected. If you haven't seen this film yet it may strike you as a bit old, but the in the system images are surprisingly timeless. I recommend you see this gem from the past so you to can see a vision of the future that is still yet to come.  "},{"Title":"A true work of genius....","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron has to be one of my favorite movies of all time. This milestone in computer animation technology, to this day, is the most unique movie ever made. It intriguingly shows what life is like inside the computer, what it's like to be in your own video game. Tron is truly a work of art and needs to be heard of. "},{"Title":"dazzling animation and beautiful visual effects","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron may look dated compared to today's standards but it was among the first films to use visual effects and still is the best. After watching the film for the first time, the story may seem complex and confusing but the second time round it is easier to understand. Obviously the films main superiority and unfortunately, the only thing it will be remembered for is its animation. To say the least, it is unique. It combines basic animation, computer effects and touches of reality. That's all the film needs to succeed. You can sit back and fall into the films visual beauty. The films music really suits it. It may only be orchestra, but that adds to the films effect. The acting is standard and nothing award winning. Jeff Bridges is good as Flynn and likewise for David Warner. However the film doesn't try to be award winning in acting. Overall this film is outstanding, visually and keeps a good balance of acting etc. 7.7out of 10 "},{"Title":"Tron The movie that the computers were not quite ready for.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first movie in which computertecnology is used to create a complete 3dimensional world. This movie was really ahead of its time and had more influence in the development of the world of films than most people realize. Especially when you know the difficulties of using 3d-computergraphics and know its limitations. In 1981 the limitations of the computer were still to enormous to make a convincing virtual world. And still they managed it! In order to pull it off, they filmed the real world in the night, to make it more like that of the computer imagery! Only at the end of the movie do you see daylight scenes! Another example is that almost all indoorspaces in the real world are put in a blue light, te create the same kind of diffuse light like in the computerscenes. Especially these limitations make TRON a wonderfull movie.  "},{"Title":"So much ahead of it's time","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie got 10 points from me, not because all of it's elements are perfect - they aren't - but because it represents an outstanding look into the future of computing. So accurate a look, actually, that it's almost unbelievable.Even today, many movies that talk about the Internet, are less truthful, believable, than Tron. In comparison, The Net is braindead.The other reason it gets a 10 are the CGI (computer graphic imagery) effects, stunning even by today's standards.- Little spoiler ahead!! - I will mention the elements that I disliked the acting wasn't very good, and the little scene of infidelity was out of place (the one where Flynn and the female program kiss romantically).But that's about it, I really enjoyed the movie, and was surprised that I didn't find any Disney-bollocks. Ahead of it's time in both content, idea and animation, Tron is going to have a large group of followers in the years to come. "},{"Title":"Fond Childhood Memories","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've never gotten around to buying this one on VHS, and for good reason the last time I saw it on TV, I taped it, and the tape I got, although not much worse than the VHS version circulating at the time, doesn't hold a candle to the theatrical experience. Tron has been a favourite from the first time I saw it in the theatre, when I was 11. My grandmother took us to it, and complained afterwards about how it gave her a headache and that she'd never look at neon lights the same way again. Personally, I was transfixed. I was seeing the future of film visual effects, and I knew it. Granted, Bruce Boxleitner makes a fine piece of balsa in this one, but his character is supposed to be wooden. It's like all the stupid lines Mark Hamill had to say as Luke Skywalker in the Star Wars Trilogy. Films like this need a moral centre, no matter how square the character winds up looking. His woodenness is more than compensated for by the evildoings of David Warner, who manages to convey a sinister presence without damage to the scenery. Jeff Bridges is good (as always), and computer geekdom gets an accurate portrayal. I was so glad when the new DVD came out for this film. It's worth a look, even if you've never seen Tron before, and cements Tron's place in history as the inspiration that launched the current CG animation movement. "},{"Title":"Tron as a Christian allegory","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEADTron is a film I enjoyed so much as a child who grew up on the first generation of video games.  Now looking back on this film, I see that most people (including myself, until now)completely miss all of the symbolism it presents.Sark urges the blue programs to renounce this superstitious and hysterical belief in the users, knowing that to keep his warriors in line, they must not know the real truth.  Recall the scene where RAM asks ROM, you believe in the users?  The answer is, Sure.  I mean, if I don't have a user, then who wrote me?  Also recall that the blue programs were ridiculed and persecuted for their beliefs, and even forced to fight gladiator (albeit video game) style for their lives.Flynn represents the Christ figure.  He is paradoxically both user and program in the computer world, as Jesus Christ was (according to Christian doctrine) both man and God.  Recall the powers he has over other programs (repairing recognizers, saving others from untimely deaths).  The MCP and Sark (Caesar and Pontius Pilate?) are only defeated when Flynn voluntarily sacrifices himself by jumping into the core of the MCP.  This of course parallels Christ's accepting His own crucifixion to save Mankind.  After Tron throws the disc, Flynn's descent reverses and he ascends back in the real world (Christ's resurrection and return to Heaven).  Also recall that the whole computer world is freed and literally lights up as soon as the tyrannical MCP and Sark are vanquished.  The most important line of the whole film is when Yuri tells Tron, Flynn saved us!  He really did!Add this to many, many other obvious and subtle symbols of Christianity (i.e. water/baptism/purification; the I/O tower which Tron uses to communicate with his user/ communication with God through church)and it's hard to see how so many people overlooked the hidden meaning of this movie.Highly recommended, the dated effects don't bother me one bit.  In fact, they even make me nostalgic for the simpler, far more primitive, charming time that was the 80's.  End of line. "}{"Title":"computers, religion and violence.  Great combo  )","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was a kid and I was amazed.  Not at the storyline or anything, but how it looked.  It instantly became one of my favorites.  Up until recently, I'm now 20 years old, the more I watched it, the more the story developed and I finally completely understood it.  This is one of the best movies ever made in my opinion and I'm not a huge fan of Disney.  But I think they outdid themselves during the making of this film....Absolutely brilliant if you take the time to piece the whole thing together.  An instant masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A trend setter","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  TRON is finally starting to take its place as one of the most influential films of the 80s; long before virtual reality and the internet were household words, or even computer jargon, TRON burst onto the scene with a story about the virtual life inside a computer and how computer users can insert themselves into the system.  The battle between programmers who want electronic freedom against a corporate entity that desires to devour all programs into itself also reflects modern controversies over internet freedom.In many ways, TRON is more important to cyberpunk than BLADE RUNNER, released the same year.  Both films were financial disappoints because they were almost ten years ahead of their time -- audiences preferred to see E.T. THE EXTRA TERRESTRIAL, which now seems dated and childish.Although CGI has moved far beyond the effects in TRON, the computer wizardry in this film seems fresh and magical, far more so than the bloated graphics that have dulled our senses today.  And the score by Wendy Carlos is a unique and seamless meld of synthesizers, orchestra, and chorus.  The film has some narrative flaws, but the more I watch it, the smaller the problems become.  And David Warner...man, what a great triple villain role (Dillinger/Sark/Voice of the MCP)!END OF LINE "},{"Title":"Precursory film with Jeff Bridges who finds pulled into another world against  baddie David Warner  as corporate executive realizing evil-doings","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Original Sci-Fi film with rousing images and innovative computer generator scenarios about a creator whiz , a rebellious youngster ,who is flapped inside a computer game and haunted by the mysterious new world , undertaking a risked adventure . This cult movie deals with a computer genius named Kevin Flynn (a brave young man well played by Jeff Bridges who with his charisma keeps afloat the film ) , a youth once known as the world's leading video-game developer . When Kevin investigates the machine he soon finds himself pulled into a digital world where he has been trapped . During his investigation Kevin is zapped into another dimension and finds himself a player in a giant gladiatorial video-game competition . As he is sucked inside a powerful computer where he must fight for his life but with the help of the fearless partners and friends (Bruce Boxleiner and Cindy Morgan as Tron and Yori respectively ) embark on a life-or-death journey across a cyber universe , a universe created by Kevin himself that has become far more advanced with vehicles, weapons, digital outdoors and a ruthless villain (a computer generated David Warner) who will stop at nothing to prevent their escape and all sorts of bizarre things begin to happen .This exciting movie is full of thrills , action-packed , fights , tension , suspense and overwhelming races , but also several commercial elements , including computer-simulated violence . This is a dynamic, fast-paced and amusing movie It's an enjoyable , if somewhat light-headed piece of escapism with state-of-art special effects . Big-budgeted film led to break into the booming Sci-Fi/adventure/fantasy market full of inventiveness and imagination . Full of action, it's complemented by spectacular scenes , breathtaking flights and duels with illuminated disks and balls . Stunning action though the story runs out of steam too soon , however the thrilling ending arises the film . The flick relies heavily on the overlong and death-defying races that are incredible and magnificently made by means of innovative 3D computer generator by that time of the 80s , though nowaday dated . The tale moves like a supersonic bullet for most of its running time and the last generation of fantastic computer generator effects steal the show . Contrived beyond belief with spectacular motorcycle races that play like video games , but slickly calculated to please 1980s audiences and children especially . Jeff Bridges is good as valiant racer , he's an instinctive , stubborn and valiant young man . Cindy Morgan is beautiful as computer-generated young . Colorful cinematography plenty of neon and glittering color by Bruce Logan . Impressive and groundbreaking production design by Darren Gilford . Stirring and moving musical score by Wendy Carlos , Stanley Kubrik's usual , though composed by means of synthesizer . The motion picture is well directed by Steven Lisberger .Followed by a superior sequel , much better than original ¨Tron Legacy(2010)¨ by Joseph Kosinski , and appears as producer Steven Lisberger , and also with the same actors as Jeff Bridges and Bruce Boxleitner , though doesn't appears David Warner , the former nasty executive , here replaced by Michael Sheen and Jeff Bridges in double role as good and bad guy ; furthermore , Olivia Wilde and Garrett Hedlund playing Kevin's son. ¨Tron¨ rating  6,5 . Good , well worth watching , it proved to be a precursor for the modern cinema ,the movie boasts some impressive C.G. animation , reaching a high level of entertainment and excitement commensurate with its effect budget .It's viewing delight and amusing though toothless entertainment that benefits greatly from sympathetic acting and rudimentary but effective C.G special effects . "},{"Title":"The special effects have stood the test of time...but","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Computer games, BORING! That's what I imagine I thought when this was first around around 18yrs ago. I remember it only vaguely-the motorbikes racing around and that's all.Watching it on a whim recently, I was quite surprised at well the film has lasted. Special effects are the one thing that may wreck this film's worth, but whilst at times they looked pretty bad, for the majority of the film they are superb. The opening sequences of the bike race is incredible, but throughout there are moments where it's hard to see how they would improve. The story is of course fantastical and at times I felt it was a little difficult to know what was going on and eventually the story began to bore me, so much so that by the end I wasn't really paying attention. For sci-fi and/or computer nerds there would be lots to enjoy, but whilst the special effects are impressive, even more so if you think that they were done on computer which was revolutionary back then, the story feels a little dragged out.It will be interesting to see how the new film Tron Legacy with it's Daft Punk soundtrack and modern special effects will fare amongst a world of CGI laden films.More of my reviews at my site iheartfilm.weebly.com "},{"Title":"Tron (1982)","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron (1982) The best visual design in the world doesn't mean a thing unless there's someone around with at least a elementary senseof story. Writer-director Steven Lisberger takes the computer world as a metaphor for totalitarianism, It's a straightforward idea that oughtto serve, but Lisberger's failures of pacing,arrangement, variation, and characterization basically make the film seems pedestrian and distant. Jeff Bridges, playing the hero sucked into the computer,has to carry the film's entire burden of charm and appeal. a charming movie for its time perhaps and indeed some of the designs still look fresh some thirty years later but otherwise a dated movie. "},{"Title":"A total trip. You have to see it.","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cannot even imagine what a bizarre experience it must have been to see this on the big screen in 1982. Even if the graphics now look like an old Shockwave game, there is just something incomparable about the blue pastel color scheme and otherworldly landscape. The movie is gorgeous!It also benefits from one of the most unintentionally(?) hilarious story lines ever, wherein we learn that the programs we run on our computers every day actually consist of tiny dudes in strange helmets running around fighting for their lives. The death match on the grid becomes extra-hilarious when you realize they are playing the classic game of Snake. It's all just a little too ridiculous, but it's hard to think of any other way the filmmakers could have pulled off such a story (having the characters be talking ones and zeros? or beams of light?) meaning that maybe they should have tried another story altogether&#x85; or that the CGI simply wasn't ready for a feature-length movie. Jeff Bridges, it has to be said, does an admirable job with such an odd role&#x97;although I have to wonder, why does he get to kiss TRON's girlfriend? (And&#x85; why does TRON&#x85; have a girlfriend?) The movie is a blast to sit through and fantastically weird, but with such a silly story, it was probably more trouble than it was worth. Disney became obsessed with CGI after this and continued to apply it to their animated movies in increasing amounts until they valued it more than traditional animation and shut down their 70-year-old animation department in 2003. The fact that Disney funded this is probably the reason for the endless stream of terrible CGI kids' movies now being released by Fox, Dreamworks, et al (Pixar being the notable high-quality exception). The point of the story is that TRON was onto something (specifically, director Steven Lisberger was onto something), and it could have begun an era of brilliantly integrated experimental and traditional films, but the technology was in the hands of the wrong company. "},{"Title":"Good to the last byte!","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had never seen this movie but had heard about it through the years, firstly with the reference to it on the Simpsons (which I must say was somewhat similar but I didn't see anything that mimicked it too closely) and secondly, there was this guy on Jimmy Kimmel Live! that was apparently obsessed with Tron as he made several guest appearances dressed as 'Tron'. So that in itself sparked an interest. But, all that said, it was one of those things that had went on the back burner. Anyway, watching it I was quite surprised at how good it really turned out to be. It seems somewhat dated, but not really. I think the characters in ' the real world' give the time frame away more than any of the technological effects.(The girls big glasses, etc.) BUt the cars were super cool, and I really liked the way the suits lit up...that seemed almost flawless...I am really curious about how they did that... was it some sort of gel or paint or lights in the suits, or what? That was awesome. Definitely worth a watch, and I think that they should bring it back at least once in theatres, maybe as a special release if they haven't already. ) "},{"Title":"A masterpiece that was before Matrix","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this excellent funny movie back in the 1980's still in the Soviet Union times, and I fell in love with this work at once. Yesterday, when I watched this again, my feelings just reinforced. Maybe, so many people do not like the Tron because they took it too seriously. No, just watch it with a grain of humor and irony and you will love it. I am still amazed that even in 1982 people could draw such intricate video effects and then they still look very fresh. But even they are not the main catch. What I really love is the marvelous play of Jeff Bridges. He looks so merrily and fresh and he certainly doesn't get all that so seriously that you immediately believe him. Anyway, the very idea of somebody stealing your programs and being in fact a hacker seems so up-to-date today. The evil Mr. Dillinger and his alter ego inside the computer is performed with a chilling truth. I do recommend this masterwork for all those who thought that all computer effects first appeared in Matrix or even later. "},{"Title":"YES!!! RERELEASE in theaters PLEASE!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brilliant work of extraordinary art.  The effects are stunningly beautiful; if they look cheesy bear in mind that they are supposed to be inside a computer, it's supposed to look more cartoony than real.  The writing manages to tie together three themes seamlessly the Action/Adventure Movie theme, the Big Evil Business theme, and the Computer Geek/Unix OS theme.  One single character, for instance, is the tyrannical ruler, the evil, greedy business executive, and the OS kernel all in one individual.  Another is the wise mentor, the oppressed employee who started the company in his garage, and the I/O driver module.  Yet another is the mischievious-but-lovable scoundrel, the oppressed hacker, and the User.  This movie really shows me how I can think of my Linux box as a model of human society.  In a way, they're just two different machines trying to form some kind of order with the tools and individuals they have.  A computer OS is a miniature version of a business, which is in turn a miniature version of a government.  Very cool, makes you think, if you're a geek like me ) "},{"Title":"If only all films would age so well...","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember watching TRON as an awestruck little 9-year old. I remember the impact the special effects and particularily, the Snake/motorbike races, had on me as a kid - I loved it. It was a great film to watch as a sci-fi hungry kid.Now, almost twenty years later I decided to buy the special edition dvd which was released last year, mostly because I wanted to see it again, but also to see how well/badly it had aged.I had expected it to be a nostalgic, but unimpressive rewatch - full of bad matte lines and badly animated cgi. And, ok, there are lots of fat matte lines around the characters, but the cgi is still good, actually. It's animated well, and it's clear that a lot of thought went into creating the basic design and look of the film, which is wonderful. Thankfully, the filmmakers chose to go with a completely alien look, meaning that they never wanted the film to look realistic or life-like. This is the main reason why the film and it's effects have stood the test of time. I must admit, there were times when I went 'wow, that looks really cool!'I also think that the film is exciting and suspenseful and the action scenes still feel very original and fun. Gotta love those race scenes - they're great!And, combined with a great electronic soundtrack, this was a highly enjoyable revisit. I heartily recommend it to anyone who loves sci-fi and effects-driven films.I give it an 8/10 for still feeling as fresh and interesting, as it was all those years ago. "}{"Title":"Tron is a reverse allegory of the spiritual world.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is a reverse allegory of the spiritual world.  In Tron the real world serves as a metaphor for the spiritual world beyond us through the nether realm of the computer and its programs, analogues of our humanity. The film is thus a hierarchical analogy such as of `A' (computer) to `B,' (human society) that speaks of `C,' the world beyond us (the divine world that relates to `B' just as we relate to `A'. As one program asks another `You believe in the users?' (the invisible world beyond our senses).  He answers, `Yeah, sure.  If I don't have a user, then who wrote me?  That is, literally, `Do you believe in the gods or in God?  Answer  `Yeah, sure.  If I have no god, then who created me? Elsewhere, the human programmers are called `creators.'Yet, the Master Control Program, Tron's diabolical genius and his lieutenant Sarc (the root of the pejorative Greek word for `flesh') knowingly declare this very sentiment a `hysterical and superstitious belief' to be recanted on penalty of `deresolution' (i.e. death).  The tyrannical MCP is a model for Satan, a usurper who, though himself created by his `Master,' coerces and deceives his fellow created programs while seeking to dominate and control his superior creators/designers.  The aged and obsolete, those who are no longer useful, he euthanizes. The MCP's arch-rival is the talented computer programmer Flynn, `a god' who descends in the guise of a `mortal' (program) into the mortal world of his creation (the computer).  Flynn is a figure of Christ.  Like Christ, Flynn has special powers and once brings a friendly program back from the dead. Note the combats, including an early gladiatorial contest (for where else is a fight to the death called `a game' except in the Roman arena? and the final contest's similarity to an early Biblical combat between a gargantuan epitome of evil and a diminutive hero. According to this view, the episode at the tower is a paradigm of prayer, an explicit attempt to communicate with the other world.  There, Tron submits a disc which ascends upward (toward the spiritual domain).  It is data, surely, but also words in a figurative sense, or, one might say, thoughts. Dumont, the tower guardian, or rather, the `temple' guardian acting as priest speaks this oracle which summarizes the meaning of Tron `All that is visible must grow beyond itself and extend into the realm of the invisible.' He says this in the supposed center, the core of the highly material and technological world in which we now live, the computer. "},{"Title":"An important film in its way","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is one of those love-it-or-hate-it numbers like Buckaroo Banzai or Logan's Run.  Sure it's cheesy, but I think that's forgivable in films that a) don't take themselves too seriously, and b) actually have a brain.The dialogue is for the most part pretty snappy, which is a welcome relief considering how tempting it must have been to turn it into a melodrama, and the actors manage to say awkward words like deresolution without it being too distracting.Of course the metaphor of programs as little people who live inside your computer is stretched beyond what (in 2003) anyone would buy, but you can still sense that the screenwriters actually knew something about computers. I didn't say a *lot*... but something, which is more than you can say about the subject matter of a lot of movies.Today, questions like how can programs designed to perform one specific function compete in computer games operating on terminals they aren't even connected to? pop to mind.  But remember that in 1982, the few home computers there were, were still run by hooking your television set up to a tape recorder and be forgiving.  And that same question never did Reboot any harm.It's a fun adventure story that isn't too insulting to your intelligence, and the special effects were a *lot* better than I would have expected.  I was impressed. "},{"Title":"Totally underated","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this film in 1982 I was 10, twenty years later it still entertains me. surely one of the best accolades a film can get.There are two worlds, the world we know (the world of the Users), and the world of the Programmes. Flynn is a wiz-kid programmer looking for proof that his video games have been stolen by his old employer. During an attempt to find his proof the evil MCP transports Flynn in to the digital world and forces him to play in his own video games to the death. But he has help, a programme created to fight the tyrannical MCP called TRON.Maybe i am looking too deep into this film but it works on so many different levels.The graphic style, the Story , the obvious comparisons between the worlds of the Users and the Programmes, the films religious overtones. Plus all the geek stuff.It is difficult to watch allot of older sci-fi fantasy without the technological limitations getting in the way. But not with TRON, the special effects don't seem dated because they have such a unique style.It is important though to realise that TRON is a Disney film and really has none of the sophistication or grit that modern films have. Also the story relies on the visuals to hold the viewer rather than develop a complicated story.Maybe it was a fluke how such a great film was made, and maybe i am on my own or am a bit of a nerd, but I don't care.  "},{"Title":"Future Memories","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Tron when it first came out and although i was impressed,i wasnt exactly blown away.The problem was that it didnt look too different to most of the video games especially Battlezone that were around at the time.However all of the positive comments on the DVD persuaded me to buy it,and i discovered that Tron has actually IMPROVED with age! Why? Well,one of Trons creators hit the nail on the head when he said  CGI effects now are all about imitating reality,making it as lifelie as possible.What we wanted to do was create another world,another reality altogether. Tron does that in spades,from the great Lightcycle race to my favourite the Solar Sailer.The only drawback to Tron is that you cannot really appreciate it on a TV screen-you would need a 40 feet screen in your living room-but then i guess someone is working on that right now!            P.S. Isnt it funny you have to give a USER Location to comment on this movie? "},{"Title":"A classic and a first for computer animation that is a little funny after 20 years of computer technology advancement","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After 20 years of advancement in the world of computers (both in terms of technology and effects), Tron is quite interesting to revisit and is applauded for it's ground-breaking computer generated animation.  It also holds it's place in history as the first massive effort in computer animation. The film  had a damn cool story that is even a bit funny now looking back on it.   It is basically  one man a computer programmer named Flynn (Jeff Bridges) out to save the world  from the evil Master Control Program (or MCP).  But this time he has to do it from inside the computer world   and he has to do while playing the games he created in the real world. But he does get help from a security program called Tron (Bruce Boxleitner) to overthrow the tyrannical MCP.  I really liked the light cycle scene, and those glowing blue and red suits still look damn cool. And for those who are computer literate, the little in-jokes are still funny. Flynn's program named Clu, the insurance program Ram, and the Bit that will only answer Yes or No, etc.If you want the best-looking edition of Tron, you must get this DVD.Even though it says that it is 5.1 it doesn't sound like it. However, it does take advantage of the .1 channel to give you some rumbling bass in addition to the clearer sound. "},{"Title":"Still not that great...","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At a friend's urging, we rented the DVD of this and gave it another try. He's always had a soft spot for it. (conversely, I will admit to liking The Black Hole, which he despises)  I was impressed with the visual design - setting it inside a computer gave the graphics a kind of timeless quality which lets it age better than other early Computer Graphics efforts. However, despite some nice touches (the whole religious element involving programs believing in their users) what little plot exists is fairly infantile and poorly implemented, and the dialogue is frankly horrible.  If you haven't seen it in awhile, it's probably worth renting (*ON DVD* Widescreen only!) for what is one of the most unique design schemes ever put on film, but don't expect much of a movie beneath the gloss. (and look for both Bruce Boxleitner and Peter Jurasik a decade prior to their reunitement on Babylon 5) "},{"Title":"For Nostalgia Only","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a movie I missed when I was a child; it never screened in my city. I was always disappointed at missing it yet it was only last week that I finally managed to see it.By today's standards this movie is very embarrassing. If you were in the age group lucky enough to be involved in the emergence of affordable home computers then you'll probably find a lot of nostalgia watching this movie. Certainly, most of the favourable reviews seem to be from people who watched it in their youth. For anyone else, it's likely to be a forgettable or even regrettable experience.This wasn't a movie intended to develop powerful characters; indeed, they are as one dimensional as a model's photo in a magazine. The acting is poor and wooden. But that is more a reflection of what we have come to expect from movies today.Arguably the Avatar of its day, its plot is anchored in the 1980s by its connection to what we now consider archaic home computers. We're three decades on now so looking back it is actually quite embarrassing.Paradoxically, it is the special effects that remain the most compelling reason to see this movie. While some of the ideas expressed by the effects are about as dated as they come (light cycle games are about as primitive as they come), the overall effect of the neon-type effects looks quite amazing. Today's special effects border on looking as realistic as possible. Here, the intention is the opposite; they are trying to imagine a world inside a computer. It's quite interesting to see but perhaps a documentary about the making of it would be more interesting.Tron is supposedly being revamped for the modern screen. Done the right way it could be a really good movie to see given all the stale releases from Hollywood in recent years. Otherwise this one is really just for people who saw it in their youth or were part of the home computing scene. "},{"Title":"26 years later, this still holds up well","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I got to watch this movie this morning when they played it on Showtime - I hadn't seen in in something 15 years or so. Interestingly, it was rated G - I would have given it a PG because, real or not, people did expire at times.With personal computers just entering peoples homes when this movie was released, the only people that had any real access to computers programmers and data entry operators that used computers in their every day life. The fact that this film didn't make the big dollars at the box office doesn't mean it wasn't a good concept, it just meant that people who didn't understand this new technological onslaught weren't about to shell out their hard earned money to see it.Yes, it certainly looks dated, but everything looks that way from the point of view of 20 odd years into the future but some of the tech we take for granted today was there - for example, Dillinger's touch screen desk shows some forward thinking in an age of chunky push buttons and knobs.Throughout the film, there seems to be a hidden message about the danger of allowing one all encompassing power to take control of smaller and weaker ones - an unintentional allusion to the dangers of a one world government perhaps. Was the MCP really the USA or USSR in disguise? Acting performances were generally good. David Warner played the sinister bad guy to great effect as he always has. Even at such a young(ish) age, he had a threatening aura about him. Bruce Boxleitner seemed to be a bit wasted considering his was the title role. His real world role was damaged by the ridiculous eye wear he had stuck to his head (I couldn't stop looking at the nerdy glasses he wore) and Jeff Bridges played the part of Jeff Bridges perfectly (I am sure that one day he'll play someone else).I see the movie is to be remade in 2010. I would hope that it is faithful to the spirit of this original version and that they don't go CGI mad on it. With the way computers are networked and Big Brother can see everything now days, a fun family film might not be on the cards there. "},{"Title":"It changed my life","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well... I have to confess... Tron changed my life back in 1982. I saw it because my brother took me to the cinema to see that awful movie. I remember that days learning computing was like learn to swim without a pool (there were only classrooms with boards but no computers to practice). Then, computing was merely a weird subject in life, only at the reach of freaks and nerds... Yes, my brother was one...I don't know if it was because of the hour and the day we went to the cinema (was the last function by 2200 not in weekend) but the place was alone... There were no more than 50 or 70 persons there, and some other were arriving suddenly... I thought that I was missing my time but, he was my eldest brother. And I really love to spent my time with him...Well... The movie was impressive since the first shots... Oh, my god! How the hell did they that effects?. I was at the edge of my seat during almost all the movie, wondering how they did all that... I barely understood all the jargon used in the movie (my brother did his best to try to explain to me all that, but I didn't understood what the hell is a bit as the minimum information piece of a computer).Since then I decided to decant towards the computer field. Computers became my passion and in 1985 I bought my first PC. Well... I still sign my messages as Tron.BAS (Being Tron a suffix of a motto that people used with me (Computron), a keyword from BASIC language, and the title of this movie; and .BAS because I develop applications with BASIC, so I am a BASIC program by my own).Now, my children doesn't understand it... My daughter started to play Tron 2.0 and her interest for the movie growth. I think we will see it now, with calm, and trying to explain why this movie is so important to me as is my way to live now. This movie deserves all my admiration and respect, and 10 stars for me. "},{"Title":"Do you believe in the Users?","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching this film again after a few years absence, a few motifs became clearly apparent. The most obvious of which is the constant reference to an ancient Greek style belief system. I found this to be very interesting, and keeping an eye out for references throughout the film made me enjoy it even more than I ever had before. Besides the fact that they wear pseudo-togas in the computer there is also the belief in the Parthenon like User's - the human programmer's who created them. Add to this the I/O towers, temples if you like, to communicate to the Users. Sark becomes a Gorgan and Tron is a great Greek hero; competing in gladiator games defending his beliefs and, because of fighting against the oppression of the MCP, fighting for good old fashioned Greek democracy. This film has just as much, if not more, reference to Myth than Star Wars in my opinion, and yet it is never discussed. Its a forgotten mythology. "}{"Title":"On the otherside of the screen, it all looks so easy","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently watched this film again, and I must say that it still looks good.Tron is the story about Kevin Flynn, a young ,hotshot computer programmer who is determined to find the proof the he is the creator of five of the most popular video games from the man who stole them. When Flynn gets too close, the artificial intelligence super-computer ,MCP, digitizes Flynn into the video game world he created, to fight for his life, all for MCP's amusement.This film may have been for too ahead of it's time in 1982.  It told the story about a super-computer gone power hungry (two year prior to Terminator and seventeen years prior to The Matrix) and it was the the springboard for early computer generated images.  Although this film mixed CG with hand-drawn animation, I dare anyone to sort out one from the other. The film also sported computer terms such as bit, ram ,end of line ,etc.)This film also sported some of the most unique and original action sequences, such as the Lightcycle Maze/chase and the Disc Duel The same goes for the computer world ,that is unlike anything presented on the big screen. Even the score done by Wendy Carlos was unlike any other. The performences by the cast were well done.  One in particular was the commanding performance of David Warner as the ruthless Commander of the gameworld Sark.This film is one of those over-looked gems from the 80's that should be seen in it's pristine DVD release.  End of Line  "},{"Title":"-Start of Line-","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, maybe Tron was a little cheesy, but I loved it. Disney promised us a world inside a computer and so they gave us a world inside a computer. In this movie, computer programs become people, and programmers, hackers, or just anyone who can use a computer are called users. Users are seen as gods; the creators of this digital world. It's like 'Reboot', only twelve years before 'Reboot' was even imagined. The villain in this film is the Master Control Program (MCP). The MCP takes over programs and rules the digital world with a 'digital' iron fist. He is so intelligent that he can even communicate verbally with his user, Dillinger. All of the MCP's messages end with 'End of Line'.It's hard to say who the real hero is, Flynn or Tron. Flynn is a user and Tron is a program, and overall I think they wouldn't have won if they didn't work together.The CGI images were pretty good for a movie in the early 80's. To the modern viewer, they would seem cheap and lame, but they were great effects for '82. They give you the feeling of floating through digital space.My favorite part in the movie was the lightcycle races. I think I'd be cool to drive a lightcycle. I still don't understand what the Recognizers do. They just seem to float around and chase things. That doesn't seem very threatening. Maybe if it had guns...Overall, I think Tron is a classic and I hope it's remembered for a long time. Rent it if you can.-End of Line- "},{"Title":"peeweehoglie proudly presents Tron The Review","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SARK Greetings! The Master Control Program, has chosen you to write a good or bad review of the movie Tron. Those of you, who will be writing a good review, should go to the left room. Those of you, who will be writing a bad review, should go to the right room. You will each write your review on this identity disc. Your good or bad review of the movie Tron will be imprinted on this disc. If you lose your disc, or fail to follow commands, you will have to write your good or bad review all over again. That will be all!GUARD #1 All the people who will be writing good reviews should follow me.GUARD #2 All the people who will be writing bad reviews should follow me.GUARD #1 HEY! MOVE IT!!ME Ouch! okay! okay! MY GOOD REVIEW I think this movie is one of the best movies that I've seen because the plot was great, the actors were great too and all of the action was pretty cool. My brother got the 20th Anniversary Collector's Edition DVD for his birthday and he really liked it. I like the part of the lightcycles because the game was very cool to watch and it would be also cool to actually play it! And..... um.... I forgot I was going to say....uh.....um.......SARK FINISH THE REVIEW!!ME NOOOO!!SARK Finish it!ME No! SARK You'll regret this.ME Ahhhhhhhh!!Flynn Wait! STOP! DON'T KILL HIM!! Just let him think what he was about to say in his review so he can finish it!SARK No!MASTER CONTROL PROGRAM Let the reviewer figure out what to write next on the review Sark! SARK Well alright!MASTER CONTROL PROGRAM End of line.REVIEW CONTINUED Overall, this is a great movie to watch with your family and great movie to own.                             END OF LINE  "},{"Title":"19 years young","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So THAT'S what a computer looks like inside! In 1982, as a small, excited boy viewing Tron at the cinema, I'm sure I uttered these innocently erroneous words to my friend next to me.In fact, even now in 2001, reflecting upon the fantasy world inside the computer network brought to life in Tron, I still believe it has a sheen that lives on undated by today's immense cinema CG effects. A fantasy world that is populated by programs that look like the mythical `Users', or programmers that created them. Kevin Flynn (Bridges) is one such User, and attempts to steal back the world famous video games he created but which were stolen by mega-corporation Encom. Before he can achieve this, he is `de-res'ed' via an experimental Encom laser and downloaded into the computer world by the oppressive, tyrannical Master Control Program. This MCP has become a virtual god in the alternative reality, and seeks to interfere with the Real World by eventually appropriating every computer network on Earth.This is where the one flaw with the entire movie hits home A story that is unusually difficult for the audience to grasp. Assailed by dialogue that proudly gushes computer jargon, the non computer-literate viewer will struggle. I remember fellow movie-goers emerging dumb-founded as the credits rolled. At the time Tron was released, Bill Gates was still looking to convince IBM that he could write an operating system for their first PC effort. Atari was king, and as such, the average viewer would understand Tron's video game angle, but not it's jargon.That we should overlook this blemish is unquestioned, and the rewards for doing so are many. Bridges assumes the `video-game kid' persona as though he has finally discovered his role in life Flynn is cocky, self-assured and mischievous, which for the steely logic of those programs which surround him, (humorously) does not compute. He maintains this all of the way through to the ubiquitous fantasy-style ending, the scale of which satisfies the unwritten requirements set out in fairy tales and folklore of centuries past.Supporting characters Tron (Boxleitner) and Yori (Morgan) ably assist in ushering the movie through a series of action and chase sequences, and it is the differences and similarities between the programs and their real-world counterparts which endears you to them. Of course, all fantasy stories require a larger-than-life villain, and the brilliant but often-overlooked David Warner terrorizes all other programs as Sark, in key scenes overshadowing the menace of the Master Control Program.Along the way, we are treated to a series of `in-jokes', for example the BIT character causing confusion with its supposed inability to say more than Yes or No. At times, the pace slackens, and in these moments, the romantic interplay between the three real-world characters and their fantasy counterparts is merely hinted at, instead of coming to the fore. This is a shame, and may well have raised the film in peoples' estimation had it been more successfully incorporated into the ninety or so minutes of entertainment.A memorable film for a variety of reasons then, but a disappointment at the box office, possibly for the reason mentioned earlier. One must not forget its Oscar nominations for sound and costume design. Now in the year 2001, it sits comfortably as a family favourite. Ironically, the central framework of the story is now firmly in people's consciousness a global internetwork exists and video games dominate as entertainment. In fact, it should be easier than ever to purchase a copy of Tron through this global internetwork. However, as Flynn remarks `On the other side of the screen, it all looks so easy.'  "},{"Title":"Tron Groundbreaking","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Tron on release and at the time was in the process of setting up my own PC company - we were still struggling with Basic, 120K floppy drives and undocumented errors.The graphics were, at the time stunning, the story was vapid and some of the dialogue embarrassing... I think I am jus' a coupla nanoseconds away... Seems paradoxical that Dsiney were at the cutting edge and have had to take Jobs on board with Pixar to retain their leadership.Of course it sucked at the Box office and I guess the Disney head honchos saw no future in it. After all it doesn't compare with the Muppets Treasure Island.TRON for those who may wonder, was a very primitive trouble shooting utility in early BASIC language. It stood for Trace ON and this was switched off with Trace OFF.This enabled the programmer to watch as each numbered line of code was executed so that you could check the execution of each line and examine the way variables changed. Far away from inline syntax checking etc., Happy days when we struggled with 64 K RAM and the first Hard disks were a long way off. "},{"Title":"Scruffy Jesus meets Spartacus-Moses on the Motherboard","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film upon its release in 1982 and thought it looked cool but wasn't much of a story. Having just seen the 70-millimeter re-release on the El Capitan's giant screen, I've a much greater appreciation for it. Certainly, the characterizations are paper-thin, the dialogue is nothing special, and the music is poorly used, but the writers were quite canny in their Christian allegory, which made the whole show much more than a mere exercise in special effects.Jeff Bridges as Flynn is basically a scruffy Jesus figure who descends into the world of computer programs immaculately to find that his sort is worshipped as gods by the programs. He also finds that he has powers considered miraculous by programs, such as to heal, resurrect and divert the beam of a lightship (the video game equivalent of walking on water?).Bruce Boxleitner, meanwhile, is a champion in the programs' Roman-style gladiatorial games, and though he lacks Spartacus' army, he compensates with Moses' heroic religious fervor and sense of rightness. As Moses went up the mountain, spoke with a burning bush, and returned with tablets inscribed with law, Tron goes into the Input/Output Tower, communicates with his User through a beam of light, and returns with his identity disc imprinted with the code necessary to defeat the Master Control Program.And said MCP? The spirit of conquest and tyranny that informed the cultures of Rome and Egypt, with David Warner's Sark character a blend of Pharoah and Crassus.As a teenager, I didn't appreciate the allegory, but now I have new respect for this film which many fans tend to dismiss. Science fiction used to try to be about something, but these days they've devolved to being ultra-violent, CGI-choked retreads. True, there's a cheese quality to it, but that's part of the fun. And I think I prefer a nice block of cheese with some character to it than the processed glop squeezing out of Hollywood's tube currently.  "},{"Title":"Amazing for its time, and not too bad now either","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen TRON since it was first out on Video back in the 1980s. I have avoided the movie for some time since I was expecting the story to suck and effects to date horribly.Well, I was pleasantly surprised.The story was if anything very compressed and could have done with some further development. However, it said what it needed to and was effectively a cybernetic fantasy story. Boy Being meets Girl Being, there is a wizard (Flynn) and they go off to do battle with a powerful monster (the MCP) and his chief general. It's a story that's been told before and since, but rarely in a way so unique.The effects have held up interestingly enough. They were designed to be arcade-like and they have remained this way - helped of course by being designed initially by Syd Mead and (I think) Moeller, two amazing artists. I say the effects haven't dated fully expecting to be abused, but I will place these clear justifications for this opinion1. They were designed in the 1980s2. If you compare effects of today against effects of - say - 2 years ago, the 2 year old effects look like video game graphics. This is because the technology is catching up so fast that something that looked realistic a couple of years ago now looks crap.The effects in TRON were of their time, and there is nothing before or since that compares simply because there has never been a movie like it. It was a cleverly put together presentation that is better than it's made out to be.  "},{"Title":"Tron RULES, baby!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON is an EXTREMELY under-appreciated masterpiece. The Academy actually denied the makers of this film a highly deserved visual effects nod because, to their way of thinking, using computer-generated imagery was cheating. CHEATING! That's like saying the invention of the wheel was cheating. The moral here is, try not to be TOO brilliant or ahead-of-your-time, because you will probably be misunderstood and disrespected by self-righteous idiots. Without TRON, there would most definitely be no Matrix. In fact, it seems like a lot of the cyberpunk, William Gibson-style reality-within-the-mainframe existentialism that permeates the fiction of our digital age can be traced back, to some extent, to the technological advent of TRON. RESPECT!!! -H "},{"Title":"Still great after 20 years","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For me TRON still looks as good as it did when it was released 20 years ago. The CGI looks superb, and the world is visually stunning and the story manages to hold its own. TRON came out way before it's time and took us to a place no-one had ever been before. Looking back its amazing to see where computer technology was in 1982 and where it stands in the present. David Warner is the usual english villian, which he plays perfectly, Jeff Bridges is a confident but likeable Kevin Flynn and Bruce Boxleitner brings out the warrior in the title role as TRON. I couldn't recommend TRON enough to anyone who hasn't seen it. Long may it stand the test of time and continue to endure for another 20 years and beyond. "},{"Title":"A Milestone in Cinema History","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While unsuccessfully trying to hack into the mainframe of the corporation ENCOM, the programmer Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) is detected by the Master Control Program that protects the system. Kevin worked in the company and is seeking evidences to prove that he had four video games including the successful Space Paranoids stolen by his colleague Ed Dillinger (David Warner) that was promoted to senior executive of the software corporation. Kevin's friends Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner) and Lora (Cindy Morgan) visits him is his arcade and they decide to help him to break into the ENCOM to use Lora's terminal and find the evidences while Alan uses his security program Tron to shutdown the MCP. However, the MCP identifies Flynn and brings him to the virtual world. Flynn associates to Tron and Ram (Dan Shor) and they are helped by Yora to reach and destroy the MCP to end the dictatorship in the virtual world.The cult Tron is a milestone in the cinema industry with a wonderful story of virtual world and a stylish cinematography supported by an earlier CGI work. In 2009, the hardware in ENCOM may be dated, with monochromatic monitors and huge computer units; but in 1982, Atari was the state-of-art video game and Internet was not available. Therefore, I believe that even younger generations that enjoy video game and sci-fi genre will appreciated this film that was certainly a source of inspiration of The Matrix. When Alan Bradley arrives in his cubicle, there is a poster with the sentence Gort Klaatu Barada Nikto in homage to The Day the Earth Stood Still, the 1951 masterpiece of Robert Wise. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Tron, Uma Odisséia Eletrônica (Tron, an Electronic Oddissey) "}{"Title":"ahead of its time . . .","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron rocks in a unique way. It shines without seeming dated. Sound design and special effects excel all expectations whether it's a first view of a film from 1982 or a 15 year reunion with the film you saw as a kid. The analog sound effects will please fan of the Moog and early sci-fi films while bringing something fresh to the table- as eerily soothing as 2001 A Space Oddysey. The result of such skill in audio mechanics brings you deep inside the world of the master control program and the alternate world of the computer. Kudos to the sound engineers.And with visual effects to match, Tron is highly recommended and enjoyable- especially but not solely for tech geeks. This film proves that an ounce of creativity can outshine a ton of state-of-the-art technology. If you see it, be prepared to flip into the game! See it on the big screen on those rare occasions that you can. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're a computer scientist, electrical engineer, physicist, etc. Then chances are you will love this film. The artists who produced this film did an amazing job of bringing circuit boards, computer programs, and operating systems to life. I think the world they created with this movie is one of the high points in the history of science fiction. "},{"Title":"My reason for becoming an IT geek","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw Star Wars I wanted to be an Astronaught, but being from the UK I knew that was not going to happen in this life !However, when I saw TRON I knew the world of computers was within my reach.  The visual beauty of the film has never left me and I still can visualise the electronic world as a luminous land of electric sparks and stars.The story line was pretty good and although the well known games of the time were not used I don't think it detracted from the finished product.  In fact not having Pac Man, Space Invaders, etc helped let the film shine through.I saw it first when I was 15 and as I am a little older now, I still love it and all it's olde worlde charm. "},{"Title":"One-dimensional storytelling in 3D!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron reminds me of another one-word titled film that relied on special effects to bring in money Them! from 1954. Neither film's effects hold up over the years. That is where the comparison fades since Them!, bizarrely, is the only one of the two with a slight focus on dialogue and plot. Tron lacks all the vital elements for a good film and instead hurls us into a nonsensical world of pastel colors and cheesy effects. Dialogue and plot may not exist within the mind of a super-intelligent computer, but any somewhat-intelligent human should be wondering where they are. With shots and ideas stolen directly from Star Wars, something must have gone wrong at a fundamental level to make Tron look like Star Wars's ugly cousin.The suspension of disbelief is important for a viewer to have when watching a movie. Tron is certainly no slice of life, but has characters that look very much like a slice of key lime pie. I am well aware that the possibility of Jeff Bridges being transported into a computer is fairly slim. It does not especially bother me that Tron, Yori, and Sark all look like people he knows in the real world. For all I know, he could just be really, really high. But the fact that Flynn (Bridges) and Tron and Yori are all wandering around in costumes that Star Wars's stormtroopers would laugh hysterically at sort of grates my nerves. The film is not the visual feast it thinks it is. Honestly, the film is not remotely entertaining. The sense of urgency we are required to feel in this adventure does not seem plausible when one stops to think, If a user's program took this long to contact me when I tried talking to it, I would go outside and play baseball and maybe hope it would talk to me in an hour or two. There is no urgency. There is no logic in Master Control's desire to take over the world. In fact, that is a subplot so desperate to draw us into the story that the movie is obviously using scare tactics to convince us we think it is cool. Yes, Master Control, you are so cool. You shrunk Jeff Bridges. You are making him perform tedious tasks instead of killing him when he obviously would waste no time in killing you. You know, Tron's a pretty capable hero. I think he would make it OK without Jeff Bridges, but never underestimate star power in a bad Disney film. He even manages to kiss Yori without making her short circuit, in a proud tradition of female Disney characters who could not possibly be more one-dimensional.There are no impressive twists or turns in this film, and not a single, catchy one-liner to be heard in a string of flat dialogue. The film lacks charm, story, but at least I can be glad we have come a long way since 1982... sort of. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, to viewers from 2004 Tron seems dated and silly. But the writers, directors, and animators were far ahead of their time. They were prophesying a world in which computers took over our day-to-day tasks (see Dr. Gibbs' great soliloquy towards Dillinger), video games became a way of life, and computer animation changed the way movies are made.It's no wonder that the minds behind Tron went on to form Pixar Animation.If Tron is watched by someone remembering that it was made when Gibson's ideas of cyberspace were only twinkles in science fiction's collective eyes, and see Tron as a forbearer of movies such as The Matrix (thematically) and Toy Story (technically), then to discount this film as silly or cheesy sci-fi would be a real shame.Every sci-fi or animation buff should see this movie.  "},{"Title":"one of the most mind blowing pieces of science fiction i've seen!","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, this is one of the very, very few movies I've ever granted a 10 with.And why? Because of the visual style & unmatched originality alone! I just saw this today for the first time, and was completely awestruck from the beginning to the end. The style that the computer sequences are rendered with is pure gold. This movie really shows how limits may benefit art. I can't imagine a movie like this would work now that the technology is in no way limiting what can be done with 3D-software.The airbrush work is sleek in the same minimal way as the wire-frame day-glo vector stuff.The black & white human figures complete the totally ageless look of the CG sequences of this film.I think this is one of the most underrated scifi-films of all time, and sincerely believe which will rise in artistic recognition as time passes and these beginning steps of computer graphics are just a page in the history books.This is really an image of a very, very short span of time when computers were entering our world, but still missed a recognized position in people's imagination and everyday life.I didn't know it beforehand and only realized it when the ending credits hit the screen, but visually this was a co-op between Jean Moebius Giraud and Syd Mead. The first on is my all-time favourite scifi-artist, and the other my most favourite visual designer in the movie field... Go figure ) "},{"Title":"The Stuff Dreams are Made Of...","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie shaped my childhood. Everything in my mind that is 'cool', 'awesome', awe-inspiring or deeply emotional, is visualized in terms of the visuals of this movie. I still have dreams about Tron to this very day. Every time I hear the ending credits music (not the Journey song, the Wendy Carlos stuff) I still get all misty-eyed. Above all other television, movies, books, or any media, THIS is the story that exists eternally at the center of my consciousness. Thank you, Tron.As an after-effect, I seem to be unable to dislike anything I see Jeff Bridges or Bruce Boxlitener in. As long as they're on screen, I'm happy. Funny how that stuff works. OF course, Babylon 5 is excellent anyway, but the fact that Boxlitener is a main character is definitely a bonus. I wonder what would have happened if JMS had written Tron? As another added note, the recent 'Tron 2.0' first-person shooter game is one of the best PC games I've ever played. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite film","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most people view this film with a feeling of nostalgia, myself included. However, Tron is more than just a piece of the 80's. Some of the most creative and unique action scenes ever put on film are featured here. David Warner and company create memorable and believable characters. Tron employs some of the best cinematography ever done; when you see the close-up of Sark's eyes at the conclusion of the ring game, you feel the tension. The crew put in an untold of amount of hours to manually insert the brilliant colors seen throughout the film. Wendy Carlos and Journey both contribute to a superb soundtrack. Tron is a surreal experience that remains a true science-fiction classic.  "},{"Title":"An underrated landmark in Sci-fi flicks!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A computer gamer named Flynn ( Jeff Bridges) breaks into an experimental computer to prove his work was stolen by another executive. He gets zapped into another dimension, which happens to be a video game dimension as he races against time with cyberfriends to battle a evil foe who has controlled the cyber world.A masterpiece of the sci-fi fantasy genre from Disney, this movie has groundbreaking special effects and early CGI for it's time. It still hold up today especially in today's CGI obsessed studios, this movie is the anchestor to those special effects. The plot is a little complicated but the movie is highly entertaining and the special effects are just spectacular including the famous racing scene.Also recommended The Running Man, The Matrix Trilogy, Star Wars, The Fifth Element, Total Recall, Blade Runner, The Dark Crystal, The Last Unicorn ( Another Bridges 1982 masterpiece).9/10. "},{"Title":"A great computer movie","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start by saying... I didn't understand what was going on in the film. A cursory glance at the message boards, as well as talking to various doctors, professors, people at the grocery store, tells me that it is possible to understand this movie... well, more power to you, then. I had a very hard time following the action because all the characters were wearing the same clothes. Also, I was falling asleep in the second hour of the film. Now, with that out of the way... boy is this movie awesome. It's a computer movie.What would life be like if everyone could go into a computer at any time and live out their fantasy? That is the premise of this film so much as I could surmise. This particular man, the hero of the story (played by Jeff Bridges), fantasizes about light-grids, light-cycles and light-suits, so that's what he chooses to see when he goes into the computer. I personally would not fantasize about such an ugly looking place and such stupid things as techno-diskus tag and translucent neon squares, but the idea works nonetheless, as this is a character-driven movie possibly and this is what this character prefers.Things I liked about the movie are it's computer ideas, some of the colors (SOME of the colors), and just the whole general computer vibe of the production. The director definitely had his thinking cap on when directing some of the scenes of this movie.Now... are there faults? No. With that said... I would've liked for the movie to be a great deal shorter, so that the time when I watched it I wouldn't have fallen asleep so earlier into the movie and would have been able to see more about what happened, like maybe someone else gets to have a computer fantasy that was more to my liking, or maybe the computer goes haywire and the characters have to do some kind of techno-engineering. All in all, a great computer movie. "}{"Title":"I'm worth millions of their man years!","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The beautiful thing about Tron is that there's just no other movie like it. Certainly not before it was released and I don't think since. That, in itself, is a huge accomplishment. The special effects, costumes, and designs may seem hokey to some today but I think they are very cool and unique. The plot's a little hard to follow, I admit. I recently watched it with a friend who had never seen it before. She spent a good deal of the movie confused. I think I had a similar feeling the first time I watched it. It's one of those movies that grows on you the more you watch it but obviously that's not something that everybody wants to hear when sitting down to watch a film for the first time. The cast is good, though the characters are mostly one-dimensional. Jeff Bridges rises above everybody else and adds some much-needed humor and charm to things (Now THAT is a big door!). All in all, Tron is a good movie with awesome visuals but not without flaws. It's definitely something you should check out if you like '80s movies or sci-fi movies. "},{"Title":"Charming science-fiction","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A very fun science-fiction where Jeff Bridges ends up trapped inside a computer world, being forced to partake in gladiatorial-like competitions with other program's AIs.This film seemed somewhat overlooked in the rise of beloved child-focused sci-fi, 'ET'; just like another infinitely superior sci-fi, 'Blade Runner', was. Now, while 'Tron' is still far from a 'Blade Runner', it is a very fun and entertaining science-fiction that deserves its fair share of praise.The cast is good, with Jeff Bridges and David Warner being particular highlights. But the true highlight is in the special effects that compose 90% of the film; they might look silly and overly-dated to most people, but that is the point. They aren't supposed to look real, they are being used to showcase one's idea of a digital world, to show it as being very different from our own, and do so marvelously.I would take 'Tron's special effects over most of modern CGI any day, especially its sequel's CGI. It is also helped by the fact that the plot is very nice and entertaining, not very clichéd but actually quite original, and it allows the use of the effects in some very creative and even impressive ways. It is both a visual feast and a very fun adventure, a great combination that makes for excellent science-fiction. "},{"Title":"The Matrix of Tron","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young and gifted software engineer who works at ENCOM programming games such as Tron has had his software codes stolen by senior executive, Ed Dillinger (David Warner) who gets promoted because of his codes. He tries to hack into the mainframe of software company ENCOM but fail.Not knowing that Dillinger has already overridden the Master Control Program to prevent Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) from entering ENCOM. Flyn seeks help from ENCOM employees Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner) and Lora Baines (Cindy Morgan). Flynn convinces Bradley that he is trying to increase maximum security for Bradley's security program called Tron.Tron is capable of monitoring communications between the MCP and the outside world. They take him to the ENCOM laboratory. When Flynn attempts to hack his way into the system, the MCP takes control of a nearby laser; developed for 'quantum teleportation' and uses it to digitize Flynn into the ENCOM mainframe.In the mainframe, Programs appear in the likeness of the Users who created them. However, the MCP and its commander, Sark (David Warner) renounce their belief in the Users, giving the MCP a complete control over input and output in the system.Programs that disobeys are forced to fight in gladiator-like games in which losers are destroyed. In the process of playing such games, Flynn meets Tron (Bruce Boxleitner); the two escape into the mainframe during a Light Cycle match, and are later split up.While he attempts to reunite with Tron, Flynn discovers that, as a User, he is capable of manipulating the physical laws of the digital world. Tron manages to communicate with Bradley and receives instructions to destroy the MCP.Tron and another Program, Yori (Cindy Morgan), board a solar sailer and make heads to the MCP core.Before they reach the MCP, Sark's command ship destroys the sailer, capturing Flynn and Yori. Sark then leaves the command ship and orders its self-destruction, but Flynn keeps it intact while Sark flies to the MCP's core on a shuttle, carrying a number of captured Programs.Tron confronts Sark outside the core and damages Sark, and attacks the MCP directly when Flynn distracts the MCP long enough to reveal a gap in its shield. Tron throws his disc through the gap, destroying both the MCP and Sark, and freeing the digital world. Input and Output towers begin to light up all over the landscape as programs begin to communicate with their users.Flynn is sent back to the real world. A nearby printer prints out the evidence that Dillinger had annexed his code. Dillinger arrives the next morning to find the evidence of his wrongdoing displayed on his screen. Later, it is revealed that Flynn has become the CEO of ENCOM. "},{"Title":"In the incredible world of TRON","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't believe than this movie was already 33 years old!!!.The incredible thing of the movie is of all special effects only the 10% was make it with computer (CGI was light years of exist)and the 90% of the effects was make it in old school technique.Now that CGI dominates the 90% of the special effects is AWESOME to see how in hell they do this movie (See it in Blu-Ray,trust me looks absolutely amazing)and believe me even than the movie have more than 30 years everyone keep wondering of this movie.The plot is very easyone hacker is inserted in the world of the computers and he have to survive played games (some he invented)to return to real world.The cast is starring with always great Jeff Bridges,Bruce Bloxteiner and The incomparable David Warner.The music is,How to say it?,Unique In the early use of electronic music the score is the mix of New age and Trance music.You have to see this movie because the Special effects...Simple like that! "},{"Title":"Like watching somebody else playing a computer game","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like SUPERMAN, TRON was a film that slipped me by during the 1980s. I never saw it, never knew anything about it, never got caught up in the hype surrounding it despite an interest in computers and virtual reality back then. Seeing it now, over 30 years since first release, I can only say I'm sorely disappointed.This is an exceedingly dull and plot less film that's the equivalent of watching somebody else playing a computer game, and we all know how boring that is! It has potential at the outset, but after a short while - basically, when Jeff Bridges is sucked into the computer world - it becomes dull beyond belief. The endless computer-generated action certainly looks pretty, and the effects were and still are remarkable for the time, but that's all there is to it. It's like an early forerunner of the kinds of CGI-and-CGI-alone movies we get these days like TRANSFORMERS.There isn't even any point me making note of the acting, because nobody gets a look in. Everything, and I mean everything, is secondary to the special effects; the actings, the plotting, the dialogue, everything. I love computer games, but only when I'm playing them. TRON isn't a real movie but rather an excuse for graphics and graphics alone. "},{"Title":"TRON Blu-Review...","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON is one of those movies, that could have been as bigger, but yet still managed to weave it's way into the culture, especially with the internet boom in the 90′s. TRON has a hazy past on home video, only being released maybe twice on video, and once on DVD in a sub-par version, and then a decent special edition.The movie had become such a cult classic that Video Games and other forms of extended universe entertainment had always been in development at Disney. Nearly 30 years after the original film, a sequel, TRON Legacy, was released. It would seem history would repeat itself with TRON's legacy, pun intended, as TRON Legacy didn't exactly bust blocks, but did make it a viable franchise that does continue in Animation, Video Games, and a possible third film.So as a sequel was on the way you would think a Blu-Ray release of it's 1982 elder would be a no-brainer. This did occur, but not until he Home Video release of TRON Legacy. That being said, it doesn't matter really in the grand scheme of things, other than maybe a bit more interest in the sequel, or what Disney seemed to fear, that audiences would turn away from the sequel as they did the original, because it is different, and when things are different it's hard to find a way for Hollywood to get their heads around it.I will review TRON Legacy soon, but I want to take a look at the original first. It is a classic, no matter if you want to admit it or not, it is a breakthrough in not only technology and special effects on the screen for it's time, but is also the first film to use computer generated images, (CGI), and blend them with footage of real people.Disney tried to jump on the Arcade Game craze of the late 70′s and early 80′s and that is why it's more than obvious that is the reason Disney made this movie. The lead character in TRON isn't the character of the same name, but an Arcade owner and former game and program designer Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges), who is trying to hack into his former employers computers to prove that his games were stolen by new VP of Encom, Ed Dillinger (David Warner). He is helped by former co-workers, Lora (Cindy Morgan) and Alan (Bruce Boxleitner) who just happen to create a new program called TRON, created to fix the problems with the new Master Control Program, Dillinger has total control over, so it seems. They try to break into Encom one night, while in the process Flynn is sucked into cyber-space accidentally and is now a user in the world of programs. Programs are like the people who make them, and of course resemble them. The world they live in though is where Disney's hard work comes in. It may not seem so visual by today's standards but the fact that the Academy disqualified the film because they used computers and felt they cheated, goes to show that they were on to something, and this is modern film-making in it's infancy, light years ahead of the rest. (Less than 10 years later many awards were given to movies for utilizing computers, including Terminator 2 Judgment Day and Jurassic Park.) My review is getting a little long, and that is part of the turn-off to some people about TRON, it is a very simple story told in a very original and complicated way. There are so many elements that all tie in to the plight of Flynn to get home, and the programs defeating the Master Control Program, that forces them to play games to the death, like the Romans, using the ones it has use for, disposing of those it does not, and once a user gets thrown into the mix, everything changes.The Blu-Ray presentation is well done. The colors are vibrant, and the computer world stands out and even though some of the effects are archaic, High-Def doesn't really show the tape and glue, so much as enhances the charm of the challenge that this huge task was for the group behind it. The new sound mix is also well done for a 30 year old film, it serves it's purpose without complaint.The Blu-Ray adds a few new short documentaries in High Def, along with the previous DVD special edition bonus features, so everything is covered pretty well. The 2 Disc DVD from years ago was Criterion quality, so even if those features were all that were on here, it would still be a good haul. "},{"Title":"on TRON  It was thirty years ago today...","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TRON has always taken pole position as my FAVOURITE film &#x96; and that's a big thing. Maybe not the best, or always the most enjoyable but definitely my favourite.No film &#x96; anywhere &#x96; has ever (nor is likely to ever again) approached the artistic masterpiece that is TRON. Every frame is a work of art. TRON will always stand as the quintessential motion picture artwork of the 20th century.The artwork of TRON was constrained by the technology available at the time. However it is these same constraints that make the art of TRON so captivating, simple and visually wonderful. It's a bit like clearing your house of all the clutter and discovering the beauty of gazing upon clean framed windows and freshly painted walls.So much has been said about the animation of TRON. However what separates it from the pack is it's live action. It's like one massive dance. A celebration of movement, like 100 ballets all at once. TRON elevates this art form to it's absolute highest levels using a perfect white canvas upon which positively astounding visuals are superimposed. TRON is the perfect mix of life and art.TRON is Alice in Wonderland. The TRON universe is a place which is so vastly different from our own and yet many rules are so similar. A place where just discovering things like how to live or even how to survive, eat, breathe, move and sleep can become a source of entertainment and challenge. It's a place where anything CAN happen, but rarely does. A place so taken for granted by everyone and everything involved in it but also so mysterious, unknown and undiscovered. A place so easy to imagine ourselves in or even wanting to escape to. This is the Electronic world of TRON. It's something I have not seen equalled in celluloid since this film's release in 1982. That includes the much more recent sequel TRON  Legacy.You may have heard it said that TRON is a religious film. Yet there are obviously no religions (as we know them) involved in it. TRON brings to the fore the value of life itself. Here we have an alternate universe filled with facsimiles (programs) of ourselves (the users). The programs view their user (or at least the collective of users) as their creator or god. They look to them for guidance, protection and an answer to that almighty question of why. The programs (just like us) know not of why they must do the things they do &#x96; but they follow the motions all the same, believing that us users really know what we're doing. They hope that one day it will all make sense to them.TRON deals with the struggle of life and calls into question the value of it. TRON programs are so easily dispensed with because they are not supposed to be living. The look of horror that fills the face of a of TRON character when they suddenly realise death is imminent and that they have failed in their task &#x96; it boils up an emotion within us that cannot be ignored. A disgust that life could be worth so little and that something so frivolous and pointless as losing a video game match could result in a precious, innocent and child like life being destroyed.It's interesting for me to remember waaaay back in 1982 overhearing a small group of young women discussing several films they had recently seen between each other. One of them had seen TRON, the other two had not but had seen trailers. Right away the one that had seen it, picked up on the tragedy that is TRON.Did you know that they really DIE when they die in those video games? That was really hard and disturbing to watch.Here was an ordinary (female!!) movie goer who had seen the film. Despite all the fuss about ground breaking animation, up to date graphics, amazing artwork and fantastic story lines the one thing that made an impression on her (and became the talking point with friends) was the tragic message that lies behind this amazing film.Yori's Love Scene.The biggest blunder in film history must surely have been the deletion of this completed scene from TRON. I have always wondered why in the '80s, about two thirds through watching the film I often used to get bored with it. More often than not I would stop the film around that point and come back to finish watching it later.Now I know why.The place that I would always seem to stop it was where this scene belonged. The scene was pivotal in telling the human tragedy within the story of TRON and helping to bring to life the characters. It was just 30 seconds of film. Yori's love scene would have introduced a completely new dimension to the film. It would have posed the question  just where do programs come from? If they can love each other.. if there can be such a thing as sexual activity between two TRON programs then what is the purpose? Can two programs create a new one? Who would that program's user be? Yori's love scene explores not only relationships between two living machines.. it goes on to explore the ultimate relationship between them. Cool concepts and questions posed that almost certainly would have woken up just about anybody watching at that crucial moment. It would have more than easily left ET looking very dull by comparison.Paul Matthews. "},{"Title":"Revolutionary and Fun (Something Disney Hadn't Done for Years)","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" **This Review May Contain Spoilers**After the huge success of Mary Poppins, Disney was on top of the world in terms of entertainment. Unfortunately, Walt Disney died two years after, and the studio began failing, and failing, and failing. It had a couple of hits, but they were modest at best, and didn't leave an impact audiences wanted. This went on for about 15 years. This era has become known as The Dark Age of Disney. I mention this period of time because Steven Lisberger came in with a script that would help turn things around at Disney. Tron was one the most original and thought provoking films of the 80s, as well as all time. The story involved Kevin Flynn (played by Jeff Bridges) who seeks to obtain information that a rival (played by David Warner) has screwed him out of ownership and a job at a tech company called Encom. While searching for the information, a rapidly growing AI called the MCP (Master Control Program) transports Flynn to the electronic world in order to get rid of him. In order to break out, Flynn befriends the legendary warrior Tron (Bruce Boxlietner) and both seek to destroy the MCP to free their world and Flynn from its tyrannical leader.The most talked about aspect of this film is the animation (there is a lot of it) as well as new Computer Generated animation. Lisberger teamed up with special effects wizard Harrison Ellenshaw (son of the great Peter Ellenshaw) to nail down the look Lisberger had envisioned. These effects still hold up really well. The back-lit animation is stunning, especially when it lights up on the characters. The light-bikes are totally awesome, and still provides for a neat chase in the middle of the film.The script is very strong, considering it's outlandish ideas compared to its very simple storyline. It takes advantage of the video game culture and the booming advances in Silicon Valley, but makes people think in terms of a religious undertone. The idea between the users and the programs are very touching. There are some shots where Lisberger never makes it clear whether or not we are living in his world or if our world looks like his. Most of it is because of good acting from the indelible Jeff Bridges, and underrated work from Bruce Boxlietner as Tron. David Warner as the villain is an inspired choice, and he delivers a devious minion to the MCP. He is a villain god, nothing less. The only thing that isn't very special anymore is the MCP himself, nowadays it looks like a Super Mario blooper. This film is very often overlooked. It's very unfair that it is because it is a very unique film. For what would seem a dated film, it has a timeless feel to it, and will last longer than other Disney projects from the Dark Era of Disney. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron is a cult classic and a milestone setter and the beginning of extensive use of computer animations in film production. The thing that captivates you about Tron is the idea, the screenplay and the graphics that seemed to be so high ahead of its time that numerous studios turned down the idea because it was new, before Disney picked it up.Based on an idea by Steven Lisberger, who came up with the idea for the film when he saw a reel of a video game from a computer firm; the name of the reel was Pong since then Lisberger became obsessed with creating a film that will incorporate video games and live animation, the animator even went as far as to study an MIT so as to have an idea on computers and stuff, there he met programmers who he shared his idea with and they assured him that it was possible. So Lisberger and his partner Donald Kushner decided to start work on what they called their Tron Warrior, Tron gotten from the word electronic.The Tron plot is about a Hacker and an arcade owner Kevin Flynn (played by Jeff Bridges). Flynn got disintegrated from the real world and regenerated in the 3D graphical computer world by a software known as the Master Control. Flynn now faced with a new world and new laws, had to join forces with the security software of the Grid, Tron (Bruce Boxleitner), to be able to free himself and get back to the real world.In the computer world for survival Flynn had to face a gladiator like game, where if you are not careful you will get killed.After an intense pre-production process, Tron was filmed, done and released to only gain a mild box office success but the cult following was massive, that after Disney released the sequel and refused to re- release the original Tron on DVD again sales of the original Tron movie was going for as high as $100 in Amazon and E-bay (source/culled from wikipedia).Tron gained a high approval rating even getting academy Award nominations for Best Costume and Best Sound. Tron spawned out a franchise which consist of multiple video games, comic books, a sequel Tron Legacy in 2010 (continuing from where the 1982 version stopped, the sequel also got a mild box office success) and an animated series Tron Uprising, which seems to be connecting both films.Tron is a classic, one you will enjoy, even more than the highly visual perfection of Legacy.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Totally unique, groundbreaking, artistic, surreal","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie in theatres when I was 5 years old. I had nostalgic memories of it so I decided to watch it again... 30 years later.To my surprise this movie is just as good as it was in 1982. TRON is a totally immersive, incredibly beautiful fantasy sci-fi movie.The acting seems a little cheesy, but does not detract from the film. The real star of this movie is the incredible artwork, and raw 8-bit visual effects, sound effects and music. These 4 elements are done perfectly in the film. The world pulses with a unique electronic light, sound and energy. You will be swept away into a fantastic other world.This film stars one of my favorite villains, David Warner. However he is not pure evil in this which I like. The 2 heroes are the good guys and their acting can be a tiny bit cheesy but they fulfill the good guy role perfectly. The woman whom they both love, is beautiful. Unlike most modern movies none of the action feels forced or contrived in any way. It is entirely story driven. There's not a bunch of gratuitous explosions every 10 seconds. However there is plenty of action to be had. It is best watched on a large screen with an excellent sound system, turned up. The awesome sound effects and music never get harsh or annoying, and are perfect for this film.If you love sci-fi or fantasy artwork, if you like synthesizers or 80's music or electronic music and sound effects, if you like 80s computers or video games, or arcades or arcade games, you will love this film. This is a world, created from concepts of incredibly talented sci-fi artists. The only real part of the computer world, is the actors on a blue screen, the entire background and everything else is drawn in by artists or computer modelers following the designs of the artists. Its unique light fx, coloring and style gives it an otherworldly and surreal feel. The movie has a hallucinogenic feel to it making it a popular cult film.Due to the vector graphics and computer animation scenes, the whole movie has a 3d effect, although it is not shot in 3d. Some of the most impressive scenes are way ahead of their time and rendered in 3d with the camera programmed to follow the movement of the moving machines/vehicles in all types of awesome angles/speeds and ways, never before seen in a movie. These same type of computer controlled moving camera effects did not show up in other movies until nearly 20 years later. The computer world is shot in a bizarre greyscale, even the characters skin is grey, and the world contains a black sky. The black grid and circuit inspired artwork-laden background is drenched in a blue light. But the characters and world glow and pulse with a colorful neon light energy effect. Blue neon signifies good and red, evil. Thankfully however many colors are used at times, and against a black or dark blue or grey background create awesome contrast, similar to neon lights at night.I really liked the artwork included on the bonus disc. And, most of it was used in the film. I'm still not sure how that was done in many scenes. This movie is an amazing artistic and technological achievement. Just remember this film was made in 1981 and most of these visual/audio fx had never been done before in movies. The music is fantastic and creates a awesome feel to the movie. The sound fx of the machines and vehicles is super cool. The sounds create a very real feel that you are a digital being trapped inside a computer or computer game.As soon as the music came on at the title, I immediately remembered this movie. That is the sign of a good movie. I saw Tron Legacy in 3d when it came out not all that long ago and I can't remember it.I can remember as a 5 year old hearing the ominous voice of the MCP and when tron finally sees it, feeling fear. I still feel this fear deep in my brain and when I experienced it today it was incredibly thrilling. I also remember being afraid when Flynn is being targeted by the laser and due to awesome special fx and sound fx, when he gets sucked in it seems so real.I watched the collectors edition DVD today. The picture was a bit shaky and I did see a slight outline around characters in a few scenes, since the bluescreen is used extensively in this movie. However I'm sure its a lot better quality than the original VHS. Im interested to watch the blu-ray version, as I heard it was re-remastered.I recommend this movie highly. If you were not alive in the 80s you may not understand the concept and it may seem low-tech by your standards. But anyone with half a brain can appreciate the artistry and originality of this movie. "}{"Title":"Disneyfied Cyberpunk","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thirty years after its theatrical release (and only modest box office success), Steven Lisberger's TRON remains one of the iconic movies of the '80s - a cinematic product of the arcade culture and the early use of a burgeoning new effects tool.All cards on the table, the computer animation is the real star of TRON, though I don't think that detracts from the film's entertainment value (a common criticism of today's big-budget cinema). And while its geared towards the period's youth (those who spend their time in front of Pac-Man), both in production and sound design, the film's look is all its own. Simple geometric shapes and planes of brilliant color come together to create a signature world. It doesn't just look like the product of the early Arcade '80s, it's bears its own uniqueness. When you see a TRON parody or homage, you don't have to have seen the movie to know what's being referenced.The story's a simple one a hot young programmer (Jeff Bridges) is sucked into a computer world and must fight his way through gladiatorial games, lightcycle chases and an all-powerful godlike program to get back to the real world. And though the story tends to take a backseat to the effects, Lisberger's screenplay actually touches on metaphysical themes, displaying users as gods of the programs they create to handle everyday tasks as computers play an ever-increasing role in modern society.Bridges is at home here, playing the somewhat goofy new-age hippie, while Boxleitner's tasked with looking heroic as the title character. There's a Disney flavor to the proceedings that keeps things light (seemed necessary back then with cerebral themes of the story), but Lisberger shows a deft hand at direction and keeping things moving. Even when things start to sag in the 2nd act, there's plenty of awe to be had. Not to mention Wendy Carlos' computerized score, which adds another layer of authenticity to the illusion that you're thrown into a computer.TRON is a product of its period arcade culture, and certainly one of the better live-action Disney movies. Lisberger was looking into the future on this one. It was The Matrix 17 years prior, and an early pioneer of a new sci-fi genre (cyberpunk). Ahead of its time, indeed.8/10 "},{"Title":"Tron was at the beginning","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can a person say about the movie TRON? well ... It was at the forefront of modern SCi FI.. the movie came out before many of the novels and comics which shaped what we know as cyberpunk ..Far as I'm concerned without Tron .. we might not have ever had Neuromancer, Matrix, Lawnmower man ( film), the hacking culture would have taken longer to come into the main stream .. heck even movies like war games may have taken years longer to be filmed if it weren't for the buzz Tron started about computers .. computer animation .. AI and hacking ..the film itself considered in the time frame it was released, was stunning and action packed for its day .. revolutionary .. Jeff bridges is great as usual. I enjoy his character Flynn more so than any other character he's played, even more so then the dude from big lebowski ..some great nods to other sci fi greats like the original  day the earth stood still Tron is a great, feel good, loaded with 80's nostalgia. If you are into retro you cant go wrong .. Younglings who want to see where and how it all began should check this movie out .. I bought the anniversary DVD along with tron legacy not too long ago ..that's Tron ... he fights for the users "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you can appreciate old movies, and how they tried so hard for special effects, than this movie is for you. An interesting concept, great cast, and funny moments, Tron is a fantastic movie, I highly recommend it, as well as the sequel Tron Legacy. Jeff Bridges is great to watch in this movie. It's honestly quite difficult to take your eyes off him. The Grid (The world of Tron) is beautifully animated for it's time, and still quite a thing to see in today's modern age. Tron played by Bruce Boxleitner is also nice to watch, as he add's depth to the movie. Cindy Morgan who plays opposite of Tron, Yori, is not great however, she has very little lines, and when she acts, she doesn't act well. Overall, Tron is a great film, and you should check it out. "},{"Title":"The Groundwork of another Imagination","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn't watch Tron or either here of it before Tron Legacy came out. I wish I did. There's other Science Fiction from the 1980s that I grew up with, but I missed this one. What I always find intriguing about 1980s science fictions is that it's all a framework. It's rough. It may not have the best performances or special effects that have ever been made, but it always pushes the envelop. The director or writer is always dreaming about something way out there. Having an epic story about being inside a circuit board is really out there. But now, we can take those stories today to make something heart warming, epic, and close to masterpiece. Tron lays the groundwork to tell a great story about a video game programmer that gets taken into his creation. The language is strange. The concepts are strange. I can see how it was ahead of it's time, but now it's not. Now, Tron Legacy is made. This movie builds a very connective story about a father and son. Tron (1982) doesn't have this element. It's hard to connect with the story, but it lays the groundwork to write greater stories based off of this one. Steven Lisberger pushed the imagination of this story, and I'm just inspired learning about it 29 years after this film is made. I regret not growing up with it. "},{"Title":"Entering the Grid","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in 1982 Disney was starting to take their first attempts of making sci-fi films, starting with TRON, an revolution for computer graphics. Whilst the film was not a success at the time it has become a cult classic and after 28 years a sequel was released.Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) is a skilled software engineer and arcade owner who attempts to hack into ENCOM's computers to retrieve evidence that the company executive Ed Dillinger (David Warner) had stolen his computer games codes. Dillinger himself runs a programme called Master Control (voiced by Warner) and uses it to commit corporate espionage and he Dillinger discontinues the TRON programme that could act as a third party watch on other programs. But Master Control has gone rogue and starts to hack into the Pentagon and Kremlin.Flynn and his friends Alan (Bruce Boxleitner) and Lora (Cindy Morgan) break into ENCOM so Flynn could straight into the system, but Master Control uses a experimental laser to teleport the man into the digital world. In this new world Flynn not only has to survive in the computer but also has to stop Master Control.TRON was made at a time when computer games and home computing was starting to grown and the film makers wanted to tap into that. It was also a time of growing paranoia about the grown computers, Wargames was only released a year later. Ideas in TRON seem to be an influence or at a coincidence in other films, TV shows and comics, such as The Terminator, The Matrix, Digimon being ones on the top of my head. The design for Master Control was also very similar to VIKI in I, Robot, who also have similar plans.The big selling point of the film is the visuals. The scenes in the real world are shot much like other sci-fi of them. There are some dark scenes in offices, the arcade and the cityscape, but there are also bright, well light scenes in the sterile environment in the labs. But it is the computer world scenes we are most interested in and it is basically what would it be like in a 1980s arcade game. It was both dark and black, with bright colours all around. The director Steven Lisberger certainly used what was new technology to its fullest and he made a fast paced film with grand set pieces. The beginning of the film also reminded of some fantasy, Master Control being like an evil ruler or wizard, rounding people up, torturing people and even threatens his own people.The film also reminded me of a childish idea I used to have that all computing is interlinked, including computer games and many basic things that are electronic. But obviously I outgrown that idea and this was a film where ideas of computing and the internet were at a very early stage.Bridges plays cocky man who is incredibly skilled but can also rub people the wrong way. He had good interplay with Boxleitner, both having a love triangle and being antagonistic towards each other despite being one the same side. Warner too gives Dillinger some depth because he is shocked that Master Control has developed his own consciousness and blackmails him, fearing what machine could do with high politics. Also Boxleitner and Warner also made sure they were playing different characters from one the in the real world to the ones in the character.I have to say some of the plot elements are a bit predictable and it was simply a quest film, but they has been much worst and stupid ideas been put to film.Overall, TRON is enjoyable I think an overall IMDb rating of 7.2/7.3 would be fair. "},{"Title":"All Watched Over by Machines of Loving Grace","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" We're all schizophrenics, now. - Karen De Coaster Steven Lisberger directed Tron in 1982, a film which made heavy use of early computer animation and a special back-light effect. That same year, The Wrath of Khan made the first use of fractal generated CGI landscapes. Prior to 1982, CGI largely took the form of simple wire frame graphics, as seen in the trench-run briefing sequence in Star Wars and the computer monitors in Alien. Despite its technological breakthroughs, Tron's actual plot and aesthetic were second hand, too closely resembling 1977's Star Wars, both in narrative structure (breaking into the Death Star and escaping) and look (Lisberger's conceptual designers were Syd Mead and Moebius, but their work resembles Ralph Maquarie's on Star Wars). The film got two things right, though. Its tale of giant computer firms bullying rivals and stealing software echoes a war fought even today between monopolising corporations and burgeoning studios (and between freeware and commercial material), and its narrative, which finds our hero trapped in a computer and forced to battle bad guys in CGI mini-video games, is itself the aesthetic and raison d'etre of most films, storytelling reduced to Pavlovian, video game reward systems. This is a dopamine trigger aesthetic (dopamine plays a role in how the brain handles reward), the precursor to our own internet-age (kids are done with films; the net and interactive video games offer more of a rush). Dopamine is itself involved in the addictiveness of drugs (ironic; one of the world's first CGI films, Peter Foldes' Hunger, was about addiction), and withdrawals from it leads to fractured thinking, cravings and a lack of focus (giving rewards, be it dopamine, food or money, actually decreases intrinsic motivation). And while many believe the information age leads to better multitasking and more productivity, research shows otherwise, heavy multitaskers having more trouble focusing and shutting out irrelevant information. Indeed, today there's a rise in under-functioning pre-frontal cortices, which is itself linked with types of behaviour marked by total absorption in the here and now (prompted and accompanied by dopamine rewards in computer play, this creates a euphoric ego boost), and an inability to consider past and future implications (dearth in dreams/imagination/context etc). Meanwhile, we continue to believe that technology has some emancipatory power.Recently, researchers at Yale and The University of Texas used a computer model called DISCERN to simulate the excessive release of dopamine in the brain. DISCERN was built to absorb/process information, but the rate at which it did this was increased by the researchers. It relentlessly consumed and, akin to flooding its system with dopamine, was not allowed to ignore or forget the joy of qualia. This, bizarrely, resulted in the model becoming delusional, concocting fantastical stories out of the information it consumed (at one point the computer believed it was a terrorist, for example). In other words, DISCERN's constant dopamine rushes led to it becoming schizophrenic.In humans, dopamine (and other neurotransmitters) marks salience, and essentially rewards you for detecting information which the brain thinks is important for playing the game of life. Of course it can't tell the difference between substantive information and junk. It simply marks a detection, and you crave more. Schizophrenia is itself, some now hypothesise, the brain's suffering from a form of hyperlearning, the schizoid brain unable to ignore what ordinary brains normally would filter out. Inundated with noise, such a brain loses the ability to extract what's meaningful out of the immensity of stimuli the brain encounters; it gets high off stimulus and drowns in a sea of noise, losing the ability to stitch together any kind of coherent story or sense. Postmodern theorists dub our current world's aesthetic, in which technology, computers and techno-capitalism frenetically co-mingle, as one of schizophrenia, everyone self-excited circuits getting high off broken morsels of noise (the driving force behind all addictions is itself dislocation, the general condition of Western society). Meanwhile, from a cognitive point of view, capitalism, which thrives on a constant Now, or immediacy, is itself dopamine monetised, its neurologically sounding economic depressions forever dependent on the anti-depressant like stimulants economists inject to prevent financial mood swings.The first Tron captured a time in which the anti-authoritarianism of the Hippie counter-culture meshed with Yuppie Techno-Utopianism (what is known as The Californian Ideology). With computers moving into the hands of oridinary people, it was believed that computer networks were the new revolution, would bring about freedom, would save us from tyranny. This tyranny generally took the form of evil corporations, and a scepticism toward technology (the Dictatorship of the machine!). Computers were themselves viewed by some as being tyrannical. They were sealed boxes, their inner workings were hidden, they denied access to their depths, spoke their own language, were closed systems, reduced the user's range of choices and encouraged a kind of mysticism which in turn leads to a state of unquestioning acceptance of the supremacy of technology. This line of thinking began with the industrial revolution. But of course the real tyranny was more biochemical. You see this in Tron, the film's cyber inhabitants professing to seek freedom, when in reality they simply want a perfect simulacral world to chill out and jerk-off to sexy graphics and constant gaming. Me me me. Now now now. Play play play. Always.With the benefit of hindsight, the new Tron film (a techno-phobic back-to-nature parable akin to Avatar), titled Tron Legacy and directed by Joseph Kosinski, thus becomes about the tyranny of technology. For Kosinski, all technology is warped by the body, and primarily repackages its wants, neuroses and failings.7.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Way ahead of its time actually. So much indeed that the tragedy surrounding the Best Visual Effects nod it didn't get (more on that in the Special Features of the movie or here on IMDb) is one of the most amazing stories about this movie. And it's not even that long ago, where it seems like they considered this the work of a witch (my conclusion for their strange decision).Apart from that you get the Dude playing it pretty straight. Though his stories from the set (and the getting in character console playing) are another amazing story in itself. The movie itself was very much sci-fi back then. And while it didn't become reality, the movie itself has not aged badly at all. "},{"Title":"precisely, Sherman","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One might call Steven Lisberger's Tron the movie that set the stage for visual effects as we know them today. The plot of course has a video game programmer (Jeff Bridges) getting transferred into a digital computer world by a sinister program, and then having to help the other programs rebel. But of course, the movie's main purpose is to have some of the coolest visual effects imaginable, depicting a computer world. All the more impressive when one sees the old-style computers that they used back then (they didn't even have the Internet!).OK, so we could be cynical and say that Tron led to a series of lesser movies that were excuses for constant visual effects, but I still say that it's one of the neatest things that I've ever seen. It helps that the movie elicits fine performances from Bridges, David Warner, Bruce Boxleitner, Cindy Morgan and Barnard Hughes. Bridges brings out the same energy that he did in The Last Picture Show, Jagged Edge, The Fisher King, The Big Lebowski and Crazy Heart.All in all, it's one that you can't afford to miss! "},{"Title":"Intriguing and ahead of its time","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know about anybody else but I really quite like this movie. While I did love its concept, I do agree some parts are difficult to comprehend at times and at others there is a slow rhythm making the film not quite as compelling as it would have liked. Regardless, I still like TRON a lot, especially for the superb effects and visuals and unique sound effects, both assets of which are quite ahead of their time. Also the soundtrack is very memorable and fits perfectly, and even with the odd stilted moment the dialogue intrigues. The direction is good enough and serves its purpose well in the more action-packed moments, and I did like the characters and acting. Jeff Bridges is charming and likable with a cool character, while David Warner comes close to stealing the show. All in all, a very intriguing film then and now and ahead of its time. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Great Imagination Visually","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron (1982) ** (out of 4) Computer hacker Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) feels that a colleague (David Warner) of his ripped him off when it came time to be credited with making four video games. The hacker tries to get into the system to get proof and finds himself sucked into the virtual world where he must try and defeat the security program Tron. Disney's TRON has become something of a folk legend as it's very clear those who saw the picture in 1982 were left speechless due to the visual effects, which for the time were quite ground breaking. I'm sure many people today would look at the film and wonder what the hype was but it's always important to remember when a film was made and judge it for what it was then and not really how the effects compare to the stuff of today. With that said, the film certainly has its own look, which is quite impressive and the imagination in the visual sense is quite high. Needless to say the effects aren't as ground breaking when viewed today but at the same time they have such a unique look that you can't help but admire them. I really enjoyed the first couple games that Bridges must play as they really make you feel as if you're playing them. I don't think there's any question that the visual effects are the main reason to check TRON out as the computer world created is extremely imaginative but at the same time I must call the film a disappointment because of the story. Yes, that crazy thing known as a story. I'm sorry but for the life of me I kept having a hard time trying to figure out why I should be cheering for Bridges. The screenplay really doesn't give us anytime to get to know him so we never really start to like him. The first time we see him he's playing a video game and then seconds later we're briefly told that he has had these games stolen from him. That's all the story gives us and is this really enough for us to have any sort of emotional connection to the character? I personally think the screenplay kills everything in the film because it's nearly impossible to care about anything going on. When the supporting characters come into play they're just as uninteresting and after the first few games you can't help but wish you were spending time with better characters. Bridges is decent in his role but it's certainly far from any of his best work. Warner doesn't get any help from the screenplay either. TRON is visually impressive but for me I need a story to go along with the effects and sadly the film simply doesn't have that. "}{"Title":"Landmark But Shallow Sci-Fi Classic","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Slipstream (1989) helmer Steven Lisberger wrote and directed Tron, a state-of-the-art, formulaic man-versus-machine melodrama that combines elements of Fantastic Voyage and The Most Dangerous Game. Clearly, this Disney opus was far ahead of its time in terms of its visual graphics. The film received two Academy Award nominations for Best Costume Design and Best Sound. Incredibly, Oscar shut Tron out of the Best Visual Effects category because the Academy thought that the use of computers rather than hands to draw environments was regarded as negative. Clearly, the industry felt that computers posed a threat to artisans who had made their living painting and drawing ersatz backgrounds and animation. E.T.--The Extra-terrestrial won Best Visual Effects. Nevertheless, Tron became a landmark movie not only for its use of computer-generated graphics but also for blending animation with live-action filming. Despite a slow opening weekend of under $4-million, this seminal sci-fi saga that cost $17 million wound up coining $33-million. Unfortunately, Disney decided not to follow it up with a sequel until 2010 with Tron Legacy. Lisberger has written a crisp, trim, action-oriented, electronics thriller that takes audiences into a computer as our hero pits himself in life-and-death struggles with an enemy greater than himself, namely Master Control. Revenge winds up being sweet for our protagonist. Along the way, we are exposed to new and entirely different landscapes from what normally went into a sci-fi movie.A sinister bureaucrat, Ed Dillinger (David Warner of The Ballad of Cable Hogue), who is the CEO of the ENCOM Corporation, has stolen five computer games, among them Space Paranoid that an agile twentysomething programmer developed. The heroic but reckless computer-programmer-turned-hacker sets out to recover his rightful property. Downtown video arcade owner Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges of Thunderbolt and Lightfoot) needs to get back into the computer system so he can crack its security settings and retrieve his programs. The catch here is that he finds himself zapped by a laser and sucked into the computer and compelled to participate in various gladiatorial trials of combat on a game grid with other cyberspace competitors. The computer files in Tron have been turned into men decked out in funky, cyber-suits with bicycle-style helmets and Frisbees. Dillinger has generated what is called his Master Control Program that serves as a form of artificial intelligence to safeguard himself. Flynn's former colleague and girlfriend, Lora (Cindy Morgan), smuggles him into ENCOM so he can get onto a terminal and amass evidence that Dillinger parlayed a fortune from stealing his software. Master Control discovers Flynnand digitizes him into a computer file. This transformation scene looks cool. Initially, Flynn finds himself imprisoned until two other computer files and he escape on futuristic type motorcycles and evade tank-like predators. Meanwhile, Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner) has engineered a security program named Tron which represents a threat to Master Control. The Tron program has been designed to confine computer programs from acquiring too much power. The ultimate penalty that our heroes face for failure is called de-rezzing when a human-looking computer files is erased, the equivalent of death.Jeff Bridges qualifies as a sympathetic hero and David Warner is dastardly as ever. The special effects overshadow the thinly-scripted plot, much the way that the special effects and futuristic architecture overwhelmed the plot of the Fritz Lang masterpiece Metropolis. Everything pretty much makes sense, but the plot and the obstacles that our heroes face are relatively routine but exciting looking. "},{"Title":"A marvel to watch","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember back in the early 80's when I first saw TRON; I admit I was perplexed by all the user-program-computer jargon. After all, I was kind of anti computer back then. What I do remember from that first screening were the dazzling visuals, the overall surreal aspect of the film and Wendy Carlos outlandish score. I also remember the movie was sort of a box office failure and that it ended in a rather uninterested way.Now I have the movie on DVD and I must confess that I have a newfound love for it. Ironically, I have become more computer savvy and all that computer jargon makes perfect sense to me now, thus my new understanding of the movie. The effects, design, music, etc. hold up pretty well in this day and age of CGI. Still, the ending is still dull and I get the impression that TRON lacks a certain spark I can't describe, a spark that would undoubtedly had made this film into a much bigger box office success. The acting by Jeff Bridges, Cindy Morgan, Bruce Boxleitner and (especially) David Warner is decent to say the least, but the real world scenes lack a certain something. For one thing, Bridges character (Flynn, in the real world) acts as if he were high on dope or something. I guess he wanted to play an extroverted geek but in reality he looks as if he was high on something. And one thing I think could've put more drama into TRON was the neither Alan (Boxleitner) nor Lori (Morgan) noticed that their friend was sucked into a computer. There's not a single scene where they ask where he is or anything. We're meant to believe that, maybe, he was away from the real world for Milli seconds (?). Also, when Flynn is actually IN the computer world, he expresses no concern as to how he can get back to the REAL world. It's as if director Lisberger was so immersed in getting his concepts right that he missed a few things to put more drama into TRON.And that ending. Sure, we see Flynn and his friends celebrating his victory and Flynn as the new director for the company that once stole his video game programs. There are no final lines, no final words. Sure, they've won, but SOMETHING could've been said, you know.Still, despite the fact that I'm complaining, I admit I'm a fan of TRON and recognize its greatness and its importance in the annals of cinema. Younger audiences might dismiss TRON as a boring graphics show. After all, a PLAYSTATION game has way more in a technological sense than this movie. But those who like it respect it, because without TRON a lot of current films would not exist. I respect, like and enjoy TRON more than ever and I hope, someday, a sequel can be made! "},{"Title":"Worth Kids Flick","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movie mogul Disney Pictures (which now incorporates Touchstone) presented in 1982 this worthy kids flick about three computer hackers who determine to overrun an all controlling computer program called the M.C.P. (Master Control Program) which has shut down their priority access code.The technical crew have worked overtime on the wiz bang computer graphics and the result is an innovative movie with some impressive f/x. Of course it has nothing on Star Wars dazzling miniature effects, and both T2 and Jurassic Park have long since outdated it, but Tron still looks great all the same.Jeff Bridges, Bruce Boxleitner, Cindy Morgan and David Warner are the real life players who do battle for and against the M.C.P. on both sides of the computer screens. In the real world (as 'Users') they find it nearly impossible to confront their nemesis and so must face their foe within the computer as 'Programs', and there try to destroy him.Lisberger's original plot premise is an interesting supposition of how programs might operate within a mainframe computer if they were slightly 'human'. Always enjoyable fare, the script unfortunately lacks the sharpness and effective humour required to make the transition from children's viewing to adult adventure. Also missing from writer/director Steven Lisberger's show are sufficiently involving characters that would have given Tron extra depth. The sidekick 'Bit', which only responds in the positive or negative, had the most potential in this light, but was in and out of proceedings all too quickly.Wendy Carlos provides the electronic score.Sunday, January 8, 1995 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Viewed in context of other movies and TV at the time","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw Tron on TV and I must say this. Even after 24 years, the visual effects in the movie still look great.At the time, I was in to shows like The Dukes of Hazard and Knight Rider. One can't also forget the original Battlestar Galactica and Buck Rogers. The visuals in those looked cool back then.Now when they are watched, they seem really cheesy. The new Battlestar Galactica is way better.Tron has not suffered that fate. Those that criticize the movie need to look back on the technology of the time. Home computers were in their infancy. The internet barely existed. Who knew what the World Wide Web was? That was not even dreamed of yet.People maybe stored recipes on their computers.Tron showed the world what was to come in the future. "},{"Title":"Computer warriors do battle in a virtual world.","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A kaleidoscope of computer generated images depicting the world inside a computer. Hacker and arcade owner Kevin Flynn(Jeff Bridges)is obsessed and willing to go great lengths to prove a former co-worker(David Warner) and now senior executive has stolen video games he has created. Flynn thinks he has fallen asleep, but actually has been sucked into the virtual world of a video game and is forced into gladiator-like combat in order to escape. Astounding visuals and co-stars includeBruce Boxleitner, Cindy Morgan, Barnard Hughes, Craig Chudy and Peter Jurasik. A couple of wine coolers may enhance your viewing enjoyment. "},{"Title":"An incredible, original, and unique film, only in the 80's...","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron is a fantastic movie,with a great story, amazing special effects, and a genial soundtrack by Walter Carlos (later aka Wendy Carlos), creating a pure electronic ambiance...Now about the actors, Jeff Bridges (Big Lebowsky,Starman;Rancho Deluxe and the incredible Last Picture Show) is Clu,Bruce Boxleitner (Babylon 5) is Tron, the key character, and Dan Shor as Ram.Now, about the evil one, Sark is interpreted by the one and only David Warner (The Omen; Cable Hogue). I think the director Steven Lisberger has done a incredible original and avant-garde master piece, with a little help of a genial production design ( Jean Giraud and Syd Mead). For all fan of sci-fi and computer world's, i totally recommend this film, its a fantastic cinematic experience, on of the best sci-fi adventure and fantasy film of all time! "},{"Title":"Made only for hardcore video game fans!","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this movie when it was released in 2002 for the 20th anniversary. David Warner did a good job as the voice of MCP, as well as Tron's arch-nemesis Sark. Jeff Bridges did a good job as Flynn, the computer whiz. In order to investigate what went wrong at Encom, he gets zapped in the computer game itself. ZAP! ZAP! ZAP! I have also played Tron and Discs of Tron at the arcades when I was an 8-year old. Now I must get Tron 2.0 Killer App for my Game Boy Advance which includes the games that I just mentioned. I also must get Tron 2.0 for my PC. I think this is WAY better than The Matrix. This movie came out in 1982, the golden age of video games. I still love this film even though it tanked in the box office. Films like this that contain video game use are designed for hardcore video game fans like myself. "},{"Title":"Tron 2Enter the Internet (not an official title, just my own idea)","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's the link to a story on Empire about production starting on Tron 2.0 http//www.empireonline.co.uk/site/news/newsstory.asp?news_id=16479I thought the game was a little lame as it used an older graphics engine, but it was fun to play the light cycle routine!I would be glad to see a new movie, but I think they should pick it up right where they left off. Those that have seen the original movie would be able to follow it better I think.The last scene in the film shows Flynn (Jeff Bridges) getting off a helicopter and joining his cohorts Alan (Bruce Boxleitner) and Lora (Cindy Morgan). It is assumed at this point that Flynn now owns the company and Dilligner (David Warner) is in jail for crimes of stealing Flynn's video games and selling them as his own.It would be logical for the story to pick up 20 years later and use the actors just as they are. I'd like to assume that after 20 years, Flynn has developed the laser that sucked him into the computer world for other uses but Dillinger after getting out of jail did the same and is using it for his own whims. I would hope that Alan and Lora got together and made some kids that are not only into computers but want to help get Mom and Dad out of the computer world when they are held captive by Dillinger and his son.There are so many possibilities. The video game does suggest a new story line, though I thought it was a bit dull and not very appealing to people who have never seen the original movie.I also hope that the movie producers enlist the musical talents of Wendy Carlos. She really made the movie feel like you were inside a mainframe. I have also imagined what the inside of a computer sounded like and have it for all to hear on my web site (www.q-s-o.com).I'll be watching..... "},{"Title":"Slow but... (spoilers)","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoilers)It's a slow movie. At moments you will get sleep if you are tired, BUT if you love 80's computer graphics you will love this movie. You will remember many vectorial games. I have seen many.. many movies.. and this movie have no similar movie! May be like Hackers (1995) would be the best recommended similar movie NOT MATRIX!!!. IMDB pay attention please!The History, it's great!, It's like a worm (computer virus) that must access to the main system (CPU) and hack (destroy) the main process. If you love computer technology you will love it. The funny thing is that the process, devices, programs, worms, etc are HUMANS DThis movie may be VERY BAD for people that not understand computer main process. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie, apart from the fact that there was no storyline.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I still really enjoy this movie, not for the script, but simply for the computer generated world in which the movie takes place. It is very hard to describe how it appears without seeing it, but it is certainly impressive. For a film made in 1982, the computer effects are certainly well done. Unfortunately, it was a little ahead of time - if it were made, say 10-15 years later, it would have been a hit. The Matrix made no sense either, but it too was a hit.The storyline is rather implausible, and as a computer literate person, a little silly. It involved 'beaming' (by accident) the main character Kevin Flynn into a huge supercomputer - despite the fact that storing all the information regarding the placement of molecules in his body is impossible. There he meets the programs 'face to face', as they have the appearance of their programmers (or Users as they reverently refer to them). The programs live their lives there, and die there, especially under the tyrannical reign of the Master Control Program (quite reminiscent of some certain operating systems out there; no doubt you know what I refer to). If they die there, whatever happened to computer backups. PUT YOUR PROGRAMS ON A DARN CD-ROM!Anyway, despite the negatives, a very enjoyable and surreal movie and worth watching. As soon the the DVD comes out in Australia, I'm buying. "}{"Title":"A Good B Movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had to watch this film for my computer class. While no one else in my class understood or liked it, I enjoyed it. I think the reason the film is not more highly regarded as a landmark sci-fi/fantasy movie is that it sounds like a lame movie that belongs on Mystery Science Theater 3000. Trust me, with state of the art special effects (for 1982 at least), this movie isn't as bad as it sounds.  "},{"Title":"Tron","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before the impact of Toy Story, followed by successes like Monsters, Inc. and Finding Nemo, Disney brought us this science fiction adventure complete with imaginative computer animation. Basically computer hacker Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) is digitally broken down and zapped into the Cyber world by a villainous software pirate known as Master Control. In this colourful 3D graphical world, Kevin joins forces with Tron (Bruce Boxleitner) to try and defeat Master Control and the many challenges it creates for them to face, in order to get out of the system. Also starring David Warner as Ed Dillinger, Cindy Morgan as Lora, Barnard Hughes as Dr. Walter Gibbs, Dan Shor as Ram and Peter Jurasik as Crom. It is obviously very dated by today's standards of computer animation imagination, but to see where cinematic territory was broken is interesting I guess, it will probably appeal more to video game fans. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Costume Design and Best Sound, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie because....","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... of what it did to me as a child, but picking up the DVD recently and really watching it, made me pick up on a lot that I couldn't when I was 10.  Not only is the movie cool but it actually has story.  Most people I know say, I had no idea what was going on.  This is totally the computer geek's sci-fi movie.  They all said, Now why is that guy with the glasses and the girl in the computer now?  They were outside!  No one grabbed the concept of a persons program carrying their traits.  Aside from the satisfaction of having a game genius actually play the games, the movie puts forth a very important social commentary by the MCP calling programs trying to reach the outside religious fanatics.  I just think TRON is fabulous outside of the effects, it's just a great movie.  A dream for a child, and a well executed otherwise.  Just a thought.   "},{"Title":"Fantasic .. wish i could have been in that world too","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this film ROCKS !!!! ever since the first time i saw it i LOVED it.. it is soooo awesome.. i was only twenty when i saw it first, this movie was the first time they had used computer effects like that.. and it blew me away !!! i've heard people cut it down.. but that never deterred me from enjoying it in the least, it just made me want to be transported to that world too , and even the tron game was neat.. people think its corny , it is a little bit.. but otherwise i give it a 10/10 .. and i own a copy of it, so that tells you how much i Loved it!! "},{"Title":"A true Disney masterpiece since Fantasia! ****!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Released by Disney in the summer of 1982,Tronis the futuristic look of a computer whizzer (Jeff Bridges) who gets sucked into a futuristic computer game.This film experiences the first use of computer generated images (although Star Trek II was the first) it brings out the style and visionary look of inside the vicious video game and in 2001 style, it's breathtaking to watch.Director Steven Lisberger brings out the best in special effects and acting that turns the world of computer games into magic! Nominated for two Academy Awards including its costume design,Tron is the ultimate sci-fi film to ever come out in the '80's and even today remains a favorite among Disney film fans.Its breathtaking cinematography (in 70mm) is also the highlight of the film and its direction helps it look stunning and lavish as any sci-fi film made.If you love sci-fi films,don't miss this one,see it! "},{"Title":"Bill Gates on Acid","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron was a marvel in movie making in 1982. Today, it is still a fun ride with interesting special effects. While most science fiction movies of today blow Tron out of the water, the movie still holds a true (cult) audience. The ending of the movie, the hidden depiction of a future world that is similar to the fantasy setting of Tron makes the story true science fiction. In fact, much of the movie is reality with the rise of the computer age and the corporation. The cast may seem too white because it is. The story has its ups and its downs but the overall idea of the movie is way before its time and still deserves space on the video shelf. A fun ride for those computer geeks out there. Even for Disney, this movie is out there. "},{"Title":"I was oblivious to the poor reviews when I saw TRON in the theater.","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As an 11 year-old kid, I saw TRON several times in the theater. I loved it. And I didn't know much about computers, but I understood the basic plot. VERY COOL. TRON! There is no PIXAR without TRON. I used to play the video game and it is quite difficult.GRID BUGS! The music is still in my memory, and of course, I own the DVD. TRON! That is all. Now, since this stupid edit window is requiring me to write ten lines, I will add that I would like to see a sequel to TRON, one that is done right. I do not consider this a Disney film. They just financed it and slapped their name to it--like they do with PIXAR. No, Disney makes crap like MULAN and Armageddon.TRON! "},{"Title":"An Ugly, Tedious Mess","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Had I not known before watching the film (or had I somehow missed the remarkably obvious hidden Mickey), I would have never guessed TRON to be a Disney film. It simply has little to nothing in common to anything else Disney has ever made. And I'm not referring to the lack of musical numbers or princesses, but rather the lack of humor, coherent plot, memorable characters, and basically anything resembling entertainment. TRON is a mess. A boring mess. Its cult classic status is a mystery to me.Normally I'd explain the plot of the film right about now, except I have no idea what the movie was about. Somebody named Flynn gets sucked into a computer game, and has to figure out how to defeat something called Master Control Program. But there are so many points of confusion and tedious chase scenes mish-mashed throughout the film, that the plot gets totally lost at times.Perhaps I would have a better understanding of the story if the dialogue wasn't so terribly dull. The script is composed of incredibly bland exposition and tedious tech-talk, making it a chore to listen to.While TRON is only 96 minutes long, it's fairly dull from the very start. There are some slightly intriguing elements early on, but by the time TRON hits the 45 minute mark, it becomes a certified snore-fest. Frankly, I was just about bored to tears.TRON is often praised for its incredible visuals. But they look so horrendous that I can't imagine they are appreciated as anything more than as a lesson in how NOT to create special effects. I understand that this film is over 30 years old, but surely the intense ugliness of this production was evident at the time of its release.The effects are frightfully messy looking. Once we enter the video-game world, everything from the backgrounds to the (laughably bad) costumes are digitally created. This makes the film appear muddy and shoddy. So muddy, in fact, that I frequently mixed up the identities of certain characters, merely because the special effects caused their faces to be difficult to see clearly.The acting ranges from bland to campy. Jeff Bridges, Bruce Boxleitner and Cindy Morgan fall into the former category. David Warner falls into the latter.The score, composed by Wendy Carlos, is delightfully retro, yet simultaneously obnoxious as a result. The electronic elements are amusing, but they become excessive and irritating as the film progresses.A mess of a film, TRON features disastrously ugly special effects, terrible dialogue, weak acting, and a confusing story that isn't worth trying to follow. On top of that, it's just a big bore, lacking the fun and excitement of the films it's so clearly trying to imitate (namely Star Wars). If you want to see a better video-game oriented Disney film, watch Wreck-It Ralph. If you've already seen Wreck-It Ralph and you want to see if Disney can find success in the same pattern twice, here's your answer no. Go watch Wreck-It Ralph. "},{"Title":"Bad as a movie, good as a historical reference","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a game programmer myself and watched this one in 2013 just because I saw the title mentioned on some forums. I was surprised to see such good special effects (and basic 3D graphics) in such an old movie (1982) and at the same time I was quite disappointed by the scenario. The story is boring, clichéd, and pointless. All the references to computer technology and programming are, as usual in cinema, just a mishmash of buzzwords with no meaning. It's obvious that the guy who was writing the script and directing this has no idea of how computers work.Still, it was quite interesting for me to see how general audience was perceiving games and computers in early 1980s. And all those people standing in front of arcade machines and playing games like Space invaders. This movie is awful as a movie but as a historical artifact it's quite valuable. I would recommend that computer science students watch it once in their first semester. "},{"Title":"Innnovative. Can't Believe Someone Thought Of All This!","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie's all too misunderstood! It's amazing that someone thought of a world in a computer! Some people hat the idea, some think this movie botched it. I disagree with both. I say, Let Tron be Tron and Gone with the Wind be Gone with the Wind, for gosh sake! And lighten up! I loved something I read online saying that it was pleasant surprise that Disney came up with something this cool! And I don't see how Tron was a shame to Disney. Even as a writer myself, I still don't see why every damn movie has to be a complex character study.I still watch this movie with an unprecendented sense of surrealism, and that's enough for me. It's one movie Roger Ebert and I actually agree about. I'm glad he shows it at Ebert Con or whatever it's called. It's actually impressive for a film critic.Whatever flaws tron has, it's also got its assets, like some degree of originality. Plus, it was even more of a breath of fresh air at a time when horny teen movies were all the rage LOL. "}{"Title":"I've never forgotten it","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw it when I was about six but I've never forgotten this film. It had visuals that you just never saw before - those neon lights and the clean CGI circuitry lines. Absolutely beautiful. I just saw it on bbc2, but I only saw the last bit! It's still got it. I think I'll get it on video. "},{"Title":"What the...","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great for cheezy movie marathons!  Given that I'm of the computer generation, jaded on high-tech quality, the special effects came to me more as special ed. effects.  They really like their primary colors, Kinect-it sets and partial fractals.  While watching it with a few college friends, (under no influences) we were not ashamed to admit we had no clue what was going on (*this might have been a poor sound quality issue, however).  We did however find the zapping scenes hysterical and the anti-theft device costumes wonderfully unique for their take on 80's spandex.  Was the whole digitalizing of the orange bit to make the digitalization of Flynn seem logical??  'Cause it failed miserably.  Final opinion  Disney???  If you say so... "},{"Title":"Weird man... really weird.","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron is a movie in which some hacker guy gets sucked into a computer or something along those lines. There really isn't a plot to talk about. The whole movie is computer animation. You can tell that this movie was the first, I believe, to use computer animation. The computer graphics are consistent with video games of 1982. There's this big orange thing in there too. In a way, I think the graphics in this movie are actually pretty cool. Stoners would definitely love this movie, as there is absolutely no plot, and all graphics. If you want to just zone out to trippy 80's video game graphics, then this is the perfect movie for you. It gets a 7 out of 10 for the oh-so-cool breakthrough revolutionary 80s graphics. "},{"Title":"A Landmark Tale of Beauty and Fun","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  TRON! TRON! IT COMPUTES! Hello, I'm sayinoutcast. I'm his computer. This is OUR review. TRON IS A LANDMARK SPECIAL-EFFECTS EYE-CANDY SPECTACULAR. IT CONTAINED BREAKTHROUGH CGI THAT WAS WAY AHEAD OF IT'S TIME. It was so way ahead of it's time in plot and the storyline use of computers, that people couldn't understand it, and it flopped. Beside that, it is a very fun and cool film.MAIN CAST Jeff Bridges     Kevin Flynn, CLU; Bruce Boxleitner Tron, Allan; AND David Warner; Cindy Morgan; Barnard Huges; Director, Screenplay Stephen Lisberger; Executive Producer   Ron Miller; Story                Stephen Lisberger; Bonnie MacBird; Produced by          Donald Kushner; Music by             Wendy Carlos; Songs by             Journey; ------------------------------------------------------------------------ THE SCORE Vvvvvvvveeeeeeeeerrrrrrrrryyyyyyyy good score. Very memorable. Good job, Wendy Carlos. *********/********** ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Final Grade ********/********** Very good. Needs minimal improvement. Do not watch at night, will sometimes put you to sleep during slow parts. Very good film. WARNING THE ORIGINAL VERSION OF THE 20TH ANNIVERSARY EDITION DVD'S ARE NOT COMPATIBLE WITH PLAYSTATION 2. THE VIDEO MESSES UP AT ONE POINT IN THE FILM. "},{"Title":"A strange world...","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In Tron you enter a strange new world.  A world where you communicate with computers by typing sentences in English.  A world where all computers in the world are connected to each other.  A world where audit records of file operations are preserved indelibly forever.  A world where one might reasonably expect a programmer who produces a single successful product to be given control of a company in return.  A world where a computer evidently built over a period of 20 years or more is not an obsolete pile of scrap metal.  A world where users of a time-sharing system aren't screaming bloody murder at the operators when they can't log on or access their data.And then there's the setting *inside* the computer.  Yeesh! "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the movie equivalent of, say, the song tainted love by Soft Cell.   In other words, it's so cheesy and 80s that you can't help liking it.In reality it was simply an attempt to cash in on the popularity of the relatively new video game industry.  Jeff Bridges plays the inventor of a popular video game called Space Paranoids.  Gee, I wonder what that was supposed to be?The movie has a ridiculous plot, but that adds to it's charm. Apparently, this was the first movie to use computer generated special effects.  However, in this instance, the word special is equivalent to that used in special olympics, or Star Wars special Edition. Still,  while the effects look dated, the glow universe in the movie has a unique charm and still looks good.Apparently there are rumours of a Tron 2 being made.  I'm sure if it happens, it will be full of computer generated virus monsters and hideously overblown special effects to attract the kids.  It's a shame really because the charm of the original lies in it's underachievements.  "},{"Title":"Non-Dimensional Art","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Our culture has lost and gained something when you go to the arcade and don't find button-smasher games anymore.  Now it's all about full-body involvement with DDR, shooting arcades, racing, and anything else.  No escape for the side-scrollers now.This is your only spoiler warning...I found an interesting parallel in 'Hulk.' the concept is a sophisticated everyman turning into a crude monster.  The parallel being Eric Bana, a crude and unsophisticated actor, turns into a sophisticated CGI construction.  Thus, the means to the ends often contradict the initial concept.With 'Tron', we have a more intelligent actor (Bridges) playing games with Disney's writers while playing a hacker and game program simultaneously.  Bridges knows the whole material is juvenile hogwash, so he plays against it.  If he did that for 'Seabiscuit', I would have given him more credit.This movie personified the Phase II thinking from Disney.  After the disastrous 'Black Hole', they poured millions into trying to innovate on new genres.  The live-action efforts resulting from this thinking are still interesting even as Disney degenerated to Phase III (Little Mermaid and its spawn) and finally Phase IV (Pixar).  Here was some serious attempts at storytelling with all the financial power that Disney had.Since the plot is baloney, a simple variation of the Disney sport film, we can only examine 'Tron' on its remaining quality the computer environment.  In these Pixar days it seems contrived, but I actually found it the most interesting part of the movie.  Notice the devoted attempt at making a 100% synthetic environment...something George Lucas has been trying to do for years.In many ways, 'Tron' represents the post-modern art world.  Often simple, rarely understood, and yet amazingly visual.  Occasionally, it degenerates into album cover art work and that's where the biggest flaws lie.  Thankfully the 80s retro sound effects make up for this gap.Looking back from today, it's 'Star Wars' meets 'Alice' meets 'Mighty Ducks'.  For historical value in its images only.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"I love Tron!  I made a lot of money from it!","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tron is just great! I made my own Tron costume and even was a regular guest on Jimmy Kimmel Live, all because of Tron.See my website at HTTP//www.tronguy.net/ The people at Disney are so stupid, I ripped off their images and trademarks and they haven't done a damn thing! I hope they do make a remake of Tron, or at least a re-release, it will be the greatest thing for my career! If anyone is interested in booking me for parties or other events, my contact information is on my web page. Also, I am a Registered Certified Parliamentarian, and I will come to your meeting and preside as the Parliamentarin while dressed in my Tron costume. I can control the lighting on my costume so any time I determine someone is out of order in the meeting, my costume lights up! It's fantastic!All the best, Jay Maynard Tron Guy "},{"Title":"O.K. for 1982, but a dated bore in 2003.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Remember when Disney could do no wrong? I do. I could remember the days when they'd just write-off a terribly boring movie like Tron as just a rumored film they made. The desperately run company then decided last year to release a 20th Anniversary DVD edition of a movie that only a handful of people ever cared about. How nice!Tron, for the time, boasted some wicked computer technology that today looks antiquated. For 1982, it knocked people's socks off. It's still pretty cool, but man, everything looks so blocky and single-toned.Like Final FantasyThe Spirits Within, Tron's storyline is a convoluted yawn. The major actors in the film (Jeff Bridges, David Warner, Cindy Morgan, and Bruce Boxleitner) play dual roles on Earth and in this Master Computer (MCP). Bridges' character (Flynn) wants his rights to a video game returned to him, The Scarecrow (Tron) and Morgan (Yori) are doing some project, and unbeknownst to these people, the MCP has gained enough power to rule the world. So all these storylines are melded together into a boringly-scripted kiddie film that is tough to stay awake for.The acting in this film is terrible. Not even Jeff Bridges immense talent can save this one. The script is as flat as three-day old soda and has no spark. The pace is slow and the costumes look so silly in 2003. They look like neon hockey players.I guess the best thing Tron brought to the world was the line of videogames. Bally/Midway released the excellent Tron and Discs Of Tron arcade games and Mattel made some decent home video games based on the film for the Intellivision and Atari 2600. Still, it's required viewing if you're a video game nut like me, but you might not enjoy it that much. At least it's only 96 minutes. And the trailers for the film in the DVD are a riot. Bridges' hilarious attempt at sounding like a real person is worth a look-see! "},{"Title":"And to think, Disney actually made something this cool!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had a hard time remembering  the first time I watched this movie,  but its funny how dated this film is.  Overall, I loved it. I thought it was  well ahead of its time, and a film that  will be considered the patron saint of  modern special effects and even  digital animation. But one thing I  noticed about the film was the political  overtones. Clearly, Disney was trying  to present themselves as a purely  democratic entity, making this a film  a good example of their beliefs. This  entire movie wreaks of communism  and its destructive grip on humanity  and self expression. TRON (who  was well played by Bruce Boxleitner)  isn't just a computer program, he is  the embodiment of America, a figure  head for freedom. He believes in his  fight as just and proper. It seems  fitting to make a film about destroying  communism considering our cold war  with the Soviet Union (which was called  the Master Control Program) and our  involvement in the Arab countries during  the time of this film's release. Thank  God for growing older, because  sometimes it's as entertaining  understanding the historical context  of film as well as the philosophical  side of its composition. "}{"Title":"Disney initiates the CGI era with this innovative videogame movie.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The amazing computer graphics in TRON were as trendsetting in their time as those recently used to blow audience's minds in THE MATRIX.  Sadly, Disney's efforts didn't result in the boxoffice rewards associated with the Wachowski's effort.  TRON isn't a bad picture, but does have the Disney touch, which makes it fairly childish and too good natured.  It's the kind of techy picture which would only intrigue 13 year olds and would-be computer geeks at the time of it's release.  Some cynicism, violence and sex would have done a lot to liven up the proceedings and give the innovative visual style some memorable punch. As it is, it's a well-crafted, nicely designed, adequately performed, simplistic geek adventure.  The latest special-edition DVD provides a lot of background on the making of the picture, which is more interesting than the picture itself.  The good news about this video release is that the film can be seen with most of the original Super Panavision 70 aspects intact at home, provided you have a top-notch home theater setup somewhere in the house.  "},{"Title":"Of historical interest only","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A curious film this one, in the light of events that followed it (the collapse of the home video game industry in the late 80s and the 2000 dotcom meltdown). Filmed as a cash-in on the then video game craze, the film has dated badly in many ways, particularly the early chunky grey Silicon Graphics special effects, not even as good as in The Last Starfighter, which has a similar look. A blindingly unoriginal good vs evil subplot involves a charismatic hacker lined up against the evil executive that stole his programs (played in a slow walk by British veteran David Warner - true to stereotype the Englishman's the bad guy). In spite of itself the film raises some interesting questions. When our hero gets drawn into the computer he meets replicas of people he meets in the real world, predating the concept of virtual worlds and avatars by a few years. In places, the film echoes earlier classics like Metropolis, particularly in the way the characters' faces are coloured and lit. For the most part, a curiosity only now. "},{"Title":"A reply from someone who saw this movie when it came out","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In response to the post who claims that this movie was a failure because it went over the heads of people who saw the movie when it first came out. The reason this movie wasn't a success had nothing to do with jargon. It had everything to do with being a rather stupid idea executed not particularly well.Don't get me wrong, I enjoy Tron to a certain extent. But it was hardly impressive special effects at the time, the storyline was woefully underdeveloped and don't even get me started on the actual video game spin off.Audiences didn't embrace this movie because of its defects as a story, not because we weren't smart enough to get it. "},{"Title":"Computer Meltdown.","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Computer software wizard Jeff Bridges literally gets sucked into a program and must survive the technologically re-created antics of the villainous David Warner (of Titanic fame). Bridges must then try to overcome the program and save the day with the help of the titled person from cyberspace (Bruce Boxleitner). The Walt Disney Studios wanted to get in on the Atari video game mass craze of the early-1980s with this special effects heavy dog that really makes no sense when you get past the dated technical aspects. The performances are destroyed by a confusing screenplay and production values that end up being distracting and completely over-blown. Another one of those cinematic pop icon mistakes of the 1980s. 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Probably the first ever Special Effects Movie.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And I mean that in a bad way.TRON is important for being the first movie to combine live-action actors in a CGI setting.That's it.  That's the only reason it exists; that's the only reason you need to see it.  The whole damn movie is basically the animators showing you EVERY LAST *PIXEL* of their little Cyberspace world.  Not a single plot point nor an interesting character gets in the way of their mission.When does the Matrix Part Two come out again? "},{"Title":"What the Heck is Going On?","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first twenty to thirty minutes of TRON may have you asking a bunch of questions such as, What is going on? and, When do I get my money back? The computer graphics of the time were first rate and was Disney's first attempt at keeping current with the times. With story and characters about as obnoxious as the ones in SANTA CLAUS CONQUERS THE MARTIANS, TRON trips all over itself.For the first twenty minutes, you'll be figuring out what the heck is going on. The story picks up when the Master Computer, a sentient and a 'thinking for himself' machine, sucks in a computer programmer to prevent him from exposing the truth about the computer and its user.The graphics are top notch for 1982. The TV show REBOOT, must have borrowed quite a bit from TRON. But this movie stinks, and is a shame to Disney, who I thought prides itself in distributing top quality movies, not cash cows. The story is rough, the characters are annoying and hard to tell apart at times. Two thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Nuttin' special","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An overload of glitzy graphics can't overcome this lethargic cybermystery's weak links. While not completely dull this film was too much like some 'Super Duper Mario' video game. Predictable good vs. bad picture offering nothing new, however if you like wild rides through cyberville then this may be for you.  "},{"Title":"When I wasn't sleeping I was laughing....","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  however there was not one joke in the film, I was laughing at a pathetic atempt at a film. I know it was 20 years ago, and SFX sucked but please... they look amazingly unrealistic in a King Kong sense. It may have been an important step forward in SFX but in reality this film is a pathetic joke. I always was forced to watch this stupid movie until I learned all the wordsTron, Tron, Where are you? I'm in the computerVery niceYes I fell asleep once or twice but then again I don't think I was missing much apart from a few guys jumping around and throwing things, there was a bit where they were racing on these little electric bikes in this little microchip thing. Was there really a point? If you have ever played on a game called halflifericochet you may see that they copy this idea, and yet people wonder why it is the most unpopular game in the world.In short this film has a very thin plot, without a doubt the worst special effects with relation to the period in time and these actors (if they say they are actors) make a mockery of SI-FI films. However the film did come in handy as I always use it as a coffee coaster when friends come round.Thankyou for reading and I am wishing you good luck buying any other films (including spice girls the movie) in preference of this film. "},{"Title":"This is almost as bad as the matrix","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is almost as bad as the matrix I mean what has become of the movie scene I mean hear they try to make a live action movie like what the matrix tryed to do. But instead of them making something that could have been epic like Ben-hur or the wizard of oz or Halloween 1978 and Friday the 13th 1980. They made a piece of live action movie garbage like this where 80 percent of the movie is done by computers. I mean what are the point of having actors in the movie why not edit there voices and cgi there looks it would be a lot cheaper Hollywood sense the move is 80 percent cgi why not push for the 100 percent. so to sum it up tron sucks ass and so does the matrix I mean come on star wars 1 through 6 is not even this badly cgi and they where all a masterpiece over the matrix and tron to some it up to much cgi ruins the movie for everyone. And the most I can give this piece of garbage that we call tron is 1 star times like this I wish this site will allow people to give a negative 10 because thats what this piece of vomit should be rated I mean I seen abortions that looked better then this S&#t. "},{"Title":"Heinous","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first movie to utilize computer animation, and it shows. This movie is no more than a 1982 video game pitch. Hideous graphics make it hard to watch and overcome the characters. The plot is so weak it's almost impossible to tell there is one. This movie may only be for males who saw the movie when it first came out or hardcore video game junkies. For everybody else, it's the worst 90 minutes you could spend. "}{"Title":"This is the worst movie ever.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tron is no doubt in my mind, the worst movie ever.  If you like cheap-looking 80's graphics, then by all means see this movie because that all this movie is, with a dumb plot thrown in there with it. Everyone I know who has seen it agrees with me. The review on this movie talks about an electronic gladiator games, but all it is is a bunch of guys throwing little, electronic frizbees. I give it an F. "},{"Title":"incoherent dribble...i mean...","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now granted I woke up to a friend kicking me awake, but from what I saw of this movie it is complete crap.  As I plopped myself upon the couch.  My friend, who had given me several sharp kicks, now explained what had happened thus far (something about how this guy was zapped into a super computer because some guy had stolen his computer games or something...it really wasn't logic based) and so i accepted it as illogical at best.  And just enjoyed myself as it wallowed it in its own crapulence.  A lot of stuff happened but i really don't know what if anything was accomplished. Undoubtedly the movie hit its peak in an energy frisbee battle (that's right energy frisbee battle) between Tron(?) and some other guy in orange. I have now decided that the incoherency of these words is now a commentary on the movie...that's just how incoherent the movie is...goodnight everybody. "}]