[{"Title":"Perhaps the greatest postwar animated film","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"119 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The short version 'The Secret of NIMH' isn't just a masterpiece it's the best classically animated film since the early 40's. It's up there with 'Bambi', which is to say, this is about as good as it gets.I remember walking down the street when I was about 19, and seeing the poster for 'The Secret of NIMH' up in a theatre, and immediately thinking This film is going to blow my mind. A week later, I was sitting in an empty theatre, watching the last credits rolling down the screen after everybody else had left, and the house lights were up, thinking yep.A bit of history is probably in order for a film of this importance. Flashback to about 1980. Disney animator Don Bluth walks out, halfway through production on 'The Fox and the Hound', taking several other key animators with him, and declaring that he was going to recapture the spirit of classical animation, which Disney had forgotten about.Nearly three years later, NIMH debuts. Critically it is well received, but lack of distribution and advertising means it's swamped by such an historical non-entity as Disney's 'Tron'. Accepting an animation award for best film, Bluth remarked Thanks. We didn't think anyone had noticed.NIMH is a glorious achievement. It puts to shame anything which Disney had done for a quarter century, and singlehandedly did exactly what Bluth set out to do. It revived the spirit of classical animation, and at the same time it proved that there was room on the block for another player than Disney - not an unimportant fact when you consider that at the time there was no Dreamworks or Pixar, and no feature animation section in Universal or MGM.As to the film itself from the first moment you are treated to a gloriously rich, sumptuous, seamless animation and background art, the likes of which hadn't been seen since Disney's war years. Particularly stunning is the movie's use of colour to enhance moods. The dark blues and blacks of the stunning 'lantern elevator' descent into the rats' city, and the tractor scene - the background starts out in subdued tones and ends up flaming red as the action peaks. One reviewer at the time wrote I felt as if I was watching the invention of color, as if I was being drawn into the depths of the screen.The characters are beautifully conceived and drawn, and the voice characterisations are spot-on (including the animation debut of Dom de Luise as Jeremy). And, significantly, there is only one song, and it's not sung by a character (significantly, 'Balto', one of the few animated films since which can hold a candle to NIMH, followed the same principal). Jerry Goldsmith's score supplies the emotional power for the rest of the soundtrack.Even more importantly though, the film is incredibly emotionally potent, and not in a sentimental, kiddy way. It has genuine choke-you-up power which will appeal to adults. Bluth ditched the double storyline of the book, relegating Jonathan Brisby's more substantial role in the novel to a short piece of background information revealed in an explanatory flashback. Personally I think this was the right decision. To do otherwise would have been to take the spotlight off Mrs Brisby, and probably diminish the film's coherence and power. So, Don Bluth achieved his goal his debut feature film was the greatest animated achievement in 40 years. Sadly, it was also his only masterpiece. He peaked on his first outing, and afterwards declined into mediocrity, while Disney picked itself up and overtook him. In fact, ironically, there were signs of this in 'The Fox and the Hound', which despite being plagued by Bluth's departure amongst other catastrophes, turned out to be Disney's best movie since the 60's, even if it would still be the better part of another decade before they started hitting their marks consistently.Today NIMH enjoys the sort of cult following it deserves. It's just a damn shame that its greatness isn't more widely acknowledged, and an almost equally great shame that a generation later it was cursed with one of the most insulting, wretched sequels in cinematic history.It's an important film, and it's a great film. In the two decades since it was released, only a small handful of animated films have approached its stature.  "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's Best work!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"52 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Anybody who doesn't like this movie just doesn't love animation. How can a proclaimed fan of feature animation not be dazzled by the extravagance of Don Bluth's work seen in NIMH? Here is a perfect example of what happens when artists are given free reign to just create whatever their vivid imaginations may produce. To me, the greatest triumph of this movie is the art itself. Its greatest flaw is that it was cheapened by a sequel! Why in the name of HUMANITY was a sequel made? A masterpiece of this magnitude should not be so insulted as to be milked for every dollar that the bean counters say it can!But I digress...Bluth's use of highly stylized art to influence your emotions is rarely seen in others' work. The whole point of animation is that you are not limited by the bounds of reality, so thorns and cobwebs can be just that much more twisty and foreboding. Owls' eyes can glow- not because they do, but because it just plain looks cooler. The bright and sunny entrance to the rats' lair can suddenly fade to a background of blood red as Mrs. Brisby runs in terror from Brutus' electrified blade. What plot holes does using a lit electric lamp as a diving bell produce? Who cares? The concept just looks awesome on screen! The effects animation is spectacular in this movie as well. The glow of Nicodemus' eyes, the sparkling of the fairy dust ink and the flaming letters of the movie title screen are great, and the radiance emitting from Mrs. Brisby as the sheer strength of her character lifts her home from the mud is fantastic.If the story were no more than a shabby framework to lace all of this cool art together, it would be good enough, but there's a lot going for it as well. It's not a complicated story, but its message of love, devotion, and courage shown in the meekest of people (mice?) is enough to inspire anyone! Mrs. Brisby's simple wish for the safety of her family drives her to the greatest of courage, despite her apparant simplicity and weakness. She stands as a model for all of us to aspire to.Animation should never be considered something just for kids. It should not require the characters to burst into song at regular intervals, or the story to be sappy and condescending. NIMH does none of this. It is truly a movie for movie-lovers of all ages. Disney, take a hint!!! Don Bluth, keep making movies like this, and your field will reach an entirely new level of acceptance among older viewers in America. "},{"Title":"Dark, mystical story is for adults, but endured by children.","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"52 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this film, years ago, I was very afraid of many aspects it contained, yet I was also in love with it. As a cartoon, it captures the very familiar values that we have seen in such praised Disney films such as The Sword in the Stone. This one is much darker though, and because so, it also brings forth, a much scarier element that Disney will never have! Being based completely on archetypical formation, the Secret Of NIMH is based on the famed children's book Mrs. Brisby and the rats of NIMH. As the book is very darling, and for children of all ages, the film is put together in a more mature, adult style, with intense moments. Later on in life, I realize that children watching this film is an amazing happening, if I knew then, what I know now about the film, I would have been completely overtaken by the film. Some things are better left unknown in childhood. Most kids today will not appreciate this film, for all the glory in which it was made. There were two direct-to-video sequels. Two. This is unacceptable for a movie of this type. The two latter films were made with light, fluffy, musical touches that did NOT capture anything this film did. The two latter films had NO business being made! The generation I grew up in was able to take this wondrous intensity we were given, today, things are much different, and movies like this one are hardly seen. The toy story genre has taken over, and most films that would, otherwise be like this one are laughably awful, without any real heart. Don Bluth was expressing his strong imagination for this one, most pixar company films are just money, and offer nothing for anyone except babies in cribs! This movie is a cartoon, a pure adventure, and a treasure full of heart! Don Bluth is a wonderful filmmaker! "},{"Title":"Magical, Fantastic, a real delight","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Secret of NIMH after twenty three years is still an absolutely fantastic film. I hold it in such high regard as the even more obscure Gay Pur-ee (with the voice talent of Judy Garland, also wonderful) and Disney's Robin Hood.Criticisms can be made of the film. For one, faithful isn't exactly an adjective that can be used when describing it's relation to the source material Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH by Robert O'Brien. However, the novel was a Newberry Award winner and it deserved an excellent film which is what it received.The book itself had two separate story lines, one focusing on Mrs. Frisby and her plight, and the other a lengthy backstory involving the rats of NIMH. For the animated feature, Don Bluth and his team chose to focus on Mrs. Frisby's plight and for this I am grateful.In Mrs. Brisby we have a totally unique and a truly delightful heroine. She isn't some young boy getting ready to go on a fantastic adventure or some sort of great, brave hero. She's just a mother, a mother whose first concern is her family. And she makes a fantastic hero, showing that courage isn't just involved in facing down fierce monsters (though when she has to do that she finds the courage). She never stops pushing herself and though she might be a very small mouse, she has a very big heart.As a kid I walked away thinking how cool Justin was, but now that I'm older I have complete respect for Mrs. Brisby. It's an excellent film both for children and adults alike.And how about Derek Jacobi as Nicodemus? Dom deLuise as Jeremy? Not to mention Elizabeth Hartman, whose short career was never-the-less magnificent. Thank god for film that we might have her talents available to us for all time! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I voted a 10 on this movie mostly for its hauntingly breath-taking original musical by Jerry Goldsmith.  Surely this film's score has to be some of his very best work.The awe-inspiring wisdoms of Nicodemus and The Great Owl, the comic reliefs of Mr. Ages, Jeremy and Auntie Shrew, the fascinating struggle between good and evil (Justin and Jenner), and of course the unmatchable greatness of the Brisby family name make this film one of the best animated movies ever.The movie's ending climax is powerful and gorgeous.  You are left utterly stunned.  Mrs. Brisby proves once again that she is just as brave and capable as her husband, if not more so, by never giving up hope and eventually succeeding in keeping her family safe. "},{"Title":"Go rent NIMH. You won't be disappointed.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Secret of NIMH is powerful, dramatic and has great originality.  The animation is excellent and stylish, and complements the mystical storyline.The plot is complex and beyond your average toddler.  This is a film for older kids and adults, anyone who enjoys a unique film experience and is looking for deviation from the expected norms of an animated film.Truly ahead of its time, NIMH is a must - It's become a classic and is not at all childish, as one might predict for animation.  There are no musical numbers, just an exciting, vibrant score that follows the action perfectly. Clear your brain of prejudgments and animation stereotypes, and then go rent The Secret of NIMH.  It is an ultimately rewarding film. "},{"Title":"Complicated story for kids, but extremely well-done animated tale...","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  1st watched 5/13/2001 - 8 out of 10 (Dir-Don Bluth) Complicated story for kids, but extremely well-done animated tale of  a group of rats who are experimented on by NIMH(National Instiute for Mental Health) and become smart.  They escape and live in an underground existence stealing electricity from a farmer.  The plan is to generate their own electricity and be able to move to a safer locale, but we don't exactly know how this is going to happen.  Dom Deluise has a humorous role as a clumsy love-lorned crow to keep the seriousness of the story at bay.  This movie is excellent from beginning to end and deserved more recognition than it got(probably because it's not Disney), but launched a series of Bluth animated movies to give animated movie fans an alternative to Disney. "},{"Title":"Early great Bluth film","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film has more soul than most animated films. The film music is excellent, and honestly is the shining jewel of the movie. The art work is excellent for the time period and no computers used! The backgrounds have excellent detail they could honestly be used as great works of art on their own merit. The voices are excellent and very fitting for the characters. The story line is very well done while not lacking in action at any time, it's also not like most modern films that are constantly in your face with fast-moving activity. The facial expressions are outstanding! Too bad Don Bluth didn't do more films! The mud in certain scenes was very well done. The story has great struggle and good-versus-evil appeal to it. The music is actually great for an animated film no catchy or cheeky pop music at all, but the music score seems to always be doing something. Many times it does such a good job at painting the mental picture of certain scenes that if you were to listen to the score by itself after seeing the movie, you could trace the story line by heart. Even the musical prototype for the main theme, Flying Dreams (or whatever) was done so well that it makes one wonder who wrote and performed the original demo (first song of the credits). Excellent movie in all aspects, even if it seems old school to some ) "},{"Title":"beautiful animation within a beautiful story","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I turned on Nickelodeon the other day and was disgusted with Secret of NIMH 2 Timmy to the Rescue.  Among the many things was the pee-poor animation.  So it's not even worth mentioning.  The original The Secret of NIMH remains to this day,  my favorite animated feature.  Animation-wise,  it outshines even Disney's finest features of old Bambi and Snow White;  and of new Mulan and Beauty and the Beast,  all of which are favorites of mine.  If the story of Mrs. Brisby,  a widowed fieldmouse with four children to rear alone and the heroism she displays throughout the movie isn't enough to touch certain people,  they should watch it if only to marvel at the miraculous use of color and dexterity.  My favorite scene is when the farm cat is chasing Mrs. Brisby and they end up falling into the water beneath a windmill.  But the whole movie has a kind of visual theme of glowing,  sparkling mysticism,  which fits into the storyline of power,  beauty,  courage, the abuse of power,  and good and evil.  It was rated G,  but I feel that because of the amount of violence and animated bloodshed,  and because of a very frightening scene involving a sinkhole,  it should have been rated PG.  That means it's not a kiddie kind of cartoon!!!  "},{"Title":"Decent animated film, with a heavy-going plot but good features along the way.","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the early '80s a group of Disney animators, headed by Don Bluth, decided to break away from the Disney studio. The Secret of NIMH was the first film they made. Based on a semi-classic children's book entitled Mrs. Frisby And The Rats Of NIMH by Robert C. O'Brien, the film emerges as a decent little animated feature. The story is a bit on the sombre side - probably a bit too serious and complex for really young viewers - but the animation is of a superb quality and the characters are very nicely voiced.Field mouse Mrs Brisby needs to move her family from their home in a farmer's field, as it is almost time for the farmer to gather his crop with the combine harvester. Inevitably the Brisby home would be destroyed and anyone in it killed during the gathering of the crop. Unfortunately, one of her children, Timmy, is suffering from pneumonia and couldn't possible survive the move. Mrs Brisby is advised to contact the rats of NIMH, a group of hyper-intelligent rodents, to ask for their help. Apparently, her late husband Jonathan was a close friend of the rats and they held him in such high regard that they will do anything to help a member of the Brisby clan.The story is told mainly through talk, with occasional bursts of action. As already pointed out, this means the film doesn't really lend itself to a very young audience. But older kids, especially those who are willing to listen with the appropriate degree of attention, will find the story interesting. There are other plus points - Jerry Goldsmith's rousing score; Dom DeLuise's amusing vocals as an accident-prone bird; and some very well-conceived baddies in the shape of rat conspirator Jenner and savage farm-cat Dragon. The Secret of NIMH is a moderately successful film - no masterpiece, true enough, and not really a serious challenger to the Disney dominance over the genre, but definitely a film that every child should see at least once. "}{"Title":"Don Bluth's Masterpiece!","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I will confess I saw this for the first time today on YouTube, and I loved it. I always said that Anastasia and American Tail were the best of Bluth's movies, but I now think that this beats them both.The story is very dark and mysterious but magical all the same. The animation is just stunning, with beautiful backgrounds and excellent character animation. Brutus is a little frightening though, or his animation is, so is the scene with the great owl, which is inredibly haunting. The music by the wonderful late Jerry Goldsmith is phenomenal, very reminiscent of his score for the Eurpean version for Legend (the Ridley Scott film). The song I think it's called Flying Dreams is heart-rending, and just shows the talent the man had, and I am grateful that there weren't too many songs to interrupt the flow. The characters are very well done, the brave yet timid Mrs Brisby, the dashing Justin, the villainous Jenner, the wise Nicodemus and the wise-cracking Jeremy. Nicodemus and Jeremy are very impressive, voiced wonderfully by Derek Jacobi and Dom Deluise, and Jenner while not as sinister and frightening a villain as Hexxus, Chernabog or the Horned King, he is still very convincing. Oh, and the scenes with Mrs Brisby's children and Auntie Shrew brought some fun into a dark story, and didn't interfere too much, and Elizabeth Hartmann gives a sorrowful and poignant portrayal as Mrs Brisby. I haven't read the book in its entirety, but I do remember my year 6 primary school teacher reading the chapter when Mrs Brisby(or Frisby in the book) meets Brutus for the first time. All in all, a beautiful film, and I am sorry it has taken me so long to see it. I advice you to avoid the sequel though, it's awful. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A dark, superbly animated film","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Secret of NIMH is a movie that I saw once when I was a younger kid and I loved it. The animation is the older style that you tended to see during the late '70's and early '80's. The characters are really interesting, and some are funny. The story is rather dark and some kids may find it to be a bit scary, but for those of you who have seen some of Don Bluth's other movies, you'll probably get the hint that his movies are darker. There are a few characters that are rather menacing looking and may frighten kids who are younger than 4, and there is a scene that is kind of nasty where you see rats in a lab being injected with chemicals and being tortured.This movie is one that your kids will probably enjoy. Even though the newer box cover makes this movie look like a movie for very young kids, I'm sure that kids who are 10 will also enjoy this movie. This was released during the era where kids movies were good, unlike some of the movies that are made for kids today.This is rated G, but I think it used to be rated PG because of the darkness. You should watch this at all costs. Even if you are a teen and the last time you watched this was as a young child, this movie would probably bring back some memories. Just like Bluth's other classic All Dogs Go TO Heaven, this will live on forever in my memory. "},{"Title":"A valiant attempt","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Many people remember hearing about this film when they were kids. An animated movie - a feature length cartoon - and not made by Disney!Well, I have to say, groundbreaking though it may have been at the time - launching the Don Bluth animation studios. It has some problems that keep it from holding up.First the good - unlike Disney films, which are still stuck in the animated musical rut to this day, The Secret of NIMH does not lapse into cheesy and contrived song and dance numbers every 7 minutes or so. Second, as the name implies (for those who are familiar with the acronym N.I.M.H.) there is a science fiction element at work here - one that provides a credible backstory for a community of talking animals who use tools and even complex machinery - something that other animated tales seldom address.On the downside, the annoying comic relief character (which always seems to be a bird in these films) is present, though thankfully, Dom DeLouise's portrayal isn't as over-the-top annoying as Disney films that cast more frenetic comics like Robin Williams or Eddie Murphy.That however is minor in comparison to the films big flaw, the use of magic, which practically invalidates the science elements entirely. Not that a children's fantasy film can't have magic (most of the best ones do), or even a mixture of magic and technology, it's just that the two don't mix very well in this film.The problem is exacerbated by the fact that the animals ultimately solve their problems not through their own ingenuity, but (in one of the worst deus ex machina moments in any film of this kind) by using hitherto unexplained magical powers, wrapping things up with a true groaner of an ending.So, what we have is a modestly entertaining animated feature that was groundbreaking for it's time (especially in the use of special effects animation), and whose good points still outweigh it's bad ones, but which is ultimately outshined by many more recent efforts. "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's first feature film and a fanciful film","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" NIMH is one of favorite Don Bluth films, and I now admitted that Bluth is now a favorite animator along with Max Fleischer,Chuck Jones,Hayao Miyazaki and even from Disney David Hand director of Snow White and Bambi; Don was animator from Disney himself. I also would like to point out that this is his first feature films.I think I remember reading the original book with my Mom when I was a kid in Elementary School, but now I think it kind of slip off of my mind, I would have to read it again. My favorite scenes from the film are when Ms. Brisby meets Justin the rodent hottie. And when she used the stone's magic powers to move her house out of the mud...now that was AWESOME! "},{"Title":"A beautiful throwback to animation's golden age","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Secret of NIMH (1982) is an 80s animated film with the sensibility of an early Disney feature. Produced during the darkest age of animation to date where selling toys was a greater priority than artistry or storytelling, NIMH was a rebel with its beauty and darkness.Never once does it pander to children by painting the world as a rosy place. Like Disney's first features, it evokes terror just as often as it does wonder. Mrs. Brisby might just be the greatest female character in all of American animation. She is no crooning ingénue nor a hard-nosed warrior, but a mother who's willing to face the worst dangers imaginable to save the life of her child. Her struggle is truly powerful.The animation and music also deserve praise. It's hard to tell that this was a low budget project, so fluid is the animation. Jerry Goldsmith's score is a perfect match for the dark yet hopeful tone of the film.I'm not the biggest fan of much of Don Bluth's later work, but this movie never fails to astound me. It's his magnum opus most certainly. In many ways, this is a precursor to the animation renaissance that would flourish from the late 80s and into the 90s. It deserves more attention than it has been given, that's for sure. "},{"Title":"The Best of Bluth","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Don Bluth has always had his unique animation, in fact if you watch any of his past work at Disney then you can definitely tell when he had a hand in it. Perhaps that's what I love most about Mr. Bluth's films; he has his own unique style, his own way of drawing that is different from other animators. He's an individual, and I'm sure when he walked out of Disney, they weren't aware they had just lost one of their best animators.Which brings me to The Secret Of Nimh. This animation gem was directed by Mr. Bluth and was released in 1982. It got pretty healthy numbers at the box-office, but as mentioned in my review for the film's sequel; it was bested by E.T The Extra Terrestrial. I think what might have had actually scared audiences off was the darkness of this movie. At that time, audiences were likely use to kid-friendly films such as The Rescuers or the film that had been released only a year before NIMH, The Fox and The Hound. (actually, that had some dark stuff but nowhere near as dark as NIMH)So, when something as dark and actually violent as NIMH was released, it probably didn't sit well with those use to the candy-canes and lollipops that Disney was offering.The film itself is based off the Newbery winning children's book, Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH by Robert C. O'Brien. The story is quite simple, about a widowed mouse named Mrs. Brisby (her name had to be changed due to a license law or something or other) who is raising her four children Martin, Theresa, Timmy, and Cynthia after the death of her husband, Jonathan. When Timmy is stricken with pneumonia, it becomes impossible to move him from the house because of the chilly air. Of course, the humans don't know of the Brisby family's woes when they decide to start up their plow and begin planting new crops. Desperate to protect Timmy and her other children from death, Mrs. Brisby seeks the help of some mysterious rats that reside in a rose bush. It turns out they may be helpful, because they are no ordinary rats. They have actually escaped from a mental hospital after being injected with an drug that makes them super-geniuses and slow to age. Along the way, Mrs. Brisby meets a wisecracking crow named Jeremy (voiced by Bluth veteran, Dom Deluise); and actually learns the sad truth behind her late husband's death.What I love most about the film, aside from its level of maturity (which I will dwell on later), is the fact that Bluth took characters that were so minor from the novel and gave them more. The first (and most obvious for those who read the book) is the villain, Jenner. In the novel, Jenner was nothing more than a rat that wanted to stay at the rosebush instead of venturing away where there could be safety from NIMH. In fact, he dies pretty early on in the novel and you don't even meet him, you just read that he left the rosebush with a small group of the rats and was killed along the way. In the movie, however, Jenner is the villain. Yes, he still wants to stay in the rosebush, but the lengths that he is willing to go to is extreme to make sure that it happens. His lackey Sullivan (also a minor character in the novel) is actually not your typical villain sidekick. He is actually more of anti-hero and actually becomes one of the heroes at the end. There are more characters who have their roles expanded like The Shrew (Auntie Shrew in the film), Brutus (who is downright frightening in the film), Jeremy, and even Mrs. Brisby's kids. I just love how the choice was made to take such minor characters and actually expand them.What I also love about the movie is the animation. If anybody has read my review for the sequel, you will know that I DID NOT LIKE THE ANIMATION!This is a very different story, however. Bluth still maintains his unique style while being able to cut the apron strings that Disney had tied around him. I mean, there is blood in this movie which is something you rarely see in a Disney film. I mean, Sleeping Beauty gets her finger pricked and there's not even a drop. Here, we get blood in two scenes. I also love the colors used for the film, because they reflect the film's atmosphere. Dark, but still enough to stay true to the vivid colors of the happier animated features.Now about the darkness. I don't mean dark like it's only meant for an extremely depressed audience. I mean dark in the sense that it's not a fairy-tale, and is actually pretty grounded in reality. Which is actually something that you rarely see in the genre of animation. Much like the films of director Martin Rosen, Bluth seems to treat animation as a genre and not something that is just meant to entertain kids. He is not afraid to have violence, swearing, and a fleshed out story. He pays attention to his art, and uses it to set the story's tone. That is all animation is A genre and Bluth understands. I will not deny that there is a fantasy undertone, but it certainly doesn't add a sense of whimsy and it certainly isn't overblown. The film, like a favorite internet critic of mine pointed out, it takes the audience seriously. It doesn't try to melt your brain by putting in nonsensical music numbers, princesses, and bright colors. No, this film is geared towards the young and the old.What's the conclusion? The Secret Of Nimh is awesome. It's animation is stunning, it has a great storyline, and great characters. P.S-Again, I apologize if any of these critiques appear to be strongly borrowed from other reviews. "},{"Title":"Easily Don Bluth's Finest.","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first heard about this film via the Nostalgia Critic during his Secret of NIMH 2 review. And although I swore to myself to never see the sequel, I got really curious about the first movie, since he seemed to praise the original so much. When I heard that it was made by Don Bluth (The same person who made the Land Before Time, one of my favorite films ever), I decided to see it. I watched it on Netflix one night, and I honestly wasn't expecting something that could top Land Before Time, since that had been a part of my childhood for years.But when the credits rolled, I punched myself in the face for ever thinking like that.The Secret of NIMH, to say the least, is EXACTLY what animated films should be like nowadays! It was dark, edgy, had a deep and rich storyline, and I actually cared for what was going on and what was happening to the characters and all of that. it was just fantastic.One thing that really surprised my upon first viewing is that this movie actually had some intense death sequences in it, especially towards the end. I'm not going to say who dies or why, but it was actually pretty violent. In fact, after it was over, I was baffled that the film didn't have a PG rating instead of G. But you know what? That's not even a nitpick. I really do like that aspect of the film, as if it were intended more for adults than children. I always love movies like that.The Secret of NIMH should've been an example as to how hand drawn animated movies should be handled. And while a few movies were able to accomplish this afterword, most just seemed to spiral into a childish and immature trend that began right after the 80s ended. Many people today seem to think that animated movies in general are always intended for kids, and that adults will enjoy them a lot less than real live films.But Don Bluth really took a bold stand in that department. It's as if he said to himself, You know, animated films always seem to be made for very young kids, and adults don't seem to like those kinds of movies. But what if I did something slightly different with that?...Creating an animation this dark and exciting was a very bold and brave move for somebody making his first movie on his own. In fact, there are very few animated films out there today that I can comfortably compare this to, except maybe for the Land Before Time. And this, in my mind, makes the Secret of NIMH extremely unique in the world of animation. It doesn't treat us like we're still in 1st grade, it doesn't treat us like we're not supposed to know the concept of death yet. No. Secret of NIMH is a truly mature film that in my opinion, raised the standards for 2D animation for a while. Don Bluth... may your films someday go into the National Film Registry, where they belong.10/10. "},{"Title":"A Powerful Dose of Nostalgia and Timelessness","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Gorgeously animated, smartly written and surprisingly mature for a film that's clearly geared to young audiences, this one is a real gem. Don Bluth and company really peered over new horizons with their painstaking efforts on this picture, and ultimately gave their old bosses and coworkers at Disney the kind of direct competition they needed to wake up from their late '70s slump. Bluth's unmistakable style positively seeps out of every panel of NIMH, with an expressive, gestural quality that manages to be both creatively streamlined and rich with detail. The story, so dark that Disney actually opted out of making the film themselves, remains a breath of fresh air even today, thirty years after its premiere. Its broad landscapes and diverse characters tackle some very challenging themes with succinct honesty, respecting their viewers without scaring them off. Too many kids' movies resign themselves to the opinion that children need their hands held on a stroll through happy town from start to finish, with a reassuring character always nearby whenever something remotely spooky happens. NIMH rejects that theory, cautiously, and ends up a better picture for all audiences as a result. It's a revelation. "},{"Title":"Mystifying","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Secret of NIMH was a pleasant surprise for me. Don Bluth is neither here or there in my eyes. He's made good films, such as this one and The Land Before Time, but has also made some terrible ones, (e.g. The Pebble and the Penguin, A Troll in Central Park) but luckily his first film seems to be his best. The Secret of NIMH is an adaptation of the children's book Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH and follows the mouse Mrs. Brisby (named changed in the adaptation to avoid copyright dispute with Frisbee, the flying disc) visiting Mr. Ages about the subject of her youngest son Timothy's sickness, which Mr. Ages deduces as pneumonia. A simple scene, before the title had appeared we had seen what we are to assume is a mice or rat of some sort with magical abilities, shown as he writes entries into a book, and thinking aloud before looking into an amulet. This scene did well to draw me in, with its design, its great lighting, and the character's very distinct voice acting in the span of just a short prologue.The plot starts simple, but builds in a linear motion, at no time will you question what is going on or be left in the dark. The conflict plays a huge part in the adventure, we are not given a premise and then put through a series of random, unneeded events (e.g. Spirited Away). Mrs. Brisby is a little sensitive but overall a strong-willed heroine, in my opinion its something films tend to lack today, I would prefer more female protagonists like this.The film has its darker moments, but stays true to a balance, a middle-ground that All Dogs Go To Heaven lacked. Characters such as The Great Owl and Nicodemus add a weight in terms of how serious the film takes itself, and how this is much more than your run-of-the-mill children's entertainment. The adaptation adds an element of mystic to the story and certain plot points which the original book never had, but it works well in execution, it doesn't overstep its boundaries and retains a sense of mystery and wonder.The Secret of NIMH looks good, feels right, and treats itself as an epic tale, executing a perfect balance on everything in the film except on three minor points.1. Jeremy's character felt too forced for comic relief, and his character becomes useless after helping Mrs. Brisby to The Great Owl's lair and the Rosebush. 2. Jenner was a wasted opportunity for far more character development, and it would have been more interesting to see the consequences of him actually obtaining the stone. 3. The ending feels rushed, like it tries its best to tie every loose end and have Mrs. Brisby explain the fate of the rats and Timmy's health to finish off the movie in a certain frame of time.However, aside from its flaws, The Secret of NIMH is one of a kind, but because of them, it fails from reaching perfection, and just misses. "},{"Title":"One of my Favorite animated movies.","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie. The animation in this movie, although not as good as like Disney or Studio Ghibli animation, is still great to look at. It was done by Don Bluth who you might remember as the guy who did, The Land before Time, An American Tail, etc. But trust me when I say that this is Bluth's masterpiece. The voice acting in this film is actually very good, considering that it always seems that voice actors don't sound convincing. But here they do. The Story line to this movie is the best part. For a kids film it is actually kinda dark and interesting at times. Sure there are times when it gets childish but for the most part it's pretty interesting. So in the end THE SECRET OF NIHM is a great movie, so I say check it out. "}{"Title":"A timeless masterpiece.","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Animation is rare, it is much more difficult and expensive to make than live action. Good animation is even more rare, because, in the Western world (United States in particular) it is mostly aimed at very small children and, as a result, ends up pretty boring to watch.While not specifically adult, The Secret of N.I.M.H. is something of a rare treasure - something a grownup can watch without falling asleep (unless you have a severe hatred for the medium). I, for example, first saw it at the age of 20 (I wasn't babysitting by the way, but watched it alone). And boy, was I surprised! For many years I haven't seen a piece of animation that moved me. But this time it was different - I got that feeling a person gets from watching something like The Good The Bad & The Ugly and Star Wars The Empire Strikes Back. I absolutely LOVED it. A month later I bought the DVD, that is a honorable part of my collection.A lot has been said about the movie already, and you could easily find the plot synopsis at IMDb.com, so I won't get into the story here. Instead, I will try to clear the film from some accusations made at the time of its releaseThe story was accused of being shallow and the film for having no central character. Well I'll be! Shallow is something I would say about The Princess and The Frog. It is hard to find a western animated feature with a story as complex as in The Secret of N.I.M.H. And, for us grownups, complex = interesting. Yes, the film has many characters, but it is a good thing. No Main Guy/Girl + Love Interest + Bad Guy + Comic Relief formula here. While there is a comic relief AND a bad guy(somewhat), the film is very realistic. And the story never concentrates on Ms. Brisby (the main) too much. Everybody enjoys just enough screen time. Great.Also, something worthy of mentioning - during the film's production, DIn Bluth wanted to raise the interest in animation in people again. He wanted it to appeal to older audiences. The original intension was to receive a PG rating (watch the film to see WHY). But, because it was ANIMATED, it automatically received a G. Nowadays such things normally do not happen. Yes, the film IS more dark and complex than an average G-rated flick. It was of a bad film for children. But it was originally aimed at the age group of 12 and up. And it has the word damn.Oh yes, and Jerry Goldsmith and Steven Spielberg loved the movie. If THAT does not say anything to you, I don't know what will... "},{"Title":"A lovely and moving animated gem","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Mild-mannered mouse Mrs. Brisby (wonderfully voiced with great warmth by Elizabeth Hartman) has to move her family from a field that's about to be ploughed, but can't make said move because her youngest son Timmy is sick with pneumonia. Ms. Brisby enlists the aid of a secret society of super-intelligent genetically enhanced escaped lab rats to move her home. Director Don Bluth and writers Gary Goldman and John Pomeroy tell this simple, yet absorbing and inspirational story of courage, friendship and devotion with tremendous clarity and sensitivity. Moreover, the main characters are extremely engaging, with Mrs. Brisby making for an endearing reluctant heroine who most overcome her innate timidity and discover remarkable reserves of inner strength. The uniformly excellent cast voice their colorful roles with admirable aplomb Hermoine Baddeley as the feisty Auntie Shrew, Dom De Luise as the amiably bumbling Jeremy the Crow, Derek Jacobi as the sage rat leader Nicodemus, Peter Strauss as the dashing, gallant Justin, Paul Shenar as the evil, power mad Jenner, Arthur Malet as cranky old Mr. Ages, Will Wheaton as the blustery Justin, and, in an especially bravura turn, a perfectly sinister John Carradine as the wise, but fearsome the Great Owl. The exquisitely fluid and vivid animation has a striking painterly quality to it. Jerry Goldsmith's supremely graceful, robust and harmonic score further adds to the considerable drama and intrigue. The magical and uplifting conclusion is simply astounding. But ultimately it's the feeling of real heart that's evident throughout which makes this animated feature so special and touching. "},{"Title":"great animation and story","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember this movie from when I was very young and it was one of my favorites then. I was able to find the original VHS release at a video rental for a dollar. The animation is amazing, in my opinion pioneering the emotional, expressive style that Disney used a decade later. Ms. Frisby's character is a mouse, but her facial expressions are startlingly human. This isn't your standard Disney-animated children's movie fare either. Some scenes are surprisingly dramatic and graphic. The scene I remember the most is when Frisby enters the Great Owl's lair, only to be chased by the ugliest, most horrifying animated spider I've ever seen. Then seconds later, the spider is crushed to a pulp beneath the Great Owl's giant, razor sharp talon. The Owl used to give me nightmares. The storyline is somewhat original but the underlying theme seems to center around animal rights. When her mouse-child falls ill with pneumonia and she finds out she must move her house to avoid having it demolished by a plow two days later (man that's heavy stuff), Ms. Frisby seeks the help of a secret society of intelligent lab rats. The leader, a wise old rat named Nicodemus tells her of a group of rats who were captured and subjected to a number of tests, but most importantly injected with a formula to make them more intelligent. Ms. Frisby's husband led a revolt to break out of the lab, and ended up in a rose bush on a farmland plot, exactly where Ms. Frisby had spent her life. There is a subplot involving a power-mad dictator rat named Jenner who tries to assassinate the current leader. This is a truly awesome piece of animation. The character development is also done well, Dom Deluise is my favorite character, a hyperactive but dopey blackbird named Jeremy. If you like cartoons or any kind of artwork (the backgrounds are beautifully rendered) you'll appreciate this movie. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie ,for all the family .","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I love this movie . It had a beautiful animation full of details ,combining it with a wonderful story full of mystery and thrills , and a great development of characters The story follows a group of mouses that try to survive ,and a little mouse that tries to save his ill son ,and for that she will have to face many dangers and discover some secrets .The movie was very good , I liked the special attention to the scenery and to the characters .The voices are pretty good too ,and Derek Jacobi was perfect as Nicodemus .Don Bluth is a very good filmmaker . Even if not all his works were so good as this ( think Titan A.E. ) , he is very talented ,as Martin Rosen ,the brilliant director of the excellent Watership Down  "},{"Title":"Bluth's best A masterpiece never to be forgotten.","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watch this film, and think to myself Why hasn't this won at least some kind of important award (Emmy, Grammy)? This was a masterpiece in the making, and yet it is so underrated because the likes of Pixar and such. Almost all the characters are likable courageous Mrs. Brisby, went through all kinds of trouble to help her sick son, that loudmouthed Ms. Shrew, and ol' Jeremy, the comedic relief of this dark, dramatic film. It also surprises me that this movie got rated G with all the blood and themes here (not to mention the use of the word Damn), but then again, so did Watership Down (which got a U rating in the UK). So, in conclusion, this movie gets two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Sheer Brilliance!","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is probably the best animated movie I've ever seen. And I've seen both Beauty and the Beast and The Lion King and I think they are both masterpieces! This film just took my breath away. The animation, acting, and story are all top notch! Nimh is on of those rare animated films that does't insult your intelligence. On the contrary, it sort of makes you think.And all the actors give an award-winning performance; they make the characters so full of life and emotion that they almost seem real. It delights the eyes and sooths the soul.But be warned though this move is rated G, there quite a few scenes that are somewhat scary and/or violent. Go and rent The Secret of NIMH. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"SECRET OF NIMH  Don Bluth's Most Worthy Venture, A Beautifully Dark Piece...","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" THE SECRET OF NIMH The one and only film Don Bluth managed to really hit out of the park after leaving Disney is his first attempt at a full length feature... THE SECRET OF NIMH. Based on the classic story Mrs. Frisby & The Rats Of Nimh, Bluth's film definitely simplifies some of the heavier elements of the classic children's novel, but compared to some other children's films of the time he does leave a good deal of meat on the bones.It's the story of a simple field mouse, Mrs. Brisby, who must move from the fields before the farmer plows away her home. However, her young son Timmy is gravely ill and the move would surely kill him. She must muster courage she didn't know she had and unearth secrets she didn't know existed... and in the process she not only tries to save her son, but the lives of the mysterious rats who live in the farmer's rose bush.THE SECRET OF NIMH was one of the first large-scale animated films to really find success outside of the Disney institution and it did so by both embracing Disney's top qualities and differentiating itself all the same.NIMH features top grade animation, but instead of the usual bright-cheeriness of Disney, all the imagery has a dark shadowy feel. NIMH is not a bright, always happy story and this film embraces that. All the brightness radiates from the leading character of Mrs. Brisby (voiced by Academy Award nominated actress Elizabeth Hartman, in a wonderful voice over performance).Mrs. Brisby is an innocent women with little strength, but her loyalty and love for her children, her dead husband, her friends, and her comrades is so overwhelming that it leads her to do great things. She does all with an almost ignorant optimism that makes her a truly lovable and admirable central character.While the film embraces the cuteness of talking animals, funny sidekicks (Dom DeLuise makes a good comic foil as Brisby's loyal Crow friend), and sappy songs... it goes further with the serious side of things then Disney often does. The villain is pure evil, the violence and terror is very strong, and we see Rats and Mice getting murdered and destroyed (blood and all). However, it is this boldness that makes the film stand so distinctly apart from many of Disney's efforts.THE SECRET OF NIMH is gripping, emotionally involving, and fun for the whole family... and it maintains a delightfully quick pace to ensure that it never drags. All in all, it's a wonderful animated movie that parents can fully enjoy with their children and not completely sacrifice drama, thrills, tension and overall emotional gravitas.It's a shame that in Don Bluth's later efforts (THUMBELINA, ANASTASIA, ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN) he seemed to try less in terms of differentiating himself from Disney and instead he continually conformed to their formula. In the process, he made no films that came close to living up to the potential he showed with the marvelous SECRET OF NIMH.... A- ... "},{"Title":"This is a film which understands the meaning of animation","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Don's first feature is lovingly animated but the differences from the book annoyed me. First of all there's the name change - Frisby to Brisby. Why? Secondly there's Jenner. Tiger & the Tractor & The Humans were threats enough in the book. Jenner was only mentioned. Thirdly there's the magic. The mice & rats managed perfectly well without it. It was an unnecessary embellishment. My other complaint is that the NIMH scenes are passed over too quickly.So what's good about it? Jeremy, Martin & The Shrew are the best characters. I like Flying Dreams. The animation is good. Not bad for an initial film but he has made better since. 6/10I find it amazing that someone goes and criticizes a glorious film such as Secret of NIMH for inaccuracies such as Frisby being changed to Brisby and that Jenner was only hinted which would have been better not changed for a supposedly better adaptation of a book.  I don't suppose these people realize it is DIFFICULT to adapt a film from a book.  Books aren't written to be cinematically and you must realize that even if you're a huge fan of the book.  If you ere making a film off of it, you'd still have to make changes.  It's just the way it goes.  Peter Jackson was an incredible lover of the Lord of the Rings trilogy but even he realized that making a by-the-numbers adaptation would just make the films dull.  So he had to leave out or change a few things. So what if filmmakers change a few things?  This isn't a true story nor is it based on anything immediately important in today's world such as terrorism.  Fiction is fiction is fiction.  People have GOOD reasons for changing things.Anyway, I'd like to add that there's a lot of garbage cartoon features in today's society.  Disney films have just gotten WORSE and WORSE and WORSE and very few people seem to realize that animated features these days try too hard to win children's emotions or even gear themselves to being appealing.  All these horrible, annoying songs we have to witness in Disney films are absolutely forgettable and in addition, people seem to look at animation as a different genre.  It isn't!  It's another technique of making film.  It just requires the hand more than actually filming live-action.  Few filmmakers and studios seem to realize this besides those in the independent world.Secret of NIMH has INCREDIBLE colors.  The detail you see in the foreground and background puts a lot of variety.  This isn't some computer generated Pixar film.  These are REAL, hand-drawn, full-blood images with more labor and energy than even an entire computer can lay out.  Plus the animation is FLAWLESS.  Here you see emotions being drawn out as if they're real emotions on a human being or creature.  Every cartoon feature or TV episode has its drawbacks as far as keeping the drawings consistent with the plot, action, and even being quite simply realistic.  I didn't notice those problems in this film.  I must also add that while Secret of NIMH might not be 100% faithful to the book, as a cinematic experience it's wonderful.  As I've said before, here we have a film which takes the story seriously and doesn't turn it into an overly sentimental, manipulative Disney film.  A lot of characters in this film are actually well-realized.  Most of them are not flat.  We realize their reason for existed in this film and even Jenner, the villain of this story, is three-dimensional as a character.  His sole purpose for having greed and wanting to take over as the leader of the rats is because of Nicodemus trying to say that the rat race has become very intelligent and would cause a problem if more and more grew and went beyond the rose bush.  In fact, the Nimh story is the most fascinating element.  There's actually a reason behind why the rats talk, which is much different than any film ever made in history.  All these other animated films put non-human characters in the narrative and have them talk but there's never a backstory as to why they speak.  Secret of NIMH puts a backstory and by doing that, the result is fresh and unique.  Mrs. Brisby as a character is very intelligent and well developed.  In a lesser film, she'd have less to do or say.  Here we see Mrs. Brisby as a character who is in fact a great woman role model, even as a mouse.  I'm especially touched in the conversations Brisby has with crow, Jeremy (wonderfully voiced by Dom DeLuise) in how Jeremy could find the right girl.  Even this isn't played out as a cheesy joke.  This even explains why Jeremy, although clumsy, isn't a stupid sidekick.  He has feelings and wants to help a lot but ends up getting into trouble.Plus the end fight scene with Justin and Jenner is exciting, even for an animated film.  It's illustrated in a triumphant musical score by Jerry Goldsmith.By the way, in my book this film deserves a 10/10.   "},{"Title":"Some of the best animation ever for an exciting kid's story.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Before animation went digital, animation still got a lot of respect.  This is one of the best examples of what you could do before Tron came along. The story was originally a kid's novel and it is a slightly strange story about a field mouse and her quest to save her children from a farmer's plow. Her journey leads her to her own past and a relationship with a colony of super intelligent rats.  The characters have a nice natural feel -- more then usual for a children's talking animal movie.  Adults will probably like this one too.  May be too intense for some children. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  See this movie. It has some of the most intense sequences in an animated film that I've ever seen. I remember this one from way back and I remember watching it every chance I had. And who can forget that one line, Take what you can.... when you can! "}{"Title":"Little more then nice...","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK, positive things first. The film has nice and alluring look. The protagonist being not only female, but also a mother, is feels really fresh. Mrs Brisby is instantly likable, and her quest to help her child becomes engrossing really quickly . The obligatory oddball character the Crow is also very likable, maybe somewhat annoying to, but mostly likable. 20 minutes into this film i was still certain that i was watching a stellar Disney film. Unfurtunately i was disappointed. Things does not exactly turn sour, but there are a number of problems that brings the experience down. Halfway through we are introduced to the rats society and its politics, everything here moves at breakneck speed, and its quite hard to care for the everything that happens. Its revelation on revelation before we even have grown accustomed to the surroundings and have any bigger reason to care for the different characters like ex Nicodemus. Its betrayal, sudden information about her dead husband, the weird part that explains how the rats became intelligent, and then the utterly awkward introduction of magic. I though all this elements were forced into drama in a very hamfisted way. Aspects like this needs to get introduced and foreshadowed a LOT more in order to work. As for the resolution its handled nice enough, and has some controversial (???) parts that are decidedly more dark then anything I've seen in Disney before. In short, this is a nice film, but little more. "},{"Title":"We can only be brave when we're afraid","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Don Bluth's directorial debut and in many ways his greatest film. An adaptation of Robert C. O'Brien's novel Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH, it tells the tale of a widowed field mouse mother, who struggles to save her family. For harvest day is coming and her family needs to move before it, but her son Timothy has fallen ill and cannot leave. And so she must go to the rats living under the rosebush to ask for help, for they have powers and knowledge no other animal has. They are the escapees of NIMH.What makes this film so much more than a mere children's film is its substance. I've watched this film numerous times as an adult, and I'm still finding new things to learn from it. The story, the characters and even the tone are all much darker than you'd expect from an animated film, yet never so dark that you couldn't show it to kids as well. Its story is also simple enough, a struggle between good and evil, as well as technology and nature, that kids should understand it just fine, but it has enough subtext to please the adults as well. And often those are the best kind of stories.But what truly shines in this film is the characters. Especially Mrs. Brisby. She is, in my opinion, one of the greatest female characters ever put on film. Not because she's a woman that can do everything a man can do, with sword swinging and a song on her lips. But because of her courage. She has no special skills, no great wisdom or knowledge. In many ways she's completely overshadowed by her late husband, Jonathan Brisby, who the rats of NIMH held in high regard. And yet it's his wife who rises to become the hero of the story. Not because she can, but because she has to. And that makes her heroism all the more meaningful.The Secret of NIMH is a marvelous movie. Deep, dark, more than a bit threatening, but also wise and profound. From within the darkest night shines the brightest light. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt and atmospheric, this remains one of MGM's best animated features","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If asked the question for whatever obscure reason, I would say no animation director had as many ups and downs as Don Bluth. Starting off with a string of fairly strong productions, leading into a descent in quality and finally finishing on a good note, he has certainly left a legacy. Whether it's a good one or not is up to the individual, but I personally take the positive perspective. Though there is bitter irony in that his work has largely been pushed into obscurity by Disney productions these last couple of decades, he was on the right track in some regards, and that is greatly demonstrated by his first feature.Mice and rats have always been a good choice for anthropomorphized animals. Why that is remains a mystery, but Disney took notice of that by several original sources, such as those for The Rescuers and The Great Mouse Detective. The decision to adapt this film's book counterpart was particularly inspired, as it provides a premise that regards these animals' human level intelligence as more than a mere fact of life. Yet, even though endowed with the characteristics of humans, we're reminded that they are still mice and rats. They live at the mercy of the people whose land they inhabit, making their world separate and distant from that of humanity. More so than most of the Disney films, this is a movie that shows us what it might be like seeing the world from the viewpoint of a small animal&#x85;and it can be frightening.Animation quality is of particular note, given that it was a primary motivation for Bluth's departure from Disney. He certainly made his point here, as The Secret of NIMH sports a variety of interesting settings and frequent character movement. As many point out, this is a fairly dark movie, but not in a cheap shocks manner like Watership Down. This is a movie that earns its darkness by virtue of a brooding atmosphere that complements the situation; after all, survival and the threat of death are at the forefront. The image of Mrs. Brisby standing on a rock at dusk is more faithful to the cover of Watership Down than anything in that movie. Fog and shadow are prevalent, painting the portrait of an enigmatic world, which indeed this is. How many sights does the main character behold that most have not? And what sights they are, including the unforgettable Great Owl and the technologically enhanced burrow of the rats.However, the single greatest achievement of the movie is a lot simpler than technical aptitude. Strong lead characters have become increasingly uncommon, all too often overshadowed by a colorful supporting cast, a trend animation is not immune to. The Secret of NIMH expertly avoids that problem by the truly remarkable Mrs. Brisby. Single parents are abundant in animation, but rarely is the situation seen from their point of view, a direction that gives us a sympathetic central figure with honorable intentions and challenges that feel real. Consider a wonderful scene where she sits in a room with her four children, simply feeding one of them. The same way that mothers are called the heart and soul of households, so is Mrs. Brisby the heart and soul of this movie, as she endures emotional and physical tribulations and undergoes an evolution in bravery that hits all the right notes. Elizabeth Hartman's excellent performance is no small contributor to this, granting the correct blend of warmth and vulnerability. With little doubt, this is an exemplary character for animated features.The rest of the cast is another matter. Roger Ebert once pointed out that the abundance of characters prevents them from engaging us emotionally, and I would agree. No one else in the cast is allotted enough time to become a fully realized individual, and fewer linger in memory after the credits roll. The villain is kind of an afterthought, and the rats are each defined by a single characteristic. That's not to say everyone was devoid of charm or intrigue, though. I did like Mrs. Brisby's daughters, Teresa and Cynthia, the Shrew is amusingly pompous, and the Great Owl is awe-inspiring. The one true blotch in this area is the crow, Jeremy. Obviously, he was intended for comic relief, but not only is such a thing out of place for this type of film; he himself is out of place. The attempts at humor are gratingly flat and his personality just conflicts with the sobering tone, a problem that wouldn't be so noteworthy if nearly every scene he is in weren't needlessly drawn out. Why he is included to such an extent is beyond me, as he serves virtually no purpose in the story and his moments with Mrs. Brisby end up being pitiful instead of endearing, since most of the time she clearly recognizes what a nuisance he his.True to its nature, The Secret of NIMH was a real mystery to me during my earlier years, since it was the last Don Bluth film I managed to see. Initially, all I knew of it came from brief clips in MGM trailers, and the images (particularly the one of the climax) were certainly stirring enough to grab my attention. When I finally did see it, I regarded it highly, and am pleased to say it provided its Disney contemporaries with worthy competition. "},{"Title":"Eerie Yet Amazing","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Back in grade 7 I read the novel 'Ms. Frisbee and the Rats of NIMH' but since the Frisbee toy company had the novel's film title changed over I hadn't heard of the film 'till recently. I thought it was going to be just some Disney-looking kid's movie, but no, it was beyond amazing.The story follows Ms. Frisbee, a little field mouse with several children, one of them with pneumonia. To find a cure, she sets off on an epic journey, meeting several friends and enemies, as well as a group of rats with strange powers. They gained these powers while escaping the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) where they were kept as lab rats for vivisection experiments. Frisbee falls into an adventure where humans and animals collide and a whole new world is portrayed, along with a strong message that raises awareness of inhumane animal testing. It doesn't get all dorky the way those stupid P.E.T.A. protests are, instead it shows the point of view from both humans and animals, leaving t up to the viewer to decide which side of the issue is the right one, if any, while also offering an exciting adventure. It was marketed for children but certainly too disturbing for most kids, it falls right into the group of movies that features Watership Down, Felidae and the Plague Dogs. Nevertheless, don't pass it up, it has great soundtrack and voice acting, an original plot, and a definite message. "},{"Title":"A miraculously animated movie with memorable characters and a well-told story","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This 1982 hand-drawn film is based on a book titled Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH, which tells the story of a field mouse named Mrs. Frisby. Unfortunately, the people at the Wham-O company (the makers of the Frisbee) were reluctant to allow them to use the name in the movie, despite the difference in the spelling. So instead, the name was changed to Mrs. Brisby. This alteration was made late in production. So rather than having the voice actors say their lines again, the sound editors carefully sliced out the fr and replaced it with a br from other lines from each character. But it sounds as if no change had been made.In the opening scene, we see these long-fingernailed, warted hands writing in a book. At first we think these are the hands of the villain, but he is actually Nicodemus, the wise leader of a group of super-intelligent rats who escaped from a science organization called NIMH (National Institute of Mental Health). He's writing about the death of Jonathan Brisby. There's dazzling animation on the magic that flows from the words he writes, effects that are unmistakably Bluth animation. Other animators would just settle for CGI.The animation of the entire film is simply magnificent. Bluth experimented with rotoscoping, tracing over footage, frame by frame, plus some cool backlighting techniques. With a variety of more than 600 colors, the color scheme looks dark and genuine. And it has sort of an 80s feel to it that I really dig. What could also be a Bluth trademark is that in backgrounds, there's always something moving.After the title appears, we meet the widow of Jonathan, Mrs. Brisby, who lives in a cinderblock with her family on the Fitzgibbons' farm. She's voiced by Elizabeth Hartman, who plays the character perfectly. Mrs. Brisby is searching for a grouchy, old mouse named Mr. Ages, who can give her a cure for her pneumonia-diagnosed son Timothy. Mr. Ages warns her that Timothy should stay inside for at least three weeks or he will die. As she heads home after receiving the medicine, she comes across a crow named Jeremy, voiced by the hilarious Dom DeLuise (may he rest in peace). Jeremy is a clumsy and whimsical feathered bloke who anxiously anticipates the day he finds true love. Mrs. Brisby befriends him after they escape the Fitzgibbons' cat, Dragon. I do not know why this cat roars.The next day, Mrs. Brisby wakes up to find that Mr. Fitzgibbons has started spring plowing early. She knows that they can't move because the chill in the air would easily kill Timothy, but the tractor would destroy their house. With the help of Auntie Shrew, she manages to disable the tractor. Auntie Shrew suggests that she go before the Great Owl, a wise creature living in the nearby woods. Jeremy flies her to the Owl's tree, where she asks him for advice for a new plan. At first, he tells her to move Timothy anyway. But upon hearing that she is the wife of Jonathan Brisby, he tells her that the rats living in the rosebush in the Fitzgibbons' front yard can help her move her entire house. He tells her to ask for Nicodemus.In the rosebush, Mrs. Brisby is surprised to find Mr. Ages there. When he hears that the Owl sent her to see Nicodemus, he introduces her to Justin, a kind and friendly rat who is the Captain of the Guards. The two of them show her the electricity and technology they and the other rats have obtained from the Fitzgibbons' house. They also tell her that they are ashamed of their theft, and are organizing a plan to move to a place called Thorn Valley to end it. But there's a power hungry rat named Jenner who opposes the plan.Just from seeing Jenner, you can tell that he is the villain, his hideous identity complete with sharp teeth and his apparel consisting of a long cape. I think this a dumb cliché in animated movies. Why not wait for us to find out that he is a villain when he explains his evil plan? In Beauty and the Beast, Gaston was a handsome, normal-looking guy, though granted, that was what made him a great opposition to the beast.Anyway, Mrs. Brisby is taken to Nicodemus (or the rodent version of Moses maybe), who has her read the book he wrote in (Jonathan taught her how to read). As she reads, she finds out that her husband not only died, but was killed. You feel the emotion that she feels here as she almost starts to cry. Nicodemus then tells her the whole story, which we see in a flashback scene that has a curious sense of wonder. I think it best to leave it there and let you see it yourself. Now what surprised me is that there's a vicious sword duel toward the end of the film resembling the one in the 1938 The Adventures of Robin Hood. A sword duel in this mostly calm, non-medieval movie felt a bit out of place. I also wonder how the rats got swords. Did they steal knives from Mr. Fitzgibbon's? If so, how could they get them to look like swords? Oh well.Despite its flaws, The Secret of NIMH is a miraculously animated movie with memorable characters and a well-told story. It does avert from the book in parts, but the dark wonder is still present. Young audiences may not understand it all, but the movie respects them enough to not tone down its subject matter, which is the great thing about the 80s movies directed by Don Bluth. This is his second best film.8/10 for The Secret of NIMH. "},{"Title":"A really big surprise. A animated movie that's near perfect.","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie came of interest to me after I saw a trailer for it. I bought it for 3 DOLLARS from amazon.com. After about 675 years later.. It came in the mail. I saw it, And here's what I have to say. Positives Amazing Animation, Great Soundtrack, Amazing Story, Film is not dated, Very entertaining. Negatives The film itself has some bad quality at times. (lots of scratches on the film print) near the end, The movie becomes really rushed. The villain rat was a character that was Completely pointless to add to the movie. Overall , The Secret of NIMH is a AMAZING movie that's Kinda dark at times, but&#x85;.IT'S GREAT I'm going to shut up just see it. "},{"Title":"A dark and epic masterpiece that became the start of Bluth's career","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was a little eight year old (in the year 2002) hanging out at my mom's friend's house and I was playing with other kids my age at the time and after looking at some videos, I stumbled upon this one with the same title and I remembered looking over it at a computer once, wondering what secrets did it hold during my desperate attempt to watch it (not to mention that I've kept a big movie book from elementary school). So, I took it out and watched the whole thing. Then, before I left my mom's friend's house, the movie was over and I was left wide opened, thinking, That was... incredible. I have seen such a grand masterpiece from the great Don Bluth himself. Now, before I begin my opinion, I would like to say that a few years later, after viewing this a few times, I've read the novel (Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH) this was based on twice and I actually thought it was pretty good just like the film, but I don't think comparing the book to the film usually matters because movies that were based on books (Harry Potter, Narnia, Lord of the Rings) are only based on their own merits and since this masterpiece did justice to the book upon it's release in 1982 after Don quited his job working for Disney after the release of The Fox and the Hound, I would recommend this to movie lovers who love animation.Now, to my opinion. The animation is visually astounding with lots of pretty backgrounds and the look of Mrs. Brisby's home, the Plainfield, the farmers' house and NIMH itself. The character animation is also pretty good and I liked the personalities of those characters that got me to like them in the first place. The voice acting for this film is excellent with some of the best performances from Derek Jacobi, Elizabeth Hartman, Dom DeLuise, Arthur Malet, Peter Strauss, John Carradine, and Paul Shenar.The music from Jerry Goldsmith has some of the most beautiful and emotionally packed writing I have ever seen in an animated feature from the classic 80s including the song Flying Dreams Lullaby and Flying Dreams in the ending credits and has a mixture of drama, suspense, and emotion all together to make the soundtrack very flawlessly worthy to listen to.The strongest aspect of the movie this far is the story because it's so original while following the source material of the book and doing justice to it with messages of love, devotion, courage, and a way to survive in the very near future. It also has some magical and dark moments throughout the film including the death of Jenner which contains blood in a kids movie (hardcore!). Not to mention some humorous moments with Jeremy (with him getting tied up wit colorful strings) which made me laugh my head off.Overall, The Secret of NIMH is by no means a masterpiece and became the start of Bluth's career into making some other classics like An American Tail, Land Before Time, and All Dogs Go To Heaven (To those who read my reviews of Rock-A-Doodle, Thumbelina, and The Pebble and the Penguin already know that I think they were decent films even though they bombed at the box office and caused Bluth's career to go downhill) and is always recommended to fans of the animation industry as one of the greatest traditional animated features of all time since Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and Beauty and the Beast. "},{"Title":"It's a movie that gets better the more I see it, and, more importantly, the more I think about it","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sometimes a first stab at something turns out to be the best. Many would argue that that is the case with the career of animation specialist Don Bluth. Mr. Bluth has made a number of deservedly memorable animation classics - including a childhood favorite of mine, The Land Before Time - but I think it is fair to say that his first movie, after breaking away from the Disney company in 1979, The Secret of N.I.M.H. is still his very best effort. It is a stunningly beautiful, exciting, and underrated minor classic in the animation department, also featuring something quite rare in many movies, animated or not, today memorable characters.The star of The Secret of N.I.M.H. is one of the all-time great animated heroines. A somewhat naive, but steadfastly courageous field mouse named Mrs. Brisby. With her husband recently killed by a farmer's voracious cat, she is left to care for four children by herself. One of them is sick in bed with pneumonia, and cannot be moved from their house (a cement block) under any circumstances, even if the owner of the field in which they reside is about to run it over with his plow. Desperate to save her family, Mrs. Brisby seeks the help of a colony of rats, who have human-level intellect. As Mrs. Brisby learns, the rats have garnered their intelligence and technology because they had recently escaped from human laboratories, where they were the subject of many experiments. And they have more in common with Mrs. Brisby than any of them would have imagined....What, exactly? I'll let you see the movie to find out.The Secret of N.I.M.H. boasts some of the most beautifully stunning images in animated movie history. Starting with the backgrounds, which are enormously detailed and oftentimes in motion. Early in the film, we see the inside of an old mouse's home, which is the most detailed and eye-pleasing interior shot since Geppetto's workshop. There is also tremendous use of optical effects, such as back-lighting trick shots used to give the eyes of an old owl, who plays an important part in the rising action of the story, an eerie and spell-binding presence. Furthermore - and something that I wish contemporary animators would take into account - the animal characters, though capable of speech and moral values, still retain many of their nature qualities. For instance, when Mrs. Brisby is on the run from tractor plows, or deranged cats, or what-not, she does not take off on her hind legs, but scurries on all fours, in movements that are devilishly close to life.Mrs. Brisby, with her simple but identifiable motives, is one of the cinema's best heroines. Her voice is wonderfully provided by the late, gifted Elizabeth Hartman. Also memorable is Dom DeLuise as Jeremy, a clumsy but all-too-lovable crow. Granted, this character really serves no purpose other than to be comic relief and be the butt of several jokes, but Mr. DeLuise provides so much charm that you cannot help but love him. John Carradine, one of the all-time best actors, provides a powerful, booming voice to the owl. There are other characters I would like to mention, but will not in favor of saving pleasure for the audience, but there is one more, voiced by Paul Shenar, who is one of the most cold-blooded and fascinating villains this critic has ever seen. The story is also satiable in its complexity, with themes of loyalty, murder, freedom, and messages against stealing instilled. It's just fine for adults, whom I would recommend watch with their children for some of the more intense scenes.But most wonderful of all is the sense of majesty that swells The Secret of N.I.M.H. To fully explain it would be to give away the third act, but here is where the unusually dark story, the fascinating characters, and the eye-candy animation and trick shots all come together. It starts early on with hints of something magical, and continues to grow and grow, right up to a climactic scene that, like any viscerally great scene, causes the hairs on my arms to rise. It's not so much an action climax as it is a dramatic and moral one, but it brings all its mystic elements, and the fact that we actually care about the fates of these characters, to the maximum power. Additionally, the music by Jerry Goldsmith, intoxicating throughout, is especially strong in the aforementioned scene.Now as much as I would like to ignore them, there are some flaws with the picture. An early scene with Mrs. Brisby and Jeremy the crow encountering a voracious cat is well-animated and almost perfect, if only the cat would meow or hiss rather than snarl and roar like something you'd expect to find under a bridge in a princess tale. Additionally, an accomplice to the film's villain has an interesting arc to his subplot, but it's not exploited or developed to the point where it really should.However, the few flaws are instantly forgivable in this near-masterpiece of a motion picture. The Secret of N.I.M.H. is one of those movies that I never lose interest in. It's a movie that gets better the more I see it, and, more importantly, the more I think about it. And every time I finish seeing it, I am overwhelmed by its sense of awe, and also, thankfulness to the filmmakers who took the extra initiative to give us visuals we don't see every day, characters we don't get very often, and a level of aesthetic pleasure that is truly a delight to experience. "},{"Title":"An animated classic on life support; don't pull the plug!","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The above title may confuse you. Let me explain. This film is one of the greatest animated classics ever released and it's in danger of being forgotten. Only a few people are willing to promote it, and I think more people should watch this before it's forgotten altogether! But I digress, here's what I thought.The Secret of NIMH is about a mother's struggle to keep her son alive after he falls ill. By trying to enlist the help of the mysterious rats of NIMH, she hopes to save him and her home.The best thing I like about this movie is about how seriously it takes it's audience. Sure, it's for kids, but Don Bluth (the creator) pulls no punches in making the world a much darker place in this movie. In the ending sequence, 3 people are killed, the main character's home is nearly destroyed and her children almost killed! What? Child friendly family fun? Sorry, not here.I can't fault this film in any way, other than it rushes itself a little too much, meaning some things may not have time to sink in properly after watching them the first time through.Overall, seek this out. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Thrilling farmyard fantasy animation","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A wonderful fantasy in which it becomes very easy to forget that the action happens, essentially, in a garden's length next to a farmer's house. What with an (inevitably) wise owl and a sage-like rat to visit a mother's search for peace for her ill son takes her on a series of episodic journeys not unlike something Jules Verne or JRR Tolkein might have rustled up.There are a couple of Disney-like madcap chase sequences and plenty of the wonder one might expect from that institution. However, The Secret of NIMH is, self-consciously, not a Disney film, and the heart of the action is rather more black, rather more Dickensian (I feel one can find bits of A Christmas Carol, Great Expectations and Oliver Twist in the story). The animation is terribly realist for a film which is a fantasy concoction; the voicing melodramatic but never patronising. A meaty Christmas watch for children over-gorged on the sweet stuff of the season. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Spectacular is not a big enough word!","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Absolutely astonishing in every way! Beautiful, breathtaking, emotional and powerful.I saw this film in the mid 80s, and since that day it is my favourite animated film of all time, followed shortly by Disney's own Robin Hood.Great storyline, Stunning visuals, awesome characters, and dripping with atmosphere and charm. The music is powerful and yet it is not a musical animation, there are no cheesy Lion King style singalongs but the orchestral flow of music throughout puts all of Disney and even Pixars finest to shame. I would love to see a treated version of this movie, digitally remastered on DVD, like how Disney re released cleaned up classics. Shame they never made a true sequel (I don't count the abomination that was called a sequel.) I'm sure there's a sequel book called Thorn Valley? REMASTER THIS FILM please! Hell, why not put it on the Cinema again so I can see it on the big screen,? I missed it in 1980. "},{"Title":"Great Children's' (and adults!) movie","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first watched this movie as a little girl, when it was my favorite, and I still enjoy it when watching it more recently. I don't believe it's much more complicated than some other children's movies, but the plot is novel compared to a lot of the other cookie-cutter kids movies out there. Mrs. Brisby's character is vulnerable yet strong, confident, and brave, unlike many other animated heroines who are portrayed as merely stubborn and/or ignorant, which then gets them into trouble that the main male lead must bail them out of. The main characters are richer than those in most animated films. I also liked that it was not full of singing. Basically, if you or your kid haven't seen it, then it's a must-rent for movie night. "},{"Title":"Fairly sophisticated animated fantasy...","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'The Secret of NIMH' was Don Bluth's first film. Bluth defected from Disney when they said that 'NIMH' was 'too dark' for the studio. So, Bluth and about 20 other animators went off and made it for MGM. The end result is a fairly sophisticated animated fantasy that is a highly entertaining counterpoint to the films of Disney.While kids will enjoy 'NIMH' for characters like Jeremy the clumsy crow (voiced by Bluth regular Dom DeLuise), teenagers and adults will get more out of it due to the interesting story involving superintelligent rats. Make no mistake, though; Bluth is no Ralph Bakshi. While there is blood, violence, and at least one curse word, Don Bluth doesn't even come close to the ultraviolent, ultrasexual antics of Bakshi.The animation is great, with extremely expressive characters that represent a fantasy vision of the animal world rather than the 'real world'. The voice acting is excellent, and the presence of Derek Jacobi as the voice of the old wise rat Nicodemus does not overwhelm the film. Jacobi is excellent, of course, but so is DeLuise and the late Elizabeth Hartman, who expertly voices the heroic mouse Mrs. Brisby.All in all, 'The Secret Of NIMH' is a great animated film that jumpstarted the career of Don Bluth (who did not make another 'great' film for some time). "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For me, this movie has stood the test of time. Visuals are great, touching storyline that is entertaining as well. Being 25 yrs old, I saw this movie when it first came out and never found the material too dark or disturbing. Anyone who is worried about a very young child should probably just make sure to have good lighting in the room during the later part of the movie since your screen colors will get a little dark.I can probably say I laugh at the jokes (instead of the physical comedy) more as an adult than a kid since I understand it better, although my adult brother found it boring. I myself am completely entranced watching it to this day--just as I was when I was young. "},{"Title":"An Animated Classic (May Contain Spoilers)","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Animated movies have come soooooo far in the last 40 years.  Since the invention of the computer and its applications to animated feature films, cartoon characters now look almost as if they were real.  The attention to detail that these animators put in is incredible, which is why it takes several years to complete just one animated movie.Animated and non-animated movies have one very important thing in common; no matter how you slice it, if it isn't a good story, it's not worth seeing, no matter how good the animation is.  (For example, Final Fantasy was amazing to look at, but not much fun to watch.)You can't even compare TSON with modern-day animated films like Shrek and Finding Nemo, in the respect of sophistication.  Those films, along with all the other Pixar movies, will stand as classics because of their ground-breaking techniques.  On a pure story-line basis, however, I would stack TSON against any animated movie, period.This movie was specifically aimed at kids, which is what I was when I first saw it.  But even with my childhood years well behind me, I am ever amazed by how much I still enjoy watching this movie.  The characters are engaging and sympathetic, and the actors playing their voices did so were well chosen for their roles.Yes, this movie is a lot more serious and dark than any cartoon movie that Disney has ever put out.  Yes, small children may well be frightened by it.  But where is it written that animated movies, even movies made for children, have to be happy movies?  This movie deals with the highly controversial topic of animal experimentation, and that's something that even kids should know about.Mrs. Brisby, as courageous a mouse as has ever been drawn, has lost her husband and has just learned that her youngest son is seriously ill.  He cannot be moved or he might die, which is compounded by the fact that the day the tractor comes to plow the field (Moving Day) is rapidly approaching.Many movies have shown what lengths a desperate mother will go to to save her children, but few have done it better than this one.  Despite her emotional fragility, Mrs. Brisby takes on the farmer's evil cat and then the tractor itself.  She then embarks upon a perilous journey where she must seek the advice of the Great Owl (Owls EAT mice!), and from there to the rats who escaped, with her late husband, from NIMH.There are plenty of scary moments  the chase scene with Dragon; the tractor scene; Mrs. Brisby's encounter with Brutus, the rat guarding the entrance to the rat's lair; and finally, the final scene where she must save her home and her children from a terrible death.  But to counteract the darkness of the overall theme, there's one character who was added to lighten the mood and make us laugh Jeremy, the friendly but clumsy crow, voiced superbly by Dom DeLuise.  (The bit at the end where he trips over Cynthia ALWAYS makes me bust out laughing.)Having read the book, I'm not sure how I felt about the addition of the magical elements the movie incorporated; it was never really explained where the stones came from or how the rats got them.  But in the big picture, I can forgive this irregularity for the effect the movie had on me.If you are reading this review, having not yet seen this movie, I would highly recommend watching it.  The animation is wonderful (even though it's 20+ years old), and the dialogue and characters are so genuine you'd swear they were real.  The story line is bold and intriguing, with enough memorable heroes and villains to make it worth seeing it over and over again.A definite 10.  "},{"Title":"Dark and Brilliant","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie as a kid in the mid-eighties.  I found that it was quite different than the average disney fare.  It had a certain darkness about it not unlike a Tolkien novel.  The storyline I think is a bit advanced for the average young child, but older children and adults will appreciate it.  The animation is first-rate.  Definitely worth a look if you're tired of the standard computer-generated Disney fare. 8/10 "},{"Title":"This was probably the first non-Disney animated feature I ever saw.","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    And, I was so bowled over by the great animation and storyline that I went to see it, at the old hometown theater, twice more!  *Warning spoilers ahead.*   Dom Deluise (not to be confused with Don Bluth) was hilarious as Jeremy, the bumbling-but-good hearted crow.  And, John Carradine (veteran of many a classic medium-budget thriller) was appropriately scary as the voice of the Great Owl!   Best of all, however?  The climactic sword-fight between Justin and Jenner.  It's the best I've seen this side of Flynn and Rathbone in The Adventures of Robin Hood! *Hey! I'm a guy.  What else can I say?*   Final analysis?  A perfect 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of my childhood!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As a child, I know I was already a TV-movie-fan (as I am now). This movie is one of the movies I remember best of my childhood... The other ones are the fox and the hound, and a movie called Ben, with a young boy and his friend Ben, a rat (the theme song was sung by Michael Jackson).This movie, NIMH, as I remember it, was very frightening, but also very moving (The way Mrs. Brisby takes care of her children). But what struck me most when I watched this movie yesterday, after 20 years, is that I remember all the voices, all the characters, even some of the lines... it shows how much this movie impressed me when I was a kid!! I just bought it on DVD, and I know that I am going to show it to all the kids I know!!It is funny (Jeremy the crow and Auntie Shrew are hilarious), moving, but not dumb like a lot of kids movies are... You can show it to your kids, they will adore it!! "},{"Title":"Still a classic","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ah, what you can't find on ridiculously-late-night digital cable.  One of the 78,000 Showtime channels I pick up here just finished running this, and it brings back a lot of memories.It's a reminder of the time when animation was a true art form.  Twenty years later this movie still looks damn friggin' fantastic, save the wearing of aging film.  It has that magical quality that can only come from the hands of a talented team of artists (and those hands are around brushes, not atop keyboards).  It makes you take a closer look at today's clean-cut computer animation, stuff that offers rather impressive life but rarely any soul.  This film has both in spades, and it's done in the style that one distinctively recognizes as Don Bluth, be it in this or in one of his inferior later offerings.It's a reminder that even American animation is capable of portraying a dark and brooding story for the adult crowd.  This is the realm generally reserved for Japanese anime, the direct antithesis of more modern saccharin-sweet films from Disney and their ilk.  It's really not a film for the kiddies.  It's not afraid to show a little blood.  There's a surprisingly high on-screen death count.  There is certain imagery (the spider during the owl scene comes to mind) that is simply disturbing -- beautifully animated, but disturbing.  Although the script meanders more than one wishes it would, it still does a generally good job.  It's a good adaptation of the Robert C. O'Brien novel.  The story, without revealing anything, is a rather strange brew of science and mysticism, of action and intrigue, leaving just enough questions unanswered to make you wish they had done a sequel.  (Disney, sadly, had the balls to produce *something* called The Secret of NIMH 2 in order to confuse you, but it contains 100% Disney saccharin musical formula and travels along an almost perpendicular tangent -- a true sequel to this film has not been produced.)It's a reminder of what Don Bluth could have been, before the ebola virus finished eating his brain or whatever happened to him that caused him to produce Rock-A-Doodle, a film that makes you think Bluth should have been in one of those cages you see inside NIMH.  It's well-known opinion that, even with his better offerings like An American Tail, Bluth has never quite achieved what he did in this, his first film after walking out on Disney and proselytizing much of his animation team from there.  Ironically, or not, many of the names in the animation credits to this film resurface in the credits of later Disney films.It's a reminder that sometimes a film can be worth simply beholding.  Whether or not the story hits with you, it's fun to just sit back and enjoy the exquisitely-animated ride on this one. "},{"Title":"A fantastic animated movie","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For a time, this used to be my second favorite animated movie until Bambi bumped it down. Still, this is a great, masterfully crafted movie. While this was made long before the days of computers, the environment is still breathtaking. The movie is dark and exciting, but not too scary for older kids. Even adults will love it. The rats are mysterious and the Great Owl scene is perfectly chilling. Mixed in with this grand adventure is just a simple tale of a mother's quest to save her son. The Brisby kids are charming, and Mrs. Brisby herself is a strong, admirable character. She is much better than many Disney characters I've seen. While the story is a little on the thin side and lacks the depth of many Disney movies, this doesn't have much of the hokiness and bad humor that pervades the Disney movies, particularly the modern Disney movies. It also doesn't feel the need to burst into big, overblown musical numbers. It's only necessary song, Flying Dreams, is a fantastic lullaby of love. This is a fine Bluth classic, one of only two really good ones he did, the second being The Land Before Time. Enjoy this movie all over again and remember the magic that Bluth once had. "}{"Title":"one of Don Bluth's best, if not his best","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Secret of NIMH is not a mainstream animated movie in the stream of Disney (most of the animators on the film, including director Don Bluth, were former Disney alumni), despite there being elements that should appeal to a child's imagination. I remember seeing this film as a child and being intrigued, which was rare with kids films for me, but also experiencing many of the emotions that are with the best Grimm fairy tales- there are the heroes, but there is a dark side, a side that has to be looked at as a reflection of how the world is, without making it too bold for a kid to understand. This film does that, with some unexpected elements thrown in. And this works as well that it can appeal to the adult animation fans, as its not too childish (there are some comedy bits thrown in for good measure and balance), and like Cooper and Sabbath in comparison, makes for some intensity for any age.The concept involves a struggle any child can understand- the tales of mice vs men, or rather the dominance of men over the mice and rats. Mrs. Brisby is a widow, who's husband was a hero among the mice and rats who were in cages getting horrifying scientific experiments (as revealed later in the film). But she also has a problem- her little mouse house is in the way of a tractor about to plow it down, with her son Timothy in a near-death state of Pneumonia. She seeks help, and it takes her all the way to the home of the rats, and an old, wise, near-creepy rat named Nicodemus. Along the way there's the wise-cracking comic relief in the form of Jeremy the Crow (voiced very well by Dom DeLouise, the first of several key voice-overs in the 80's), and a crotchety old mouse, Mr. Agis. There are also Timothy's siblings, who help balance out the lot for kids to have some characters to identify with among the more abstract characters of the farmer or the supporting, antagonistic rats.The most important thing involved with the basic, and not so basic (special effects) animation of the film, is with mood and atmosphere. As Bluth would later prove well with American Tail and even a lessor work like All Dogs Go to Heaven, there's a certain presence that has to be given in this fantasy world. There is beauty in spots, but it is at the core a kind of thriller through most of it, with more of a psychological edge. Take Nicodemus' story about the rats of NIMH- this is a brilliant montage that combines his (voice of Derek Jacobi) narration, various shots of the mice transforming into rats, and the effects given with the music, the strange insert shots, and the escape. This is done to effect in other parts, and if you're an adult watching this it is effective enough, but for a child it's on the equivalent of watching Un Chien Andalou for the first time- you sort of know what's going on, but its more emotional than really intellectual. The only weakness I could find with the film is that it may not be suitable for very young kids (nightmares maybe). "},{"Title":"The secret is -- it's only a fairly good movie","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A widowed field mouse (voiced by the late Elizabeth Hartman) has a sick child (voiced by Ian Fried) and two other children. They live in the garden of a farm where other animals live and feed.They all need to move when it comes time for the farmer (voiced by Tom Hatten) begins to plow the field to prepare it for gardening. However, due to the sick child, Mrs. Brisby (Hartman) is reluctant to move.She, with the help of of bumbling crow (voiced by the late Dom DeLuise), she seeks out the advice of a mysterious, but wise old owl (voiced by the late John Carradine). The Great Owl tells her to seek the assistance of the rats.When she finds the rats, she is amazed at what she sees. They have the ability to use electricity, stolen from the farm, which a kind rat named Justin (voiced by Peter Strauss) frowns upon since stealing is wrong.She learns of the rats story, where they lived at a place called N.I.M.H., or NIMH (which is short for the National Institute of Mental Health, a real-life medical organization in the United States), and gained an increased mental ability thanks to experiments performed on them. She also learned that her late husband had his hand in the rats, and other animals, escape from NIMH.The animation is real good in this movie, and holds up almost 30 years later. Though the majority of coloring is darker colors, the scenery and characters are animated fantastically. Lighter hues are scarce in this film. The darker hues are best used with the Great Owl, whose shot mostly in shadows so that his orange-yellow-tinted eyes stand out.The characters are enhanced by the performers. Hartman made Mrs. Brisby kindhearted while in desperate need of saving her children. DeLuise made the crow a bumbling idiot, and was simply fantastic as the comedy relief.Even though the parts were probably recorded separately, the on-screen chemistry is really good in this movie. Sometimes, you forgot you were watching an animated movie depending on who was on screen with whom.The only major downfall of this movie is that the subplots of this film completely miss the mark. It is told in the movie that NIMH is interested in the rat population of the farm, but they are never seen on-screen as villains trying to recapture the rats. And the lead rat villain's (voiced by the late Paul Shenar) story of trying to take over the colony is completely relegated to a such a minor subplot, it's not even worth it. Personally, I would have tried to see the villain trying to create a stir by talking to others in the rat colony to invoke an uprising at just the right moment.Character development is fairly weak in this film. Although there is some pretty good development in the main characters, the supporting characters are a miss. I didn't understand what many of the minor characters had to do with the plot, as they were really under developed. I really couldn't tell who was needed for more than just plot advancement, and who was not needed.The music is pretty boring. I didn't even think it helped enhance the action of the scenes. I remember at the end, just as the credits begin, there is one song with lyrics. This song would never be a Top 10 smash, or a Hollywood classic. In fact, it's pretty forgettable.There is some mild violence, and one bad word in the entire movie. I might keep the Sesame Street crowd away from this movie because of these, and that the movie is not anything like a Disney movie.I can just barely recommend this movie. It's almost a couple of notches above being skipable. Personally, I would check it on Hulu if there is nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Genetically Modified","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I love it when a film's nature reflects its content. This is a story about commonplace,  vulgar creatures modified beyond their scope to be intelligent. It is itself a collection of  vulgar, commonplace cliches artificially elevated by masterly animation. The use of color  is particularly intelligent; in fact I cannot recall anything remotely asexciting.But sitting through it is a real trial we have part Beatrix Potter; part new age antiscience  diatribe; and part tired Disney character formula all plowing directly at our presumed  hotbuttons. I suspect that one or two colorists were among the Disney defectors and that  they subsequently left Bluth. Every project after this has been visually dreary, sufficiently  so that you notice the commonplace stories.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Animated Movies I've Ever seen","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I was pretty young, like about 5 or so, and at first, I was kind of confused by what was going on, Then when I saw it later in life, like around 8 or 9 years old, I saw it in whole, and I liked it okay, But then when I saw it as an adult, I realized it's at least a hundred times Better than I remembered!Don Bluth's Work had always been a Mixed bag for me, But this is DEFINITELY his Greatest Work, The Animation is Very well done, and Not nearly as exaggerated as his style later became, namely in the facial features, they're still there, but not to the point where it's Distracting and uncomfortable. Mrs. Brisby herself is a very Lovely and charming Character. She's Frail and Vulnerable, But she does Pull through her turmoils and overcomes many terrifying obstacles to save her family, Namely her sick son, Timothy. And We easily root for her and feel for her every step of the way. Dom Deluise as Jeremy Really threw me for a loop, Him being a comic relief character, I had a special need to be very Judgemental against him, seeing as how they tend to be more annoying than funny, But I was pleasantly shocked to find that not only was he Funny, He was VERY Likable and comedic, I wouldn't see a character like him until I saw Olaf from Disney's Frozen.My favorite Character has to Be Justin, Captain of the Guard to the Rats of NIMH, and at the end, the new leader of the Rats, He was like an awesome guy to be around, and had a pretty playful sense of humor, but at the same time, he can also be pretty bad ass, particularly in the climax.Jenner, the Villain is Actually a Pretty amazing, criminally overlooked Villain. His design looks ridiculously over the top, but Paul Shenar's Performance Really made him work, giving him a charming, subtle, almost malignant personality and motive.I could go on forever about the characters and the story, But it would take up too much room to fill this review. So to end it, this movie is in my top 10, NO! top 3 all time favorite Movies.I loved it the first Time I saw it, and I only love it more and more Every time I see it again. "},{"Title":"My favorite animated movie as a child","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" That said, this movie is too dark and scary for young children ( I suppose that is why it is rated PG). The themes are very mature and I found myself explaining a lot of plot details to the kids. My children were required to read (or have read to them) The Rats Of Nimh, so we cheated and watched the movie. There is quite a departure from the book FYI. The kids love it but are confused by the ending. There were also elements that were confusing as well as elements that were so scary they left the room. Some unanswered questions remained. Did the rats get exterminated? I suppose we will check out the sequel. Mrs Brisby has been my hero since I was 9 years old and I am happy to share her braveness with my kids. "},{"Title":"old style animation, compelling characters and a wonderful story","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Nicodemus mourns the lost the Jonathan in a difficult task against NIMH (later revealed to be National Institute of Mental Health). Jonathan's widow Mrs. Brisby goes to Mr. Ages for help. Her youngest Timothy is ill and can't get up for 3 weeks. However moving day is coming. On the way back home, he runs into the bumbling Crow Jeremy (Dom DeLuise) which attracts the farmer's cat Dragon. The farmer is plowing the field and Mrs. Brisby needs help. Auntie Shrew directs her to the Great Owl who in turn sends her to find Nicodemus.This has the style of the old Disney hand drawn animation. The characters are truly compelling. Mrs. Brisby is a great heroine better than many of the Disney princesses. Dom DeLuise is terrific comic relief. The movie represents the marriage of old style animation, compelling characters and a wonderful story. "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Childhood Favorite","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films I lost in my memory banks until I accidentally ran across it again. As soon as I saw the name of the film (The Secret of NIMH) something clicked within and I said oh yes I remember this film and how much I loved it! This movie is a great story - a hidden gem of animated film classics! I was 10 years old when this film came out so I can't recall all of the little details about it but I do recall enough to tell you this film is worth watching and I would love to see it again! This film is a great drama, the kids are sure to enjoy it, but the story is interesting for adults too. If you like animated films that are more drama than comedy then this film is sure to please you.9/10 "},{"Title":"As close to perfection as an animated film can get","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Don Bluth left Disney to start work on this masterpiece, and I'm glad he did because this film deserves to be celebrated and persevered. Don't be fooled by it's animated format this is quite a heavy film for kids and is better enjoyed by adults who can understand the situation that the main character is going through.Mrs. Brisby is a field mouse who is looking after a gravely ill child, but her life takes unexpected turn when she must move her home, which would risk the life of her son. Desperate for help, she stumbles upon a world that amazes her, and the residents speak highly of her deceased husband. What follows is political drama, an aging prophet, and Brisby's faith in her children put to the ultimate test. Her emotions are not only genuine, but very easy to relate too. The supporting cast is full of personality and their relationships with each other are what make this film work. Combine this with truly brilliant animation and you have a fantastic film! "},{"Title":"Now here's something different for sure","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Of all Don Bluth's films, this happens to be the one I've never seen during childhood. I got interested in this after how much the Nostalgia Critic kept talking about it and I'm glad I saw it. The animation was amazing, even by today's standards, and the premise was creative and had a good mixture of science fiction and fantasy. The plot was decent, but doubt it would have sit well with younger viewers due to its complexity, but nonetheless, a great movie. I got to say, it sure beats some of the contemporary Disney classics such as The Little Mermaid, Hercules, and Brother Bear with their simpler storyline. In fact, this film was a great reminder of how Bluth's films (his good ones) were always a much needed break from the mostly campy nature of Disney and proved that children can take a little darkness as long as it is patched up with a happy ending. Even as a child I liked darkness in animated movies. It's quite sad how this film isn't talked about much, along with other Don Bluth classics. "},{"Title":"I'm still watching it","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was about 7 or 8 when i saw this movie for the first time. At this time i loved to fight with swords so for me it was the movie number one next to Robin Hood and all this kind of movie.I'm always and still scared about the spider in the nest of the owl.I admired Justin. He was that kind of guy I always wanted to be. Mrs. Brisby was as my mother. First her kids then she.When i watch this movie in the age of 28 i have to say it characterized my life. It shows you how each of us needs help from others. That you should care about your family and a lot of other needful things.I'll show this movie to my kids when they are in the age of 7 or 8 and tell them that this is movie i watched as kids and loved it. I bet they will love it too. "}{"Title":"The Bluth Man Group","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I never saw it when I was actually a child. But recently, I thought I'd give it a viewing considering it had music by Jerry Goldsmith and the National Philharmonic Orchestra (together, responsible for such brilliant scores as The Omen trilogy, Legend, and several others). I was instantly blown away. The prologue, in which wise but weary Nicodemus (voiced by Derek Jacobi) ponders some heartbreaking news, is exceptionally powerful. The animation style is simply gorgeous, on par with the best of Disney. The voice casting is universally exceptional (Dom DeLuise, I think, takes home the gold as an eager-to-please, outgoing, clumsy crow who really wants a girlfriend). And although it is geared towards little kids, many scenes are actually quite dark and compelling. The crown jewel in this beautiful treasure trove is Goldsmith's breathtaking score, so elaborately lush, heartwarming, and at times haunting that it's impossible not to be humming the theme music (Flying Dreams) before the halfway point. You will, unfortunately, notice the early use of Don Bluth's disastrous hallmark as a solo animator characters who preposterously flail to express every little emotion. But unlike, say, Anastasia, it evens out because the characters aren't human anyway and the story is so fantastical and so majestically realized. I consider this among the best fantasy films of all time, the best animated films, the best family films, and the best of Goldsmith, and certainly Bluth's best work. You know how fun for the whole family is so overused it makes your head spin? Well, The Secret of NIMH is, quite simply, wonder for the whole family. Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"finally seen the whole thing","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw The Secret of NIMH once or twice when I was young, but wasn't able to finish it either time. Now, I've finally seen the whole thing. Don Bluth's directorial debut starts out looking almost nebulous, as widowed mouse Mrs. Brisby (whose first name is never identified) fetches some medicine for her pneumonia-stricken son, and then has to figure out a way to move her home before a farmer plows the field where her home is located. But then the movie changes. Mrs. Brisby learns that her late husband had an entire history about which she'd never known, and before long she finds her true strength as a person, er, mouse.Having seen this one and An American Tail, it's clear that Don Bluth's animated features -- at least the early ones -- tackled much more complex topics than did Disney's features (AAT dealt with immigration). A far cry from the Disney princesses, Mrs. Brisby starts out as a meek housewife but is a strong woman by the end of the movie. In addition, the movie also focuses briefly on cruelty to animals, although I don't know if they even planned it like that. But whatever the case, this is an incredible movie. They even worked in a quote from Chinatown! Featuring the voices of Elizabeth Hartman (A Patch of Blue) and Hermione Baddeley in their final roles, Shannen Doherty and Wil Wheaton (Stand By Me) in their debuts, along with Derek Jacobi (The King's Speech), John Carradine, Dom DeLuise, Arthur Malet (Mary Poppins), Peter Strauss, Paul Shenar (Scarface), Aldo Ray (whose name is the inspiration for Brad Pitt's character in Inglourious Basterds), Tom Hatten, Lucille Bliss and Edie McClurg (Planes, Trains and Automobiles). "},{"Title":"My favorite animated movie","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you asked me what my favorite animated film was, I can guarantee that I'd say The Secret of Nimh every time without a second thought. Nimh is a wonderful movie that's animated beautifully, told excellently, and is perfect for adults and children alike. The film may be rated G, but the subject matter in Nimh is very dark indeed. A widowed field mouse, Mrs. Brisby, must save her ailing son Timothy from dying from pneumonia while protecting him and the rest of her family from the farmer's tractor, the farmer's cat, and an assortment of other dangers that puts this young mouse to the test.If I went into detail as to why this film is great it would take a few hours at best. All I can say is, if you see this movie sitting on the shelf of your local film store, or see it online it is definitely worth the watch. Truly it is Don Bluth's magnum opus. "},{"Title":"Childhood memories.","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Secret of NIMH is one of the first movies I ever saw as a child and after all these years it still has a special place in my heart. The animation is superb as it was done by former Disney animators. The story is centered on Mrs Brisby, a widowed field mouse who lives in a field near a farm with her 4 children faces a potential problem when her youngest son Timothy is stricken with pneumonia. Because its harvest season the farmer will be plowing the field. the animals who live in the field have to move away or they will be victims of the tractor. But Mrs Brisby can't move her family because of Timothy's illness so what can she do? She gets some help from Jeremy (a crow voiced by the late Dom Deluise) and from rats who live in the rosebush near the farmhouse to help move her home away from the plow. The voice acting is spot on with Deluise and the late Elizabeth Hartman as Mrs Brisby (this being her last film role.) The Secret of NIMH is one of if not the best animated films by Don Bluth. The story is centered around a mothers love for her family and will leave you wanting more. "},{"Title":"Best animated film ever","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is just incredible. I remember seeing this film when i was very young and it changed my view on animation. in my opinion this film beats any polished up, sing song, Disney crap. The film has interesting characters, superb animation and one of the most interesting settings ever.We follow the character of Mrs Brisbey as she tries to save her son. Don bluth has done some great films like the Land before Time and All dogs go to heaven but this is his masterpiece. I love this film and it is almost my number one favorites film ever Don't even bother watching the Appalling sequel it really ist'nt worth your time not much else to say except i love this movie and everything it has to offer "},{"Title":"Honest, sophisticated, and a delight for viewers of all ages","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This delightful animated feature follows the trials of a mouse, Mrs. Brisby. We learn early on that our protagonist is not fully aware of the world beyond her cement block as evidenced by her first interactions with another mouse, Mr. Ages. She progresses through physically threatening trials; meanwhile, she becomes increasingly aware of an entirely different world to which her late husband belonged. As her understanding grows through these adventures, she is presented with more complex and intellectually, even morally challenging issues. The threats change from external, physical sources to internalized difficulties arising from interacting with intellectual equals or superiors. Still, her more comprehensive comprehension allows her to reexamine and redefine her feelings towards her lost husband by understanding what he went through and how he passed. Though she may not understand the complexities of emotion and intelligence having only recently being exposed to them, her good-hearted, courageous nature guides her through. Therein lies what I believe to be an effective and beautiful message from the film even in times of turmoil and despair, even when faced with feelings of inadequacy, even when directly threatened by physical or emotional strife, the goodness within an individual still bears incredible influence over surrounding people and events.The Secret of Nimh is a film from director Don Bluth. It poses thought-provoking questions for older viewer while relaying outstanding lessons for younger audiences. The film's artwork is top-notch. Take a moment to read a bit from IMDb's trivia section to see some specific animation tricks the producers/editors used for the film's distinct look. The voice acting is believable though some viewers might find Jeremy to be a touch on the annoying side. I found the protagonist, Mrs. Brisby, to be particularly engaging because her script and subtleties in voice acting add to the film's sophistication. The scene when she's reading Nicodemus' book is quiet, moving, enchanting, and inspiring simultaneously. It is certainly an incredible scene within an incredible animated classic. If my recommendation is not apparent by this point, see this film at your next convenience. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Move over, Disney!","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I hadn't thought of this movie for years, until my older daughter sent me a web link to http//www.banksy.co.uk. Many of this artist's works feature rodents in human poses. Why did they look so familiar to me? The Internet Gods smiled on me -- my search for +Bansky +rats suggested NIMH.How ironic, that I was reminded of the film by the same child who insisted we get the movie when she was a toddler; how lucky that the VHS was still around; how wonderful that that this film is still as poignant, witty, and imaginative as ever! The heroine, Mrs. Brisby, was perfectly voiced by Elizabeth Hartman, as were other characters by actors also now long gone John Carradine (the Great Owl) and Sullivan (Aldo Ray).To affirm an earlier commentary on this site in the book, the heroine's name is Frisby. The name was changed to avoid potential trademark problems with the word Frisbee. "},{"Title":"The Secret of Nimh","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm not a critic, I'm just a guy who loves great cinema.When I was very young, I remember my deep rooted admiration of Don Bluth. It was back when I was interested in being an animator myself. Through all the strange whimsy of childhood, there was one film in particular that influenced my decision to begin to draw. That film was, The Secret of Nimh.There is a perfect marriage between design, story, color, animation, and music that makes up this animated feature. Although I certainly loved the film Finding Nemo, this kind of artistry, which is almost one hundred percent finished (2D cel animation), Nimh seems to have the upper hand on Fine Art cinema. Just do a frame grab of any moment in the film, put some text next to it in a magazine, and I bet you get a slew of people interested in the film that otherwise would never have watched it.The 80s could have been a dry spell as the blockbuster concept took off, but within that decade, Nimh pulled out ever stop, and Don Bluth didn't seem to waiver from his devotion to telling the story for adults and kids. There are moments in Nimh where you simply have to sit back and say, That's freakn' gutsy for an animated film. Nemo is of course about as safe as it gets. Very little challenges and sweet. Nimh doesn't shy away from dark moments that help us reflect on life and death, finality, and yet hope within those concepts. If you have the time to not be such a grown-up, sit down with the film and give it a look. It still holds up against any cel animated feature ever made, and Bluth's style and marks are all over it. Clean animation, beautiful backgrounds, lush lighting effects. It breaks my heart that Titan A.E. (another film by Bluth) seems to have just been the utter end for the studio, as well as the beginning of the end of 2d cel animation. I am praying for the day when the artistry comes back, and people realize that 3d CG, although certainly with a need, does not, and will never replace 2d cel animation. It's exactly the same as saying that we don't need paintings now that we have photography. When an Art form dies, something more than the art form goes. It's a unique a beautiful medium that people stop caring about and a piece of Art dies along with it.Nimh is a work of Art. If you read some of the other submissions I've put out there, you'll find that I don't bother writing very often on the crap of the world. Nimh deserves the ten star rating because it stuck with me as a kid, and upon reviewing, it took me straight back there as an adult.You can buy this film for ten bucks now, less than it would have cost you to take out a whole family to see it on opening day. If you have a family, get it. You won't regret watching it and snuggling with the fam within this great adventure.B.D.Kuchera "},{"Title":"Mrs. Brsby is my hero","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What can I say I saw the movie when I was 4 years old and years later it's still one of my favorite cartoon movies of all time. If you haven't seen it I think you should go out and buy. It's pretty hard to find in regular movie stores so I bought mine on ebay. I don't want to give it away but it's one of those movies adult's can enjoy as well. I don't have any kids yet but when that time comes I will definitely be introducing them to this movie. It's one of those movies that involve passion and courage and those are always the best movies for children and families to watch together. i don't normally comment on movies but when I saw this I had to. I had to share my thoughts and feelings with anyone who reads this. I am certain you will enjoy this movie I know I did when I was younger and even now I still adore The Secrect Of NIMH. "},{"Title":"Highly Exceptional","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There are many animated films that deal with animals as the central characters. In most of them you have to completely give in to the escapism and forget about why animals are speaking human languages and walking upright. However, this one is much different.First, we have Mrs. Brisby. She is a mouse...and she has a family. She lives in a cement block in the farmer's field. That isn't much of anything until we learn she is not safe. Unfortunately, one of her children is sick and it makes things a lot more difficult. So after speaking with one of the wisest and deadliest creatures known to mouse-kind, she seeks the help of the rats.This is where you start to realize this is no ordinary animated movie. Something is going on that tends to break the fourth wall, which is not only rare, but done very intelligently. Even though you are watching a cartoon about animals, it has the feel of live-action.This is definitely one for kids of all ages, but it also has this dark edge and intelligence to it that can entertain adults and teens alike. That is something very difficult to do, yet the entire movie seems well-paced and very evenly balanced throughout.Definitely one exceptional animated feature. "}{"Title":"One of the few best classics, non Disney!","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wow I just watched it. Its unbelievable, I just love it. Its great, all the adventure and excitement, and Mrs. Brisby is so cute. This was something totally different from any cartoon I saw, and I did saw many. For the first time my feet's were rubber. I think this mainly is because everything seems so familiar, like I watched it when I was little, and yet I can't remember any scene that I had seen, but when I watched it today, all the images, was like I saw them before. I am sure that I saw it sometime, when I was a little kid, I could feel it. I don't have words to tell my sensation. The Secret of Nimh is one of the single movies in witch there is blood. It puts your heart in action when you see when Brisby cuts herself in the wire that locked the birdcage, or at the fight between Jenner and Justin. How the character moves and acts also is extraordinary, and I always like to watch Mrs. Brisby how it acts, how it moves when she talks. Watch the reading book scene by her when she meets Nicodemus, and not only, and watch carefully all her acts, how her head is moving while she reads the book, and through all the scenes that she appear, either when she is at the owl, when she talks with Nicodemus, while she attempt to enter the rats rosebush, while she is chaged, and you will understand what I want to say ). The Secret of Nimh is one of the movie that doesn't include songs and stuff like Disney's cartoons, making you just love it more, single song being 'Flying Dreams' witch I like it very much. I'm listening it at least once each day ). The colors and graphics also are amazing for a film from '82, see the owl and Nicodemus eyes for example, and all the other characteristics, the way they move, they look, for all the personages especially the principal's ones. In no other film I sayed this specific thing before, but the voices are just outstanding implemented. Not only Mrs. Brisby as I sayd is very cute by the way she is drawn and her moves, but also by her voice, witch seems so delicate, Elizabeth Hartman being for sure the most perfect voice for Brisby. Never the less the actor's voices that played as the Owl and Nicodemus are just extraordinary, giving you such a special feeling. This is just a little part of my feeling about this movie, and I would write even more, would comment the excellent plot, if the English wouldn't limit me. This is one of my single major commentary's that I writed in English, and I hope it isn't very bad. "},{"Title":"No words describe it","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was seven when i first caught the last few min. on TV. It immediately caught my eye, and my interest. I looked for it for nearly a year before i found it on tape, and since then...we were inseparable. I loved everything about this movie, from its dark theme, Beautiful animation, and Musical Scores, to its Characters, situations, and... well, the FEELING it gives you after you watch it all the way through. Almost right after i watched it once, i rewound it, and stuck it in the VCR again. I just didn't want that feeling to go away. Now that i have it on DVD, i wont have to. But all in all, i was always disappointed that it ended all those times. I was...well, excited that a sequel came out, cause i thought it would continue where it left off. boy was i WRONG ABOUT THAT.(he said flatly) i hope whoever made THAT movie dies, and rots in H***. You heard it from me, and no one else.(that last part anyway) "},{"Title":"NIMH Then and Now","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film back in 1982 when I was 9 and found it cool to watch, but never quite got what it was until this evening when I sat down and watched the DVD. In a brief conversation through the window, the Farmer's wife mentions that NIHM stands for National Institute of Mental Health. Then the experiments that Nicodemus speaks of make way more sense to me now than at 9. Genetic enhancement, something I read about a couple of years later in X-Men-however managed to not see The Secret Of NIHM until now, a full 23 years later.It's a shame the woman who voiced her is gone due to suicide, I loved the care that was taken with Mrs. Brisby's voice and mannerisms matching very well. I like that you can totally tell Justin has a crush on the sweet mouse widow and I like that he never once questions her when she announces the danger that is to come in the morning. He helps her, but ultimately she is the one who saves the day in more ways than one via her inner strength and her husband's gift. It also crossed my mind that maybe Jonathon had some sort of Sixth Sense, knowing his wife would need the stone eventually.All in all this movie is amazing to watch and far less depressing than The Plague Dogs , another movie about experimenting on animals. "},{"Title":"A drama...with mice!","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I will make this funny. This is one of my five favourite animation movies of all time, so I will make it funny. This movie is in the five position in that list, so here is what I think of it in a structured critique, going from the guy who started the project, to the best points of it.Project instigator Don Bluth was the responsible. He had chosen sagely when he left the Disney Company. Now he is like the guy who left the Titanic for a boat without paddles.Essentially is&#133;A tragedy. It is a heartbreaking history of a widow mother who has to save her family for the terrible blades of a machine. You can't twist the basic plot anymore, but beneath the surface there is a very complicated message, a whole combination of secret societies, politic conspiracy, ecologist campaign without insipidity and braveness.Clones and blood suckers Possibly everything that Disney since 1994. They are deadly envy, so they copied how to direct, light and coloring.That movie moved us because&#133;Every little talking mouse that walk and talk around the screen, from the fragile Mrs. Brisby to the answering and gawky crow Jeremy, and I can't forget the spectral presence of Nicodemus (Derek Jacobi), as a mouse version of Gandalf.A scene&#133;We can take a lot of, but the flash back which shows what NIMH did in the past and its secret can put our throat dry as a desert. That only sequence is a whole denounce to the laboratories and animal experimentation.A sequence&#133;If you want to suffer, I recommend you the sequence that describes the sinking of Brisby's house into a sea of mud, with her family inside.Watch it if&#133;You love tragedies with heart and that criticize the position of humans about this world and it's problems. It's also recommendable to everyone who never heard about Don Bluth and his movies.Don't watch it if&#133;You have too many sorrows in your life, because you can be drown in your own ocean of salt tears. By the way it can be useful to see and appreciate the things that we have, and that we will never miss if they don't take them away from our hands. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!!!!!","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I gave The Secret of NIMH a 10 in the ratings because it was an awesome movie and should be more well known. This is my favorite movie of all time, and its almost never on TV. A movie of this great magnitude should be on TV more often than two years, which is the longest time I've seen it not be on TV. Its great to know that there are others who love this movie also, and i know i would love to see a NIMH III. Though some might say a NIMH III want made, i know that its out there somewhere. But no sequel will ever top the animation, the story and just the sheer brilliance of the first movie, which is what makes it my all time favorite movie. And i hope its yours too. Viva la Secret of NIMH!!!!!-timmy82 "},{"Title":"Wonderful fable about hope","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Secret of Nimh is a great animated movie. One truly cares about what happens to the mice and rats as they are threatened by the evil rat. Suggested for those who enjoy well-done animation, thos who appreciate stories of hope, and those who love suspense. The McGuffin of her house and sons' fate is overarching without being overdone. Very great movie indeed. I was very young when I first saw this movie, and older when I saw it again, and it still holds water. Not many animated movies come close to this one's genuine emotional response or psychological effects. Watchable, and, moreover, it must be watched by any cine-phile. "},{"Title":"The Secret of NIMH has vivid portrayals of sinister motives and the courage of a mother to overcome all obstacles to protect her family.","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Don't let this cartoon fool you. The characters are rats, mice, crows, cats, and the like, but the plot is serious and full of danger. The Secret of NIMH has a very real element of danger to the lives of the Brisby family.The viewer is brought into Mrs. Jonathan Brisby's world and can feel the risk of losing her son Timothy to pneumonia. Mrs. Brisby's quest to save her son's life leads her to discover the deep dark secret of NIMH. Evil characters with sinister goals stand in her path. She must mount tremendous tear jerking courage to face the dangers ahead of her.The Secret of NIMH is not a children's movie. The movie teaches a lesson for a child growing to be an adult. A lesson of courage and sacrifice.  "},{"Title":"An old favorite","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film countless times and it never ceases to amaze me. The animation is spectacular, so detailed and dynamic, and the backgrounds are gorgeously moody. The story has its problems - the whole sword-and-sorcery angle on Nicodemus and the amulet is a bit much - but it does touch on some mature subjects, however gingerly, and never condescends to the audience. It has some of the most thrilling action sequences in all of American animation, and some great comic relief courtesy of Jeremy the crow (perhaps Dom DeLuise's finest performance). Unlike many recent films, it manages to keep a consistent tone, and creates an atmosphere of awe and wonder. Not a perfect film, but a moving and highly entertaining one. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie gave me nightmares for years.  There are a ton of foreboding elements and characters The cat (Dragon), the rat guard with the electric spear, and, ultimately-- Jenner.  That villian absolutely terrified me (those facial expressions!) and still gives me the heebie-jeebies (yeah, I know it's just a cartoon). However, this is a film I own on DVD for sentimental value (in crappy 43), but one which I won't let nieces and nephews watch. "},{"Title":"Just Delightful","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I first saw NIMH when I was about ten, and ever since it's been one of my favourites. It's also how I discovered Elizabeth Hartman (Mrs Brisby),who still a favourite actress of mine to this day.  "}{"Title":"A memorable film with a wrong rating","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I remember watching this film as a child and having night mares about it. Even though it is a cartoon and rated g, the subject matter is intense and often scary.I feel this film should have been rated PG instead of G.The movie is about mice and rats, but it is nothing like The Rescuers or Mickey Mouse.The book that this film is based on is a very good read and I think some schools may have it as part of the curriculum for about 6th grade? That may be a good age for the intense concepts of this movie to be introduced.Otherwise a recommended Drama. "},{"Title":"An Animated Treasure","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie as a young child of probably about 4. I loved this movie then, although in all honesty some of the finer points (i.e. that NIMH stands for the National Institute of Mental Health) were lost on me. Years later, I happened to come across it on TV, and while I generally do not cry at or for movies, I was moved to tears. To this day, I cannot hear the song Flying Dreams without becoming emotional. My mother told me that this movie was somewhat revolutionary when it came out because the people who wrote it and made it were some of the first animators to break free of the Disney and Looney Toons monopoly on animated films. Well, thank goodness they did because this movie is truly one of the more remarkable animated films of all time. "},{"Title":"Secret of Nimh","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have to say, I've read a few comments on this page and I don't agree with everything thats said.I saw The Secret of Nimh when I was about four or five and the film did NO harm to me.  I agree there's violence but its not over the top and not unnecessary.  Too many families are not showing films to children for the wrong reasons.  The film shows struggle, passion, love all things experienced in everyday life of a child.The film is a great storytelling experience and though its not a direct book to film adaptation I believe it stills holds itself well.  They changed the name Frisby to Brisby because they thought children would become confused with the name...e.g. the popular FRISBEE....I think this is a poor decision as film companies still don't respect the knowledge of their viewers.Children have an amazing ability to understand a film (such as Secret of Nimh) and I felt I got plenty out of the film than just the violence.  I may be a bit of a fanatic but the power of the film comes through and thats something I felt when watching it again recently...it brought back the feelings I had as a child.Anyway I digress, another aspect I feel is getting some heavy critism is Disney animated features.  I agree Disney have lost the impact in the animated films that they once had.  This isn't to say that ALL their films have been bad.  Some of the films focused on story rather than special effects have been fairly successful.  Lilo and Stitch is a pretty good attempt.  The Emporer's New Groove never saw as much recognition as I thought it should...To tell you the truth I'd watch a Don Bluth film anytime but I think you can't have one without the other...Disney is the reason why Don Bluth did his own thing...its a bit of that you can't have good without evil??Anyway....never watch the sequel!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"good but could have been better","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I liked the movie but it was a disappointment compared to the book.  Mrs Frisby and the Rats of NIMH was my favorite book from childhood and I still read it from time to time.  My problem with the movie is the fact that it has blown every detail from the book out of proportion and even added more unnecessary ones.  But that is expect for any animated adaptation from a book, clear villians must be established and everything must be fantastically exaggerated.  In the book, there is no villians, not Jenner, not even the scientists from NIMH.  It is a tale of a simple but courageous mouse and the secret of the intelligent rats.  There is no magic stone nor a murderous Jenner.  If you want something that would excite your imagination and leave you thinking after reading it, Mrs Frisby and the Rats of NIMH is for you.  Rent the movie if all you want is a good animated film to keep you occupied for about 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"Best film ever. (this review contains spoilers and is long enough to fit into a detailed account of Don Bluth films.)","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Films are measured by their aesthetic value NOT entertainment, and, with that, this is the best film ever. It's compelling and artistic, and is filled with horror. The beginning has a mysterious setting, which is wonderfully done. Nicodemus is superb, as is Dom DeLuise with Jeremy; he injects some humour into a overall morbid film. Dragon's attack is exemplary - the conniving approach, the intimidating bounds, and the ferocity that has been moulded into his character is masterful. Jeremy's good intentions and bad results are comical genius, and the character of Mr. Ages is beyond superb, the secretive mouse, pushed to the brink of madness by the earth-shattering secret he keeps so faithfully. The rosebush is proof of the fact that Don Bluth is the ultimate king of animated horror. the menacing door, the vines, and the thorns reaching for Mrs Brisby. The owl is another majestically great element, huge and intimidating, old and crippled; yet he strikes fear into all who have ever heard of him. Brutus is great - an offensive power that has an unknown force and keeps it as a weapon. The chase is great, rushing through the thorns, and a great spear held by a great rat bearing down upon Mrs Brisby. Nicodemus's room is artfully animated, the mysterious rat revealing the greatest secret of his life to a stranger. The book and the writing itself is mysterious, and once again shows that Nicodemus is a higher power than any mouse or rat, or any earth-living creature. The final fight is great, though it somehow reminds me of Robin Hood. This is where the real horror part of this horror film begins, and is definitely moving not the CRYING way, mind!. I plan on publishing a detailed account of Don Bluth films, and don't you a DARE laugh when I inform you that I'm 10 years old!  "},{"Title":"An inspiring performance","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've just watched this again, and let me start by saying how inspiring the film is! I am a 16 year old who hopes to create animated films, and I can tell you that films in this genre of this quality are very rare indeed.The Secret of NIMH is beautifully drawn, and the characters are so real you can almost believe they are actors in their own right. I was entranced by the scenery, but also by the stunning performance, or so it would seem, of the story's heroine, Mrs Brisby. The emotions were put across extremely well, and the serious storyline handled in a courageous manner. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Animated Fable","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This has been on my top-ten list of favorite animated movies since I was at least five years old, along with Sleeping Beauty, The Last Unicorn, Lady and the Tramp and American Tail, to start. The first person who reviewed this marvelous film was completely accurate. Animation is not only for children. This movie is one of the few that can be thoroughly enjoyed by adults and children as well. You've gotta love Jeremy, the crow - Gotta get the sparkly, Miz Briz! Gotta get the sparkly! - Justin - Well, that's a refreshing change, Jenner, usually you're screaming about us and Auntie Shrew - Prepare to move your very large and very odd family! The sad part is, that like others have mentioned, almost all animated movies made within perhaps the last 50 years or so, have had sequels. Lady and the Tramp 2, Cinderella 2, and don't even get me started on the whole Land Before Time franchise. My husband has an idea for the next LBT movie.  It gets dark, you hear some screaming from the annoyingly cute baby dinosaurs (even that bitch Sarah) and then the credits roll. Anyway, on with my review.This movie is a simply stupendous piece of cinema. That probably sounds presumptuous, but I don't really care. The characters are brought to life not only by Don Bluth's beautiful animation, but by the wonderful voices of the actors portraying the characters. Did Wil Wheaton get some inspiration for Wesley Crusher from doing the voice of Martin? They're both brats, you know. But in an animated movie, characters don't randomly burst into song. We'll leave that to Disney. If you have seen this movie and didn't love it...well, what's WRONG with you? "},{"Title":"I've always wanted a sparkly of my very own...","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is an absolute animation classic. It's smart, cute, sweet, hilarious, and absolutely worth whatever is necessary to own a copy. Justin was always my favorite character, being the brave good hero-rat that he is. Mrs. Brisby is a wonderful example of a very hard-working mom who really loves her kids. Jeremy is a TOTAL RIOT!  Even 20 years after the movie was made and having seen it about 30 times, I still continue to totally enjoy it.This movie is very VERY quotable and excellent as a very well-animated learning experience for young children. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Praise, praise, and more praise","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is easily one of the few best examples of western animation ever produced. The Secret of NIMH is an amazing movie, and should be seen at least once by every person who's ever watched a cartoon. The art and music of the film are both strikingly beautiful, and the story is heartfelt and well played. This was the first film Don Bluth directed after leaving Disney to escape its declining production values - and it shows, in that the recoil of his mood caused amazing production of this movie. I've never yet met a person who has seen and not *loved* this movie. If you haven't seen it, do so. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Animated perfection, plain and simple","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is, hands down, the best animated film ever.  Snow White was pioneering, various other Disney efforts have been entertaining, but nothing has been as intelligent, vast in scope, or magical as The Secret of NIMH. Matching Bluth's work in these respects is Jerry Goldsmith's absolutely phenomenal score, for which I still feel he has not received adequate recognition.  It is certainly the best score ever made for an animated film, and I would definitely put it in the top five film scores of all time, including live-action films.  There, now watch the movie if you haven't seen it.  -) "}{"Title":"Review","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A great film for the whole family.  Contains beautiful imagery, great dialogue, and a wonderful story.  It is nicely paced, and contains love, loss, family values, friendship, and every other feeling imaginable.  The story would normally be difficult for some children to understand, but this film is not complicated at all. Perfectly enjoyable from the kids to the parents, and include whatever pets you may have as well. "},{"Title":"Best drawn full lenght cartoon of all time","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Completely different from Disney cartoons, specially recent ones, this is surely the best work by Don Bluth, and my favourite full lenght cartoon of all time. Don't expect a musical with nice little fluffy animals singing and dancing, but a creative drama, with a lot of suspense, mystery, action and even tragedy. Funny how the era of drawn animation ended with another Don Bluth cartoon, Titan A.E. The guy who had the guts to walk out from Disney and start his own company, to try and go to a different way in animation! And this film paved that way! "},{"Title":"great stuff","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Just saw this again, reliving my childhood and all. _NIMH_ and _Robin Hood_ stand out among the animated movies of their generation -- good script, good characters, great animation. I had forgotten how complex this story is -- granted, it doesn't hold a candle to the book, but then what movie ever does? This is definitely one of my favorites, and I will definately show these hand-drawn older works of art to my children (if I have any) and boycott the modern Disney c**p that is coming out now.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Animated Films of All Time!","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Don Bluth has had a roller coaster ride of a career in animation. His animation is always beautiful to look at, and there is a certain charm to it that always says to me, this is a Don Bluth film.That said, he is at his best when he has a great story and feels less concerned with what I call Disney-ification (that overwhelming need and compulsion to copy the style, characters, and mood of the films of The Mouse.)Happily, Secret of Nimh seems to be striving for something of its very own.  It (like the anime-esque The Last Unicorn and Disney's The Black Cauldron) hale from a period in animation that was tending a bit dark. This was also a time when I was a child and, therefore, these three films hold a special place in my heart.Nimh however is the best of the three in my opinion. Even watching the film today, I still find myself getting caught up in the plight of Mrs. Brisby as she tries to save her family from the farmer's plow. The way Bluth told the story (no production numbers; nothing overly cutesy) adds to the overall effect of the film.Very involving and exciting! This film is one of my favorites!Sadly, though, I feel Bluth peaked with his best film, first. Nimh outshines anything he has done since (only Anastasia and Titan A.E came close). On my Bluth scale (and my personal scale), I give Nimh a 5 out of 5!!!  "},{"Title":"Well....","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The problem with this movie, is that it totally changes the book.  So many parts are left out that are important to the plot.  In the book, Jenner did not kill Nicodemeus, he ran away and was killed.  In the book, we found out how the rats were trapped and what the actually had to go through when they were at NIMH.  Granted I enjoyed the movie, but after seeing it, no child would want to read the book.  This is just another example of how bad our society has become, when violence is added to a plot to make it popular If you want real entertainment, read the book. "},{"Title":"Better work than Disney ever produced...","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  With a tale beyond just boy-meets-girl that's become so stock in current Disney films, to go back to Don Bluth's masterwork and see such a well crafted piece of art telling the tale of a mother's love for her children... it's really quite amazing. An animated film that can be loved by adults and children, and an amazing film against all comers. This movie defines what a good movie is to me, and I hope to enjoy it for years to come. "},{"Title":"A great film!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When Don Bluth is at his best, no one else can touch him.  Such is the case of The Secret of NIMH.  This film, along with The Iron Giant, is hands down one of the best films ever made, animated or live action.  It is so refreshingly different from anything else.  Bluth wanted to hearken back to the days of classical animation, and this film indicates that he reached his goal.  The voice cast roster seems to indicate that Bluth went for quality voices instead of big-name celebrities, and the result is nothing short of fantastic.  The music score beautifully captures every mood, and is IMHO one of Jerry Goldsmith's very best.  There is only one other animated film I know of that has a more exciting ending, and that is the end of The Fox and the Hound.  How unfortunate that such a disappointing sequel was made.  Don Bluth should have been the only one with the right to touch the material.  All in all, the original NIMH is a perfect film across the board. "},{"Title":"Fantasy.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best animated films I have ever seen! Gracefulness and magnificence, both action and drama AND fantasy. The music/soundtrack in the film are skillfully and elegant performed, the paintings, the layout are much better than Disney , when making film with computers you only make the films look like cheap comics. But the secret of NIMH is no computer product, it is made with love... so it seems when you look at the film. And you better look at it, like there are two crows flying off together in harmony to the music =) "},{"Title":"Love is the key.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Animated films are usually nothing I used to watch, its for kids... no, not this one. The Secret of NIMH is my favourite animated film. This is a Very, Very well drawned animated fantasy film which has a well done scenario about a mouse who seeks help from the intelligent rats to save her house and family. A very loving and beautiful story that I think most people will like. It's drawned in the classical style and that just makes it even better. I also like the soundtrack and flying dreams... and love is the key. "},{"Title":"a more artistic approach to feature length cartoons","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is by far the best Don Bluth effort. Not simply a cartoon for children, the drama and pace of the film are as engaging as any live-action piece I've seen. Musicians and music lovers should note if you like the music for Ravel's ballet Daphnis et Chloe, you will love Jerry Goldsmith's score for this film. "}{"Title":"A great film from long ago...","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was first introduced to the book, Mrs. Brisby and the Rats of NIHM when I was 10 in 1975. It was fortunate that Scholastic and Xerox had book clubs for kids, and I bought that book in the fifth grade. I've had the film on tape for years, but I finally watched it on DVD tonight, and am still touched and awed by it. The DVD suffers from an OK transfer evident in the graininess of the print and it should have been remastered (I noticed one of the laserdiscs was). A real trip was the fact that Wil Wheaton (Wesley Crusher of Star Trek TNG) and Shannen Doherty provided the voices of two of the children! Still, this is one that was a no-brainer to purchase, and I can't wait until I have kids to let them see it! "},{"Title":"Bluth's greatest achievement!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Interesting to think that Bluth's greatest achievement was his first full-length animated feature after leaving Disney to go solo (with a bunch of artists to back him up, of course).Following only Banjo the woodpile cat, which counts only as a short story, NIMH sets the pace for animated movies with the unforgettable voice of Dom DeLuise as Jeremy. So popular was he that Bluth decided to have him in several features following this one including All Dogs go to Heaven and An American Tale, among others. Mrs. Brisby is a sweet little field mouse with a terribly sick young boy, Timothy. She finds out that the field she lives in will soon be plowed thus destroying her home unless she moves. With little Timmy's condition she feels she must seek council among the rats that live in a rose bush near the farmer's house. These rats have exceptional wisdom derived from a test-serum injected them as an experiment by human scientists at a place called NIMH. Throughout the film Mrs. Brisby finds herself discovering new truths about her late husband, Jonathan, who is much revered by the general animal kingdom. She finds courage to do what she never would have dreamed possible and finds friendship in rodents previously deemed to be only vile disgusting creatures.Learn from the depths of this enchanting and amazing story that will awe and inspire the hearts of all.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie when I was a kid and still do.  Great movie.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film has spectacular animation.  The characters are very real and easy to become attached to.  The story line is both enchanting and exciting.  "},{"Title":"Disney's bane...","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this film, I knew I couldn't be happy with the Disney-type films again. Especially now as the last several have been cookie cutter type affairs with the same general plot themes. The voice-acting in the film was very powerful, especially Nicodemus, and the musical score could not have been better suited to this animated story. A fine adventure filled with characters I loved as a kid, and have grown more fond of as an adult. Easily one of my all time favorites.  "},{"Title":"The best American animated movie ever.","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the best animated movie ever made in America. The animation blows away anything Disney was doing at the time, and most of what they're doing now. The story, however, is where the movie really shines. A good adaptation of the book, the story is better than the typical Disney fairy-tale plot-by-numbers fare. The characters have personality, and the voices are all excellent. Bluth hasn't made a movie since that equals this masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Words Fail Me...","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't think of anything to describe this movie...every adjective I know simply falls flat on its proverbial face.  Immaculate animation, lovely voice acting, a well conceived plot and special effects that work excellently but don't drown out the movie at large...they simply don't make them like this anymore.  It's a bare-naked shame that the sequel can't feature the original Mrs. Brisby, or won't have half the quality of this piece.  If I had to yank anything, I'd pull Jeremy; Dom DeLouise pulls out a fine comedic performance, but in this intense fantasy piece, it comes off as mere comic relief and almost unnecessary.  And a note to parents this movie isn't as orientated towards small children as the animation standard would lead you to believe; it's a very complex plot, and much of it might simply fly over a youngster's head.  But you can't let your child grow up and never see this tape; that's a travesty.  And since it's recently been re-released on VHS, now's as good a time as any. "},{"Title":"Beyond Excellent!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Interesting to think that Bluth's greatest achievement was his first full-length animated feature after leaving Disney to go solo (with a bunch of artists to back him up, of course). Following only Banjo the woodpile cat, which counts only as a short story, NIMH sets the pace for animated movies with the unforgettable voice of Dom DeLuise as Jeremy. So popular was he that Bluth decided to have him in several features following this one including All Dogs go to Heaven and An Amercan Tale, among others. Mrs. Brisby is a sweet little field mouse with a terribly sick young boy, Timothy. She finds out that the field she lives in will soon be plowed thus destroying her home unless she moves. With little Timmy's condition she feels she must seek council among the rats that live in a rose bush near the farmer's house. These rats have exceptional wisdom derived from a test-serum injected them as an experiment by human scientists at a place called NIMH. Throughout the film Mrs. Brisby finds herself discovering new truths about her late husband, Jonathan, who is much revered by the general animal kingdom. She finds courage to do what she never would have dreamed possible and finds friendship in rodents previously deemed to be only vile disgusting creatures. Learn from the depths of this enchanting and amazing story that will awe and inspire the hearts of all.  "},{"Title":"Probably the most dramatic and spellbinding animated movie ever.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie more than a dozen times, and it never fails to draw me in, amaze me and frighten me with its intelligence and realism; without, however, losing its cartoon charm and child-friendliness. "},{"Title":"Has no one seen this film?","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Why are there no comments on this, yet over 300 people voted on it? I only remember the film broadly, having seen it when I was a little girl.  I did see it again, four or five years ago, but I'm now 20 and specific details escape me.However, I do remember just loving this movie.It had great animation, and was very moving.I didn't know Shannen Doherty did a voice though! How surreal is that?Anyways, if you read this, post your comments too! "},{"Title":"Dark, But Standard","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie has earned a following over the years, more than a few ranking it as one of the best animated movies ever. Its a prestigious title for a film that can be found in the Walmart bargain-bin, packaged with its sequel. Yet once again, I found myself quite disappointed.The plot and character is surprisingly stock. The Secret of NIMH's writing does feel like a standard kid's film. There's little development, few deviations from what'd you expect. There's the hero, the villain, the comedic relief. Mrs. Brisby is likable, at least. I just felt more could have been done with the world presented. And let's not forget that deus ex machina at the ending.NIMH's strengths are its animation, and its use of tone. NIMH is aesthetically dark, making the forest and underground look like horrific worlds. The Great Owl and Nicodemus are great highlights of the film. You feel such a powerful, intimidating aura, like these characters possess inhuman knowledge, and they're talking animals! I can see how this movie chills people to their bones.If this aesthetic interests you, then its worth checking out. It didn't impress me too much, but I decided to be more lenient. Cause heck, I'd watch it again if someone offered. I wouldn't go in expecting a great plot, though. Wind up in the mood, and don't get bogged down by the plot. "}{"Title":"Words Cannot Describe It...","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Oh my gosh, this is the greatest movie ever !!!(chester a bum reference) I've read the book, and unlike the Disney movies it actually made the story more appealing to adults as well for kids. Every plothole in the movie blends so well together, which makes the movie so engaging. Every character is good in their role and are voiced perfectly. The animation is the best at that time during Disney's dark age and the music by jerry goldsmith is fantastic.The movie was killed in the box office by E.T, which is a shame because this made such a big impact on me more than anyone else. Overall, words cannot describe the pure awesomness this movie bears. It's a flawless masterpiece that deserves a better DVD release. Overall 10/10 "},{"Title":"Spelling error on parchment at the opening scene","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" At the very beginning of the film, when NICODEMUS is writing on the parchment, he misspells DRUGGING as DRUGING.Further along in the film, when Mrs. Brisby is reading the parchment, DRUGGING is spelled correctly.Spelling errors are very natural in life. Nicodemus is an intelligent being. He does not have spell check. Granted the animators would have access to a dictionary back in 1982.As for the quill and parchment; nice in an Advanced Dungeons and Dragons kind of way.It is difficult to pinpoint the font that Nicodemus uses.The font does have a rather languorous appeal. It adds to the overall lucidity of the animation. "},{"Title":"Really great animation, but ruins the story...","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I may be a bit biased, as I read the book sometime before ever seeing the movie, and as a result was quite disappointed. Incidentally, the book is called Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH; I can only imagine they renamed the title character to avoid any confusion with the toy of similar name (frisbee). As time passed, I was able to look at it more objectively and appreciate the excellent work done in the animation. However, I still can't get past the major changes to the story that were made. The primary one is the magical element to the plot. Without giving too much away, the movie's plot hinges significantly on magic, an element that was not in the book at all. It doesn't really make sense, and alters the meaning of the movie significantly. A few other changes from the source material Jenner is not the villain in the book at all, in fact, he and his group have long left before the book even begins. I can, to some extent, understand why they chose to add him to the movie, as they probably felt the film needed a stronger villain, but it changes the point of the climax significantly. Also, I didn't like the way that Brutus is portrayed as almost a monster in the film when Mrs Brisby/Frisby first meets him; in the book, he's just a little belligerent. Finally, the rats brandish weapons - swords, axes, and the like - and even fight with them. This is not in the book at all, and really changes the character of the story. I would highly recommend, if you have not seen the movie yet, read the book first, so your impressions aren't tainted. If you have seen the movie, check out the book with an open mind to the differences, and I think you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the book","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I used to like this movie. Then I read the book.I know book are generally better than movies based on them but this is a shining example of a movie resembling a book in name only. Oh, sure, the whole thing about Mrs. Brisby (Mrs. Frisby in the book) having to move her home and the story of Timothy being sick is pretty faithfully executed and the animation was better than anything Disney had done in a long time (Bluth was, after all, a former Disney animator), but the Rats did NOT receive magic powers. It's a pretty hard concept to swallow on it's own, Rats becoming intelligent because of scientific experimentation, but Robert C. O'Brien makes you believe it by making the characters sympathetic. In this film, Nicodemus, the head Rat, looks like he's using the Force. It's ludicrous.Also, the whole thing with the magic amulet was, even when I viewed it as a child, the biggest cop-out ending I've ever seen. Even at a young age I thought so.Even though the animation is superb, I just can't recommend this movie if you've read the book. You *will* be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Well-written, almost Tolkien tale.","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While the story line is a bit complex for younger children, this movie is quite well done; well written, beautifully animated, and is far greater than the sum of its parts.The story surrounds a small group of experimental lab rats who were treated in NIMH (National Institute for Mental Health) for intelligence. They did such a good job, that the rats soon plotted and executed their escape, found a nice, desolate farmhouse from which to steal electricity, and begin their lives anew.As with many other socially responsive movies, the Secret of NIMH appears to have been centered around WWII, with the animals classed in castes representative of the groups within the nationalities involved.The scientists performing the experiments were those German scientists responsible for the most heinous atrocities. The rats themselves can be compared to the Boys of Brazil types churned out by the Third Reich, and so on, all the way down to the smallest creatures of the field fleeing for their lives, as did anyone with any sense or opportunity fled from Germany during those dark times. Hence My comparison to Tolkien's works.That not withstanding, this is still a very entertaining endeavor, and the kiddies need never know, until they are older, the implications of such events in this classic adaptation by Bluth.It rates a solid 9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A true animation classic","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    Note my keyword above-animation-not cartoon. I hate all the Disney sequels being made lately (like Lady and the Tramp 2) that use a very cartoonish look, instead of the true animation of the original. And part of what makes the Secret of Nimh so great, and such a classic, is it's genuine animation. It's almost beautiful how nice the background and the characters look. It has a bit of a dark look to it as well, like other Don Bluth films, that allows you to cross it out of the animation genre, into a new breed of genre. This film is actually more for adults than children I think.  The characters are voiced superbly, my favorite being Jeremy the crow (excuse me if his name is wrong, but I believe it's Jeremy) voice by the great comedic legend Don Bluth, who to the recent un succes he's had at live-action films (The Godson mainly) proves to be fit for character voices.  Everything about this film is great. My only pick is that it should've been rated pg. Not only does it have language a few times, but it can be quite dark and scary at times (not to mention the terror of it all) but I don't care a whole lot about that. I'm just warning anyone with kids to use guidance, because it's not what it looks. THE SECRET OF NIMH is a true classic, to be admired by generations to come. 4/5 stars-JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"The Best Movie From Don Bluth!!!!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I had read the Secret of Nimh a long time ago, and when I watched the film, I realized that the movie was just as terrific!!! The film is  just as brillaint as the terrific book!!! Don Bluth ALWAYS does his films perfect!!!! This is a great classic film!!!! This is a great animated film for the whole family!!! I give this classic film a 10 out of 10!!!!!! ;) "},{"Title":"Best movie *EVER*!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the single greatest film I have ever seen.  It's as simple as that.I'm on good authority that this was the very first movie I ever saw, and it's my humble opinion that you can do no better for a young child than to have them watch movies of this quality from day one.  You have probably heard a lot of people from my generation discount the children's films of today.  Well, the thing is, it's the difference between Filet Mignon and canned meat.Secret of N.I.M.H. stands as a prime example of what animation should be.  It never talks down to the audience.  The characters' hopes and fears are very real.  It tackles a number of very tough subjects (and by the way, the genetic engineering subplot was WAY ahead of it's time) and it isn't afraid to have an opinion about each one.  There is a flicker of the supernatural in the story, but it's only there to do it's job and leaves afterwards on it's own mysterious accord.  And finally, it doesn't shy away from putting it's heroine in situations where there are no easy decisions to be made.In other words, this film, above all others, deserves a sixteen out of ten. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent little kids film","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The reason why I sat down and watched this is because I have never seen a Don Bluth movie and I heard his 80's films were back then the equivalent to what Pixar is now. I decided to sit down and watch this and while I did very much enjoy this movie - I thought it isn't really as good as everybody is building it up to be but at the movie was pretty good.The plot is that a mouse who lives in a cornfield named Mrs Brisby is trying to help treat her son's pneumonia and through many different circumstances arising like the farmer plowing the cornfield and the mice stopping it before it reaches him she manages to find a society of rats who intellectually operate on the same (if not similar) level to human beings, which her late husband saved.Onto what I enjoyed. I really enjoyed the fact that instead of being pretty much an average everyday animated movie - This challenges kids in the way that there are some scenes that may frighten them along with presenting them with a couple of interesting ideas. I think the animation is superb, the voice acting is pretty good and the characters are likable in their own right.I guess my biggest complaint with the movie is Jeremy. I didn't find him annoying or anything but I felt that he didn't serve that much relevance to the plot. All I saw this character do in the movie that served the plot is take Mrs Brisby to The Great Owl and the rats of NIMH, That's it.So I guess if you like Don Bluth or want to watch a children's film that is just as entertaining to kids as it is to adults then this movie is certainly a must-watch. Just be sure to have some expectations in check, I mean this isn't for younger kids. Based on this, even though I didn't like this movie as much as others, I will watch some other Don Bluth movies in the future. "},{"Title":"Pretty Weak...","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had high hopes for Secret of NIMH. But I was severely disappointed by it's simplistic story and lack of characterization. I did like the dark tone and the beautiful animation but everything else felt flat to me.There are a lot of good things to be said about Secret of NIMH. The animation and artwork is excellent. Together with Jerry Goldsmith's music it has great atmosphere which greatly elevates the overall mediocrity of characters and story. Secondly I liked the main protagonist Mrs. Brisby. She was very different and more compelling lead for a children's story that most of Pixar's lead characters. Mrs. Brisby was just frightened mother who wanted her kids to be safe, nothing else in the world mattered. And lastly, the overall dark tone also added much needed diversity from other animated children's films. Kids can enjoy darker kids films as well as lighthearted ones.The biggest problem with Secret of NIMH is the characters and story. It feels that the film was around two hours long and cut 40 minutes out. A lot of scenes that could have been used for character development are missing. The villain is one note mustache twirler, the supporting characters are forgettable and way too simplistic. Everything feels rushed and lacks any dramatic power. Its really sad, because Secret of NIMH has the potential to match Miyazaki's work.I don't hate Secret of NIMH, I don't even dislike it. It's well made and has a lot of heart but comes short at the most crucial elements - story and characters. For what it is, The Secret of NIMH is a decent kids film with good morals and some darker edge which can adults like. It's Okay and it's worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Solid film but not a masterpiece","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hailed by some as the greatest animated film of the second half of the 20th century, this film fails to deliver. In fact, it might be the best American animated film of the second half of the 20th century, but outside of the US there were hundreds of feature length animated films made from 1950 to 2000 and many of those were in fact superior to this film. So, if one restricts oneself to only American productions, of course, it is best the one eyed in the land of the blind is king.It is still quite solid, just not a masterpiece and I was disappointed. It is too simplistic and hence serves only to entertain children, while it is a rather dark film and thus might scare children away while it is too simplistic for adults. "},{"Title":"its was alright","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I got this movie out on DVD a couple of years ago I throut it was going to be good but not really a good movie of the 80s its not really adventures or wild like some other films it was just okay maybe some people throut it was good but to me it was okay it does not beat movies like star wars or The love bug or babe it had no hip hop songs it was just like 1957 film OK its cartoon mouse that finds magic and trys to save her family there is no point in why what I think of the movie it just needed to lighten up bit like some movies did. but I did want to watch it but feeling it was bit cheesy so maybe I should watch bit more of this movie I have not seen it in 7 years I am 14 now but maybe I had need to light up with one of these movies I don't hate it its was little bit boring and I almost feel asleep to it what was I thinking its not that bad and not that good it was okay I have to agree with some people it had some taste but not a lot of taste okay I have nothing else to say about this movie. maybe great for kids but older people would not like it. "},{"Title":"An utter disappointment","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Secret of NIMH is usually praised as a classic, a masterpiece, and the best work of Don Bluth. I enjoy The Land Before Time, another movie by him, so naturally I had quite high expectations for this movie. However, it was a big disappointment.Right from the beginning, the story has shown how silly it is. Somehow, the movie's heroine is willing to risk the safety of her three children, and waste a lot of time doing all kinds of dangerous errands just because 'the air is bad' for her fourth child. Why not just find a warm blanket, wrap him up and run? With all those people around, they could even carry his bed with him on it. That whole deal is clearly just a poor excuse to get the story going. And then things got worse. Characters just keep appearing out of nowhere with dim intentions and unexplained relations. What is the relationship between the Great Owl and the rats? What is the rats' plan exactly? What does the villain really want? How does NIHM know about their hideout? And what's so special about NIHM if normal mice like Mrs Brisby can do what those rats and mice from NIHM do anyway? Questions after questions about the plot keep popping up but never get answered. Finally comes the horrible ending which was just a total deus ex machina. The rats, who before that point were just intelligent animals that relied on technology, somehow managed to create magical artifacts, which the heroine was given for some unknown reasons, and then used to save the day. The end. An utterly terrible and lazy excuse of a plot.The animation, despite being quite good for its time, especially with the special effects, is still not really satisfying for me due to the simple and unimaginative backgrounds. And the sound editing is just terrible compared to Disney movies of the same period. To sum up, this movie may be good for the 1980s thanks to having a more complex plot than most other animated movies at the time, but judging from today's point of view, it's a very flawed and forgettable product. "},{"Title":"Not really all that great","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First of all, I read the book (this is based on) with one of my reading classes, and our teacher let us see the movie. I didn't really like the movie...in my opinion, it was kind of stupid. For one, in the book, there was no reference to magic. Also, the name change from Frisby to Brisby didn't help either. And you expect Nicodemus to look like the rest of the rats, because the book says he does. And Jenner shouldn't have even been around. My last complaints are that Brutus wasn't a dark, quiet, crazy person who tried to beat Brisby/Frisby up, and Mr. Ages wasn't supposed to be such a snobby old coot. Last, but not least, Jeremy wasn't such an idiot in the book. Personally, I think this movie was stupid. The book was awesome. The movie needed a different director. The main perk to the movie was having good actors. "},{"Title":"Book is better","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I think they could have made this movie a lot better. It seemed very rushed. They took a lot out. Like many important scenes from the book. They skipped almost the whole thing about NIMH, skipped everything about the exterminators, and didn't go into much detail at all. I have come to one conclusion, the book is a lot better. "},{"Title":"Very good - but it could be better...","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Genre Animated film with magic and humour based on a book by Robert C O' Brien. Main characters are mice and rats. My thoughts I like this film quite a lot. It's well done and the characters are interesting &#150; the plot is pretty good too. However, it could never be as good as the beautiful book (Mrs. Frisby and The Rats Of Nimh), the film even manages to insult the book slightly in some ways. For one thing, the main baddie in the film is only MENTIONED in the book, he doesn't appear and CERTAINLY not as a baddie (he was a nice guy!). The magic is also not included in the book and as I agree with other reviewers, it is a wee bit unnecessary. Also, Mrs. Frisby's children are pretty rude and unappealing compared to the ones in the book. Also there is so much more violence in this film (including a lot with the main baddie) than in the book, which I also think is rather unnecessary. What happens Mrs. Brisby's son is in trouble. As Mr. Ages has told her, Timothy has pneumonia and must stay in bed. However, Timothy is also in much danger from the plough&#133;6 and a half out of ten. "},{"Title":"How to destroy an excellent book in 83 minutes","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Don Bluth took an excellent book - Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH - and turned it into a mediocre animated movie that has non of the book's charm and intelligence.What I liked especially about Robert C. Obrien's book was how he went to a great length to explain with a credible scientific background story (relative to science fiction, of course) how the rats of NIMH became super intelligent animals. Bluth, on the other hand, seems to inject his Christian beliefs into the story by taking away most of the scientific stuff and replacing it with, and there is really no other word for it, magic. And even here he does a poor job, providing a weak story that further diminishes the quality of the movie.My recommendation is to stick to the book and wait until a more talented director take a stab at it in the future. "},{"Title":"Good animated work, but over-rated.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Like many films, opinions on the Secret of NIMH are polarized.  It's either the best film ever or stinks to high heaven.  As you might suspect, both sides are probably wrong.As an adaptation of a book, it ranks pretty poorly--the spirit of the story is significantly altered, the characters are quite different, and even the plot has been changed to such an extent that only the most basic elements are recognizable.  On the other hand, Bluth's adaptation is no worse than what Disney also calls adaptation, so this shouldn't surprise anyone.Adaptation aside, the film has substantial strengths and when viewed as a seperate work, it stands fairly well with some flaws.  It has a strong musical score, and the animation is exceptional--especially for this period. Another real treat that we don't see in much recent animation are the beautiful hand-done backgrounds which carry a mood and ambiance that is rare for animated films.What simply isn't accurate is that this is the best of anything; other than the best Bluth film, which it is.  Calling it the best animated film ever certainly isn't an objective statement; the film has occasional blunders of animation, and some of the uses of rotoscoping do NOT enhance the film. On a sheer level of skill/technique/etc. this is clearly not in the top ten; and I am really tempted to think that fans are more woed over by Bluth's style (which was pretty dominant in Disney's work through the 70's), or perhaps they are sucked in by some of the beautiful background work.  Yes, NIMH can be a great looking film (also ugly at times), but it certainly isn't the best animated.  Honestly, I don't think Bluth's work here get's anywhere near Glen Keane's work, or even some of the better moments in Lilo and Stitch.What's left to discuss is plot--since even the best animation won't make a poor plot fly, as Disney has learned of late.  And well, the plot isn't really that fantastic when it comes down to it. It is fairly good until the half way mark when Bluth decides to not only stop following the book, but stops even paying attention to his own plot.  The magic amulet simply makes no sense in the context of the story.  In fact, it nearly invalidates the first half of the story.  Bluth is also so caught up with making a Disney worthy villian out of Jenner he nearly villianizes the rats as a whole really, who does want a bunch of intelligent rats with swords clambering about their back yard?  I suspect all this could have been worked out with another 15-30 minutes that actually explained or fleshed out some of the later elements of the film; but instead, the end is both rushed and makes little sense.  Nonetheless, a strong score, good voice acting and a well executed ending sequence somehow suspends disbelief--mostly due to the film's success stylistically.Subsequently, Secret of NIMH stands as as a success for reasons I don't really find acceptable.  Done with some (though limited) integrity, some (though limited) vision, skilled animation (though not excessively so) and a plot that (sort of) works; NIMH wins with a vote of mediocrity when all other contenders (at least until the last 5 years) are the same old tired thing.  Best animated film ever?  I sure hope not. "},{"Title":"Good for kids; doesn't stand up to adult scrutiny","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Is there anything more depressing than watching a beloved film from one's childhood for the first time in years and coming away disappointed?  Not that anything's technically all that wrong with `The Secret of NIMH'--the design is still beautiful, and the performances are solid.  But I felt that somehow the magic was gone.  The characters didn't resonate with me anymore, the script seemed weak.  Jerry Goldsmith's score felt automatic and tacked on.  Most disturbing of all, I felt like there was no real differentiating between the `superintelligent' rats and the other animals.  (All of them wear clothes; all of them speak well; all of them have technology--is there so much of a difference between electric lights and candles?) I never had these problems when I was a kid, and I loved the movie's darkness.  I'll never forget my mom's shocked reaction when Justin said `Damn!'  (`Hmm, a swearing mouse?'  `He's a rat, Mom.')  And these aspects continue to impress and surprise.  The movie never talks down to the audience, and it takes itself completely seriously.  I still appreciate that--kids see through it right away whenever a movie doesn't.And maybe I'm just getting old.  But after all these years I find there's a flimsiness to this movie that I don't see in `The Dark Crystal,' or `The Last Unicorn,' or many other children's fantasy films from this period.  Those movies stand up the scrutiny of the adult mind; `The Secret of NIMH,' sadly, doesn't.Still, kids are likely to enjoy it.  6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Well, personally, I DON'T think it's Don Bluth's best work.","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK, I really do love some of Don Bluth's movies. ie All Dogs Go To Heaven being my favourite, Anastasia and Thumbelina. Truthfully, The Secret of NIMH I don't think much of. I find it boring, over-dramatic, too scary for kids and generally overrated. I have never read the book, but from what I've heard it's way better than the movie. But this is just my opinion and what I over all think of the film. You think what you wanna think, I say. The reason I gave this a 5/10 and not a 1/10 is because I think it's an alright movie. Some parts were funny, but this definitely ain't the first thing I'd take off the shelf, pop into the DVD player and sit watching with content. I'd do that with ADGTH or Anastasia. I know I said Thumbelina before but I don't have it. "}{"Title":"If your a fan of thee book don't watch the movie....","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is fairly good if not compare with it's book. It is not true to the book. The book is given a slightly darker tone ,and is aimed more for adults. It does however do a good job in portraying most of the characters. Eccespailly, Mrs. frisby. Note however her name was Brisby in the book. If you want to watch this movie I suggest reading the book first. Just wahing the movie could be a waste of your valuable time. I gave this movie a 4 out of 10 because it was a fair attempt at brining the book to life while still be beingig an enjoyable ,and worthwhile film. Appealing to the age group it was intended for to wacth. "},{"Title":"Horrible adaptation of one of my favorite children's books.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For me, this movie still rates as THE standard for horrendous adaptations of a book to the screen.   Granted, one of life's axioms is that the book is always better, but this movie eliminated about 2/3 of the book to begin with (not reduced...not explained, but just cut) and the part that was shown was done amazingly poorly.The animation was good, but glacial pacing and poor adaptation from the book just killed this movie for me.   I still can't watch without cringing. "},{"Title":"Would have been better without the extras","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Don's first feature is lovingly animated but the differences from the book annoyed me. First of all there's the name change - Frisby to Brisby. Why? Secondly there's Jenner. Tiger & the Tractor & The Humans were threats enough in the book. Jenner was only mentioned. Thirdly there's the magic. The mice & rats managed perfectly well without it. It was an unnecessary embellishment. My other complaint is that the NIMH scenes are passed over too quickly.So what's good about it? Jeremy, Martin & The Shrew are the best characters. I like Flying Dreams. The animation is good. Not bad for an initial film but he has made better since.  6/10  "},{"Title":"Opportunity Wasted","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH is wonderful story about how a few rats and mice have evolved, thanks to an experimental injection, to a human level of cognition. The essence of the book then centers on how they have learn to embrace the best parts of humanity - selfless nobility. The driving tension in the book comes from a race to survive, both for the rats and the mice.In this movie adaptation, the entire essence of that plot is dropped and replaced with common and much less interesting themes. Most of the rats are hesitant to help Mrs. Brisby, and one rat becomes an outright villain. The efficiency and skill of the rats is replaced with arbitrary magical powers. The race against time is replaced with bickering and swordplay. The subtle character development of all the main characters is completely whitewashed. But the coup de grace is that the ending of the book is both sad and uplifting, whereas the ending of the movie is like a complete afterthought, adding no emotion to the story at all.Perhaps if you haven't read the book, you might find some of the plot contrivances acceptable. But if you have read the book, then you'll realize the lost opportunity and no doubt pine for a remake that at least captures the book's essence of humanity, if not all of its specific details. "},{"Title":"Secret of NIMH a MESS","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this film several times over the years, and I cannot quite tell what it's about.  It shifts story emphasis too many times for it's initial simple premise to withstand. Don Bluth's inability to tell a story on any level has been proven again and again since this film (although Anastasia almost works--but that's because Fox was all over him).  Whenever a character runs into a problem, a chase scene ensues instead of the character actually making a decision and showing character (sounds a bit like Don's career!).  The voices are pretty good, but the animation is all over the place, and lacks specific character throughout the film--most of them jitter and jerk wildly all over the place.  I don't call that acting.  It's far to the other extreme of what Bluth left Disney for in the FIRST place. The designs are busy ot the point of confusion as to what I, as a member of the audience, should be paying attention to.  Those distractions do for most what they were designed to  wow the audience with sparkles so they won't notice we've got no story. It was an interesting experiament--and if Don had LEARNED from it, he'd probably be doing a lot better films nowadays. Alas--his devotion to mediocrity has won (I DARE you to watch Rock-a-Doodle!).    "},{"Title":"Terrible waste of money","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Did we see the same movie? I'm amazed at the positive reviews I read for this film. Like many others, I watched this as a child and was excited to see if offered at the local half-price store. I watched it with my husband and two toddlers and was shocked at how badly written it was.My main critique is the complete inconsistency between the use of magic and science. Why is there an amulet in the story at all? If the rats are smart because of the science, then how and why did they suddenly become mystics and magicians? I don't think the disconnect would bother me so much if there was at least SOME attempt to explain it - but there isn't.For all of the talk of the intelligence of the rats, I didn't see much evidence of it. Mrs. Rigsby didn't receive the injections, but she seems to be doing just fine (other than suffering from lack of confidence and a fear of flying). She was smart enough to keep herself and her family alive, in any case.I realize it sounds ridiculous to talk about motivations of a rat, but I thought the idea that the rats needed to leave the rose bush to become self-sufficient because they knew too much was flimsy, at best. I can understand if they thought that ultimately, living off of the humans was not sustainable, but to want to leave because they felt guilty for pilfering the farmer's electricity? That is a stretch.Finally, the ending was so abrupt that it felt like the producers just ran out of money and had to cut off the movie as quickly as possible. After watching the rats duel it out over whether to move out of the rose bush, it seems strange to relegate that plot line to a simple line uttered by Mrs. Rigbsy - shouldn't we see the rats move or SOMETHING? The plot completely fizzled at the end.I will, however, give the movie 3 stars for animation - the visuals were nice. And...despite my intentions to return the movie and get a refund, my 3 year old loved it. So I guess that's worthy of a star or two ;-). "},{"Title":"Very, very depressing.","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was extremely depressed after watching this. It definitely is not one for the kids, they would just get distressed. This is just as bad as the rest of Don Bluth's films Poor animation, depressing themes, poor attempts at humour and completely ludicrous morals. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Down the Mousehole","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Here's what can easily be described as Bluth's most detailed work.  Unfortunately, his style of animation has lost a lot of its edge in the last two decades.The story itself is simple enough, as with most of the animated kiddie fare, that there's no need to comment on it.  Read the book if you want detail.It's in the drawings that Bluth makes his errors.  Too often he follows the Disney stereotypes created back in the 30s and 40s that he never makes anything original.  Borrowing elements in this fashion is not unique, especially when his quality is lesser than Disney.I'll take one Bakshi work (except 'Lord of the Rings') over any five Bluths.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe all the high reviews of this piece of trash. I read the book in school and then saw the video in school. (Lucky me) And let me tell you something, the book was 1000 times better than this rubbish.With the movie, they pratically axed the book. This should have been longer so it could have more of the good book material. First of all, this movie is WAY too voilent for young kids. It's so voilent there are like 3 scenes where the characters bleed! And it's rated G??!!! Whoever rated this movie G should be fired. They got rid of some of the best scenes, like at the end when the rats escaped from the rose bush. And where is Nicodemus' eye patch? And another thing, how did Nicodemus get like that in the first place? You know, how his eyes always glowed and such. Also they gave NO character development for Timothy. In the book, Timothy talked in a few chapters and seemed involved in the story, but here he seems like just one speechless problem to take care of. This movie really betrayed him of what he really WAS. And what's up with them changing Risby to Brisby? I liked Risby.And they pretty much added the whole thing at the end with the jewel that made the home fly out of the mud or whatever. Boy, was THAT corny and predictable. Stick to the book.And if you want TRUE Don Bluth work, watch The Land Before Time, instead of this trash. "},{"Title":"if that's the best, then...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I didn't like the movie. The story is weak, the characters are too sketchy, too much unnecessary violence and dazzle and sparkle... It's almost as cute as a Disney movie and just as a Disney movie it's full of cheap thrills. Music is trivial although bearable and so is voice acting. Watch any film by Hayao Miyazaki instead if you want to see a really great animated film... "}{"Title":"gorgeous animation and production values undercut by stupid and paranoid story","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was the first Don Bluth release after he left Disney to form his own production company. And, as a first effort, there was much to be proud of. For the 1980s, this animation was better than the most recent Disney cartoon offerings--as the Disney animation studio was moribund and would not for several more years once again emerge as a giant in the industry.Richly textured backgrounds and smooth animations were seen throughout the film and yet it only merits a score of 5. Why? Because the plot is so horrid. It was a paranoid little story in which you find out NIMH refers to The National Institute of Mental Health (a subsidiary of the government organization NIH). As the story unfolds, it seems that the older mice in the story had escaped from the evil scientists at NIMH who were doing diabolical experiments on mice!! This was like a propaganda film from either PETA or the Scientologists, as the mice discuss the horrors that the experienced at the hands of the government! What a crock to lay on our children--just entertain them, don't attempt to brainwash them!! "},{"Title":"horrible script","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film (having never read the book) while looking for movies for my son. I don't intend to show it to him any time soon. It is a mindless attack on science and technology, with a liberal dose of mysticism offered as the desirable alternative. There are, of course, thoughtful and compelling criticisms to be made of science and technology, and I found a few when I later read the book. The movie retains none of these themes, however, and instead offers insulting and ignorant pap.I'm sure some would argue that this is too fine a point for a children's movie, but I disagree. Children do understand such things, especially when, as in this movie, science is portrayed as the Great Satan, and the day is saved by Magic.As others have noted it's also a rather violent movie for children -- it contains two or three graphic murders (depending on how you count them), and a lot of frightening imagery.I would love to see a thoughtful adaptation of the book. "}]