[{"Title":"A Fun, Class B Flick","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This reminded me of the 1950s science-fiction/horror films with its primitive dialog, hokey action scenes and laughable makeup for the monsters. Oh, man, does this look bad as time goes on and we have been treated to 25 years of great special-effects since this was made.What makes this more attractive to watch than those '50s films, however, are great swamp photography, Adrienne Barbeau's body and a story that moves fast. Barbeau, as she was prone to do, appears to be only this is to show off her massive chest. However, it's pretty harmless fun, very tame compared to the horror movies of the past generation regarding gore and profanity. It's also pretty tame for a Wes Craven-directed film.In the end, it's a good Class B film, usually fun to watch for a number of reasons. "},{"Title":"One of Craven's best","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Swamp thing is a comic book film with the audacity to flaunt it's low budget and depend on the character elements of the film, well executed action sequences, scenery and a vibrant score which luckily saves a lot of money and provides for and entertaining gem of a film. Louise Jordan is a wonderful villain, his work is on par with his later appearance as a 007 villain in octopussy. Adriene Barbeaux oozes sexuality, without sacrificing toughness which is rare. Something disappeared after the 1980's with regard to women in action thrillers. The toughness seems manufactured as opposed to genuine. The sexual attractiveness remains, but rather than asserting themselves through intelligence, many of the female heroes of todays films seem to display a snobbish sort of entitlement, almost as if a lawyer was waiting to swoop down and file a law suite, if the film's villains dare to detract from their toughness. There is none of that here, she seems smart, tough and sexy which is rare. As for the storyline, it is what it is, not a whole lot of surprises, but that's o.k. It's a comic book, not War and Peace. Swamp Thing is an overlooked and under-rated movie that deserves a look from fans of the genre, and yound people fascinated with comics especially. "},{"Title":"Like the character, it's got a good heart mired under some muck!","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Swamp Thing isn't what one might call a standard horror picture. It tries to play it a bit lighter than what you would expect, given the mechanics of the story. What you end up with is a fun and campy film, that sometimes lessens it's darker edge by trying too hard for a bit of humor.Based from the comic series from DC Comics, the tale is about a scientist, Dr. Alec Holland (played by Ray Wise), who is transformed into a marsh-layered creature of immense power, after his experiment to create a way to make a more abundant food supply, causes him to run afoul of a man bent to use it for his own ends... a man named Arcane (played by Louis Jourdan).I've noted before I am a big time comic reader, so I'm quite well versed with the history of the title character. Wes Craven, who both wrote and directed this film, takes quite a few liberties with the characters and their source material, but still manages to keep it true enough, so that they are easy to relate to and familiar. I liked Ray Wise's approach to the character, as he brought a great deal of altruistic idealism to him, which rang true to the character from the comics. Also well cast is Louis Jourdan as Arcane, as he gave him just the right amount of arrogant egotism and flamboyant self-aggrandizement, like the typical madman who thinks they know how to rule the world would have. Of course, Adrienne Barbeau is the real standout here, not just for the obvious physical attributes (which were obviously one of the reasons she was cast in the role of Holland's/Swamp Thing's love interest), but she manages to elevate herself from being more than just the usual damsel in distress, as watching her fight off attackers and shoot a gun, shows she's no weak-willed school girl. But it was her ability to make you believe that the chemistry she shared with Holland, was strong enough for her to accept him after his change into the Swamp Thing (which was played wonderfully by Dick Durock), that really cinched her performance with me. And let's face it, she don't look bad in soaking wet clothes, either. In fact, almost all of the cast do very good jobs with material that, at times, comes off a bit overly cheesy.If there were any negatives to the film, I'd have to say that it was in the pacing and dialog. Granted, this isn't Shakespere, but the script sometimes seems to just strive too hard to stay closer to humor than horror. It results in some scenes losing some of the dramatic punch they might have had, if they would have allowed things to go just a touch darker. The pacing of the film is quite quick, though a bit too quick, in some cases. We never really got to see Holland actually transform into Swamp Thing, nor did we get much time spent on him trying to adjust to his new situation. I would have liked to see more of a struggle for him in dealing with what he had become and his loss of his physical humanity, as he just seems to accept it too quickly. The special effects aren't very special here, although the Swamp Thing outfit does pretty closely resemble the character in the comics, so long as you don't focus on the close-ups, when the rubbery look is very obvious. Of course, this is just a limitation of the times and can't really be counted as detriment to the film.Swamp Thing is like a film that bridges the gap between the old 50's-60's horror films, with their poor special effects and unintentional cheesiness, and the more modern horror films that were to come. It does feel a bit like a throwback in a lot of ways, but the film has got a lot of heart and I think its charm ultimately won me over. It's not a very scary horror film, but it is an enjoyably fun film, nonetheless. "},{"Title":"An immensely fun, campy and underrated comic book action horror delight","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Brilliant and kindly scientist Dr. Alec Holland (a fine Ray Wise) is working on a special growth formula in a laboratory that's located in a secluded swampland area. Holland mutates into a half-man, half-plant hybrid creature called Swamp Thing (amiable Dick Durock in a nifty rubber suit) after being drenched with his serum by suavely wicked arch nemesis Anton Arcane (delightfully played with lip-smacking hammy relish by Louis Jourdan). Swamp Thing protects brassy CIA agent Alice Cable (a marvelously tough and sassy portrayal by Adrienne Barbeau) from Arcane and his nasty flunkies. Writer/director Wes Craven handles the cheerfully silly premise in a suitably garish comic book style, keeps the pace snappy throughout, stages the plentiful action with rip-roaring brio, delivers a strong and vivid evocation of the murky marshland setting (the authentic South Carolina locations are a major plus), does a sound job of creating a hugely entertaining tongue-in-cheek tone, and tops things off with a welcome sense of self-mocking humor. Moreover, Swamp Thing makes for a strangely moving and sympathetic protagonist; there's a real sense of heart evident in the depiction of his lonely plight that's both touching and surprising. The cast have a ball with their broadly drawn roles Barbeau is a brash treat as the fiercely self-reliant heroine, Jourdan chews the scenery with eye-rolling gusto, David Hess excels in one of his standard sleazy villain parts as the vicious Ferret, Nicholas Worth likewise does well as the doltish Bruno, and Reggie Batts almost steals the whole show with his very natural and amusing deadpan performance as hip, but laid-back black teenage gas station attendant Jude. In addition, this film comes through with a few inspired outrageous touches Bruno becomes a pathetic midget monster after drinking the formula, Swamp Thing has one of his arms chopped off, but grows a new one in its place, and Arcane transforms into a crazed werewolf lizard beast that engages in a lively to-the-death climactic fight with Swamp Thing. Robbie Greenberg's cinematography makes nice use of elaborate fades and wipes. Harry Manfredini supplies a rousing, spirited score. An enormously enjoyable romp. "},{"Title":"Amplification of Each's Essence","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really have an affection for this truly campy, cheaply-made, cheesy film from the early 80's. Wes Craven, before he hits it real big, obviously has some directorial flair, but there is a lot here that is atypical of his work. The special effects are really cheap, I mean, aside from the Swamp Thing outfit, everything else is very badly done from the hideous, cowardly midget to the overblown, terrible outfit of another fearsome monster that personifies the very essence of evil - or so we are told. It would be very easy to dissect this film for all of its obvious faults, but what I do like is that it has that feel of an old sci-fi film from years gone by - good vs. evil. It has some decent acting and set locations. Louis Jourdan plays the suave villain as well as anybody and David Hess(Last House on the Left fame) plays a despicable henchman with few peers. And Adrienne Barbeau? She bares it and is beautiful in all forms of undress as her cleavage barely manages to stay on as she runs through swampland. She plays Alice Cable, a love interest for the Swamp Thing, a creation of serendipity and scientific experimentation. The story, loosely based on a comic book, is liberally dosed with action, inane dialog, and what you would expect for a film of this ilk, but all enjoyable. I enjoyed the character of Jude too, played with an innocence to acting(and perhaps talent) that few films would allow but comes off I think. Besides, Adrienne Barbeau is in it - this is one of the few times I really would like to have Cable! "},{"Title":"Campy and cheesy sci-film from horror legend Wes Craven, a nice treat too it features sexy screen queen Adrienne Barbeau.","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wes Craven, who's normally known for his horror films that bring terror and fright, here with this 1982 entry he toned it down a lot. 1982's Swamp Thing is certainly campy as you can tell from the scenes it's cheap made and the sets look unrealistic and finally the costume of the creature is much to be desired. Still for a 1982 film well before the big computer and special effects graphic boom it held up pretty good and it's still a fun little watch and it was nice to be treated to Adrienne Barbeau's performance. Set in the muggy and swamp land of the deep southern US a scientist Alec Holland(Ray Wise)meets up with a sexy federal government agent Alice Cable(Adrienne Barbeau)and they develop a cure thru chemicals that is supposed to end hunger. A bad guy nemesis Arcane(Louis Jourdan)plans to steal the serum potion and use it for his own deadly benefits, yet it backfires one day and Holland becomes Swamp Thing a half man and half plant superhero. From then like your typical comic book fashion the good guy against bad guy chase and adventure starts with the hero saving mankind, the planet, and the damsel. Overall good yet nothing great, an extra treat is the lake river bath of Adrienne when she gets topless! A good sexy performance from Barbeau that freshens up the dull camp and cheesy feel of this sci-fi cult film. "},{"Title":"See Barbeau Run","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a secret research facility in the middle of the swamp, Dr. Alex Holland is working on an experiment to combine plant and animal DNA. Alice Cable (Adrienne Barbeau) has been sent by the government to help with security. But when the evil Dr. Arcane's men storm to lab trying to get hold of Dr. Holland's work, the results are explosive, literally. Through a chemical reaction, Dr. Holland is transformed into the Swamp Thing. Now, Cable, with the help of the Swamp Thing, must keep the formula out of Dr. Arcane's hands.I don't know why I insist on re-watching this movie every few years. It's not going to get any better. In fact, I enjoy it less and less with each successive viewing. Once you've seen the laughable creature design, once you've seen Barbeau being captured, once you've seen Dr. Arcane's transformation, once you've seen Barbeau run through the swamp in a wet t-shirt, and once you've seen the final showdown (which happens to be one of the most ridiculous things ever caught on film), there's really no reason to watch it again. One viewing should be enough for any masochist.The biggest problem with Swamp Thing is the plot &#150; or should I say the lack of a plot. The whole keep the formula from Dr. Arcane idea is merely window dressing for what I see as the main theme running through the movie &#150; the rescue of Barbeau. At least 90% of the movie's runtime is devoted to the Swamp Thing rescuing Barbeau from Arcane's men. And Barbeau's rescue is repeated over and over and over&#133;. It's a bit like the bad, humid version of Groundhog Day.So, why don't I rate it lower? There are a few set pieces that really work. The first 15 minutes or so (the period before Barbeau needs to be rescued) is nice. Also, the movie is beautifully shot. You can compare it with another of Craven's films, think of The Hills Have Eyes &#150; only in reverse. Where that movie was shot in such a way that you could almost feel the dry, hot California desert, with Swamp Thing, you can all but feel the humid, dank swamp. "},{"Title":"Waterlogged.","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Swamp Thing is beautifully photographed in authentic swamps, and directed with a nice comic-book sensibility by Wes Craven, but the script is flat, boring and (eventually) silly, and the title creature is too human-like to inspire much awe. However, Louis Jourdan is enjoyable as the suave, cultivated villain, David Hess is in his element as one of his goons, and there is also a black kid who's the epitome of coolness. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"A Tale of a Mutant Born on a Bayou","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the mastermind behind such disturbing horror classics as The Hills Have Eyes and Last House on the Left comes a new dimension in terror&#x85; Swamp Thing! Yes, Swamp Thing. For real. Wes Craven really directed a Swamp Thing movie.Showing the world that he was capable of handling more than just mutants and lowlifes, Craven set to adapting the comic series of the same name to film. The results? Well, let's just say there's some mutants, some lowlifes and a topless Adrienne Barbeau. Not a bad mix if one may say so.Meet Dr. Alec Holland. Holland, played by the great Ray Wise, is a scientist who likes spending his free time bogged down in the swamp. On the verge of an ecological breakthrough, he is tragically transformed into a hideous yet unstoppable mutant. Treading water and stomping through the bayou, it's up to him to help save a beautiful colleague (Barbeau) from certain danger while trying to come to terms with his rubber suit&#x85;I mean his new body.The film is mostly harmless fluff. Craven has his heart in the right place, and even when the film misfires (as it so often does) it's hard not to love it regardless. Barbeau absolutely steals the show and runs with it, although it must be noted that in the short time he spends on film, Ray Wise delivers a charming and wholly human performance. David Hess also pops in to do what he does best playing a merciless thug. There's also a score by Harry Manfredini at hand that evokes images of Crystal Lake, but for the purposes of this film, let's just call it Crystal Marsh. Also, look out for a cameo from the elusive Manbearpig towards the end of the film.In the end, Swamp Thing is far from the finest comic adaptation, but then again, it's not the worst either. Fact of the matter is that it's a harmless and enjoyable affair, provided one is in the appropriate state of mind. Filled to the brim with oddball characters (Jude deserves his own spin-off) and goofy monster antics, Swamp Thing is an odd creature that you can't help but adore. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hilarious campy cheesefest Swamp Thing is an interesting look on Wes Craven's work as a director. people call him a hit and miss director, but i think he just says once in a while damn it, lets just have fun on this movie. or maybe when studio execs are breathing down his neck he just makes things the opposite of what he wants. a good example would be Cursed, he hated the studio interference according to the man himself. and he made an in-joke gester about it in the film. the werewolf giving the finger. Hilarious. in my opinion Craven is a great director. sometimes he'll make deadly serious horrors and sometimes he makes them funny. And trust me Swamp Thing is funny! "}{"Title":"Good Scenes Complimented with Not so Good Scenes","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a masterpiece by any means but still an entertaining film with a couple of postives.  One, the appearence of Adrienne Barbeau who shows here why she was a mainstay in American horror films during the late 70s to early 80s.  Two, the humorous but slightly dark appoarch of the material.  Now for the negatives of the films.  One, the acting goes from being very good to very bad in seconds.  Two, the inconsistency of the film's sequences and story.  Swamp Thing(1982) is what I consider a transitional film that bridges his early films of Last House on the Left(1972), and The Hills Have Eyes(1977) to his mid 1980s films like A Nightmare on Elm Street(1984).  A very satifying performance is given by Last House on the Left(1972) actor, David Hess.  Its too bad that Craven never worked with David Hess after this film because Hess added a true feeling of screen villainly in his performances for LHOTL & Swamp Thing(1982).  Swamp Thing(1982) belongs in the category of cult classic status and as a middle of the road type of film for Wes Craven. "},{"Title":"Adrienne Barbeau's finest hour","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never forgotten the VILLAGE VOICE's review of this film in which they extolled the virtues of Adrienne sloshing through the swamp, arms flailing, her wet T-shirted breasts  bouncing...as perfect a critique of this film's appeal as one could ask for "},{"Title":"Every man for himself, and God against all.","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's too bad about the last third of this movie, because it really works pretty well as a comic book movie before the bad guys start drinking the serum and transforming. It takes place in a swamp and throughout most of the movie looks exactly like some of those stupid, stupid exploitation films like Gator Bait and Day of the Woman, but it completely loses track of itself in the third act. The story concerns a scientist who has created a serum that allows stupendous plant growth, which he plans to use to help feed the world, say by the year 2001 when there are 6 ½ billion people on the planet. Needless to say, his desire to do good with something so powerful is not going to fly in a Wes Craven film, so it's not long before a lot of trashy rednecks barge in heavily armed in full fatigues to take it away from him and deliver it to their evil boss.The best parts of this movie are the scenes at the beginning that show the discovery of what the serum does. At first it looks like some kind of explosive liquid that looks exactly like the serum that Herbert West created in Re-Animator, but soon one scientist notices that the spots on the floorboards where it was flung to show its explosive properties have begun to grow branches. The interest level at this point in the movie is on a step uphill, so it's almost heartbreaking when the last half hour or so gets so bad.The Swamp Thing himself never looks like anything but a man wearing a rubber suit, but I'm willing to accept that because he was a human being before being affected by the serum, so let's not pick the movie apart because of him. The Day the Earth Stood Still had a great explanation for why the alien that stepped off of the space ship was a well-dressed man, and this movie has a good reason for the humanoid appearance of it's monster, and I have to admit that the special effects were fairly well done for 1982.I also really liked the character of Jude. He is a really easy kind of character to criticize because he is just some kid that pops up in the movie, running a roadside liquor store, of all things, and operates as some pretty goofy comic relief. But his character is well written, if not tremendously well acted. I've seen this kind of character done badly before, such as in Gator Bait, I Spit on Your Grave, and Wrong Turn.There are times that the creature in this movie reminds me of King Kong (such as when he's saving the damsel in distress from harm and lavishing affection on her in the wilderness) and there are times when it reminds me of Frankenstein's monster (such as when it reaches for the flowers in the trees, either pleasantly astounded by their beauty or, lest we forget, noting the species of flower that they are since, of course, he is a scientist underneath all of that rubber. I mean plant life).Where the movie really goes wrong is when it tries to show how the serum affects different people, like what they did (with much better affect) in The Mask years later. Evidently the serum does not make everyone big and strong, but only amplifies their essence. It magnifies what they already are, so if they are a big strong man with no inner strength, apparently they turn into pig-headed midgets in turtlenecks, whereas if they are a big bad guy (like the badly written and badly acted big bad boss man in this movie), they will turn into some kind of photosynthetic werewolf. Ugh.But even worse, the movie switches from the swampy wilderness to a nightclub that makes absolutely no sense. Craven has already by this point inserted uncharacteristic and completely unnecessary nudity into the movie, but this place is the ridiculous combination of a high-class black tie restaurant and a trashy strip club. Half the patrons are wearing fancy clothes and half are dirty rednecks still wearing the fatigues that they were crawling around the swamp in. And then, of course, there's Alice Cable, there heroine, tied to a chair.This movie describes the true nuts and bolts of human life as a million messy miracles, and it believes in that statement in the design of its characters. The swamp thing is not a glorified superhero, he is a man that has been reduced to a plant-like creature, with some human properties and some plant properties, but without the full capabilities of either. This is not exactly what I have come to know and love from Wes Craven (although not quite as uncharacteristic as Music of the Heart, where did THAT come from), but for the most part this movie is able to stand on its own and is a fairly entertaining comic book movie from the early 80s.And here's something interesting and a little disturbing &#150; according to the credits at the end of the film, the sound effects were created by Jay's Meat & Provision Co. "},{"Title":"Fun upgraded B-movie","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alice Cable (Adrienne Barbeau) is brought in to a research lab in the depths of the swamps. Dr. Alec Holland (Ray Wise) is developing a new species combining plants and animals. They develop a new formula that regrows old cells. Alec's sister Linda drops some on the wooden floor and new branches start to grow. Dr. Anton Arcane (Louis Jourdan) is obsessed with immortality and tries to steal the formula. He attacks the camp. In the process, Linda is killed and Alec is set on fire by the formula as he jumps into the swamp. The creature rescues Alice as they try to drown her in the swamp.Swamp Thing remains a B-movie despite being dressed up by Wes Craven. It's a well made thing but it doesn't becomes more than that. It couldn't escape the fact that this is a monster movie with a guy in a rubber suit. The action is slightly better than most 80s B-movie. This is fun with some explosions and some gunplay. Barbeau is definitely memorable as Alice although she's probably a little old to play the damsel in distress. Louis Jourdan is terrific as a creepy villain. His creepiness really sells this movie. "},{"Title":"Genre-film done right","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know what you think. A movie for kids about some cartoon hero. Well sure it is based on a comic book but don't let that premise fool you. First of all this movie comes with a 15+ rating and for good reasons since people die to the left and the right and Adrienne Barbeau can't stop from pulling her tits out. Some of the scenes like the one where Swamp Thing crushes a man's head with his bare hands can also be a bit to graphical for minors. This is the way I remember it since my mother never kept a close eye to what I was watching as a kid and this resulted in me without any recognition of the English language at an age of 9 getting my hands on this tape through a friends friends older brother or something like that. Even though I couldn't understand most of the dialogue I just loved the movie with all its awkward action scenes, rubber monster-suits and most of all the voluptuous woman known as Adrienne Barbeau. A woman whom I as a kid had a crush on, a crush that made me watch everything from Escape from New York to the fantastic film The Fog.I am no longer a kid (even though most people I know keep telling me that I act like one) but I must say this piece of cinema is an excellent example of how good B-movies can be if given a proper budget. The plot is not the most original (think any other super hero from your childhood) but it has a story that is interesting and easy to follow. It sports some of the biggest genre-stars of its time all under the directing wings of none other than the legendary Wes Craven. It has tits, midgets, heads being crushed, swamp monsters, shoot outs and even a little Women in bondage section. All this is made with a class and taste that is far from common in the 80's genre movies.One can laugh hard at the rubber suits and try to poke fun at the numerous plot holes throughout the movie, especially in the beginning when the bad guy orchestrates an attack on his own facility or the little black kid that seems to pop up from nowhere in the middle of the swamp but this is just too good to be picked on. "},{"Title":"Swamp Thing is a bust - Adrienne Barbeau's, specifically","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Usually when I write a review, I try to make it as professional as possible. But when it comes to Adrienne Barbeau, all decorum goes out the window, and I reach for the drool bucket.Purists will tell you that SWAMP THING is based on a DC comic, it's about a scientist who accidentally gets a potent chemical spilled on him and he becomes the title character, etc., etc. But look at the cover photo for this movie. Is the Swamp Thing the first thing your eyes are drawn to? Admittedly, the movie is kind of fun on its own terms. It's rated PG, so the violence and language isn't terribly off-putting. And the romance between Alice Cable (Barbeau) and the Swamp Thing is actually kind of sweet.But all that aside, writer-director Wes Craven realized that when you're shooting on a minimal budget, you go for whatever special effects you can muster. And in this case, he had the mother lode of natural special effects. In the pre-cable-TV 1970's, how many teenagers got through puberty via their weekly viewing of Adrienne Barbeau bouncing across the set on Maude? Lest you think I have lapsed into tastelessness, be warned that I am not the only one to ga-ga over La Barbeau. Twenty years after the movie's premiere, I still recall The Village Voice raving, Adrienne sloshes through the swamp, arms flailing, wet T-shirted breasts bouncing. And Joe Bob Briggs devoted an entire evening to his comments about Adrienne's pneumatic qualities when he showed the movie on TNT.So let's cut to the chase. Adrienne spends most of the movie in tight-fitting T-shirts (wet whenever possible), a low-cut evening gown, and even, in a lingering but discreet shot (again, this is PG), topless.(If you're lucky enough to rent the European version, Barbeau's uncovered bosom is displayed on-screen for about a minute.) Her natural assets (and that includes her acting) have never been shown to such advantage in any movie since this one.So dads, rent the movie for your kids. It's harmless enough that they'll think it's mindless sci-fi. Only you will know the truth. "},{"Title":"Local fisherman say this place is haunted.","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A good, but not particularly spectacular superhero comic-strip outing (off DC comics) by writer / director Wes Craven. A threadbare, but glum story (filled with tragedy and vengeance) seems to only repeat its actions on a continuously patchy loop (wandering around the swamp fleeing from bad guys to be only captured and flee again with the swamp thing always appearing from nowhere to rescue the day), but there's a welcoming dose of humour and some good solid central performances by Adrienne Barbeau, Louis Jourdan, David Hess and Ray Wise. Craven inventively frames the activity with some comic book-like touches between scenes, but it's the effective location work that does it wonders. The swamp terrain is masterfully captured, as the muggy atmosphere is thick and Craven cooks up some stylishly arresting imagery with his use positional lighting. Harry Manfredini's music score is fitting. The creature effects do stand-up well enough (rubber suits), well some more so than others and there's an impressively unusual transformation sequence --- although the final result of it isn't as so. Still Craven stagy direction packs this venture with fun, overblown nonsense, but it's enjoyably campy. Stunt-work is done with plenty of energy, big ambitions and vehicles/stunt-men getting plenty of air in the wake of destruction. Plus who gets guys wrestling about in the swamps in costume.Barbeau becomes bait and gets wet quite a bit, but brings a strong-willed presence to her character and Jourdan gives out a brazen bad guy turn. Hess eats up his role as a mercenary and as well as Nicholas Worth. Wise is fruitfully likable in his short time on screen and Dick Durock has a strong solemn air about when donning that Swamp thing suit. Reggie Batts (in his one and only ever film role!) is quite memorable as the very-laid back Jude, who's there for some comical relief and it surprisingly works. Don Knight also appears.Standard but diverting comic-book fare. "},{"Title":"Much better than the fruity comic book movies of today!","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's no NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET but i definitely dig Wes Craven's movie take on the 70's comic book SWAMP THING. Sure it's a little slow at times and has a little more plot than i usually prefer but for a PG rated sci-fi movie it rocks! The setting provides a very believable swamp atmosphere, the creature effects are rad, and we even get to see some angry titties! I never woulda guessed that annoying Billy chick from CREEPSHOW could be so damn hot! Throw in some good action (which includes a mild dismemberment scene and a super gnarly sword duel between two monsters) and some killer mutation scenes and you ain't gonna catch me complaining! Given a faster pace and this would of easily receive a higher rating. "},{"Title":"Good comic book fun, but marred by a troubled production","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the great staples of childhood is the comic book. They've been a part of our culture for some time and just about every one has been adapted for the screen. Filmmakers can do amazing things with movies about Super Heroes today and effects have really come a long way. Fortunately, favorites like the 'Batman' and 'Superman' movies have held up rather well. Then there are others that were great in their time, but watching them today isn't the same. Wes Craven had big plans for his 'Swamp Thing' adaptation, but constant budget cuts and rewrites kept it from being all it could have. After all is said and done though, it's still about 90 minutes of above average popcorn movie entertainment.Pros Great performances. Exciting score by the super talented Harry Manfredini. Fabulous cinematography. Beautiful, lush scenery. Fast paced all the way through. Some good tongue-in-cheek humor. Some really exciting action. Obviously made with an affection for monster movies.Cons Plot wears thin. Pretty poor effects. The decreasing budget and rewrites show. For example, some things are not as fleshed out as they should have been like the romance subplot. Corny at times, especially in the final act.Final thoughts According to Adrienne Barbeau, the original script was more an epic along the lines of 'Star Wars.' After watching the finished product it's a shame it didn't turn out the way Craven planned. Unfortunately sometimes things don't come together like they should and the film suffers for it. However, in this case the end result is actually not bad at all. It wants to entertain and it does that.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Better than most B movies--Craven demonstrates early talent...","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I first saw Swamp Thing on The Movie Channel in its early years when you could see the same movie multiple times each week.  I don't recall how many times I actually watched it back in the 1980's, but I remembered that it was better than most low budget films I'd seen. I just watched it again last night on video, and found that the movie holds up.  I was a little surprised to discover that it was directed and written by Wes Craven of the successful Scream movies.  Swamp Thing is one of his earlier projects--though it came out 10 years after his first feature, The Last House of the Left. There were glimpses of Craven's genius demonstrated in Swamp Thing.  The dialog has touches of humor and doesn't take itself all that seriously.  Adrienne Barbeau shows her toughness when confronted by the evil forces by getting a few punches in and continuing to fight and escape despite the odds. For a low budget film, Craven has an eye for beauty--the swamp itself is filmed beautifully in many places.  With a bigger budget he could have done more.  But it's not necessary.  With the scale and purpose of this movie Craven accomplishes about as much as you can hope for here.  It's worth a look. "}{"Title":"Its a good film.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first Swamp Thing is an ok film but I really recommend the sequel more.Why? Because the first has action but to me its just a normalmonster film that is sad where the sequel (The Return of Swamp Thing) is more of a action/super hero film.Adrienne Barbeau is as beautiful as ever and Louis Jourdan and Dick Durock are good but I like their performances better in the sequel.Of course this Swamp Thing is good in many ways for examplethe ending but I just like the sequel a lot more. "},{"Title":"DC comic's swampy superhero comes alive thanks to imaginative Wes Craven!","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientists say that the human eye can see more shades of green than any other color within the observable light spectrum. With that being said, this is probably the most wonderfully green movie that sci-fi/action film fans will ever see, and director, Wes Craven departs from his normally shock/horror nature into the lively world of beauty and love, tragedy and redemption. Its an 80's cult classic along with practically every Wes Craven film, but stands alone as a representation of the classic archetypal super-hero as well. Adrienne Barbeau is a tech. wiz that takes a job as an assistant to brilliant organic chemistry genius, Dr. Alec Holland (Ray Wise) who eventually falls victim to the diabolical Arcane (Louis Jourdan) who is after Holland's breakthrough secrets in plant/animal regeneration formula. After Holland is burned and exposed to the new serum, He ultimately becomes the super-human monstrosity, and still retains human emotion and feelings, especially for his newfound love, Barbeau. This makes for a touching and exciting movie experience featuring ambitious performances by the whole cast, including Dick Durock as Swamp Thing, David Hess in his typical scumbag role, Nicholas Worth taking one for the team and talented French actor Louis Jourdan as the arch nemesis. This fantastic little film contains all of the ingredients of a comic book fantasy adventure portraying the classic hero mythology with style and wit. Craven's use of color, lighting and sound illustrates his love for making movies, and the cast is excellent. It's modest budget shows through the costume design and layout, but the end result is a spectacularly profound love story ending in an exciting climax and statement on technology and its probability to fall into the wrong hands. Its definitely one of Craven's underrated best. "},{"Title":"One of DC's forgotten film adaptations","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's something about lesser-known comic book characters when it comes to being adapted to film. For odd reasons they don't receive as much critical or financial success. Yet it has been proved that these characters can become popular if done right. An example of this is James Gunn's Guardians of the Galaxy (2014). Heck nobody even knew they were a Marvel property until the studio announced they were being put to the big screen. This only shows that the right people have to be involved with how the production is conceived and executed. The antithesis of that example is Man-Thing (2005), also produced by Marvel but in no way taken care of in the same manner. Like the character of Man-Thing, DC also had their version called Swamp Thing, which received its rendition way before Man-Thing's film was even thought of. But being that it was the second DC character to be portrayed on the big screen, one would think it would have done as well as Superman (1978) and Superman II (1980) for being new and different.Instead, the film went underground and gained a cult following. It's not that it was bad but it certainly was not written anywhere near the same depth as Superman (1978) and its sequel. The story follows Alice Cable (Adrienne Barbeau) who meets Dr. Alec Holland (Ray Wise) in a new discovery where plant cells can be fused with animal cells in a solution. To Holland's dismay greedy man Dr. Arcane (Louis Jourdan) wants his findings for himself and destroys his lab. Attempting to escape, Dr. Holland accidentally collides with his experimental solution and mixes in with his swampy surroundings. This leads to him becoming Swamp Thing, a creature with super strength, regeneration and healing powers. Written and directed by indie horror fanatic Wes Craven, thankfully this feature does entertain on some level. It is surprising though that Wes Craven works with such a toned down picture. The violence is nothing compared to his works before like the dreaded The Last House on the Left (1972) and The Hills Have Eyes (1977).The cast of characters isn't extremely unique but they do portray the proper emotion and do have their own personality. Ray Wise makes Dr. Holland sound very intelligent yet not bookworm-ish enough to be a total geek. Adrienne Barbeau as Cable is charismatic and even demonstrates some tough behavior, which is always encouraged for most female lead characters. Cable also meets a funny kid named Jude (Reggie Batts &#x96; which is his only film credit). It's weird how this actor didn't continue because he had some comical lines throughout the film. Playing the Swamp Thing character was Dick Durock and for the 1980s, his look is close to that of the comic. The only actor who isn't the most interesting is Louis Jourdan as Dr. Arcane. Besides being a jerk for his selfish reasons there really isn't much of a personality behind the character. I'll admit his voice is a bit captivating though.Aside from acting, the writing does miss in one particular area. This belongs to Swamp Thing's powers. The strength boost is explained, but how he knew what makes him regenerate and healing others is left unchecked. All Craven needed to do was add in one scene that shows how Swamp Thing discovered these abilities and that would at least cover half the problem. Sadly, the powers are just thrown in for the scenes that needed it. The ability is different but there's no development to how it came about. Also the middle section to the movie does drag because of a long-winded chase scene. Unfortunately adding to that are some standard action sequences. Most of the events that happen are very 80s era type tropes. That's not to say all of it is, but most and because of the rather underwhelming action, the pace of it slows. No reason to be too concerned though, that's it for the big issues. The visual style of the film is something to behold though.One of the most interesting visual techniques used is the transition editing by Richard Bracken. Not every change between scenes is different or the greatest looking but a number of scene changes involve comic book like transitions, which really help solidify the feeling like the viewer is watching a comic book movie. As stated for Dick Durock's Swamp Thing portrayal, the practical and special effects are dated in some areas but are also something to admire for at least having the ambition. One note being that the solution Dr. Holland develops has the same color and glow to that of the serum Dr. West would use in Stuart Gordon's Re-Animator (1985). Robbie Greenberg's cinematography looks great too with wide shots of the swamp with plenty of sunlight and color. Lastly is composer Harry Manfredini's score. Unfortunately, due to him working consistently on the Friday the 13th (1980) franchise years prior, much of his music sounds reminiscent to that of those scores. That means tinkering keys and blaring horns for the tense moments. However, there is one musical cue that makes it worth while and that is the love theme for Cable and Alec. The theme uses a clarinet and harp and the tune is completely memorable. If it weren't for that, Manfredini's score would be considered unoriginal.DC's second original comic book movie isn't as smartly written and doesn't have the massive action spectacle to that of Richard Donner's Superman (1978) but it is still highly watchable. The leads can act, the music works, the effects are decent and Swamp Thing as a character is unique all by itself. "},{"Title":"Possibly Wes Craven's Most Overlooked Film","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a violent incident with a special chemical, a research scientist (Ray Wise) is turned into a swamp plant monster.We have iconic director Wes Craven, the great actress Adrienne Barbeau, great actor David Hess and the composer Harry Manfredini. How can a horror fan watch this and not be in some kind of heaven? Roger Ebert says this film is one of those movies that fall somewhere between buried treasures and guilty pleasures. He further says it is an off-the-wall, eccentric, peculiar movie fueled by the demented obsessions of its makers. He means this in the nicest way possible, and I love him for that.Author John Kenneth Muir notes that Swamp Thing differs in many respects from Craven's usual work, in that Craven's intent was to show the major Hollywood studios that he could handle action, stunts and major stars. Craven substituted his usual focus on the problems of the family and society for pure entertainment. And you know what? He did it flawlessly.Why is this film in French on Netflix? There has to be a good reason, but I have no idea why. Also, this film needs a decent DVD release. The Netflix one looks like a VHS transfer. I know it was released a few years ago, but how about a 30th anniversary edition in 2012 with some good features? And lastly, how this scores a PG rating with three topless women is beyond me. But, well played, Wes. "},{"Title":"Barbeau and especially Reggie Batts steal the show","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an okay version of the comic book classic, and has some fun parts, but by far the best thing about it is the relationship between Reggie Batts and Adrienne Barbeau. The character Jude is played by Reggie Batts, and he inadvertently steals the whole movie with his humor, warmth and subtle, funny reactions. His interplay with Adrienne Barbeau is especially warm and natural. When they hug towards the end of the movie, you can tell by their expressions how much then genuinely like each other. The smile on Reggie's face is worth sitting through the entire movie. Another noteworthy scene is when Bruno turns into the midget. Very funny and well-acted. Louis Jordan is lively as the villain, David Hess (from Last House On The Left) is a scary, imposing villain, Nicholas Worth brings a physicality and distinctiveness as Bruno, his second-in-command, and Adrienne Barbeau is energetic and charismatic as the heroine. Worth seeing mostly for Reggie Batts. Too bad he hasn't made any other films. He adds immeasurably to the movie. "},{"Title":"Swamp thing to the rescue!","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you grew up with DC Comics, then you should know all about Swamp Thing. For the ones who don't, let me fill you in quickly.A scientist tries to create a hybrid of plants and animals in his laboratory. The idea is to make it possible for plants to survive everywhere. Like have tomatoes grow on the arctic. The goal is obviously to end world hunger. Very noble. However, his dream is crushed when enemies invade his lab, kill his assistant and steal the notes for the formula. However, the scientist tries to escape with the newly made formula, only to accidentally spill it on himself. As he dives into the nearby swamp, he becomes what we now know as Swamp Thing.The movie explains and shows the background of Swamp Thing very accurately. So at least they got that part of the comics right. It's not 100% accurate, but I'm not here to discuss details.I liked the movie. It was partially because I grew up with DC comics. For people who want a good, entertaining movie about a misunderstood monster, they should definitely check this one out.The acting, effects and story build-up are all fine enough. Sure, it's not Shakespeare, but it doesn't have to be.A must-see for fans of DC comics, and an enjoyable ride for fans of this genre movies.7 out of 10 stars for Swamp Thing! "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie,if you don't take it seriously...","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Visually,this flick is very impressive.The location looks both beautiful and tangled enough to make us believe we are far from civilization.The acting is pretty good and the film is sometimes effective.There are some unintentional laughs,but Swamp Thing isn't a serious horror movie.No strong violence,just nice entertainment plus a little bit of nudity.In my opinion everything,where stars David Hess(Last House on the Left,House on the Edge of the Park etc.)is worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Fun comic book flick","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Swamp Thing was a comic book character created by DC Comics, the same company who made Batman, Superman, The Flash etc. Legendary horror director Wes Craven is well known for creating films like The Hills Have Eyes, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Scream etc. In 1982 Wes Craven wrote and directed the live action movie adaptation to DC comics hero Swamp Thing, the film is a low budget B-movie that surely is great fun to watch. One funny thing is that Swamp Thing is supposed to have comical elements to it but the film takes it self too seriously and the comedy elements seem so small compared to it's sequel Return of the Swamp Thing. The Swamp Thing costume is pretty cool and looks effective, the acting is fine. Swamp Thing is a fun comic book adaptation that's should be seen. Check this out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Really good!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this adoption of the popular comic book series, RAY WISE stars as Biochemist ALEC Holland, who has created a formula that can regenerate organic matter, however a break in one night at his lab sees his rival, the diabolical DR. ARCANE (LOUIS JORDAN) steal the formula, but not until an accident occurs that sees Alec covered in the material & set on fire. Jumping into the swamp, Alec appears to be dead, but nothing could be further from the truth, as he re-emerges as SWAMP THING (DICK DUROCK) after the swamp water & the chemical he created & was dosed with, combined together. From there, he sets out on a blind path of revenge, taking out all of Arcane's men one by one. While Arcane learns the secret of the formula itself to help him transform into a creature that's determined to kill Swamp Thing, before Swamp Thing can get him. SWAMP THING is a highly entertaining monster movie, that despite it's comic book connections, bares little resemblance to a superhero movie & more so to a Horror/Sci-fi film. Upon release, many fans kicked that the film strayed to far from the original source material, like changing Agent Cable from a man to a woman (Played by the former Mrs. Carpenter ADRIENNE BARBEAU) in order to have a love interest for the hero & changing the diabolical Arcane from an ageing magician, to a crazed & jealous scientist & the films lack of dark moodiness of the source material. I on the other hand enjoyed the picture, true it could have been better in a lot of areas, in particular the plot, which is paper thin at best, but the atmosphere is cool & the soundtrack is okay (By Friday The 13th composer HARRY MANFREDINI) although I agree with most that Harry was probably the wrong guy to try & score this movie, since it sounds to much like a Jason movie than a superhero one. Dick Durock plays Swamp Thing well, able to display all the right emotions the script called for the creature to go through. While Louis Jordan is a little to hammy for my liking as Arcane. RAY WISE plays Alec Holland well & Adrienne Barbeau made for an interesting love interest, I really liked her character. On the down side, aside from the minor things I mentioned like the score, & Jordan's role as Arcane, the only thing that bugged me was the plot, which after the opening twenty minutes, merely is a paper thin, as we view scene after scene almost of Barbeau's character running from the villains, being caught by the villains, having Swamp Thing save her & then going through the motions all over again after she is caught & the monster costume used on Arcane at the end after he transforms, is so fake looking it's laughable, thankfully Director WES CRAVEN shows less of the creature in close ups, since I think even he knew how silly the monster suit looked, so it's really not that hard to take. But the fight scenes are lacking any kind of excitement & that's really to bad, since there are several scenes in the film that have a decent modicum of suspense. Director WES CRAVEN seems like an odd pick to helm such material, since his background was mostly in horror & not superhero's, but he fares very well behind the camera. Definitely worth a look for fans of the comic, or all around horror fans from which this film has a horror movie feels to it, rather than an action movie feel. Followed by two TV series, one live action & the other animated & a sequel THE RETURN OF SWAMP THING.**** stars "},{"Title":"I am surprised that its score is not higher.","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not that I gave it a high score, I gave it a six, just seems more people would have liked it.  I thought it was okay, certainly better than the really lame sequel.  This one shows us the creation of the beast known as Swamp Thing.  Rather bloody for a pg rated movie and it has some rather good monsters in it, but the main problem I had with it is that it took itself too seriously (while the sequel was too much of a joke).  The whole atmosphere of the movie is rather depressing and it also has a rather light soundtrack through most of it.  On the plus side, here we have a monster movie where we do not have to wait till the very end to see the main attraction, as Swamp Thing is in this one a lot.  Louis Jordan is rather good as the villain, and Adrian is good as the love interest.  All in all it is okay, but it does move a bit slow in places and there is very little humor in it too.  There is, however, one heck of a good fight between Swamp Thing and the villain transformed at the end.  Worth a look, as I said it is rather bloody and violent for a pg rated movie. "}{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here's a story with action, that's appropriately comic book type! Cable is an agent who's been sent to the swamps to keep guard the sectors there and the scientist who are coming up with terrific experiments! When the bad guys who want to exploit the scientist creations finally take over the sector, all hell breaks loose and it's up to Alex Cable and the Swamp Thing to make sure they don't get away with it! Too much to explain, but alot to take in, and a must for Craven fans. the Harry Manfredini score has beauty in the love theme, and heroic cues following the swamp thing's actions. Filmmakers know this stuff! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Who would have thought Wes Craven could make a superhero movie?","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a remote lab in the middle of the deepest swamps of Florida Dr Alec Holland is a scientist working on the theory that plants may provide the secret to eternal life. Unfortunately the villainous Dr Anton Arcane is after the secret and during a raid on the lab Dr Arcane and his goons accidentally set Alec aflame with the formula where he runs into the swamp and dives in. Only to return a couple days later at The Swamp Thing a plant monster with the mind of Alec Holland. This movie feels like 50s monster movie mated with a superhero films and you know what? It works. The effects are top notch, the fight choreography is top, it's dark, it's energetic, it's weird, the acting is really really good (Anton Arcane is played by Louis Jourdan, Gaston from Gigi), this movie is one of the best examples of a B-movie done A. "},{"Title":"Uh-huh, here comes trouble.","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Adrienne Barbeau was a pretty hot commodity in the Eighties when this flick came out, parlaying her obvious physical assets into a successful screen career. I recently caught her in 1981's Escape From New York as another reminder of her presence on the Hollywood scene of the era. The thing is, she never really disappeared; her credits continue to the present day, so she has some staying power as they say.Well I always get a kick out of the underlying pseudo-science that goes into these kinds of films. This one had that bit about recombinant DNA structures involving vegetable cells with an animal nucleus. A pretty good way to turn Dr. Alec Holland (Ray Wise) from a pioneering scientist into a walking tree. I read a few 'Swamp Thing' comics back in the day and thought they did a good job here with the creature make-up, but when you get right down to it, Swampy didn't look all that scary, especially when making nice with Alice Cable (Barbeau).You know what that madman Arcane (Louis Jourdan) should have done? Instead of going for some magical fountain of youth formula, how about licensing that chemical concoction that shrunk his henchman Bruno (Nicholas Worth) into a munchkin style midget - the formula shrunk his clothes too! Now that's got significant commercial potential.Now I'm not saying the picture was all bad, but when Arcane turned into that wolf-man looking hairy creature I didn't know whether to laugh or spit. I wonder how many creative writing sessions it took to come up with that thing. The idea behind the green elixir was that it 'made one more of what you already were' so in that sense I guess it worked, but man, he sure looked goofy. By comparison, it almost made Swamp Thing look noble in character, even if everything else about him seemed rather, shall we say, wooden. "},{"Title":"There goes the neighbourhood.","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Considering the amount of horror films that he's made, it may be too easy to forget that Wes Craven also made this endearing, amusing, campy comic book adaptation. It's not without flaws, but overall it's fast paced fun that makes full use of its South Carolina locations. It benefits from great casting in the key roles, and performances ranging from sincere to theatrical.The Len Wein character makes his debut in this story (written for the screen by Craven) in which a sexy government agent, Alice Cable (Adrienne Barbeau) is called in to replace an agent who'd been protecting research scientist Alec Holland (Ray Wise). Alec's new formula, unfortunately, falls into the wrong hands, those of ambitious creep Anton Arcane (Louis Jourdan). Alec gets doused with his own formula and set on fire; he runs outside into the swamp where the bad guys wrongly assume he perished. But he's simply been reborn as humanoid plant man Swamp Thing (now played by stuntman Dick Durock). Swamp Thing falls for Alice while doing battle with Arcane and his assortment of goons.Jourdan is delicious as he chews into the scenery. Barbeau is pleasing to watch and admire. Wise creates a likable if somewhat temperamental character in his brief time on screen. David Hess, who'd been so perfect as degenerate criminal Krug in Cravens' The Last House on the Left, creates another entertaining villain with his portrayal of headband wearing commando Ferret. Nicholas Worth (Don't Answer the Phone!) also is featured prominently as another of the bad guys. Durock does a fine job of acting underneath the cumbersome Swamp Thing costume. And young Reggie Batts is a deadpan delight as local kid Jude. Here comes trouble, he quips, when first noticing Alice running in his direction.William Munns' makeup effects are sub standard, to be sure; the Swamp Thing costume actually has a better look in the (even more comedic) sequel. The South Carolina swamps add plenty of atmosphere to the proceedings. The scene transitions involve the use of wipes and add to the fun factor. Harry Manfredini of the Friday the 13th series does the score for this one, and it sounds awfully familiar at times.Swamp Thing is agreeable escapism, and would be recommended to Craven completists. It's not among his best but is also definitely not among his worst.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining comic-book crud from Wes Craven.","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If only the first half of Wes Craven's Swamp Thing had been as incredibly craptastic as the second the latter part of the film sees a henchmen transformed into a disfigured dwarf, the villain of the piece becoming a sword-wielding wolf/pig creature with a really hairy back, and Adrienne Barbeau stripping off to take a skinny dip in a swamp (mind the leeches, deary).Sadly, in order to get to this cheezy but still very fun stuff, the viewer has to trawl through lots of bland comic-book tosh including a dreary introduction to the characters, repetitive poorly staged fight and chase scenes featuring David Hess and his team of stereotypically dumb henchmen, and clumsily handled attempts at tragedy and pathos. It doesn't help either that the central character, The Swamp Thing, is so crap to look at&#x97;a man in a rubbishy rubber suit that buckles unconvincingly at the joints.Worth a look if you're a big fan of the comics, Craven or Barbeau, but casual viewers will probably switch off before they even get to the most enjoyable bits. "},{"Title":"I's looks like some kind of Abdominal Snowman","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Some Spoilers) Cartoonish sci-fi movie with the very ultra sexy Adrienne Barbeau as US Government Environmental Agent Alice Cable constantly busting out of her bra or is it t-shirt as she's chased by a gang of mercenaries lead by their commander the rat like Ferret, David Hess, across the South Carolina swamps. That as she meticulously keeps her most sought after and revealing features from popping out during all the chase scenes she's in. We do get to see Alice topless but just for a brief moment as she's bathing in the steamy swamps which is by far the best scene in the movie.Besides Miss Barbeau's playboy centerfold like performance, which we never get enough of, the movie also has as its super villain the crazed and megalomaniac Dr. Anton Double AA Arcane, Louis Jourdan, who's after Alice after she took off with the latest notes of brilliant swamp and plant expert Dr. Alec Holland,Ray Wise. Dr. Holland was set on fire, when Arcane and Commander Ferret's goons attacked his swamp laboratory, with the secret formula that he and his sister Dr. Linda Holland( Nannatte Brown), who was earlier killed off in the movie, discovered. The formula can make plants like fruits and veggies grown to fantastic sizes in record times which can keep the human race from dying out from starvation within the next 30 years!The star of the movie is the eight foot tall green and slimy tree man known as the Swamp Thing who's actually Dr. Holland. It's Dr. Holland who turned into the Swamp Thing after he accidentally drenched himself with his secret plant growing formula which was accidentally set on fire and turned him into that bug snake and moss infested swamp creature. The Swamp Thing seemed to have developed a strong attachment towards Alice and is always there for her whenever she gets into trouble when Dr. Arcana's goons who are trying to get the secret plant growing formula off her. Alice is also aided in the movie by Jude, Reggie Bates, a 14 year old who runs all by himself a gas station and bodega in the swamps selling among other things beer booze & cigarettes which at his young and tender age is against the law! In the movie the Swamp Thing after winning over Alice's, who at first thought that he was something that crawled out from under a rock, confidence in him proving to her that he's in fact her good friend Dr. Alec Holland quickly takes care of Dr. Arcane's gang of cut throats that leads to a final showdown with Dr. Arcane who by then transformed himself, with Dr. Holland's secret formula, into what looked like a combination wolf-man and and Arkansas razor back wild bull hog! The big and long awaited showdown in the swamps between the Swamp Thing and Dr. Arcane is anything but convincing in both combatants having more trouble keeping their footing then slugging it out with each other! Which puts the movie audience, who really want to see more of Miss Barbeau then anything else, almost to sleep.***SPOILERS*** Sad and touching ending with the Swamp Thing going or sloshing back home into the South Carolina swamps and leaving a broken-hearted Alice behind in him knowing that no matter how much she loves him it,their both shacking up together, will never work out in that they, humans and plant life, just aren't meant for each other. "},{"Title":"A Cheesy Swampy Treat From Wes Craven","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was a 12 year old comic book geek when Swamp Thing came out. I wasn't terribly familiar with the character at the time (his early 70s comic book heyday was a bit before my time) but back then I felt I had to see every comic book related movie out there regardless, and when it came to HBO about a year after its (fairly quick if memory serves) box office demise I must've watched it about a dozen times. One thing I will never forget was during one viewing when my father, who was watching the movie with my brother and I, suddenly piped up, Is that Louis Jourdan? What's he doing in this piece of sh*t? Haha.It's been a long time since I'd seen ol' Swampy but when the film turned up on Turner Classic Movies (of all places!) in the wee hours of the morning a few weeks ago I caught it again and y'know what? It's not a great movie, but it is a fun one. Wes Craven obviously didn't have much of a budget to work with on this one but it didn't stop him from giving it the old college try. Keep in mind that Wes was in a bit of a career dry spell at this point, as the notoriety of his early films like Last House on the Left and The Hills Have Eyes had faded and he was stuck doing movies like this and the made-for-TV Chiller around this period before he hit the big time again with the first Nightmare on Elm Street. Readers of Swamp Thing comics know the basic story Alec Holland, a gifted scientist working for the government, has made a breakthrough in DNA research and has synthesized a compound that combines both plant and animal qualities that shows great promise for both species. A new agent (the always-welcome Adrienne Barbeau) arrives at Holland's super secret swamp laboratory just as a rival mad scientist type named Arcane (played with sleazy goodness by Louis Jourdan), who has designs on the formula for his own purposes, sends a team of commando thugs to steal it. Stuff blows up, people get shot, and Holland dives into the swamp and disappears after being exposed to his own formula. Once we see him again he's been transformed into the half plant/half animal Swamp Thing, a sort of marshy looking Incredible Hulk, saving Barbeau from Arcane's thugs over and over again while she protects the final set of Holland's notes for making the miracle formula. Eventually Arcane's thugs capture Barbeau and Swampy and bring them to his estate in the swamp where Arcane tries the formula on himself, with the expected disastrous results.As long as you don't go into Swamp Thing expecting a masterpiece, you're likely to be entertained by its campy fun. There are some pretty cool action sequences as the commandos run roughshod through the swamp looking for the creature, and a young boy who aids Barbeau in escaping from the thugs adds some welcome comic relief (he has the best line in the movie when he sees Swamp Thing for the first time and dryly murmurs, Oh, sheeeee-it... there goes the neighborhood!), and though the final showdown between Swamp Thing and the Arcane Creature is pretty laughable due to the ridiculously cheap monster design, it ends on a high note once the evil is vanquished and Swamp Thing disappears back into the waters, his work done. (At least until the belated sequel and the early 90s TV series...) Those of you who take your comic books a little more seriously than I do nowadays will probably want to stick to your issues of the Alan Moore classic era of the Swamp Thing series but if B-Movie camp is your thing, then the movie should satisfy. "},{"Title":"Not-So-Tiny Bubbles","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wes Craven's 1982 adaptation of the then-popular DC comic book Swamp Thing is an enjoyable romp that is ultimately undermined by a low budget and simplistic script. In it, scientist Alec Holland, played appealingly by Ray Wise, comes to woe when his secret swampland project is attacked and his plant/animal recombinant DNA formula is stolen by criminal genius Arcane, nicely underacted by Louis Jourdan in what can almost be seen as a warm-up for his villainous Kamal Khan in the following year's Octopussy. Holland is accidentally doused with his new elixir during Arcane's heist, transforming him into the eponymous Swamp Thing. Stealing the show from even this sweet monster, however, are tough government operative Alice Cable, played by yummy Adrienne Bubbles Barbeau in a role that must have generated many laying cable jokes back when, and Arcane's pond-scum underling Ferret, played by David Hess, who many Craven fans will recall with extreme repugnance from 1972's The Last House on the Left. Swamp Thing, to its credit, boasts an abundance of actual swampy locales, having been filmed in Cypress Gardens and Magnolia Plantations & Gardens in Charleston, S.C. The film becomes increasingly silly as it progresses, and the makeup work on Swampy himself and on several other rubber-suited mutants is so-so at best. And for all you horndogs out there who may have heard about Adrienne's nude bathing scene, well, let me just say that it may prove a disappointment, and that many will have to use their DVD player's 2X zoom just to make sure there really is something to ogle there. Still, as comic-book adaptations go, this film is likable and does have some ingratiating charm. It moves along quickly and never gets, um, bogged down. Still, I'm not exactly moved sufficiently to check out the 1989 sequel with Heather Locklear. And oh...this picture might pair well with the 1973 British horror film The Freakmaker, for one effective plant/animal hybrid double feature! "},{"Title":"So-so sci-fi movie from the early 80's","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoiler Alert Dr. Alec Holland (Ray Wise) is a scientist/botanist deep in the swamps of Louisiana. He, along with government agent Alice Cable (Adrienne Barbeau), come up with a formula that could end world hunger forever. Little do they know that that the evil genius Arcane (Louis Jordan) is plotting to steal the formula for his own purposes.After a raid at Dr. Holland's laboratory, he is set on fire and the serum is splashed all over him. He jumps in the swamp and disappears. Agent Cable returns to find the lab a smoldering ruin, and most of the notes for the formula missing. She gets out of there but is caught by Arcane's men (the leader is played by David Hess from Last House on the Left). She manages to escape and during the pursuit for her Swamp Thing makes his first appearance. He saves the day and she manages to escape and makes it to a small store run by a small boy named Jude (Reggie Batts). He helps her get out of there but they are pursued and she is caught (again) and taken to Arcane's sumptuous estate in the swamps. They use her for bate and of course Swamp Thing comes to the rescue and, of course, he is captured. Arcane's men manage to lock him up in a dungeon (a dungeon in the swamps?!) and he has an arm cut off during the struggle.By this time Arcane has found the last notebook for the formula and has managed to duplicate it. He slips some of the formula to one of his men during a victory party and everyone watched as he turns into a midget, pig-like creature. Arcane is upset that the formula did not give the man the powers and size that Swamp Thing has and he questions him under duress. Of course the duress is agent Cable being threatened while in chains. Swamp Thing tells him that the serum amplifies the essence of whatever the person is. Of course Arcane decides to take the serum, and then, of course, turns into a hideous monster.Swamp Thing and Cable escape from the dungeon out to the swamp and Arcane, in his new monster persona, follows them. The battle of good vs. evil comes to a predictable end Swamp Thing says goodbye to Cable and walks out to where he now belongs, the swamp. Yawn. Okay, there were some okay special effects like when Arcane transforms into the monster he truly was, and watching Adrienne Barbeau bounce around the screen certainly didn't hurt. But the best character in the film, and who certainly had and delivered the best lines, was the character played by Reggie Batts, Jude. His dry, deadpan delivery of them was quite something and almost makes the movie. As far as I can tell this is the only film he was ever in.The dvd is somewhat infamous in that it was mistakenly released as PG even though it contains a very naked Adrienne Barbeau bathing in the swamp. There is also a party scene in the movie where a couple girls take their tops off. These scenes were in the European theatrical release only, they were not shown in theaters or on video in the U.S. The limited number of copies of the dvd that were sold before the PG mistake was discovered and the dvd recalled back to MGM, are now quite collectable and rare. It is a two sided disk in both 185.1 and fullscreen formats. The only extra is a single trailer. The sound and video are fine with no complaints.  "},{"Title":"I don't know where we are Toto, but it sure isn't Kansas.","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Written and directed by Wes Craven, this movie based on a DC comics creature is a throwback to the creature features of the 50s.Louis Jourdan (Gigi) is the evil doctor who steals the formula for growth developed to feed the world.Adrienne Barbeau, who looks great in a wet t shirt as she runs through the swamp (and looking spectacular when it finally comes off), is amazingly agile with weapons and her hands in fighting off the evil doctors henchmen.The good doctor becomes the swamp thing - possessing superhuman strength, and the ability to regenerate life and limbs. Of course, he is positively Rock Hudson compared to the evil doctor's transformation.B-movie fun. "}{"Title":"That Noisy Creature in the Swamps","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the DC Comics character, a quasi-mystical monster/super-hero then elemental, this concept was taken over by Wes Craven for the movie version, throwing out the later elemental concepts. We're left with man-transformed-into-monster plot, though a monster with a gentle human heart - when he's not throwing mercs around. This works pretty well as a semi-campy adventure in the swamps. The creature looks quite campy now, but was somewhat effective back in '82. It's entertaining to watch the constant chasing & battles with the mercenaries during the first hour and Craven even throws in some dreamlike sequences with Barbeau, stuck in the middle of an unpopulated swamp with a weird creature, recalling a 'Beauty & the Beast' theme.I also liked the master villain here, Arcane, played by Jourdan, who continually emphasizes his genius and makes grandiose proclamations on the nature of power & intelligence. Jourdan's performance is unusual & affected, but hard to forget. He's that comic-book styled villain who relies on brains, something not seen very often on screen (most villains rely on brawn) and he's even the subject of a darkly-ironic comic turn near the end. Craven also makes good use of his regulars, Hess & Worth, as Arcane's henchmen; it's a pity nothing ever branched out for Hess, who is such a natural villain. Barbeau also seems effortless in projecting her natural charms. The ending is a bit of a letdown, but considering its low budget and limitations, this picture is much more watchable than the poor effort Man-Thing many years later in 2005. "},{"Title":"Swamp Thing Vs Gumby","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The same thing occurs each time I watch Swamp Thing. Somewhere near the half way mark I lose interest. I guess mostly because the film changes tempo and doesnt quite know what it wants to be.The first half takes itself seriously whilst the second half goes for the all out schlock.... I am a fan of both formats, but Swamp Thing doesnt know which to be.... and I guess that is why I am a bigger fan of part two because THAT movie knows it's place... Cheezy Schlock at it best!Me thinks alot of people will view this movie on the basis that Wes Craven directed it. Those people may be bitterly dissapointed as this is no Scream and deffinately no Nightmare on Elm Street. And for true genre fans, this is not a patch on his previous Last House on the Left. Some of the characters in this movie look more suited to an episode of Gumby (which I would not have minded if they treated the whole film as a campy romp).I give Swamp Thing a 6 out of 10 On the Basis that it spawned a great goof-ball sequel.  "},{"Title":"I Will Always Be Your Swamp Thang","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on an successful DC comicbook about a scientist who transforms ino the title creature when his experiment goes wrong, Swamp Thing is an odd horror movie, in that it barely qualifies as horror at all.  Silly  is the only way this film can be described; a sweet-natured horror movie?  Only the bad guy is bad, and even he is so campy it's like watching Vincent Price's Dr. Phibes on vallium.  It almost seems to take a Beauty and the Beast tone after the scientist becomes the mossy Swamp Thing, who is mostly confined to a swamp where most of the action occurs.  Now if Barbou were only a Vegan, this relationship would be paradise.  Sorry; the movie inspires  silly comments.  It's not a parody, not a schlocky 60s flick, but surprisingly good-natured and above all, sincere. Rather odd for 80s horror.  Watching it alone will inspire boredom, but watching it with friends will make for fun and loads of witty comments.  Don't miss the romantic bittersweet goodbye at the end.  Guess Barbou wasn't a Vegan after all.   "},{"Title":"Some extraneous notes on a long ago flick","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At the time, Adrienne Barbeau was married to John Carpenter and doing small parts in his flicks.  Well, he was heading off to the near-Arctic to film THE THING.  That film had an all-male cast and thus left her with no possibility of some screentime.  But along comes Carpenter's compatriot, Wes Craven, with an offer to shoot something in the bayous....At the time SWAMP THING The Movie was being shot, SWAMP THING The Comic Book had been defunct for years.  DC decided to resurrect the comic book to tie in to the new film.  The book was interesting but the important part  is that two and a half years into the book's run, scripting fell to a newcomer named Alan Moore.  It's his run that revitalized SWAMP THING, comics in general, and gave the impetus to film the second SWAMP THING flick.Oh, and the acidic waters of the swamp tended to rot the latex Swamp Thing costume  Obviously Adrienne Barbeau is more water-resistant!  "},{"Title":"Inferior to the comic book source material, but...","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...still a fun (if goofy and childish) film in its own right. Anyone who has read the early Swamp Thing comics by Len Wein, David Michelinie and Marty Pasko (not to mention later writers Alan Moore, Rick Veitch and others) will likely agree that a lot was lost in translating the epic tale of Alec Holland from the printed page to the big screen. Matt Cable became a woman...Arcane became a much younger man with a different backstory and a different motivation...Abby Arcane is missing entirely...and so forth. On every level, the comic books that spawned this movie are far superior.And yet, Dick Durock makes the most of what is otherwise largely a mess, and Wes Craven clearly has a lot of fun in making the film seem like a comic book. Some will enjoy the film because of Adrienne Barbeau's outfits...others will enjoy it for the campy comedy and over-the-top dialog...and still others will just crack up and how idiotic many elements of the film (such as the ending) truly are. As for me...I can't help but smile every time young Reggie Batts opens his mouth as Cable's dry-witted youthful sidekick, Jude. What an hilarious performance--and this from a kid who only ever did one film in his career. It's a real shame we never got to see him in anything else.High cinema? Heck, no. Likely to win any awards? Other than the Raspberry, certainly not. Worthy of a sequel? No, though it spawned one anyway. But worth watching? Absolutely.Rich Handley Roots of the Swamp Thing http//www.swampthingroots.com "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, bad !!!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the worst movies i have ever seen, sure it is an old movie and one of the first Wes Craven made in his career, but when you see the suit of 'the swamp thing' , it is just a man in a plastic outfit, i saw the film for twenty minutes and then i turned off my tv, i feel sorry for the fans but as a die hard fan of horror movies i think that this film is an example of doing it very very wrong as a director. "},{"Title":"You're a plant aren't you?","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a great film.  In the time of the unlimited Rocky movies and Superman flicks it was good to see a sick looking creature that was on the side of good.  This movie helped inspire the short lived Swamp Thing animated series which I feel was a great cartoon.  Just give it a shot.  "},{"Title":"Everything's a dream when you're alone.","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In his swamp-based laboratory, scientist Alec Holland develops a formula that stimulates plant growth (or something like that). When evil Arcane and his mercenaries try to take the formula, Alec resists. In the ensuing fight, he's set on fire and jumps into the swamp water. When he emerges, he's transformed into a hulking creature unlike any ever seen before. Oh yeah and there's Adrienne Barbeau naked.I was a teenager when I first read Alan Moore's Swamp Thing comics. I quickly became a fan and sought out the Len Wein and Berni Wrightson comics that preceded Moore and enjoyed them, as well. When I found out that there had been a Swamp Thing movie made years before, directed by Wes Craven no less, I eagerly rushed out to the video store and rented it. To say I was immensely disappointed would be an understatement. The intelligence, creativity, and atmosphere of the comic stories was replaced by cartoonish characters and TV-quality action, not to mention a man in a rubber suit. The bulk of the story is the bad guys chasing Adrienne Barbeau around the swamp. Not that watching Adrienne Barbeau run (and bounce) around in a wet t-shirt is a bad thing. As a matter of fact, her topless scene is the best part of the movie. Reggie Batts is also fun as the kid who helps Barbeau. He gets the movie's best lines. Louis Jourdan is the limp-wristed villain Arcane. Ray Wise is likable enough but disappears early, replaced by stuntman Dick Durock in the Swamp Thing suit. To his credit, Durock does surprisingly well emoting behind the costume. The action scenes barely qualify as such. Mostly just Swamp Thing throwing around guys in army surplus outfits. The special effects are cheap. Harry Manfredini scores the movie and just reuses music from Friday the 13th.It's not a very good movie but it is watchable. There's a certain camp quality about it, I suppose. Perhaps if I had never read the source material I might view it differently but I can't imagine ever thinking it was more than a middling B movie. Fans of Craven and 'Boom Boom' Barbeau will want to give it a try. Followed by a crappy sequel with Heather Locklear and a TV series that wasn't terrible for its time. Hopefully the day will come when Swamp Thing will get a proper movie adaptation that captures some of the creativity and magic of the comics. For now, we'll have to make do with this. "},{"Title":"An historic curio","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the days before they made comic book movies, they made a comic book movie, and it was Swamp Thing. This was a curious comics vehicle to choose, given that Swamp Thing was a minority character at the best of times, and the Alan Moore renaissance in the comic followed on from this movie rather than inspiring it. Maybe it was chosen because it was relatively low in special effects costs (the big item of expenditure would have been the Swamp Thing costume worn by Dick Durock as the mutated Alex Holland).Plotwise this is pretty routine stuff, with Swamp Thing turning out to be a typical tragic monster, albeit one whose actions are ultimately heroic. Louis Jourdan chews the scenery, Adrienne Barbeau is attractively topless, and the swamp location is beautifully photographed.This passes 90 minutes amiably enough. "},{"Title":"Swamp Thing","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A humanitarian scientist, Dr. Alec Holland(Ray Wise)may've discovered a method to linking plant and animal life, but his completed work is taken from him by Dr. Anton Arcane(Louis Jourdan)and his hired mercenaries, killing his sister in the process. An explosion after his green solution(..containing the ingredients which can fuse animal and plant life in the cells)smashes on the ground, igniting Holland, causes a very unusual side-effect..falling into the swamp, Holland becomes a human plant with amazing power, and has an adaptability within his environment, using the light as a source of energy, also capable of healing wounds. Alice Cable(Adrienne Barbeau), sent by the government to access important information on Holland's progress, commandeers a book containing final notes, which Arcane needs in order to gain access to it's phenomenal secrets. Holland, now a beast from the Swamp, will get revenge on Arcane and his soldiers using his advantages against them. But, Arcane's determination will soon pay off,capturing Holland and Alice, gaining the notebook vital to his plans of using such power for his own benefits. Will the Swamp Thing be able to stop him? It's interesting watching a comic book actioner such as Swamp Thing during a time where computers are used so heavily in creating realistic monsters, duking it out as buildings are destroyed along with damaged vehicles. Just simply stuntmen in costumes(..and they look like costumes), quite a leap back in time that is rather refreshing even if today's audience might consider such as hokey and cheesy. Director Wes Craven puts emphasis on action set-pieces within the swamp, letting our monster hero use his home as a weapon against the mercenaries hired to capture him for testing purposes. David Hess and Nicholas Worth are the major heavies, as Arcane's head mercenaries leading the men into hostile territory..Hess does his usual scenery chewing, while Worth changes sides when Arcane betrays him by using the Holland serum against him. Wise is effective in his limited role as a caring scientist whose work is motivated by the opportunity to cease starvation across the globe. He has good chemistry with Barbeau, who also works well with stuntman Dick Durock(..who likewise impresses, not an easy task under such a costume and prosthetics, able to communicate his sorrow and anger towards Arcane and his goons)..of course, Barbeau is the kind of actress from the Howard Hawkes school of tough broads who can hold their own in a man's world, actually picking up a gun, using it when she has to, as well as combating Hess and Worth using physical methods to hurt them. The cast overcome a rather silly premise(..it is based on a comic book, after all)and perform their roles with vitality. Jourdan is a theatrical villain, a variation on his Bond villain from Octopussy, using eloquent verbiage whenever he communicates his thoughts to others, including his diabolical plans regarding the serum. Not graphically violent, with the action scenes carefully orchestrated for a wider audience..there's limited blood shed, and most of Swamp Thing's attacks on the mercenaries happens off screen, as he pops from behind bushes and trees, startling them with the reactions of Hess and Worth who hear their men's screams from off in the distance. The monster Jourdan turns into at the end resembles a kind of werewolf(..and what Worth transforms into will have you in ribbons). "}{"Title":"SwampThing","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THIS WAS MY FIRST MOVIE OUT OF 11 THAT IVE BEEN IN- AND EVERY SINCE- I FIND MYSELF LOOKING BEYOND THE MAIN STORY(LOOKING INTO THE BACKGROUND ,TO LOOK AT THE EXTRAS AND WHATS GOING ON AND LOOKING FOR BLOOPERS-i WAS IN THE SWAMPTHING MOVIE AND HAD TWO DIFFERENT PARTS IN IT- ONE- A AGENT WITH DARK SUNGLASSES AND ANOTHER SCENE AS A COMMANDO(WILLY)-THAT WAS A BLOOPER)' GETTING READY TO SHOOT ADRIAN.(SO LONG BABY)I was on the set for 4 days before they used me- We shot this Swamp scene out at Cypress Gardens- Outside of Charleston,SC. It was different and fun to do.I met some good people and also received a card from (Bruno) a couple of months later after the Film was rapped up.It had taken about all day to do the scene I was in-(got a buddy to take photos in my part--a month later we met at a Swinners dance to get the photos and that is where I met my wife of today(21 years later- we are still married)-Thanks- Roy "},{"Title":"Cheese Thing","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wes Craven's 'Swamp Thing' certainly aspires to be more than the campy B-movie that it ultimately is, and as a result much of the fun has been stripped away. What's left is cheese; cold, rubbery and without much flavor.Despite this, the cast certainly do their best. Ray Wise is only in the first act, but he's charming and likable enough that we care when he's turned into a giant plant. And speaking of the plant, stuntman Dick Durock manages to slip the bonds of his poorly made rubber suit and let his humanity shine through. Lois Jourdan is also great as the somewhat effete gentleman villain Anton Arcane. But the real star here is Adrienne Barbeau. Sure, the obvious reason is watching the voluptuous Ms. Barbeau jiggle her way through the Bayou, but she also makes for a tough and likable heroine.Had this embraced its rather obvious B-movie trappings it may have been a lot of fun. Or if had a better script and production values it might have been something even more. Unfortunately, 'Swamp Thing' is stuck somewhere in the middle. "},{"Title":"mutants in the boondocks","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" We can pretty much always expect something good from Wes Craven, and Swamp Thing is no exception. When a lab in the middle of the swamp gets invaded by gangsters working for a criminal mastermind, one of the scientists gets turned into a half-man, half-plant being who goes around fighting the bad guys. I suspect that when the movie came out, what mostly caught people's attention was a certain scene with Adrienne Barbeau. But even beyond that, the movie is obviously an excuse to have fun. It's not really a horror flick as much as an action-comedy. Aside from the certain scene with Adrienne Barbeau, the other really neat scene is the mutation. A really cool movie. "},{"Title":"lacking in laughs","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Darkman' meets 'The Toxic Avenger', in this silly little 'monster' movie by Wes Craven (Nightmare on Elm Street, Scream).Doctor Holland finds a formula that could end world hunger, but the villain Arcane (a good Jourdan) is after it as well. When he steals it and blows up the research center, they think Holland is killed. But instead he comes back as the 'Swamp Thing', which looks more human than it should, as an earlier reviewer noticed. It even got Michael Jackson's nose!Story is complicated with the arrival of Alice Cable, who falls in love with Holland. When she is later rescued by the Swamp Thing they team up to beat the villains. But then she gets captured. And escapes again. And gets captured again. Meanwhile she gets naked. In short they didn't know what to do next, and the movie loses its momentum.The ending is preposterous, with a final fight between the 'Swamp Thing' and Arcane who had a make-over 'Wolfman'-style. What the movie lacking the most though is a couple of good laughs. Why not have a good sense of humour about it?Final score 4/10. "},{"Title":"Swamp Thing","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The DC Comics horror adventure lacks exactly that... adventure. The story is silly, the dialogue putrid and the filming out of whack. Why was a sequel made??? "},{"Title":"There are certain RULES you must abide by to successfully survive Wes Craven's Swamp Thing","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rule 1) Go into this not expecting the caliber of material that we got later on from executive producer Michael Uslan with the Batman series (for better or worse, mostly better). He produced this film, based on a semi-popular DC comic book character, on a low budget that barely had enough for some action sequences and costumes for the monsters (or, as the trailer pointed out, Monsters AND Midgets), and he got what he paid for. It's a B movie, and fairly proud of its not-high aims as such.Rule 2) Likewise, do not rent or buy Swamp Thing immediately after reading Alan Moore's classic run. Moore's writing for Swamp Thing, which actually took place after this film was released, is an example of the highest standard of writing and drawing of horror comics, so much so that it would give Poe and Lovecraft their share of the willies. It's so good that it ranks almost on par with his comics Watchmen and V for Vendetta... and perhaps he took this movie as an example of certain things to try and correct, a criticism of the comic series up to that point on top of a cash-in flick. So, do be warned, if you're thinking that this will be intelligent horror, then you'll be proved wrong. It's sometimes quite dumb, in fact, and aimed at a level somewhere between impressionable youth and bored teenager.Rule 3) Watch Swamp Thing with a few buddies who can dig seeing Ray Wise in just about anything (I mean, come on, even if it's just for a few scenes it's Laura Palmer's Dad and the Devil on Reaper, what's not to like there?) and Adrienne Barbeau in her hottest glory years (there's even a scene of nudity, however brief, that is quite amazing considering the PG rating, but then again it was 1982), and viewing costumes where if you look close enough you can actually see the zipper on the back. Swamp Thing may or may not ask you, beg you, to imbibe some alcohol for the fun times, which may or mat not also make the movie lessor because of it. It's acting is sometimes just weird (that little black kid with the nerdy glasses, an oddball but effective choice), banal one-note caricatures (the soldiers) or just a dastardly attempt to circumvent campy over-the-top time with Jordan playing Arcane (but when he turns into his own personal monster, watch out!)Rule 4) Just remember while watching it, there's worse, MUCH worse, out there in the genre of the comic-book movie and the B horror movie. Craven himself has done worse when he's tried to aim higher (or arguably lower) with the disgusting Last House on the Left or when he was really slumming it in the lessor parts of the Scream series. He takes on this for-hire job like a pro, and while Swamp Thing doesn't call up his highest marks as a talent he does get through it with some invention, truly campy one-liners (Does it hurt? Only when I laugh) and even a few moments of effective atmosphere with the swamp scenery. Bottom line, don't expect the world of Swamp Thing, just enough to get by an hour and a half with a regenerative/regenerating swamp doctor, and you'll do OK. "},{"Title":"Heaping mound of Man-thing...","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wes Craven has been bottom-feeding for a long time, now. I remember all too well the first time I got snookered a newspaper ad for the worthless LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT (the first one) warned drive-in goers to keep telling yourself it's only a movie. What the ad DIDN'T tell us was that it was a LOUSY movie; we had to find that one out the hard way (by sitting through it). I can honestly state, here and now, that I have yet to be pleasantly surprised by a Craven offering. Because I'd loved THE SWAMP THING by Len Wein and Berni(e) Wrightson (a rehash, of sorts, of THE HEAP, that debuted around the same time as THE MAN-THING), I was looking forward to seeing it brought to the big screen. The name of the director selected to helm the film, however, set off alarm bells. I KNEW, at that moment, that THE SWAMP THING wouldn't be anything at all like the comic book. Still, there WERE two good reasons to see the movie Adrienne Barbeau (you do the math). The end result was even worse than I'd imagined it might be. Craven is nothing if not an underacheiver given everything he needed to make a bona fide classic based on a bona fide classic, he gave us, instead, another laughable entry in a seemingly never-ending series of bad movies. Don't knock guys like Albert Pyun or Charles Band until you've sat through half a dozen of Craven's misfires. "},{"Title":"Pretty lacklustre","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sat somewhere between Wes Craven's disturbing yet interesting The Last House on the Left (1972), and his uber-popular, icon making A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), is this low budget adaptation of a semi-popular DC comics character, Swamp Thing. During this shift from gritty, cinema verite style of Last House, to the more fantastical, polished Nightmare, Craven seems to have been trapped within the confines of a television aesthetic. This films action sequences often feel like (and look like) an episode of The A-Team (1983 - 1987). Craven did work on a few TV shows during this period also, so I'm guessing that this film probably had technicians (and particularly), and a similar budget to a TV movie.Alice Cable (Adrienne Barbeau) arrives in the swamps where secret science experiments are taking place. Doctor Holland (Ray Wise) heads the team researching a chemical that has an effect on organic life. Unfortunately, a group of villains want the formula for evil purposes (one of the hoods, Ferret, is played by star of Last House, David Hess). After an explosion, Dr Holland disappears, only to turn up as human/plant hybrid monster of the films title.This is a pretty lacklustre film. As I mentioned, it has that oh-so distinctive TV aesthetic. It is not altogether bad. It has some fun, and funny moments, and the make-up/costume for the Swamp Thing is not too bad for the time. It makes good use of its source, in the sense that it uses it's comic-book devices such as dramatic editing, and sequences where the screen is masked with action shapes. However, this technique was used to greater effect in the same year in George A. Romero's and Stephen King's underrated Creepshow (1982 - a film that also starred Barbeau - who was married to John Carpenter at the time) that used EC horror comics as it's source.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Swamp Thing (1982)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A rather embarrassing film that offers nervous chuckles as it's biggest form of entertainment. With someone like Wes Craven, I expected at least a bit of suspense or terror. Instead I got a slapstick comedy that wasn't very funny. Luckily my love of monsters, bad movies, and the character in general, made me enjoy it enough. There are some great things. A badass female scientist puts up a fight before being taken. A large lumbering villain has a soft heart etc. It's just all too familiar, and the suit is atrocious for any age/budget. It just looked like one big human sized green condom with a face. By the end, we see Swamp Thing fight against a big ginger pig monster wielding a sword. At this point is seems like the film goes undirected. "},{"Title":"There goes the neighbourhood.....","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Alec Holland, hidden away in the depths of a murky swamp, is trying to create a new species - a combination of animal and plant capable of adapting and thriving in the harshest conditions.Unfortunately he becomes subject of his own creation and is transformed ......Arcane, desperate for the formula attempts to capture the Swamp Thing.An 'explosive' chase ensues that ultimately ends with a confrontation between Holland and a changed Arcane ......I didn't have any high hopes for this movie, a comic book movie directed by Craven, with some very bad effects? I thought it could have been a bit of camp fun with a bit of bad acting that would past some time...Well the acting was bad, but for the first twenty or thirty minutes, this was quite a good movie, and seeing Hess as the main henchman was a joy. But as soon as we met the titular character, it got boring, very quickly.if it was Cravens idea to make the most glum, depressed, boring superhero who does not nothing but throw bad guys around and heal people with glowing hands, he did the film justice.but the film is just too bland, and the narration isn't up to scratch. Jordan is okay as the villain, but the Dr Moreau vibe he has becomes tedious very quickly too.it also features some very odd scenes, the bathing scene for example is out of place, and only made to get the European market interested.so all in all, the first twenty minutes are good, but after that, it turns into a horrible mess.Watch Man-Thing instead. "}{"Title":"Craven should of continued to make similar films","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rule number one never ever take Wes Craven seriously. To be fair that the only rule you need to know. I say this due to the fact that many movie lovers have come to a conclusion that Last house on the left is a horror classic due to it shocking and disturbing elements. Well, i disapproved, that film was garbage and by no means is it a classic , in fact it should be known as a black comedy. So then, what do we have here. We have a film that is watchable by anyone including the brain dead and a script that is so bad that it easy to transfer onto the screen. Sounds like the right film for Craven to direct cause lets admit it. He mediocre.Anyway, Swamp thing is actually enjoyable to watch. judging from the title, i kind off expected it to be camp and cheesy and camp and cheesy it was. to be honest, the title sounded so camp that i had to buy. i dislike Craven but i'l admit ,but i enjoyed the film. Swamp thing is possibly his third greatest film he ever made just behind scream and nightmare on elm street. Like i said he mediocre and mostly produces junk. Swamp thing does have it negatives. The script is awful, the acting is awful and the effects are awful but that what makes it fun to watch . To my amazement i would watch this film again. This is the type of film Craven should of stuck to.Now the only massive negative is that the film was edited on windows movie maker. The film was filled with many cringe moments but the worst cringe was watching the transitions. They made the film look cheap. I know the film was cheap but it was like if Craven for the first time in his life sat down at a editing suit and discovered all these transitions and just threw them into the film.If you liked LHOTL then you'll hate this but if you hated LHOTL then you'll love swamp thing . In all fairness, Swamp thing managed to make my heart sing. "},{"Title":"Typical Craven....","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had high hopes for this one, thinking perhaps Craven could redeem himself for me. Alas, I should have known it was doomed from the opening credits Adrienne Barbeau and Wes Craven's names on screen within moments of each other spells disaster. Barbeau has got to be one of the worst looking successful eye-candy actresses I've ever seen. Am I the only one that doesn't find her attractive in the least? And Craven...I wont even get in to Craven. Suffice to say, I'm not a fan. Anyway, the plot was good enough, about a scientist that is nearly killed when his lab is raided, and is turned into a Swamp Thing by is formula. Ray Wise was pretty good as Alec Holland, the ill-fated scientist, and was one of only two decent actors involved. The other was of course Louis Jourdan, playing the villain to perfection. The other actors were awful, however it may have been due to some of the laughably bad lines they were given. Alongside the actors were horrible effects such as people flying many feet into the air after being thrown from a small boat, or monster costumes that look like they were bought at half price on the day after Halloween. In parts, the film had a very comicbook-like feel to it, which I liked, but at other points it took itself much too seriously. It didn't really seem to know if it was a serious film, or a fun comic book movie. If it had decided on one or the other, it could have been a good film, but despite a few good scenes....it wasn't very good at all.5/10 "},{"Title":"I Dedicate All Five Stars to Adrienne Barbeau","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" More than a nuts and bolts movie review, this is more an ode to the beautiful Adrienne Barbeau who almost completely steals the show in SWAMP THING. Sure, there's this green guy all decked out in rubber, by why go artificial when you can stare at natural, wholesome beauty?I believe that I've covered quite a broad spectrum of lewd video, from Bugs Bunny in a dress, to Vivid, right on to that really disgusting out-there stuff. But there's something mystical about Adrienne Barbeau in SWAMP THING, despite the crazy hair-do, and I can't put my finger on it. She embodies an 80's kind of beauty that is more feminine than anything the silicone-pumped swimsuit models of today can offer. Sigourney Weaver had it. Margot Kidder had it. It's the kind of beauty I hear whenever I listen to Roseanne Cash's Seven Year Ache. It's a brunette mystique that simply doesn't make the casting call anymore. Were I eight years younger, I'd wear out the rewind button trying to get Adrienne in exactly the right frame.I first saw SWAMP THING 20 years ago, when I was the height of a pumpkin, and by then most people had come down from the disco era. Back then, there were two scenes that scarred me for life. One was the transformation scene in American Werewolf in London. In second place was the transformation scenes in SWAMP THING. Near the end of the movie, one of the goons turns into a hairy midget (and starts talking like something out of the Wizard of Oz). After that, the villain turns into a really angry badger. It just goes to show that a six year old child knows nothing of quality production, as both the SWAMP THING and American Werewolf in London stood as classics in my fragile egg-shell mind. But don't let me mislead you. SWAMP THING is no American Werewolf by any stretch of the imagination.Aside from the aforementioned bright spots &#150; Adrienne Barbeau and fun little transformation sequences - the movie is pretty bad upon review. Nothing really happens. The goons are chasing after Adrienne. The swamp thing fends them off. They come back with harsher aargh's the next time, but the swamp thing fends them off again. I enjoyed the slimy villain by Louis Jourdan, but I attribute this to his being European. The rest of the early 80's American cast don't do a convincing job. It's almost as if they exhibit residual traces of the 50's Gee Whiz, goody-two-shoes style acting. Gee golly, Mr. Beaver, that's a swell idea! (arm swings up)So there it is &#150; bad story and bad acting that somehow managed to cause nightmares when I was a child.Here's my suggestion Cut out all the parts with Adrienne Barbeau, do the same with her other B-Movies, and lay over your favorite 80's track, like Heart of Glass by Blondie. Oh, and be sure to check out her upcoming book Worse Things I Could Do, due to hit stands spring 2006.JYJimboduck-dot-com "},{"Title":"Horror directors + the PG rating = Boredom","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With the monstrous success of his wonderful Scream films, Wes Craven was finally given the opportunity to do something he's been itching to do for the past 25 years venture outside the horror genre. He finally got the opportunity to direct some lighter material for once, and the final result was Music of the Heart, a feel good movie starring Meryl Streep as a woman who teaches the violin to underprivileged schoolchildren (!). Despite my attitude towards this subject matter, I shall reserve judgement on Craven's latest career choice since I have not yet seen the film (and have very little desire to do). I will just wish Mr. Craven success in his new genre and hope that his venture into lighter material is much more successful than his previous attempt in 1982, which gave us a lackluster film called Swamp Thing.Prior to Music of the Heart, this was the only PG-rated film Craven ever did, and was his attempt to appeal to younger audiences. Unfortunately, the end result is a very cheap and sloppy picture. Now, Craven is a director who can actually use cheapness and sloppiness to enhance the effectiveness of his films (see Last House on the Left, an all-time fave), but here, his shortcomings leave you frustrated and often bored. The film is marred by a very lame and corny screenplay, and (as you might've guessed) unconvincing makeup effects. Of course, any film involving a guy running around in a rubber suit can be fun, but Craven makes the fatal mistake of taking his material way too seriously. Shooting this film in the swamp was reportedly a real nightmare for him, thanks to poor planning by the studio, and when he realized that the conditions would make it impossible to make a movie that was convincing enough for one to take seriously, there should have been some major re-writes to the script. Still, despite the flaws at the production level, the actors are still fun to watch. Louis Jourdan is wonderfully campy as the mad villain, Dr. Arcane, and who wouldn't enjoy the sight of the bouncy heroine, Adrienne Barbeau, running around for half the picture? And, of course, the film also earns a few merit points for the most welcome presence of David Hess, as Arcane's main henchman, though the PG rating prevents him from doing what he does best. Overall, Swamp Thing is a film that young kids may enjoy, but those who have sat through and loved Last House or The Hills Have Eyes are going to be in for a huge letdown.  "},{"Title":"Really boring.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Given the fact that this was based on a cool comic, I figured that this was going to be a pretty cool horror film. I had liked the comics and was looking forward to seeing this. I didn't expect it to be a great movie, or a thoughtful movie, but what it turned out to be was pathetic. I found it way too boring for even my tastes. I can sit through cheap 50's sci-fi, through dull 60's horror, and even shlocky 70's garbage, but this is one film I have no desire to sit through again. The monster looked okay, and the acting was decent, but the film just wasn't exciting, and I ended up hating it. At least the sequel was a spoof-horror flick, although it isn't very good, either. "},{"Title":"Swamp Thing","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judging by the number of votes this movie has, it didn't get a wide release, and for good reason.The movie is from The Master of Horror Wes Craven. But there's nothing new, scary, entertaining, or even good. For shame, Wes Craven, for shame.The movie is based on a comic book. Which is kind of weird, because most movies based on comic books are...uh... good.The movie is free on IMDb. And other movie websites. So, I guess if you want to see it, you won't have to pay. The only way I would recommend this movie is if you just want to see all of Wes Craven's movies. Or, you just like to watch bad movies. "},{"Title":"I didn't get the appeal","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, evidently you have to be in a certain frame of mind when watching Swamp Thing. I immediately checked out the reviews here after viewing the flick and most people are positive, but the really smart ones warn you that you'd better know what to expect.Well, silly me, I thought Wes Craven-my mind jumped to Last House on the Left and A Nightmare on Elm Street and I actually expected Swamp Thing to at least attempt to be scary. Nope, dead wrong there! It actually goes for a campy comic book feel (and being from Iceland, I have never seen a comic for this thing) and attempts it with zero-budget, I presume. This has a guy in a suit rescuing the girl in distress and battling a few evil guys in the process. And it all culminates in a you have to see it to believe it battle between two freaks of nature.Going into plot holes, illogical developments, acting and production values does seem to be a moo point (to quote Joey from Friends) here. I guess admirers of this film will defend it's right for existence anywhere, anytime and they probably get a kick out of it. This may very well be an enjoyable film for the kiddies so I won't trash it just because I felt I could have spent 90 minutes in a more productive way.Anyway, know what to expect; BAD acting, BAD effects, BAD costume design, ZERO suspense, REALLY CHEESY action but surprisingly enough; very good cinematography.Have fun with the guy who hangs out in the swamps! "},{"Title":"Dampy Marsh.","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Science-fiction tale about a scientist (Ray Wise) who is double-crossed by another (the evil Louis Jourdan) and is turned into the titled character after jumping into a marshy area after a fiery accident. Silly mess with Adrienne Barbeau being the love interest of Dick Durock (who is the Wise character after the mishap) and Jourdan's military cronies stealing the show. Film-maker Wes Craven was about to hit gold in 1984 with his A Nightmare on Elm Street series and ultimately Swamp Thing becomes a cult-styled footnote to the famed horror film director's career. The anti-establishment comic books (developed by Len Wein) of the 1970s just do not make a whole lot of sense on the silver screen. I am not sure the idea ever had enough complexity or background to be much more than it is. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly dumb and boring","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though I always thought of Wes Craven as an overrated and vainglorious director, I did expect that he was capable of doing something more (and better) with the adaptation of the Swamp Thing comic book. Guess I'm still giving him too much credit! This was meant to be an adventurous horror-comedy but it isn't funny or scary and it definitely doesn't contain much adventure! It's hard to believe how dreadfully boring the screenplay is, especially considering the potential of the premise and the beauty of the filming locations. The titular creature is a peaceable being, mainly occupied with protecting his love-interest from the bad people that are after her. He himself got mutated into a hideous creature when these same villains broke into his lab to steal his groundbreaking formulas that turn plants into nourishment for the Third World. The only really good element about this production is the well-chosen cast, with a great Louis Jourdan as the nemesis who seems to come straight out of a James Bond movie and David Hess (Last House on the Left) as the relentless and savage crook. Adrienne Barbeau also is a great choice for the female lead and she has a wonderful nude-bathing sequence in the swamp (I thought that was worth mentioning!). The make-up effects are pretty weak and the last half hour is a giant mess. Swamp Thing is not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Not a Complete Winner but Entertaining","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Swamp Thing (1982) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Wes Craven's adaptation of the DC Comic isn't the greatest thing out there but I think there are enough campy moments to make it worth sitting through. Dr. Anton Arcane (Louis Jourdan) is in the swamp trying to come up with a new chemical that would help vegetation grow when his new assistant (Adrienne Barbeau) arrives. The doctor comes under attack from a group wanting the formula and he's turned into the title character who must fight for the assistant he has fallen in love with. SWAMP THING was released with a thud but overtime I think people have somewhat warmed up to it. There's no question that the film falls short of being a good movie but considering what Craven had to work with I think it turned out okay. Craven has stated in interviews that he took the picture because he wanted to work with stars, the studio and with a budget. I can understand this but I think one of the problems with the picture is that there's really no look or style to it. I think Craven was so worried about creating a Hollywood picture that he really made a film that doesn't look like his and even worse is that the picture has a poor look to it. I think the action scenes are all poorly shot, executed and they've just got a cheap, fake look to them. I thought they were all poorly staged and there's just not any excitement or energy to them. Another problem is the music score by Harry Manfredini. Each time I hear a score from him after Friday THE 13TH it's a copy of that film's score. The borrowed cues from that just don't work well with this picture and it just sounds like it should be for a different movie. The performances are pretty good with Jourdan and Barbeau both doing fine work and their chemistry together works well. It was fun seeing David Hess with Craven and Nicholas Worth makes for a good villain. I did think the locations were good, the costume was cheap but effective and there's no question that the film has its own charm that comes from some of the campy moments. I think SWAMP THING could benefit from a remake but this film here holds up fairly well as a piece of 80s silly action. "}{"Title":"I want that swamp thing. Average comic-book adaptation.","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Swamp Thing starts with special Government agent Alice Cable (Adrienne Barbeau) landing in the swampy Florida everglades where she is assigned to protect brilliant scientist Dr. Alec Holland (Ray Wise) & his research in which he is trying to combine animal & plant DNA to create a new species for vague reasons that really didn't sound that plausible to me. Unfortunately for Alec evil rival scientist Dr. Anton Arcane (Louis Jordan) wants his discoveries & launches an attack on Alec's lab in which Linda (Nannette Brown) his sister is killed & he is set on fire but while engulfed in flames manages to make it to the swamp & jump in... Arcane & his men steal Alec's research & leave, however unknown to them agent Cable survived the ambush & retains some of Alec's notes. Arcane needs these notes to complete the formula & concentrates all his efforts on locating Cable but she suddenly has a protector, a green thing that lives within the swamp & possesses great strength...Written & directed by Wes Craven I was disappointed with Swamp Thing, at best it's watchable while at worst it's an embarrassing mess. The script is based on the DC Comic books by Len Wein & Bernie Wrightson, the film itself feels like a comic book featuring a mutated superhero with special powers, over-the-top character's, situations & a black & white good vs evil storyline as there's no middle ground here, either your good or your evil. I must admit that at least it moves along at a decent pace so it never became boring or dull & I quite liked the snappy one-liner comic book type dialogue, don't expect any mindless exposition apart from the absolute minimum. I found the story somewhat dull & repetitive while huge chunks of the original Swamp Thing comic mythology have been changed, Cable was apparently a male in the comics while Arcane was an ageing magician rather than mad French scientist. There really isn't much more to say about Swamp Thing, I have to say Barbeau makes for a good female lead & it has a nice comic book vibe running throughout it but apart from that there is very little here to shout about. On a basic level it's watchable but it's also one of Craven's poorest films.Director Craven gives the film a nice colourful, overblown comic book feel & it has a nice style about it. Some of the editing wipes & techniques are pretty cool as well but that's hardly enough to save it. Now on to the special effects which are far from special, the swamp thing himself is just about passable but it's fairly obvious that it's just some bloke in a green rubber suit & don't be fooled by any lavish, over exaggerating artists drawing on the front of video/DVD sleeves. Then there's the Arcane monster at the end, this has to be one of the most pathetic looking creature I've ever seen, again it's a guy in a rubber suit with a dogs head that is so cheap the jaw never moves & it's eyes look like painted ping pong balls, this monster really is a sorry looking creation. There's no gore & the action scenes are bland & flat with most of them just consisting of people being thrown through the air in slow motion.With a supposed budget of about $3,000,000 it's comes as a surprise that Swamp Thing has some terrible effects & isn't a grander spectacle. The score by Harry Manfredini sounds just like every other score he's ever composed. The swamp locations look OK while the acting really isn't up to much apart from Barbeau & French villain Louis Jordan who deserves better than this. David Hess from The Last House on the Left (1972) turns up but is predictably awful.Swamp Thing is an OK film, it has that ecological message & it passes an hour and a half but I hoped for more plus the dull action scenes & the truly pathetic looking monster at the end means Swamp Thing is strictly average. If you haven't seen Swamp Thing yet then don't loose any sleep over it. Proved successful enough to produce a sequel The Return of Swamp Thing (1989) & a TV series Swamp Thing (1990 - 1993) which apparently ran for 73 episodes. "},{"Title":"mediocre time-passer","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This certainly isn't one of the better films I have ever seen. However, for what it is, it's a decent time-passer. In other words, you generally DON'T have high expectations for a film entitled Swamp Thing--you know it will be hokey and not exactly cerebral! So, on a purely turn off your brain and enjoy level, the film succeeds. Louis Jourdan is sophisticated and entertaining as the villain and the monster is realistic enough that you almost believe he could be real. Adrienne Barbeau is along for the ride to provide a female love interest for the Swamp Thing as well as to provide a gratuitous view of her large breasts (parents beware--think twice before letting your kids see this PG-rated flick). Overall, silly and trivial but fun. "}]