[{"Title":"Newman amazing as drunken lawyer in story of redemption...","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"82 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The title of this movie is deceiving.  THE VERDICT suggests a courtroom drama, something like TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, or INHERIT THE WIND.  It does have some riveting court scenes, but what happens outside of court and to Paul Newman is the real attraction here.  The title not only refers to the inevitable decision of the important case of the film, but also to how the Newman character is going to live the rest of his life. Should he sell out and take the easy settlement, or take the highly regarded archdiocese of Boston to court for real justice.  These are the questions Newman must face in this profound drama that seems more like a picture of the 70's than an 80's film.Director Sidney Lumet has dealt with the legal system before in his first film, 12 ANGRY MEN.  He takes it to a more personal level and Paul Newman, one of the finest actors of the past 40 years, is the person to do it.  He is a legend and he bares his soul as attorney Frank Galvin, a lonely, corrupt drunk whose license to practice law is hanging by a thread.  Jack Warden plays his trusty assistant who gets him a case that could help Frank change his life.  Warden, however, has had enough.Newman plays an excellent drunk, even cracking an egg into an 8am beer to start his day.  This is a dim looking movie, shot during a cold winter in Boston.  There are no great shots, or even any emotionally-rousing speeches, but this is Lumet's style.  It is plodding and we see into the life of a lawyer on the ropes.  James Mason is perfect as the slimy defense lawyer. Newman is constantly underestimated because of past failures. He is a drunk, but he still has some tricks up his sleeve.NOTE Look closely at the closing argument given by Newman.  In the background, you can glimpse a then-unknown Bruce Willis. "},{"Title":"one of the best legal dramas ever","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"74 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Verdict is simply one of the best legal dramas ever done. Of course much of what happens in the movie is unrealistic and wouldn't happen in a real case but the movie isn't a study in courtroom procedure (watch the fantastic Anatomy of a Murder for that) it is a study about redemption and in that respect it excels.This movie captures Paul Newman's finest screen performance and that alone makes it an important movie. The scenes where Newman hardly says anything show how great an actor he is---his look of self-loathing when he's thrown out of the funeral home, his palsied hand and lost look when he's trying to drink his whiskey, his panic when Charlotte Rampling lambastes him for being a failure. Then throw into that his terrific courtroom scenes, his arguments with the judge in chambers, it is just a sensational performance all around.The level of acting is high all around in this movie. James Mason was Oscar nominated for playing the silky smooth, totally corrupt defense attorney. Jack Warden shines as Frank Galvin's world-weary former law partner. Lindsey Crouse has a small role as a nurse but is given the most powerful and dramatic moment in the entire movie. Her cross-examination by James Mason is where the movie really shines and shows that Paul Newman can keep his ego in check. How many movies give the most powerful and dramatic moment of the film to one of the secondary players? How many lead actors would be willing to just sit there quiet in a chair while a bit player and the second male lead share the big moment? It was a bold decision by both Newman, director Sidney Lumet and writer David Mamet and it is unforgettable.The movie shows the two extremes of the practice of law. James Mason's win-at-all-costs cheating and Paul Newman getting so emotionally wrapped up in the case that he is no longer protecting his client's interests and instead is out to settle his own personal scores. A great, great movie. "},{"Title":"The Best of Newman","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"69 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie, on screen and as a video, many times.  Each time, it gets better.   This is no doubt the best acting by Paul Newman in his career.   Why he didn't get the Oscar for this role, but instead got it for the lackluster The Color of Money, is beyond me.  The movie is actually about redemption, or the attempt to be redeemed.His interpretation of Frank Galvin, a desperate, conniving, down-to-the-last-case attorney, is fascinating and totally convincing.   And he has a fantastic supporting cast -- from Jack Warden as his partner, Charlotte Rampling as his chance for romantic redemption, Milo O'Shea as the corrupt judge, Lindsay Crouse as his surprising ace-up-his-sleeve, and most of all, in a landmark supporting actor role, James Mason as the seemingly distinguished and respected defense attorney.And I found the direction by Sidney Lumet to be, once again, outstanding.   Lumet has such a long list of great movies that you wonder why he has never won an Oscar or been given an AFI Lifetime Achievement award.  This is a riveting movie -- about the law, but mainly about the flawed nature of the human beings who are entrusted with it.   Please hear Newman, as Frank Galvin, on his last, crippled, despairing leg, give the summation to the case.   It needs to be carved in marble somewhere. David Mamet, who wrote the screenplay, deserves accolades for how he was able to hand Paul Newman such a moving summation.  The summation is about life, not just the law.  It is a masterpiece, worth seeing the entire movie for.Most of all, it is Newman's Finest Hour. "},{"Title":"an old story, an important question, a great performance by a great actor","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"44 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw The Verdict when it was released in 1982 and just watched it again. It is amazing what of the film I retained in memory. Most of what I remembered was the sheer brilliance of Paul Newman. In seeing it the second time, I'm 24 years older, I've worked for attorneys, I've had an experience with the justice system. And still, what I take away from The Verdict is the sheer brilliance of Paul Newman. After Matthew McConnaughey made A Time to Kill, he asked his agents if he could meet Paul Newman. I guess someone told him they were similar. Newman said to him, This is a time to not take yourself seriously and your work very seriously. When Matthew McConnaughey has a 50+ year career, you'll talk (I'll be gone) - but it's evident that Paul Newman takes his work very seriously indeed.The Verdict is an old story - the drunken attorney who takes a case -think The People Against O'Hara for one - but this one has a stunning cast which includes Jack Warden, James Mason, Charlotte Rampling and Lindsay Crouse. And it asks one of life's great questions - what do you do when losing is just not an option? Drunken, disillusioned, ambulance-chasing Frank Galvin takes a slam-dunk hospital negligence case thrown to him by an investigator friend (Warden). His expert witness tells him he can win. So Galvin doesn't tell his client about a lowball offer, takes the thing to trial, loses his star witness, hires a pathetic expert, is reported by his client for failing to give them the offer they would have happily taken - simply put, there's no paddle but if he doesn't get down the river, any hope of reconstituting his life is over. Gone. David Mamet's script stacks everything against Frank but when you're fighting for your life, failure is not an option.Newman is a wonder with his loser posture and hyperventilation and his desperateness. It's in his voice, it's on his face, it's in his smile, it's in his shaking hands. He's up against James Mason and his huge law firm, a smug, well-dressed bunch who will stop at nothing to win. One might think this type of firm is a cliché; it isn't. One of the characters says it best - You have no loyalty to anyone, you don't care who you hurt. You're all whores. Unfortunately in real life, all attorneys are pretty much the same, but at least in film we occasionally are shown a decent one. When this film was made, the public had not yet been subjected to the Dream Team, the Robert Blake Case, the Menendez Brothers. But even today, knowing better, you can't help but buy into Newman's frantic sincerity.The rest of the cast is uniformly excellent, with top honors going to Mason's smooth Concannon and Lindsay Crouse, who gives us the most powerful five minutes of the film with her magnificent performance as the admission nurse.Is it a manipulative film? As hell. Is it feel good? You betcha. But take it from someone who knows an unfortunate truth - that justice is for the rich who pull in favors and have the money to fight, everyone lies their teeth off, and the jury system is sad - if I can be swept away by The Verdict and by Paul Newman's performance (another Oscar he was cheated out of) - you're gonna eat it up. "},{"Title":"The difference between what is legal and what is just","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"47 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I like that this film shows how the criminal justice system, solid though it is, has cracks that can prevent justice being done, and that the people participating in it have to have the courage to recognize them.  This film has turned out to be a seminal one  legal drama has turned overwhelmingly to rumination of the moral interstices of the law like the one portrayed here.  Without The Verdict, we wouldn't have The Practice.  Gone are the days when all of Perry Mason's clients were innocent.Paul Newman's performance has been justifiably enshrined in the pantheon of Circumstances When The Academy Dropped The Ball.  But what made the film a truly emotional performance for me was Lindsay Crouse as the pivotal witness.  The entire ensemble was flawless, as was the incredible atmosphere.  The Verdict is probably too serious for some movie fans, and that's OK--no film can please everyone.  But if you like to be given something to think about by your entertainments, this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"One of the best courtroom dramas","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've always believed that actors are drawn to courtroom material because of the inherent conflict within them makes for good drama and good parts. They're quite a few of them in The Verdict.This has always been my favorite Paul Newman film, it's the one he should have won the Oscar for. His Frank Galvin is not the noblest of creatures, he's a once promising attorney now an alcoholic ambulance chaser. But the skills are still there and he shows them battling tremendous odds. Thirty years earlier Frank Capra could easily have made this the subject of one of his populist dramas.Newman gets great support from an outstanding cast. James Mason, Jack Warden, Charlotte Rampling, Joe Seneca deliver some outstanding performances. The one I particularly liked here was Milo O'Shea as the corrupt and biased judge. Most of the great courtroom dramas have been about criminal cases. The Verdict was a landmark film that set the stage for the success of other great films about civil cases, including A Civil Action and Erin Brockovich. Those I don't think would have been made but for the critical and popular success of The Verdict.Paul Newman was never better on screen. "},{"Title":"Newman should have won the Oscar for this one.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"35 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If Newman hadn't been up against Ghandi, he probably would have.  I think the Academy realized their error and Newman's win for The Color of Money was really for his portrayal of Frank Galvin, in this well-done tale of moral decrepitude and ultimate redemption.  Writer Mamet and Director Lumet are into heavy symbolism throughout, with the scene of the developing Poloroids of the victim (the case becomes clear in Galvin's mind), to Galvin's pilfering of a woman's mail to run down a lead on a potential witness. The closing statement of Newman's character to the jury is powerful. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this film, I own a copy and I watch it at least once a year.  It's hard to pick a best work from Sidney Lumet, Paul Newman or David Mamet, but this film ranks up there for all three.   And really, when you say those three names on one film, that says it all, doesn't it?Newman plays a down and out lawyer, a drunk ambulance chaser whose life changes when he turns down a pultry settlement offer to try a case that he can't possibly win.  There are so many great scenes in this film, it's hard to pick a favorite. Possibly, the very end, the ringing phone Paul Newman ignores as he sips on some coffee, rather than whiskey, might be one of the all time greats.  The scene sums up the movie so well. My other favorite is a long, single shot where Newman is on the phone trying to get another doctor to testify and Jack Warden paces the room. The camera is at the other end of the room, on the floor and the scene is about five or six minutes long, one continuous shot, beautifully done.I read a book a couple years ago that covered blunders in film regarding court cases and apparently there were a couple in this one.  But this is a film that is so great, so well done, I think Godzilla could have trampled part of Boston and Lumet could have made it believable. Although Cool Hand Luke is my favorite film of all time, The Verdict is my second favorite Newman film. See it if you can. "},{"Title":"In Primis","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This one really isn't to be missed, certainly among the best of the courtroom dramas. The acting. Well, first of all, nobody is bad. The most nearly negligible performance is by Wesley Addy, who at least looks the part of the elegant doctor and who is a competent actor. The other principals are outstanding. Charlotte Rampling with that odd face -- sultriness imposed kicking and screaming upon boniness -- is unusually good and even manages to project a kind of believable guilty remorse, which has never been her strong suit. James Mason is (almost)unflappable as Concannon, attorney for the defense. Marvelous, the way he puts quotation marks around the word expert while questioning the plaintiff's witness. Edward Binns is stolid as the savvy but moral bishop who wants to wrap things up without making waves. What is the truth?, he asks Newman. Jack Warden is plumply likable, as always. He's seems to have aged more than Binns, with whom he'd worked a quarter of a century earlier in Twelve Angry Men. Lindsay Crouse in a small but crucial role is appealingly Irish. Milo O'Shea is sliminess itself. I don't know why, perhaps his impish accent, but there is always something amusing about him, as if unable to quite shake what Erving Goffman called role distance, the knowledge that he's playing a part accompanied by an awareness of the absurdity of doing so. Even Bruce Willis is in this, playing a visitor to the courtroom. I was an atmosphere person in a Boston courtroom too, in From the Hip -- a far superior movie. (Ask anybody. Ask my mother.) And Paul Newman is flawless. Robert Redford was supposed to play Frankie Galvin, but he wouldn't have been up to the part. The role requires the compelling anguish that Newman brings to it, and he does it perfectly. Redford is much too cool for that. I will mention just one scene of Newman's that is emblematic. He stands in his darkened office -- Warden watching soundlessly from the background -- and calls the defendants' law firm about a settlement they have already withdrawn. He paces around talking into the phone, hardly able to breathe, congested with not just mucous but self hatred, cajoling them, pounding on the desk with his knuckles, filled with an empty bravado. Redford couldn't do it. Practically nobody could do it.Almost everything fits together perfectly in this film. Sidney Lumet opens with a shot of Newman alone in silhouette playing a pinball machine in a Boston bar, drinking beer. The pinball game serves as a token for the trajectory of his life during the course of the film. Wardrobe first-rate. How New England. Multi-layered dark clothing, (in Newman's case black), woolly and fussy. Sound excellent. Little noises, hardly noticeable, form almost a background score. The old wooden floors creak when people step on them. An example of one or two good creaks the scene in Concannon's office when he is welcoming Laura back to the law. Twirled-up telephone lines squeak when someone pulls on them. The tinkling of ice cubes in liquor glasses. The heavy breathing of nervous or defeated people. The slamming of ancient desk drawers. Garbage trucks groaning and whining in the city streets at dawn. Production design as good as it gets. Everything looks old, as if it has been used and lived in for years, not shabby but burnished with age, all mahogany wood and scarlet carpets. Lighting and photography up there with the best. Most scenes are dark -- it's midwinter in Boston -- but not too dark, cleverly lighted. The snow in the streets is literally blue, as if it had just leaped out of an impressionist landscape. Tree branches glisten with moisture on slick night-time streets. Tinsel draped along a bar ceiling twinkles with fraudulent joy. The weakness? The movie is so good I hate to mention it, but the script leaves something to be desired. It almost betrays the characters. I don't mind the legal absurdities so much. Okay, so things would never really happen this way. The judge would have to grant a continuance and so forth. It's not so much that as the motivation and the set speeches that are bothersome, especially Newman's, and they're critical. The banter and small talk are fine. But Newman's conversion from a drunken, cynical ambulance chaser to a principled attorney of reawakened morals in the course of two-minute photo session with a comatose patient is patently unbelievable. Where did all that conscience (if that's what it is?) suddenly come from? He flops backwards as if stunned. Why? The script does its best to back up his epiphany. The images of his patient develop as a real person, not just a dollar sign, on the Polaroid photos, a mirror image of what's going on in his mind. But as Warden repeatedly points out, his job is to win some money for his clients so they can leave their comatose sister in good care and get on with their lives in Tucson. Instead he turns down the church's offer because he sees a trial as a challenge to his personal pride, as a means of redemption. (Is that kind of pride a mortal or a venial sin?) He loses sight of what the whole legal process is about because of this self-involvement. It wouldn't be so bad if he realized this but in fact he never gives it a thought.Finally, Newman's summation it sounds as if it had been put together by some high school kid whose homework assignment was to write an essay (of at least two hundred words) about what life means to me. I believe there is justice in our hearts, says Newman, more to himself than to the jury. No kidding.None of this criticism can subtract from all the other virtues of the film. It's among the best of its kind. "},{"Title":"a fantastic movie from start to finish--one of the best of the 80s","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although Paul Newman has received MANY accolades for his acting, this movie, to me, stands out as the best of all his many wonderful performances. Newman plays an alcoholic has-been lawyer who has pretty much given up on making a difference. He is an ambulance chaser whose only goal is to arrange a quick settlement--regardless of whether or not his clients deserve more or nothing at all (a nuisance lawyer). He plays this role exceptionally well and the writing and directing much also be credited.Out of the blue, he takes a case where the client has a really good case and deserves a very large judgment. However, Newman is planning on just making a quick settlement regardless of whether or not it was fair for anyone. However, over time, for once, he has a hard time living with himself and eventually decides to fight. However, the archdiocese being sued hires a team of top-rate lawyers and Newman finally refuses to back down and take a settlement.You MUST watch this movie!!! "}{"Title":"One of the Best Courtroom Dramas of Cinema History","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Boston, the former successful lawyer Frank Galvin (Paul Newman) is presently a divorced and decadent alcoholic ambulance chaser, searching funerals in the obituary to get new clients. His friend and former professor Mickey Morrissey (Jack Warden) brings one client to Frank, Deborah Ann Kaye (Susan Benenson), who reports that her sister lost her baby in the delivery and had brain damage in the St. Catherine Labouré Hospital due to the medical malpractice.Frank meets Dr. Gruber (Lewis Stadlen), who tells that the woman received wrong anesthetic and drown in her own vomit due to negligence of Dr. Marx and the anesthetist Dr. Towler (Wesley Addy). Further, he offers to witness in court and Frank sees the chance of going to trial against the Archdiocese of Boston and win the case. Frank goes to the hospital to take pictures of Deborah's sister and he is affected by the vegetative state of the woman. Out of the blue, Bishop Brophy (Edward Binns) summons Frank and offers an endowment of US$ 210,000.00 to drop the case. However Frank sees the chance to bring justice to the family; save his career and earn respect and he does not accept the small fortune.Frank calls Mickey to help him in the investigation, but he finds difficulties, since his unethical opponent Ed Concannon (James Mason) anticipates his actions and Dr. Gruber mysteriously travels to the Caribbean to spend a week on vacation and Judge Hoyle (Milo O'Shea) tries to force him to accept the settling. Meanwhile Frank meets the gorgeous Laura Fischer (Charlotte Rampling) in a bar and they have a love affair. But when Mickey seeks cigarette in her purse, he makes a discovery that will hurt Frank.The Verdict is one of the best courtroom dramas of cinema history with one of the best performances of Paul Newman. Directed by Sidney Lumet, The Verdict is also the third work of the talented David Mamet that wrote the great screenplay with an unusual (open) end for an American movie.I saw this film in the 80's in the movie theater; than on VHS and today I have just seen on DVD and I realize that after almost thirty years, this film has not aged. The magnificent cast has top-notch performances and I love Charlotte Rampling in this film, who is also very elegant and beautiful. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) O Veredicto (The Verdict) "},{"Title":"maybe not one of the very best I've seen from Lumet, but from Newman...","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet reaches into a certain style in this film that took me a few minutes to, if the word is right, adjust to. One might almost think the way he keeps the camera on a character or goes for the shots keeping the characters far away (long-shots) or in dark spaces (when not in the courtroom) or seemingly small in the scope of the areas around then, as detached. It is, but there-in lies his talents as a director, by letting the acting- slow but very sturdy and all based on David Mamet's script (also not one of his very best, but then again different from his plays). It's not a great film by the director as some have gone to lengths to write about, but it is one that is resonating further as I write this, and does successfully dig into further what it means to be a lawyer, or just trying to live, when odds are stacked against you. I'm almost reminded of a European director here, searching under the obvious in the story- points of which in the case that could just as well be on an OK episode of Law & Order- doing more of a character study than a full-on courtroom drama.It helps, however, that Paul Newman is at the top of his game here, giving a performance that is textured, if that's a word to use as well, and kind of sad. He's playing Frank Gavin as much of a tragic figure as a real human being here, and there's a scene where he is in his office at a big moment of doubt there is no other case, there is no other case. Newman is able to tap into what Lumet and Mamet have in the material superlatively, as if he knows how this character thinks. The early scenes show him as a low-level guy, ambulance chaser, who gets a case of a malpractice of a woman. In one of the most crucial and successful scenes in the film (for both director, writer and star), Gavin takes a couple of Polaroids of the girl in the hospital, seemingly just doing his work, but then has a pause, and the photos come into focus. This kind of change-of-thought has been done in other dramas to be sure, but here it really clicks with the pace, the mood and timing from Newman, and how this situation is given room to breathe.If the rest of the film doesn't follow this same pattern it's not necessarily a full-on crutch. The courtroom scenes themselves are very good, with James Mason (among other British character actors) convincing in their roles of the more 'weighty' side of the court. Jack Warden adds some presence too as Gavin's partner (and adds a memory of Lumet's own classic 12 Angry Men). Only the sub-plot between Newman and Rampling seems just slightly off. Her character is necessary for the film, and there are one or two excellent scenes with her in it (particularly the one with him feeling most shaky before the trial). But her part is that of a more conventional picture, and her motivations are only made so clear as to not be totally believable. The final scene between her and Newman is maybe the best out of all of them, but it goes without saying that it's mainly a credit to him and Lumet, a kind of catharsis that is laid on that does add a fine point.The Verdict is not really one of those films that is over-rated in the scope of things, and it's possibly more of the deserved Oscar nominated turns for Newman when compared to The Color of Money (good, not great there). It's worth seeing again, even as it is a different kind of courtroom picture, where the good and evil in man is not as revealed as in Lumet's first feature, but there are some poignant scenes of the need of redemption for a broken person. "},{"Title":"One of my all time top twenty films, definitely Newmans best","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can only agree wholeheartedly with the first submission about this film, it is one of the most grown up works of American cinema that i have ever seen. Everything about the film is just great - Newmans Frank Galvin is a truly great character, and it just shows how great an actor Newman is when he can portray someone washed up so well, when as a person he has lived a very fulfilling and successful life. As a character study it is superlative, and there are no wasted moments - just like Training Day there is not one wasted moment in the film. The way he is chastised by the sister and her husband for being 'Just like all the others' when in fact he isn't, he actually knows that it is an occasion to really address the issue properly, yet risks all by doing so - shows the kind of contradiction that rarely is shown in films. Cutting, biting wit. A film for grown ups. Fabulous. "},{"Title":"Best Court Room Movie EVER","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As always, Paul Newman makes acting look so easy. All his gestures, how he tells that cute joke in the bar, how he moves, speaks, well, you know, he just is the master. But if you want to enjoy Jack Warden who brings it all on, or Milo O'Shea, another veteran, and of course James Mason, his pauses, his mannerisms, don't miss this gem. The script, tight, seamless. Terrific film and I won't give any of it away. I own this film and as far as I am concerned, this is one fine movie to have in your collection.There are many quotable quotes I don't think I am talking out of school . . . The scene picking the jury with Jack Warden in the background. The camaraderie between these two is something that you want to believe they took home off the set. Newman you want me to go wee wee wee all the way home. "},{"Title":"one of my favorites; Charlotte Rampling is quietly stunning","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Everyone is giving Paul Newman all the props for this movie, and I agree he's great in it, but for me the real joy in this is Charlotte Rampling, who is so worn down by life that she almost blends into the background. She doesn't even have to speak, just those defeated haunted eyes do it all. She can do plenty with just a single word; in one scene Newman asks her if she'd like a drink, and she instantly says yes reflexively, flatly, without emotion. In the scene when he confronts her in the bar, her eyes are so expressive, it's chilling.Though it's one of my favorite movies, I really hate how it ended. She really wanted to talk to him, and never had a chance. All the big characters got to be winners, she got cast off like old news. I guess that's better than an easy ending with everybody and Lassie all beaming at the moon while the strings swell, so I guess it gets a pass. Still, what a fine ember of spirit got snuffed. "},{"Title":"Lumet and Mamet","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman plays Frank Galvin, an alcoholic lawyer whose legal career is in shambles. When a routine malpractice case is thrown his way, Frank gets one last chance to prove himself. Initially he simply goes through the motions, but when he meets the victim, a young woman who has suffered complications during childbirth and is now reduced to a permanently comatose state, he approaches the case with newfound resolve.Rejecting a Catholic hospital's offer of a financial settlement, Frank decides to take the case to court. Here he battles both for his client's rights and for his own dignity.Three big names elevate the film David Mamet, Paul Newman and Sidney Lumet. Newman gives a great performance and the film is littered with 3 or 4 amazingly acted scenes, all of which play on Frank's sense of shame. Meanwhile, David Mamet provides a suspenseful screenplay, which somehow manages to lift itself above the clichés. Finally, Lumet's direction is beautifully low key. The film is slow during its first half hour, but things quickly pick up pace.8/10 - Not as good as Lumet's 12 Angry Men or The Pawnbroker, but still an excellent courtroom movie. The film has no fancy pyrotechnics, courtroom standoffs, set pieces or monologues, relying instead on quiet dialogue. The film benefits from a familiarity with some of Newman's younger roles. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Excellent film, even for those not fond of court room dramas.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I myself have a fondness for the court room drama that goes far beyond what is healthy, perhaps I missed my calling in life and should of become a lawyer or judge,? but enough of my fantasising! It's safe to say that I love the court room genre and The Verdict is right out of the top draw with bells on.It offers more than a straight forward right against wrong film because it features a terrific core of a man fighting to regain his dignity, a fight to respect himself after years of drink problems and wasted opportunities. Paul Newman is Frank Galvin, all his demons are laid out for us to see, he has fallen so far down the lawyer ladder he is given a case that is deemed un-winnable, it's purely a favour for him to get some money for old rope.The case is a malpractice one, a young expectant mother falls into a coma whilst having her baby, her family believe it's the fault of the anaesthesiologist and sue for malpractice. Yet this is the top doctors from a top hospital that are under the microscope, and firmly behind them is the might of the catholic church since it's their hospital the case involves. Fully expecting to just make a quick earner, Galvin has a change of heart after visiting the coma victim in hospital, he decides to take the case all the way whilst stripping himself bare for all to see.The writing here from David Mamet is wonderful, it could so easily of been a run of the mill genre piece, but it takes little turns at regular intervals to fill the film with interesting depth. Director Sidney Lumet doesn't waste any film either, all scenes are crucial to the case and the main players involved, and Paul Newman gives an incredible performance that was rightly nominated in the best actor category at the academy awards.Cracking drama all round, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Uneven pacing and unrelatable protagonist didn't work for me, but features an excellent performance by Paul Newman","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being a huge fan of Paul Newman and Sidney Lumet, I am utterly disappointed with the story. The man himself doesn't do too much wrong giving one of his better performances as a lawyer on his way spiraling down clinging on to the one case that drains his moral conscience.Frank Galvin (Paul Newman) a lawyer on the verge of financial and career crisis latches on to a case of medical malpractice against a prestigious hospital and rejects an offer for settlement though he doesn't have enough firepower to go for a trial against the will of the kin to the victim. He befriends Laura (Charlotte Rampling) who is budding a budding legal counselor and finds some hard truths.Paul Newman portrays a man in depression who sees no way up from the position he is in but wants to stick by some ideology he never followed through his career. So the basic character structure is quite inconsistent which is why I couldn't relate to it in the first place. Sidney Lumet is a master of screenplay with his superior '12 Angry Men' and 'Dog Day Afternoon', but never really gets going here with uneven pacing and misdirected direction occasionally. Performances are top-notch throughout.Uneven pacing and unrelatable protagonist didn't work for me, but features an excellent performance by Paul Newman. "},{"Title":"Unsensatational, but solid and professional instead...it'll suck you in","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Verdict (1982)A Sidney Lumet gem, tightly worked out, and with some superb acting, especially Paul Newman and Jack Warden as underdog lawyers. The movie succeeds despite its slightly worn story line--the down and out lawyer with an alcohol problem takes on the case of his life against all the odds. But it's a story where you know whose side you have to be on. The well-financed opposing lawyer is a brilliant James Mason. And there is Charlotte Rampling, sharp and stoic, on the fringes, a bit mysterious and maybe underused, but a key player in one way that can't be talked about until you've seen it.You might say this is an old-fashioned film. It's methodical, building up our sympathy, making the characters believable. It's not filmed with any real panache, but visually the job gets done, and so we focus on the events, and the acting. Indeed, we often focus just on Newman, who is intense without overdoing it, pulling out some of his best subtle, moody brooding and even angst. Boston, as the backdrop, is refreshing. You end up just enjoying getting sucked into the scenes and watching as the courtroom battle gets under way, with its inevitable twists. "},{"Title":"Newman in unbeatable form, in this poignant masterwork about truth, justice, the law and redemption...","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Verdict (1982)Top 3 - 1982The Verdict, another excellent achievement for the magnificent Sidney Lumet (12 Angry Men) is the kind of film that shakes the insides, makes you think and consider things such as truth, morality, redemption and justice. Lumet does the same thing he does with 12 Angry Men in this film, he simply, without any tricks or fancy work expose us to the flaws of the law and justice, and how the rich nearly always gain the upper hand, but not always as this film shows. As Frank Galvin (Newman) says the court gives the poor and powerless a chance and sometimes they can walk out with something.Paul Newman proves in 'The Verdict' why his name stands amongst the Hollywood elite; his performance is truly magnificent. He plays a drunk, divorced, washed up Boston lawyer with a losing streak who gets a second chance to redeem himself. His boss/partner brings him a case so easy to settle out of court that he could make a bunch of money and not worry about a thing; about a Boston Catholic Hospital who administered the wrong anaesthetic to a young woman and destroyed her life; she is in a coma; deprived of speech, sound and vision. Galvin visits the Catholic bishop in relation to St. Catherine's hospital for a quick settlement, but on his way there he goes to see the girl; he sees the pain, destruction of a life... Galvin rejects $210,000 ($70,000) which would go straight in his pockets. Why? He can't be paid off to look the other way while a girl is paralysed and dying on a hospital bed. He takes them to court, despite disbelief from both the opposition and the judge himself.The story follows, as the powerful, defence attorney team rattle Newman's cage, through a variety of ways, leaving him with no ideas; but he fights, he does not surrender, he has a truth to fight for, he wants real justice, he wants redemption, and he gets it eventually... He wins the case not on masterful inquisitiveness of the law, but working as a decent human being relying on the humanity of the jurors to see beyond all the smoke and mirrors of the defence...The Verdict has great qualities; its the kind of film that is cathartic, satisfying while entertaining and superbly acted.9/10 "}{"Title":"By today's standards this is a MASTERPIECE OF FILM-MAKING -- and it's good too!","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" By today's standards this is a truly GREAT FILM! There's a lot that doesn't work here, but what does is pure gold. Forgetting the problemmatical legal inconsistencies (of which I had to be told and really don't care) the film succeeds on the levels it is supposed to, namely, characters, actors, and compelling nature of the drama (as if one can be separated from the other!) Jack Warden, brilliant in whatever he touches, may be America's most under-rated actor, is his usual brilliant here. His timing, his humor, his natural, easy manner make his character riveting and always interesting; he dominates every scene he is in, even with Newman. You can't take your eyes or ears off him.But when he's not there, there's still plenty. Like Newman's finest screen role. There are times when an actor is given the opportunity to do a role that is perfect for his age and experience, and this seems to be one. Frank Galvin has suffered, has loved and lost, and now, has stood for something and been beaten up for it, and is ready to be somehow, miraculously, redeemed. Newman, drawing on whatever life lessons he has experienced, and his innate acting skills, paints Galvin perfectly--you cannot help but love, pity, and root like hell for the poor guy. You can smell the alcohol on his breath. You can feel the discomfort of his clothes that he has not changed in weeks, and you experience the pain of his losses. But, when he wins, you win. More accurately, when he wins, the world wins.James Mason...enough said. Thank God for actors like this.Charlotte Rampling didn't know she had this in her. Good God when Newman does that thing to her that he does in the bar in NYC, we delighted. That was Charlotte's doing, although it may not be apparent. She sets us up all along, not just Newman. Well done.Milo O'Shea Holy crap. Could watch him for days. Julie Bavasso! Hoo-rah! Another scene stealer. Try watching Newman when she's on screen. You can't. Eddie Binns A fine character actor whose part SHOULD have been much bigger.Catlin Costello Price (actor's name withheld on purpose) Can you steal a movie with all these great actors surrounding you? Yup. She does. What a treat.Lumet He brings together a superior cast, with a so-so script and makes them all better than the sum of their parts.Galvin's summation is a big disappointment, as is Newman delivering it. Mamet fails us here.One question Electric Boat? What is that? A joke? "},{"Title":"The Utmost Example of the Effectiveness of Narrative Structure in Cinema","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This, the utmost example of people involved in making a film who truly know exactly what they are doing, tells the story of a pathetic alcoholic lawyer, scraping the bottom of the barrel, who presses on with a medical malpractice case, which has left a girl brain-dead in a permanently vegetative state, in order to improve his own situation, but discovers along the way that he is doing the right thing, crusading in the interest of justice for the wronged girl.Paul Newman is entirely persuasive as the boozing attorney, who beneath his morose impotence is a relentless force. We are surprised by how strict he can be in his behavior and belief systems during the case he takes. He is intently alert, always putting his own needs ahead of any responsibility to others. A lonely man, he stays far from the maddening crowd. For him, life is a burdened practice, not to be wasted away idly, which is precisely what is happening to his life as the film opens, finding him going from funeral to funeral attempting to con the bereaved into believing that he knew the deceased loved ones and wants to make sure they're represented by someone who cares. Every day he gropes drunkenly to apprehend it and wring as much profit as he can.The reason such a premise works so well is because of the wisdom and mechanics of David Mamet's writing. The internal problem that begins the story, which is an adaptation of a bestselling novel by American trial lawyer Barry Reed, Newman's hopelessness, is succeeded by the external predicament, the highly lucrative case which embodies all the murky details of medical, clerical and legal procedure. Jack Warden, Charlotte Rampling and James Mason are introduced, and our hero Paul Newman finds himself with the decision to fight all- encompassing immorality, for which he is no match, or to accept it, which screams with the practical leverage he needs to get his life back together. He rejects to take the juicy settlement, which compels us into the upsetting second section of the film.Like many traditional stories after the turning point, this one splits into two parts, the arrangement and the decisive moment at which the outcome seems to be clear. Mamet constructs his scenes so that they correspond to the arrangements for the trial, juxtaposing the enormous legal cart James Mason is mounting, under whose wheels devotees would throw themselves to be smashed, counter to the disorganized, hit or miss undertaking Galvin's running. Characteristically, the stronger the opponent and the weaker the hero, the more pungent the drama and the more severe the ascending friction.At the point at which things are at their lowest, the scenes have amassed in a callous, inescapable direction. The only element that seems to come from left field is the signature Mamet revelation, which is held back from Newman but not from the audience. It's delicate letting the audience ahead of the hero, because it takes the big chance of making the hero out to be misunderstood by us as stupid, but Mamet had no other place to set the scene, one that if you are familiar enough with his work can clearly see that he could not help but use, and skillfully uses it to make things seem even gloomier to us than they do to the protagonist. It generates sympathy for him, not condescension.The Verdict is a tribute to classic structure, which determines that character is plot. Ideally, if you're going to have a character arrive on the scene in a story long enough to tell someone how to go to the bathroom, this individual had better be full enough that we can almost assume where they were before the story happened upon them.Not one scene is needless or redundant. It is film composition at its most succinct, with each scene leading crisply and unavoidably into the next with a story development that is hardnosed in its importance. Sidney Lumet's old-fashioned sense of being a movie director has served him well, especially early in his career, as he hides the presence behind the camera and manipulates what is in front of it and how long it takes to show it. He leaves the gist of things to the screenwriter. His masterpiece Network was one of the few films one can truly say was a writer's movie. Frankly, I think The Verdict is also a writer's movie, because Lumet's perspective of film direction is letting the writer create the story so that the director can tell it.A true testament to this is that Lumet conserves the essential task of a movie, a succession of images contrasting so that the difference between them triggers the story to broaden within the position of the viewer. Once we get the point of a scene, whether the action within it is finished or not, the film moves on. This is precisely what Mamet would come to do when he began directing his own films. "},{"Title":"Justice has nothing to do with truth only procedure","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is one rare film on a court case that may make us believe in the justness of jury justice. Frank Galvin, played by Paul Newman, is an alcoholic, and not an anonymous one at all. He nearly was debarred for it. He has a case that has all characteristics of a lost case. It is against well considered doctors, even authorities in their field, working for a Catholic hospital and ruining the life of a pregnant poor woman by sheer negligence, and then trying to cover it up by making the admitting nurse in the delivery room perjure herself and falsify the admittance document. The point is that this nurse is covered by the other nurse in the operating room and the first nurse has been forced to resign from her position and even her profession, then move out of the state of Massachusetts to get another job. The trick in this court case is that the judge is hostile to Frank Galvin and yet somewhere in his mind he has some kind of sense of justice. He will emphasize the testimony of that fired nurse when accepting the objection of the defense counselor and having the testimony struck off the record. And the jury will of course have heard and will of course keep in mind that testimony and the defense will lose their case, and the doctors will be found guilty of negligence and Frank Galvin will win the case for the sister of the wasted patient and that sister's husband. We should rethink jury justice because there are too many cases where the jury is not just at all and then there are enormous numbers of appeals, and even some executions of innocent people. Some may say that jury justice is the least bad system, and we should consider that is not good enough. The appeal procedures should be reexamined and no irreversible sentence, like the death penalty, should be allowed of any crime at all. Better have a criminal rot in jail than an innocent person executed. All documents whatsoever have to be admissible in court, especially since if a testimony is refused in one court it can never be used again in any other court. Then we have to find procedures to verify and validate testimonies or documents, but they must not be crossed out, especially by one single judge on the basis of eventually one other anterior judge's decision. Jurisprudence is also fine and dandy but there too there should be some fair and just procedures to assess such elements and their validity in any posterior case. This film is a great film that shows all the short comings of jury justice even if the outcome is positive. It is rarely so, or it is too often the reverse.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"One of the Best; A Classic.  Newman shines, Mason stings.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm getting a little older and typing less, but I can still watch a film (in this case, 17 times) and know when I see brilliance. Now it's time to share a few thoughts. First, Newman is always good...but this is different. This is no Slap Shot or The Sting Newman; he is perfect in his role as Galvin, and deserved the Oscar. I really can't think of a bad performance, or scene, in this film. If I had to pick one, I'd single out Lindsay Crouse...she always seems to come across as wooden...here she shows some emotion, but her timing and delivery take away from it. So, Paul Newman is at his best here, as is James Mason (a devilish best). The movie is about redemption, reward, conscience, power, money, The Church, the system...and how a hopeless lawyer somehow has his lightbulb moment...and against all odds does the right thing. That Lumet went with the original script/screenplay makes one wonder what the OTHERS were like, but everything in this film, the story, the characters, the lighting, the underlying plot(s) come together to make one of those perfect movies. After 17 viewings the only bad thing I can say is that I felt the titling (though perfect in its sense of movement and delivery) could have been better (the Old English Script seems over-the-top). But even the TITLES demand watching...Newman nursing a beer, playing pinball, dark lighting, all we see and hear is Newman and the sound of the pinball machine as the opening credits roll...then we fade into the film. You've got to see this movie at least once; go back again and catch some of the other things going on. This is what film-making is all about; an excellent cast, script, and situation. They don't make them like this anymore (although The Shawshank Redemption comes close). I give this one 10 stars; it should be required viewing for aspiring attorneys so that they never lose the human side of things. THAT cause may be lost, but The Verdict is very close to perfection; an excellent film. Peace. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman. One of America's best actors.","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An aging, alcoholic attorney, prone to panic attacks,(please don't pressure me) finds himself at a cross-road. If he does what he and everyone else wants, he will be lost.The people around him decided their course and show their true character.(Excellent acting by the supporting cast). With the exception of humor, this movie has it all. Powerful attorneys, the Church, romance, a hurting family, deceitful doctors who harm rather than heal, betrayal. Paul Newman, as Frank Galvin, is so convincing in his desire to do the right thing but feels more at home in the bar than at the bar. Life has not been kind to him but his summation shows us what kind of a man he is. I love this movie because of it's underdog element and for the opportunity we all have to decide what kind of a human being we are at our core. I hurt for Frank Galvin and Paul Neman's acting gave me that response. I believe this is his finest performance. "},{"Title":"A great Newman film","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw that A Civil Action was on this weekend and it reminded me of another great film - this one. With 30 years of acting under his belt, Paul Newman gave an outstanding performance as a drunk, washed-up lawyer that was handed a cakewalk that he proceeded to screw up. He managed to come out smelling like a rose through luck and skill as a lawyer. Newman was superb! He should have gotten an Oscar for this film, and I am not saying that just because I like seeing someone stick it to the high and mighty.Sidney Lumet was also great as director as should have been rewarded for this and not just given an honorary Oscar.Bruce Willis has another walk-on role. "},{"Title":"terrific performance from Newman","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Frank Galvin (Paul Newman) is a rundown drunk lawyer chasing cases in the obituaries and spending his days in a bar. He was accused of jury tampering and resigned from his job. His former associate Mickey Morrissey (Jack Warden) gives him an easy medical malpractice suit. The Doneghys are suing the Archdiocese of Boston for leaving her sister in a coma after childbirth. Frank is looking to settle and then changes his mind despite the easy $70k payday. He meets Laura Fischer (Charlotte Rampling) at his bar. His opposition Ed Concannon (James Mason) has a big team. His expert Dr. Gruber has gone vacationing. Judge Hoyle (Milo O'Shea) is blocking him at every turn for turning down the offer. He himself is not prepared. The case is going badly until he discovers nurse Kaitlin Costello (Lindsay Crouse).This is a terrific performance from Newman. His drunk acting is masterful. His inherent likability shines through this darker messy character. The David Mamet script is well-researched and meticulous. Sidney Lumet's direction is a little slow and needs greater intensity. Nevertheless, it's a great movie to see great acting from everybody in a well-written script. "},{"Title":"Minute and entertaining film, with great performances and staging.","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Frank Galvan (Paul Newman), a mature lawyer in decline, is addicted to alcohol that survives on small and routine work. A former partner reminds the case, still unsolved, committed a medical error in a hospital and that Galvan had occupied. He struggles to retake the case, but his tenacity is such that soon learns that he may win. Thus began receiving bids to settle the matter without going to trial. But Galvan is willing to risk everything, both to get significant compensation for the families to be rehabilitated as a lawyer and as a person.The character of Frank Galvan (Paul Newman) became a film idol playing the loser Boston lawyer but with excessive dignity, alcoholic and always playing pinball in that bar with tinted in red and green, between cigarettes and cups Irish whiskey ... or egg throwing glasses of beer, then drank a sip, with his timeless dose of eye drops in your eyes and in your pocket aerosol to dispel his breath alcohol.The film is based on the eponymous book, The Verdict (1980), of Massachusetts attorney Barry Reed, and was adapted for the screen by playwright, poet, essayist, screenwriter and American director David Mamet who was the creator of dialogues , of Serpico (1982) also Sidney Lumet.This film is an excellent drama about lawsuits, beautifully narrated, without ever falling into the drowsiness common of these scripts. The film has a glossy photography and staged by the Polish editor, director and photographer Andrzej Bartkowiak and proper soundtrack by Johnny Mandel,Paul Newman's performance is simply brilliant and a real shame that Newman did not win the prize Oscar of that year ...A film that was initially going to be shot by Robert Redford, who finally refused, considering it a story with little force, and fortunately was picked up by the great director Lumet, to create this magnificent work on judicial proceedings ... One of the most exhaustively thorough, realistic and enjoyable I've ever seen as anecdotal detail and marked the first appearance in the film, Bruce Willis, as one of the extras during the brief trial. "},{"Title":"hey Paul--we all miss you--we need a new man","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Audiences today wont get this. It has no special effects, no CGI, and no three word sentences. In other words, it needs a person to concentrate for 2 hours. The days are long gone when a movie was directed like this. Where the actors, acted like this....and when the viewers ---had to---have an attention span, that made them forget about the wonders of their mobile phones. This is a massively under-rated movie. Paul Newmam is great(when was he not!!) as the alcoholic attorney... Frank Galvin , who works a miracle in a wonderful court-room drama. The supporting actors are all splendid. Sidney Lumet as always...directs with --a deep feeling about his --work. If you like.....Harry Potter....stay away from this.----To get this..you require a brain. "},{"Title":"One of the finest movies ever made","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is the consummate court room drama but also a searing examination of character. Paul Newman who gives the performance of his career as Frank Galvin. A role reputedly turned down by Robert Redford. He is full of guile and self loathing and redeems himself in a last bid for self respect. The supporting cast is filled with the finest actors this country has to offer--led of course by Jack Warden, Milo O'Shea, Ed Binns and James Mason (officially from the UK but a great Hollywood actor). Lindsay Crouse gives an astonishing performance in her brief scenes as does Julie Bovasso. And of course, Charlotte Rampling who is devastating as his betrayer. It is one of the ultimate tales of redemption on the par with A Christmas CAROL. And though I haven't read the novel, the script Mamet did for this is a work of genius. You would be hard pressed to find a better written, directed or acted movie than this. It will haunt you. "}{"Title":"Engaging Courtroom Drama, Inspiring Character Study ...","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The man is a failure ... he's a failure because circumstances made him so. He's no different than you and me. He's just unlucky. And you know how it is. Adversity calls adversity. You lose your job, your wife leaves you, you start drinking, you can't have another job back and like that, you're labeled as a failure, a loser. Frank Galvin, played by Paul Newman, is one of them. A loser. A Boston lawyer, he became what they call an ambulance chaser. A man who gives you a card during your father's funeral to tell you he was a friend of him. The first scenes of Lumet's The Verdict clearly announces the character as a man who's not your typical Paul Newman's character, he's no Hud, no Cool Hand Luke, no Eddie Felson, yet it's one of the most brilliant and masterful performances from the late actor.Frank Galvin hasn't solved a case in years. He hasn't won anything. He developed a 'brilliant' reputation that totally discredited him in the profession. Obviously, something must change in his life and Galvin, although not much appreciated, has one true friend  Mick, played by the late Jack Warden, who manages to get him a golden case to get back on the rails. A guaranteed win if Galvin accepts. He does, but for selfish reasons, at least at first. He cares for people, he cares for the case, but something is burning inside him he cares for himself. There is a profound desire of redemption calling from the bottom of his soul, he tries to find the right way and this case is the promised land for him. A young mother condemned to coma for the rest of her life, for what appears to be a medical error. Obviously, Galvin can't fail.BUT. What is failure? and what is success? That's the genius of the film. When Galvin takes snapshots of the poor victim, he realizes one thing he didn't quite get at the beginning. She's a victim of a criminal injustice. It's clear. Any other thing is a lie, any other attempt to silence the truth is criminal, and anyone who accepts that is accomplice. Anyone who accepts anything he believes against, whether because it is untrue or unjust, is a weak. The weak is the one who doesn't believe in his own principles, by not following them. The weak can win if he joins the liars, the cheaters, the winners, to win by default, but he'll always be weak, because he doesn't believe in himself, and will forever live with that. There's no salvation for the weak even if he wins. Galvin might be a loser, but he's not weak. Galvin is flawed, indeed. He has many weaknesses, alcohol being the biggest one, but his evolution all through the movie is a great example of an inspiring character study, from the brilliant director, Sidney Lumet (who, in 1982, had an already impressive and qualitative filmography). Galvin shows how justice is an abstract but powerful idea that can only live through our deep faith in our success in the quest for truth, because what is true, implies justice. Justice's blindness is a noble concept except when the blindness is deliberate. That is corruption, blinding justice, disguising it, using influence to silence it. Galvin despises this kind of corruption, refuses the generous offer from the opposite side, who like the people he defends, doesn't want a trial and prefers an out-of-court settlement. But HIS mission is personal, though he doesn't fight for selfish reasons anymore, but for his idea of justice. And hell yes, they'll go to trial.It's quite ironic that the movie lost the Best Picture Award to Gandhi, when Galvin is almost a Gandhi-like figure when you examine his ideas and beliefs. Everything is against him, yet he believes he's right. Gandhi said Even if you are a minority of one, the truth is the truth, this is Galvin's spirit. He believes in himself, he's given a mission that will redeem him, by bringing justice to the unfortunate couple, to a family devastated by the loss of a young woman. In this case, the opposite side is defended by the powerful, suave, charmingly villainous, Ed Concannon, brilliantly portrayed by James Mason. Concannon practices law with such perfectionism and obedience, the case is like David vs. Goliath. Evertyhing seems lost, everyone is against Galvin, including a memorable one-sided judge. But he goes on, despite his fears, his mistakes, his clumsiness, the way he seems so unsure of his words ... Frank Galvin doesn't have the phlegm of Atticus Finch, nor the flamboyance of Hans Rolfe, or the charisma of Arthur Kirkland, but his weaknesses make him 'strong' and the case 'personal' in the noblest sense of the word. This movie is probably one of the greatest courtroom dramas ever directed, because it gives its true meaning to the word 'justice'. Justice is not about values, it's about faith, it's a blind faith which makes us take all the risks, because ironically, justice can only be accomplished through 'illegal' ways when the opposite side buries important elements under obscure judiciary concepts and in these cases, when the system is against Justice. Frank Galvin was against the system, and believed in Justice. He's a hero. Frank Galvin fought for an idea of Justice threatened by the system, men like the judge or Concannon, who make justice, sometimes, unfair. The Verdict is the greatest courtroom drama because it is the one that gives you the greatest faith in justice ... "},{"Title":"Lumet's return to the courtroom drama is first-rate with Newman in tow","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 25 years after directed the greatest courtroom drama ever made in 12 Angry Men, acclaimed director Sidney Lumet returns with The Verdict. Starring Paul Newman in a performance best described as straight from the core, the film flips the idea of justice on its head and reveals the enduring human spirit that lies within the tireless pursuit of it.Frank Galvin (Newman) is a lawyer and alcoholic resigned to checking the obituaries for possible cases and dropping his card off at wakes. When a colleague hands him a medical malpractice case that's a shoo-in for a lucrative settlement outside of court, Galvin decides that there's a good chance to win the case before a jury and decides to take on the hospital's crack legal team (led by James Mason) without his client's permission in attempt to seek true justice and resurrect his career.Lumet's film is the opposite of melodramatic, something to which a courtroom movie is quite susceptible. There's barely a single bit of scoring and the characters express intense emotions with a respectable amount of reservation. One might think this undermines the impact of the David Mamet's thought-provoking script, but in an unexpected way it really grounds the film. It's not an emotional crusade against injustice or your typical underdog story. Instead, it's about the harsh realities of the justice system despite our every effort to believe in a higher moral authority by which all men and women are bound, one that will right all wrongs.Newman's Oscar-nominated performance owes a lot to Lumet, the master of wide shots, long takes and careful zooms and pans. Without a heightened sense of drama and suspense from the camera-work, Newman would be hung out to dry. So much of his acting is occurring below the skin and inside the mind that only a top-notch director could show the audience inside of it. The single take starting with a wide courtroom shot during Frank's closing statement and ending with him sitting down as if there was nothing else he could do might be the best example of Lumet and Newman working in incredible harmony.Lumet gets that caliber of performance out of everyone from co-star Charlotte Rampling to James Mason's unbreakable defense attorney. It says so much more about a film when it's as effective without dialogue as it is with it. The quiet opening shot of Frank with a beer and cigarette playing his favorite pub pinball machine sets the tone right away that the audience is to infer mostly from this film. It's a bit more work than usual, but The Verdict is a rare version of the timeless story about going on when the odds are stacked against you.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Engaging Legal Drama","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A washed up alcoholic lawyer tries to revive his career by taking a medical malpractice suit to trial rather than settle out of court for a handsome sum. Newman is quite good as the lawyer who has lost self-respect as well as confidence. Warden and Mason are also fine as Newman's partner and adversary, respectively. However, the subplot involving Rampling does not work too well and is not helped by the actress's dull performance. Lumet, who started his film career with perhaps the greatest film about the legal system, 12 Agry Men, delivers another fine legal drama here. The ending is unsatisfying but most of the film is engaging. "},{"Title":"Newman,Paul Newman","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman stars in this story of a washed up,alcoholic lawyer,with a a long losing streak.he gets handed a case which he could settle out of court,but doesn't.instead he takes it to trial.that's the gist of The Verdict.it has it's compelling moments,especially when Newman is on screen.he's hard to take your eyes off.Charlotte Rampling is also very good here.Jack Warden has a supporting performance,but his character doesn't have a lot to do.this is really Newman's show.the film is very deliberate in it's pacing,which builds suspense for the last scene.i don't think it's to realistic,but that's not the point.the point is,it's an entertaining tale with great acting "},{"Title":"We've been paid to look the other way.","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Frank Galvin (Paul Newman)is a hapless,ambulance-chaser lawyer.With the reference of his friend Mickey Morrissey(Jack Warden)gets a malpractice case against two respected doctors and a prominent hospital. What he wants in the beginning is just that he should go the dependent, settle for a certain amount of money and take his share but when he visits his client in the hospital in her vegetative state he can't just take the money because if he takes the money he will be a lost, rich,ambulance chaser so he goes to court which is not easy at all because he has not a decent witness and the only good witness he has, a doctor whose opinion counts is 'got to' by the defendant's side. All his hope lies in his determination and a nurse who does not testify for the doctors.The acting of Paul Newman is just impressive. When one sees his acting in the movie, one can't help saying such players should just live longer. Charlotte Rampling as the cold Laura Fischer seems pretty sensual for a femme fatale.There are those who compares the movie with 'Twelve Angry Men' which is another great Sidney Lumet movie.The comparison is not fair to me because 12 Angry Man never enters a court room at all. It takes the system of justice through a jury's deliberations but The Verdict is not about discussing a concept like 'presumption of innocence'.It is about the struggle of a man who takes aside a book,the lawyers or a a marble statue which are the trappings of the court but have faith in the justice.The Verdict has its minor flaws for me too. First, a doctor named Gruber who is supposed to give corroborating testimony, who can afford to say 'I have an interest in hospitals. I don't want those bozos in the same profession as me' is easily bought off by the defendant maybe that makes the movie more believable in this wicked world but it did not sound OK to me.Second, though the two lawyers are out of time and they have been doing the legwork for the last eighteen months(which is only mentioned in the movie)it sounds like they have enough time to pick up a surprise witness, for instance. Still that does not make the movie a bad one. This is a treat for those who love the trial movies. "},{"Title":"If we are to have faith in justice, we need only to believe in ourselves.","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before we launch into my full review, I have something of a shameful confession to make. Paul Newman is considered one of the finest actors that Hollywood has ever produced, his long career producing a great abundance of terrific films and stunning performances. And now for the confession 'The Verdict (1982)' is the earliest film in which I've seen Paul Newman. Having seen his solid performances in 'The Hudsucker Proxy (1994)' and especially 'Road to Perdition (2002),' I already have great respect for his talents, but it'd be ignorant to deny that I'm still yet to experience his finest hours. In Sidney Lumet's 1982 courtroom drama, Newman plays Frank Galvin an aging, alcoholic lawyer who, a long time ago, lost whatever confidence and self-respect he once had. The film also boasts an impressive supporting cast, including James Mason, Jack Warden and Charlotte Rampling.Newman really is superb in the film's main role. His Frank Galvin is a tortured character once an honest and successful lawyer, Frank's career and marriage were ruined after his employers framed him for jury-tampering, reducing him to a disheartened, immoral ambulance-chaser in order to survive. His good friend and colleague, Mickey Morrissey (Jack Warden), is dismayed at his deterioration, but nonetheless agrees to offer Frank one final case, which is sure to be settled easily outside court. However, after visiting his comatose client &#150; her life forever destroyed by the negligence of the hospital doctors &#150; Frank spies redemption within his grasp, and so resolves to achieve justice at any cost. Rounding off the perfect triangle of veteran performers (each of whom had worked with director Sidney Lumet previously) is Jason Mason, who plays respected lawyer Ed Concannon with such composure and acumen that you're almost willing to declare him the winner of the case.When it comes to discussing 'The Verdict,' Lumet's cinematic debut '12 Angry Men (1957)' seems the natural comparison, though that's yet another classic that I haven't seen Sidney Lumet has recently become my director-to-watch, after producing one of the most thrilling movies ever made, 'Fail-Safe (1964)'. Lumet gives the entire film a wintry, coldly-detached tone, with the camera often settled in the distance and making effective use of long shots. The script was penned by David Mamet from a novel by Barry Reed, cruelly placing obstacle after obstacle on Frank Galvin's path to redemption, until his self-esteem is all but destroyed. It is only through the encouragement of Mickey Morrissey and recent-girlfriend Laura Fischer (Charlotte Rampling) that Frank can find the strength to continue the trial, though the latter also plays a more sinister role in the unfolding of the case.'The Verdict' is certainly one of the top ten most compelling legal dramas I've come across. Though Newman's final address to the jury is not quite as rousing as the equivalents in 'To Kill a Mockingbird (1962)' or 'Breaker Morant (1980),' for example, the film is held aloft by three superb veteran performances and its admirable sense of moral justice. Though the infinitely-shrewd Ed Concannon manages to convince the biased judge (Milo O'Shea) to completely disregard the damning testimony of the admitting nurse, Kaitlin Costello (Lindsay Crouse), he can't convince the honest jurors to forget what they have heard. In strict legal terms, Ed Concannon mounted the perfect case, but simple human decency directed the jury to reach a verdict that was morally just. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie!","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie on Encore, confusing it with my memory of Absence of Malice. It turned out I had never seen it. I just want to say that I was completely drawn into this movie, could not move, and felt that it was beautifully written, with almost lyrical words out of a pained Paul Newman near the end. I have always loved Paul Newman, and I think this movie should have been very highly rated. The screenplay by Mamet also needs to be applauded in addition to Paul's understated and brilliant acting. I also enjoyed very much the actor who played the judge.........I remember him from Romeo and Juliet (the Friar) and his clear adherence to the law and his eloquent overruling of Paul Newman's witness was beautifully delivered. The witness herself did an excellent job. This movie was rich in layers of acting, and totally believable. The scene with one of the Catholic bishops speaking with others over tea near the end of the film was also very well presented. If you like quiet, rich movies, with very realistic performances, and also a sense of subtle spirituality, you should like this excellent movie. "},{"Title":"law students and Aspiring actors! don't miss this film!","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Every Law school student in the country should see this film.. although over 20 years old..it is still timely today.. Jame Mason is superb as the bad guy  attorney whom Jack Warden's character refers to as the Prince of (bleepin') Darkness This film will open the eyes of many as to how the legal system (and Lawyers) operate.Every aspiring actor in the world should see this film, if, for NO OTHER reason.to see the final scene where Frank Galvin (Paul Newman) delivers his final statement to the jury. No wonder Newman won the Oscar for this performance that year.I've memorized it and often use it as a dramatic AUDITION piece.. Rent it today!! "},{"Title":"autumn portray of spiritual resurrection","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is hard to comment this picture because this is one of my greatest film-experiences, and although this film seems very simple - it is much more difficult than it seems. I think the most surprising in this picture is The Verdict is much more than a conventional courtroom drama it's about a character's spiritual resurrection, or at least, the chance of the resurrection. From this view, Frank Galvin's final success is much more he could reach as a lawyer it is the success of a man, who had to face with his past and, of course, his present which seemed hopeless. The Verdict's most powerful element is naturally Paul Newman's performance - maybe this role is the peak of his career and talent. His partners are excellent too, Charlotte Rampling, Jack Warden and James Mason. I like very much the works of Sidney Lumet, but sometimes irritates me, how much the characters speak in his films - namely this produces a little theatrical feeling what can be the disadvantage of films (for example, in an otherwise very good movie, Lumet's The Network). Well, in The Verdict the characters don't speak a lot, moreover there are a plenty of moments when they silence. This fact leads to beautiful pictorial compositions. I mentioned this film as an autumn portray, however The Verdict plays in winter. I know, but the whole world of this drama is much more has an autumn character - with a lot of orange, red Lumet and his talented photographer, Andrzej Bartkowiak consciously produced this feeling, they wanted to follow the style of Caravaggio's pictures. In the camera-work as well they had an artistic work when Mickey (Jack Warden) tells Frank, what he knows about Laura's betrayal, we see this scene from long shot, without words, only the sounds of the street and the traffic - this is brilliant. But the final shot - when Frank is behind his table, and we don't know whether he will answer the phone or not - is simply unforgettable. To sum up, The Verdict is one of the most beautiful and artistic mainstream Hollywood movies very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the best court room drama's ever","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Verdict is probably one of the top 5 legal drama's ever made. Newman is exceptional as a washed up, drunken attorney who's friend throws him one last case to redeem himself by, a medical malpractice suit. The film follows Newman from the beginning as an old drunk who visits funeral homes looking for clients in the dead's family to him rediscovering what he loves about the law. There's a terrific supporting cast including Jack Warden and James Mason. This film also accurately shows the frustration of a once great lawyer who lost all he had and his final chance to regain it. "}{"Title":"great!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well- this movie was indeed great. One scene that really caught me was when Frank took the Polaroid pictures of his client, the brain dead woman in the hospital. It was as if he was seeing her for the first time when he watched the pictures develop- to me he hadn't seen her before as a person at all. he had just thought of her as money. this is where his character starts to try and regain his own life. I thought it was portrayed incredibly. the movie as a whole was so suspenseful, even though it probably isn't what one typically thinks of as a suspense movie.  "},{"Title":"Newman and Lumet give master-classes in their respective professions","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie, with any lead actor other then Newman, would have been an extremely average courtroom drama. However, Sidney Lumet skillfully directs Paul Newman to keep this movie alive. The movie doesn't compel as well as such other courtroom movies (12 Angry Men, To Kill A Mockingbird), and this is most likely because the film moves at a very slow pace. The court case doesn't actually begin until you're nearly an hour and a half into the movie. Nevertheless, Newman gives a master-class performance, convincingly portraying a man who's life is dependent on this court case. As he murmurs to the invaluable Jack Warden There are no other cases. This is the case. Sidney Lumet's beautiful shot direction allow you to share the pain with Mickey (Newman), and Andrzej Bartkowiak lights these shots accordingly. In short, this movie is kept alive by Lumet's direction and Newman's performance. And those two factors are enough to keep you in your seat throughout the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Phantasmagorical Setting","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An excellent story with superb if eccentric production design. Either the version I saw recently was a 'director's cut' with new scenes inserted, or the movie is more watchable on TV than in the theater. When I saw it recently on the tube I caught backstory and sideplots I'd missed before. For example Frank Galvin (Paul Newman) started out working for courthouse hack Mickey Morrisey (Jack Warden), landed a job with a white-shoe firm that exploited his naivete and ruined his career, and then finally Mickey Morrisey took him back. Frank Galvin still naively loves his ex-wife, daughter of the white-shoe firm's senior partner, even though she assisted in Frank's betrayal. The Charlotte Rampling temptress is hired partly because of a fleeting resemblance to Frank's ex-wife.The David Mamet script is a gem, relentlessly plotted, but its depiction of Boston is pure science-fiction and fantasy. Mamet offers the peculiar notion that everybody in Boston, with the exception of one Jewish doctor, is an Irish Catholic; moreover at least half of them are Irish-born and speak in rich brogues. So here we have the half-Jewish Newman and the half-Jewish Warden both playing Boston-Irish lawyers, though without any Boston intonation or accent, and the Irish-Irish veteran actor Milo O'Shea playing the capricious judge while looking like the late Tom Snyder in a pageboy haircut, and talking like a bookie from Cork City. Then we get English actor James Mason as Concannon, attorney for the defense ('Prince-of-F**ing-Darkness,' according to Jack Warden's Mickey Morrisey), and he talks just like...James Mason! And not James Mason in Odd Man Out, either. An upper-class Dubliner, perhaps. Are you licensed to practice here, Mr. Concannon?All-American actress and theater royalty Lindsay Crouse would be a perfectly believable Irish colleen, were it not for the broad stage-Irish that she speaks for no discernible reason.Nobody, but nobody, talks with any sort of Boston accent. Even straightforward American accents are thin on the ground. Charlotte Rampling makes a good try but comes across as an English girl who did part of her growing up in Connecticut.As if to emphasize the strange version of Irishry imposed on the production by Mamet--a brilliantly imaginative East-European Jew who is more at home writing scripts about grunting, potty-mouthed Hollywood agents than he is trying to conjure up a sense of old-line Americana--the movie set is a dank procession of dark-wood pubs, frosted-glass partitions, and elegant but dimly lit Beacon Hill townhouses a set that could serve equally well for James Joyce's Dublin or A. Conan Doyle's London. I applaud this brilliant fantasy as an aesthetic experiment, but I found it extremely distracting when I first saw the film in its theatrical release. It is as though you go to see a film set in Manhattan, and a parade of cowboys and indians periodically streams down Fifth Avenue, and no one ever explains why. "},{"Title":"Best film of its year","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Entertaining and flawless, The Verdict is a masterpiece courtesy of brilliant writing, intelligent direction and career-best performances from several great actors. Paul Newman was robbed of the Oscar for this one - but that happens most years - only to receive it a few years later for a good walk-through performance in The Color Of Money. This is a riveting courtroom drama which avoid the clichés and looks at the serious business of legal and medical ethics, taking to task the attitude that doctors should be above question and answerable for their mistakes. It is also an interesting character piece, looking at how a washed up ambulance chaser decides some things are worth fighting for - even at the risk of financial gain and security. Charlotte Rampling, Jack Warden, Milo O'Seah and an unforgettable James Mason are in top form and Lindsay Crouse turns in a scene stealer as a pivotal witness. Don't miss this if you love quality American cinema. "},{"Title":"Definition of Acting","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every time I watch this film. I forget that I'm watching Paul Newman, the actor. If you ever wanted to know why Mr. Newman is judged to be superb at his craft, just pay attention to the little details in his performance here. Gestures, speech patterns, eye movement, costuming...spot on, as the British say. His performance is not overdone, it's nuanced. Just a treat each viewing. Superb job by the supporting cast particularly Jack Warden, one of my favorite character actors. He does a great crusty old fart. Great storyline and great directing within what that offers. It unfolds so nicely in Mr. Lumet's hands. Easily one of his best efforts. Soon as I locate the widescreen DVD, it's in the library to replace the VHS copy currently in residence. "},{"Title":"Very good courtroom drama","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Verdict is a very good courtroom drama and a fine character study. Paul Newman, James Mason and Lindsay Crouse give extraordinary performances. Sidney Lumet, who made such masterpieces as 12 Angry Men, Long Day's Journey Into Night, The Pawnbroker, Dog Day Afternoon, Prince of the City and Running on Empty, creates a gripping atmosphere and very fine courtroom images.Some critics have called The Verdict one of Lumet's masterpieces. I'm not sure about it. The plot seems somewhat constructed sometimes, especially towards the end. There are also some errors in legal details, as others have indicated.It has also been said that the behaviour of Newman, Mason and O'Shea wasn't credible, since it wasn't always ethical and since they risked their licenses. I disagree with this kind of criticism, since it completely misses the point of the picture. In Lumet's pictures you seldom find characters without human flaws. Newman's character should certainly have consulted his clients and should have asked them whether they wanted to accept the hospital's offer or not. That he hasn't consulted them shows his complete obsession to win this one case to restore his self-esteem. It shows a human flaw in Newman's character. He makes a mistake. This is made pretty clear in the picture! But it's an understandable mistake. He also beats Rampling, which is also morally wrong. But that's what makes the movie so interesting. Its hero is a three-dimensional one, a character with both good and bad aspects. The behaviour of O'Shea's and especially Mason's characters isn't ethical of course. But people who criticize this as incredible don't see that there is corruption among lawyers and judges as there is corruption in most professions. Those who think that this is false or that the corruption is always revealed and punished are a bit naive. The movie has been misunderstood by some as a criticism of defense lawyers and judges in general. This is wrong. Lumet's works often deal with problems in the society and with corruption. But as his famous films about police corruption (Serpico, Prince of the City) don't claim that ALL cops are corrupt, The Verdict doesn't make such generalizations about the legal profession. Mason and O'Shea are NOT supposed to represent the majority of people who work as lawyers and judges (as Rampling's character isn't supposed to represent all women). You wouldn't think that L. Olivier's character in Marathon Man represents all dentists, would you? -)This is not the best courtroom drama ever made. I prefer Lumet's own 12 Angry Men, Preminger's Anatomy of a Murder, or Wilder's Witness for the Prosecution for instance. But The Verdict is in one league with a flawed, but admirable film like, say, Inherit the Wind.9/10 (**** out of *****) "},{"Title":"A bit of a drag","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For a film lasting 129 minutes, I would say that there are about sixty minutes of prime material. Charlotte Rampling is a gross irrelevance. Some of the courtroom scenes are laughably amateurish, not simply because of their sheer implausibility but also their appeal to cheap melodrama. Paul Newman must have salivated over this role, because it entails him hogging the camera throughout almost the entire movie, and boy does he love the limelight. Like Kirk Douglas and some others I could mention, he is a SLOW actor, operating under the assumption that pace equates with shallowness, and slowness equates with profundity. Big mistake. I agree with some other posters that TWELVE ANGRY MEN was far superior as a courtroom drama, if that's what you want to call THE VERDICT, since only a very small proportion of the movie takes place in the courtroom. Most of it is a superficial critique of the legal profession. A better plot and less self-indulgent direction might have salvaged this tedium-fest. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not great","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, Paul Newman is good, but this film is not among his best. His character is annoying at best, for a variety of reasons, the least of which is he's a lawyer. That being said, let's get to the rest of the film. It is a strong-plotted film, with the time- earned theme of the wronged-little-guys against the big-money-big-guys in a courtroom. Who wins? Watch the movie. Medical malpractice always makes for engaging material. Not much else to say about this film. Newman is solid, but not great. Jack Warden is okay, because that's all he really can be. James Mason is good, and the court scenes are among the best in the film, especially when Mason cross- examines an Irish-accented former Boston nurse. There is a gratuitous love interest and an eventual plot twist that is totally predictable. Watch it, but if you want better Newman, watch Seinfeld or Absence of Malice. "},{"Title":"Superb character study movie as well excellent old school court room drama","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.The Verdict (1982) is a superb movie in all directions. This is an excellently paced drama which plays as well as a thriller - a court room thriller and more - a super character study movie. The great (and one of my favorite) Paul Newman plays Frank Galvin, a down on his luck old and alcoholic lawyer who takes on last case to prove to everyone (and mostly to himself) that unjustness done to people can be resolved. This movie is a superb study of case itself, court-room drama and characters. I won't go into details or plot, just going to say that at running time 2 h 5 min i just wanted for this movie to continue - a very rare case in todays movie world.Overall, The Verdict is excellently paced, directed, written (by great David Mamet) and acted court-room drama and character study. It's a smart movie, about true people. Al in all this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent well done legal courtroom drama that reveals faith, truth, courage, and awakening.","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I must say that The Verdict is a wonderful film an excellent courtroom drama a case that is a challenge, but settles in the end with courage and determination. And the performance from Paul Newman is top notch maybe one of his best. All legal dramas are always interesting with the usual twist and turns of a case and the drama on the courtroom witness stand is always revealing and compelling and this 1982 film has all of those moments to occur.Set in Boston Paul Newman is Frankie Galvin an ambulance chasing lawyer who's on the downside of his work and his life. Frankie has lost three or four cases in a row, and he's divorced and he's became an alcoholic as his battle with the bottle is now a daily obsession in the form of many shots and glasses of whiskey. And much of Frankie's time in the free is conducted with him playing pinball at the local bar. Really a sad life for a lawyer it's like a midlife crisis. Only all of a sudden dumped in Frankie's lap is a dream case a medical malpractice case that seems impossible to win, yet Frankie is determined to fight the hospital and doctor's who negligence put a young woman in a coma for the rest of her life. As Frankie owes answers and money and justice to the family of this young lady. And you guessed it the determined Frankie wants to get his game back as he refuses settlement and instead takes the case to court.And in somewhat of a subplot Frankie has a fling somewhat of a one night stand with a divorced lady(played clever and elegantly by Charlotte Rampling)as with life the case has ups and downs still the film becomes a powerful drama as the entire legal system seems like it's put on trial in the courtroom. The Verdict is a film that searches for answers and it finds the truth leading to justice and most of all it's a moral and life and job awakening of a man named Frankie Galvin. "}{"Title":"A Perfect Film of Its Type","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Quite honestly, I can't understand the quibbling exhibited here by some of the other reviewers. To me, this is just about a perfect movie, achieving exactly what it sets out to do, with everything in it and about it insuring the perfection of that achievement. Some say it is too slow, but this is the kind of story that has to be told slowly, as its main subject is not so much the legal case involved, but the step-by-step reemergence of a conscience that may lead to the reclamation of a human life and career from a decade or more of sheer mediocrity-cum-failure. The screenplay and direction are all of a piece, and they never veer off into cheap emotion, theatrics, violence, hyped-up speed or whatever. Lumet's direction is perfect, but it always is, and David Mamet's screenplay is a marvel of slow and painstaking discovery, both of salient story facts and of the characters' own strengths, weaknesses, fears and even concealed self-loathing (one gets the last not only in Newman's performance, but even in the short speech James Mason's character makes when justifying his and his firm's slimy methods). Which brings us to the acting, and this is really the primary reason to see this film, maybe even over and over again (I've seen it about 7 or 8 times since it first came out in 1982, each time with even more enjoyment and appreciation). Although the characters are just disparate enough to not rise to the level of an ensemble, this is film ensemble acting at its best. There is not a performance in the film that is not a stand-out. Others have already called this Newman's greatest film performance, and it well may be, but given so many superb acting jobs over almost 50 years, it may be hard to segregate any one of them as his best. But it is quietly yet grandly superb throughout. Mason's upper class but still somewhat seedy opposing attorney is as fine a thing as he ever did on screen, yet again, he did so much that even a thing as fine as this is simply running against self-competition! Jack Warden, among the most underrated actors of his time, equals them in his own way, even if in the kind of typically gruff and rough-and-ready role that was his trademark. The enigmatic performance of Charlotte Rampling as Newman's new - and maybe first in many years - love interest, comes into its own when certain hidden plot elements emerge towards the end of the film. Milo O'Shea is hatefully magnificent as the Judge, an almost too realistic near-parody of the kind of Boston Irish semi-political hack who does mean and nasty things and probably hits the Confessional once a month to be absolved of having done them. Binns is on the fence as the head of the Archdiocese, a Cardinal who seems to want to act justly, yet is willing to accede to what he intuits are some pretty unsavory methods used by his defense team, this in order to protect the reputation of the Archdiocese. Arguably the two best performances in the film are in minor roles, with Julie Bavasso (God, what an underrated actress for decades) as an older nurse who seems frightened to death of what she has witnessed in her job, and is now unwilling to speak of it to anyone, most particularly to Newman's plaintiff's attorney, finally breaking her reserve only to call him and all other members of the legal profession whores. (In this story, it's hard to disagree with her.) And finally there is a gorgeous near-cameo appearance by Lindsay Crouse (Mamet's wife) as the missing operating room witness, whose life and career have been substantially ruined by the combined medical establishment, hospital and Archdiocese. For all practical purposes, her five minutes or so on the witness stand practically steals the acting honors in this film, a feat that would seem manifestly impossible given what I have written to this point. I would also call your attention to Mamet's incredibly well-written circumlocutionary closing argument for the plaintiffs, even more incredibly delivered by Newman in a long one-shot camera take that starts to the right of the judge's bench and behind the jury with Newman sitting silently in the distance, takes in the entire slow and deliberate speech as he makes his way up to face the jury, stays on him throughout, and then follows him over the jury's heads as he returns to his seat, now in close-up as the scene fades out. It doesn't call attention to itself, but it is in the realm of what we might expect from Welles or Hitchcock in their very best innovative moments. A wonderful film in every conceivable way! "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Performances You'll Ever See","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Verdict (1982) **** (out of 4) Disgraced, alcoholic lawyer Frank Galvin (Paul Newman) is handed his best case in years and in return all he has to do is collect the settlement. Instead of doing so Frank sees this case at a shot at redemption so he takes it to trial against one of the best defense lawyers (James Mason).THE VERDICT is without question one of the greatest courtroom dramas that you're ever going to see. I'd argue that it's also one of the greatest films of the decade. I'd even go a step further and say it's one of the greatest and most powerful films ever made. I will even add more praise in saying that it contains perhaps the greatest ensemble acting that you're ever going to witness. Is all of this too much praise to throw on a film? No when it's for a film like THE VERDICT.Obviously everything here begins and ends with Newman who gives one of the greatest performances that you're ever going to witness. I always said that Marlon Brando's performance in LAST TANGO IN Paris is the greatest performance i have ever seen but this one by Newman is close. Just take a look at the sequence before the trial where his character has a panic attack. Just see the fear in eyes, his movement and the fear in his voice. Watch his final speech to the jury. Check out a twist, which I won't ruin, but deals with him being betrayed. A lot of times a music score and editing help make a performance but in all of these scenes there are none of that. Instead it's just Newman delivering a performance and often it's shown in one take.Not only is the lead terrific but so are all the supporting players. Jack Warden is terrific in his role as the assistant. Charlotte Rampling is as calm and cold as you can get. As for Mason, did you ever doubt that you were watching a brilliant lawyer work his magic? Milo O'Shea will have your blood boiling in the role of the judge. All of the important characters are brought to life through terrific performances but even the small roles are flawlessly acted. Edward Binns as the Bishop. Lindsay Crouse as an important witness.James Handy and Roxanne Hart as the suffering family members.THE VERDICT is one of the most grim and dark movies that you're ever going to see. The character study of a drunk and a loser makes for some very dark moments and director Sidney Lumet perfectly sets everything up during the opening sequence where we learn everything we need to know. His direction throughout is flawless. The film is slow-paced but it's done for a reason and it's impact is certainly felt in the end. The story is a rather simple one about redemption but the movie offers up so much drama and suspense that it works just like a thriller.THE VERDICT is a film that deserves all the praise one can give it. "},{"Title":"A Leap of Faith","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After a brush with disbarment, attorney Frank Galvin (Newman) now resorts to chasing ambulances and attending funerals to feed his booze habit. A meager law office, an aging mentor (Jack Warden) and the pinball machine at the local bar are all he has when he decides to make a lifestyle change. With his client in a coma and little hope of ever recovering, Galvin decides to reject a sizable payout from the Catholic Hospital that put her there and takes them to court in a high profile malpractice case.The 57-year-old Newman looks a far cry from his typical on screen self. His ratty suit and near constant stubble fit the hard-drinking Galvin, who frequently stumbles to the bar before lunch for a quick hangover cure. While his actions spiral him deeper and deeper out of control, the actor's steely blue eyes pierce through the character's rough exterior giving the audience hope for his redemption.As Galvin turns from the bottle and throws himself into the case, he begins to see the client as a person instead of a payday. Even as every tactic he throws at the jury is shot down by the Hospital's high powered attorney (Mason), he never loses hope. While the Catholic Church is at times depicted as the villain or at least a corporate entity, faith becomes the overwhelming theme of the film.The Verdict garnered five Oscar nominations, including only the second in Newman's long career. Though he would again lose out on the award, he would reinvent himself by proving he could still step out of his comfort zone as an actor.There is no real hero in this courtroom drama that relies more on emotional draw than actual evidence. Even though sometimes the leaps of the faith the plot takes are a little hard to believe, any fan of Newman will be a fan of The Verdict. "},{"Title":"Human Beings, Summation!","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was 15 years old when the film was released. I didn't get to see it then, but remembered it as a film dramatically lost so many of its Oscar nominations to Richard Attenborough's Gandhi, especially the ones for Best Actor-Paul Newman and Best Director-Sidney Lumet. I still remember the face filled with painful disappointment of James Mason, the film's nominee for Best Supporting Actor, who died shortly after the film's great success. Thirty-three years passed, and I finally got to see this film, if you can believe it. Lumet, Newman, and Mason are all dead. The mysteriously beautiful Charlotte Rampling has become an old lady, still carrying with her some mystique. Bruce Willis and Tobin Bell, who were extras in the courtroom with no dialogue, have become a major and minor great stars respectively. This Lumet's film still holds. The power and the intent are still there with little to no blemish. Even the images of outdated phones, furniture, cars, and all the rest have failed to discredit the film. We know it is an old film, but we cannot care less. The story of the verdict of a man fallen out of the main road and trying to get back, professionally and morally, is timeless. It is not as cheesy as Rocky and not as flashy as The Wrestler. It is calm, serene, constantly moving, even without one single reason why the main character should have bothered continuing. It is a very exciting non-action film. This is a life you can find around you almost on daily basis, a totally failed drunken loser, yet watching it is freshly breathtaking, like discovering something new. The Verdict was purposely made in the stage style rehearsal after rehearsal, long takes and dialogues one after another, plus the virtually motionless cinematography. Brown tone of color all through the screen. All this should have bored and tired the audience to the bone. Yet we find two hours and 9 minutes of this film seamless and rather short. This is what a classic does. "},{"Title":"Kaitlin Costello Price  A Nurse Pays the Price","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When The Verdict, a courtroom drama directed by Sidney Lumet, came out in 1982, I had just graduated nursing school. The Verdict features Paul Newman and was written by David Mamet. This film has a medical context and a nursing role.A word about Sidney Lumet. Lumet directs quality movies about medico-legal, substance abuse and cultural issues. For instance, in Equus the plot is about a psychiatrist treating a boy who blinds a stable full of horses. Lumet also directed Long Day's Journey into the Night which is Eugene O'Neill's autobiographical account of his explosive home life, fueled by a substance abusing mother, an alcoholic father and a mentally ill brother. Dog Day Afternoon is about a gay man who robs a bank to pay for his lover's sex change operation. The simple robbery turns in to a hostage situation and a media circus. Critical Care, a medical comedy, is about a young hospital resident embroiled in a legal battle with siblings over the care of their rich, comatose father. The resident has a supervisor who insists that he only care for patients with full insurance. Finally, 12 Angry Men, another courtroom drama is about a young Hispanic male who is accused of murdering his father but the story really is about jurors' prejudices about the trial, their biases about the accused and each other.The Verdict depicts a once successful, now down-and-out lawyer who sees his career turning around when he accepts a medical malpractice case and refuses to settle rather than going to trial.Kaitlin Costello Price, Mamet's wife in real life by Lindsay Crouse, is a nurse who was involved in the pre-surgical care of the comatose patient. The long and short of her story is that she had to leave nursing because the surgeons told her to change a patient's record who had eaten an hour before the operation so they could use general anesthesia. If she did not falsify the record, she would never work as a nurse again. She doesn't.Her words echo in my mind to this day Who were these men? Who were these men? I wanted to be a nurse!Some racial profiling and sexual bias goes on here. A black doctor is brought in to testify and Newman treats him shabbily.Jack Warden called him a witch doctor. Additionally, there was a seen where Newman punched his girlfriend for lying to him and she thinks she deserves it. "},{"Title":"Another Thumbs up for NEWMAN !","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another outstanding performance from NEWMAN playing the desperate ambulance chasing lawyer(FRANK GALVIN).His changing ethics from being at a funeral of a person he never knew just to get his business card in the hands of the widow;to the change of heart of getting some fast insurance money after seeing a helpless woman in an irreversible coma shows that he still possessed some empathy despite his desperation for some needed Money.Good overall performances from supporting cast members.This film ranks as a favorite but I still can't rank it with HUD and HOMBRE. It's kind of a toss up between this film and HARRY AND SON as my favorite of the two.As always NEWMAN's superb acting skills make you believe he is really the character he is portraying.One of a handful of A Group actors that can play Diverse roles without being stereotyped as one personality.Makes you believe that not all Lawyers are out there just for the Buck.Maybe if there were a few Frank Galvins out there in the real Judical World,Lawyers might have a better reputation among Most Americans.Excellent Film!...s.m. "},{"Title":"Tedious in Places, but Newman is Great","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Probably the best way to describe The Verdict is as a character exploration which uses a courtroom drama/thriller as its vehicle. It's the story about the struggles of an alcoholic who is trying to redeem himself as a person, and sees this one case as an opportunity..maybe his last..to do it. The alcoholic in question is an ambulance chasing lawyer named Frank Galvin (played with understated brilliance by the great Paul Newman), and he's up against a lot more than just his own demons. He has to deal with a high profile defense lawyer who's not above playing dirty, a biased politician of a judge, and at times his own clients, who are angry when he turns down a large settlement offer. Galvin's clients are suing the Arch Diocese and Catholic hospital over a botched baby delivery where the child is killed and the mother is effectively turned into a vegetable.I understand that director Sidney Lumet was doing a character study first and a courtroom suspense a distant second here, but the pacing in some parts of the movie was slower than it needed to be. You see example after example of Galvin's drunkenness and how it affects his daily life, to the point where you're thinking, Enough already! I get it! It's not that those types of scenes aren't important. They're essential to tell the story. But some of them didn't need to be dragged out for so long, and it makes the whole movie feel like it's crawling at a snail's pace.The strength of this movie is its realistic approach to examining an all-too human problem that affects nearly all of us at one time or another in our lives, directly or indirectly, along with a great cast and fine performances, not only by Newman, but also by Jack Warden as his only real friend, Charlotte Rampling as the girl he gets involved with, James Mason as the shrewd and not always ethical defense lawyer, and Edward Binns as the Catholic Bishop. But ultimately, the one reason I have for seeing a movie as depressing and slow as this one is to watch Paul Newman, a true master of his craft, at work. Watching Newman act is like watching Randy Johnson pitch, Frank Lloyd Wright draft, or Da Vinci paint. Yeah, as an actor Newman really was that damned good. "},{"Title":"A Flawless Courtroom Drama","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A lawyer (Paul Newman) sees the chance to salvage his career and self-respect by taking a medical malpractice case to trial rather than settling.Because Frank Galvin was an alcoholic, Robert Redford turned down this role and gave it to his friend. Why? This is a film that earned five Oscar nominations, including for best actor. What was Redford afraid of? Apparently the scene where Frank strikes Laura with a full punch... but is that not the challenge of acting? Playing a role that is not your natural type? Did he really think that the audience would think he was a real-life woman-beater? I absolutely love where the defense team is coaching the doctor on how to answer questions. Is it realistic? I do not know. But it shows the finely-oiled machine that Frank is up against. A whole team of well-paid attorneys who know how to win a case... versus an old man who drinks too much. Quite an underdog story.Bonus very early roles for Tobin Bell and Bruce Willis (if you blink, you will miss them). "},{"Title":"Good verdict!","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie, on screen and as a video, many times. Each time, it gets better. This is no doubt the best acting by Paul Newman in his career. Why he didn't get the Oscar for this role, but instead got it for the lackluster The Color of Money, is beyond me. The movie is actually about redemption, or the attempt to be redeemed.His interpretation of Frank Galvin, a desperate, conniving, down-to-the-last-case attorney, is fascinating and totally convincing. And he has a fantastic supporting cast -- from Jack Warden as his partner, Charlotte Rampling as his chance for romantic redemption, Milo O'Shea as the corrupt judge, Lindsay Crouse as his surprising ace-up-his-sleeve, and most of all, in a landmark supporting actor role, James Mason as the seemingly distinguished and respected defense attorney.And I found the direction by Sidney Lumet to be, once again, outstanding. Lumet has such a long list of great movies that you wonder why he has never won an Oscar or been given an AFI Lifetime Achievement award.This is a riveting movie -- about the law, but mainly about the flawed nature of the human beings who are entrusted with it. Please hear Newman, as Frank Galvin, on his last, crippled, despairing leg, give the summation to the case. It needs to be carved in marble somewhere. David Mamet, who wrote the screenplay, deserves accolades for how he was able to hand Paul Newman such a moving summation. The summation is about life, not just the law. It is a masterpiece, worth seeing the entire movie for.Most of all, it is Newman's Finest Hour. "},{"Title":"One of 75 movies every many should see","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are not many films that I watch without anything distracting me. I put the paper aside and left my laptop closed. I focused intently on this film.The acting was beyond fantastic. Watch the first scene in which Paul Newman is silhouetted against a barroom window, playing pinball the man is acting with his shoulders. Charlotte Rampling was brilliant. I knew something was up, but could not put my finger on it. And, James Mason, well he WAS the Price of fu*king Darkness!With 30 years of acting under his belt, Paul Newman gave an outstanding performance as a drunk, washed-up lawyer that was handed a cakewalk that he proceeded to screw up. He managed to come out smelling like a rose through luck and skill as a lawyer. He should have gotten an Oscar for this film, and I am not saying that just because I like seeing someone stick it to the high and mighty.Sidney Lumet was also great as director as should have been rewarded for this and not just given an honorary Oscar.The real credit for this film has to go to David Mamet. How they avoided given him an Oscar for this screenplay is beyond comprehension.Bruce Willis has a walk-on role "}{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is great. It was recommended for me to watch for nursing school. It can and does happen. Great for everyone and it builds as it goes. Good for lawyers to watch as well.. A never forget it movie. One of my all time favorite movies. Terrific content. I had thought that it might have been based on a real case, but not sure although this can happen. A really great part for Paul Newman to play. A movie with more than one message. A must see for anyone in the medical field as well. A different movie and very important. Good for thought. I love it, talk about it often, and keep it in my memory. Great job Paul has done with it. It boosts your awareness of many things. "},{"Title":"The Verdict (1982)","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I enjoy courtroom dramas, but they're never among my favorites. Especially when they follow the formula so closely. David vs. Goliath, David is a folksy, flawed character with a small practice, Goliath is a team of smarmy attorneys, David fighting a losing battle, David pulls out a clever trick but it's combated by some piece of legalese (damn these lawyers and their sneaky practice of law!!), David's on the ropes, SUDDEN REVELATION, SURPRISE WITNESS, happy ending. They're usually more about being detectives (which is why I kinda like them) and having an impassioned closing argument than actually trying a case. This film deviates in small ways from the template, but it's mostly the standard routine. However, Newman is pretty good and the details are intriguing. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman At His Best","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Verdict is a powerful courtroom drama that tells the story of a down-on-his-luck alcoholic lawyer who pushes a medical malpractice case in order to improve his own situation, but discovers along the way that he is doing the right thing. Since the lawsuit involves a woman in a persistent vegetative state, the movie is cast in the shadow of the Karen Ann Quinlan case. The movie stars Paul Newman, Charlotte Rampling, Jack Warden, James Mason, Milo O'Shea, and Lindsay Crouse.It was directed by by Sidney Lumet.The film was adapted by David Mamet from the novel by Barry Reed.In this courtroom drama The Verdict,Paul Newman portrays Frank Galvin, an alcoholic Boston lawyer who tries to redeem his personal and professional reputation by winning a difficult medical malpractice case. Frank, down on his luck, is presented with the case of his life when he is approached by the family of a woman who has been left in a coma following an operation in a large Catholic hospital. Helped by his assistant Mickey (Jack Warden), he agrees to take the case, hoping for a fast settlement. When he visits the victim in the hospital, he becomes emotionally involved, turns down a sizable settlement offer made by the hospital, and decides to bring the case to trial despite the formidable opposition of the Church and its lawyer,Ed Concannon (James Mason).He is also assisted by his new girlfriend, Laura (Charlotte Rampling),a woman who turns out to have an unusual past. Paul Newman is one unbelievable actor.The Verdict proves just that.It is an excellent movie that proves his acting capabilities.He was at his best in this film.He definitely should have won the Oscar if he wasn't up against Ben Kingsley of the movie,Gandhi that same year.Apart from Newman,James Mason also gives a fine, Oscar-nominated performance as Frank Galvin's opponent,Ed Concannon.Other worthy performance in the film is that from Charlotte Rampling as the deceitful Laura, who never seems to turn down a drink.I consider this also one of Sidney Lumet's best films aside from Serpico and Dog Day Afternoon.The Verdict works flawlessly from the story,the stellar performances of the cast and the cinematography of Edward Pisoni in presenting the emotions and moods especially that of the characters particularly Frank Galvin.Overall,it truly deserves its Academy Award nominations for Best Picture,Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Director.The Verdict is one excellent film.Although there are some legal inaccuracies in the story,it still remains one excellent courtroom drama movies ever done.The theme is powerful especially when it presents corruption in the legal system and certain institutions,how money overcomes the implementation of justice and the issue of medical malpractice. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman plus Sidney Lumet equals gold, and that's a fact. Just watch The Verdict and you will understand. Paul Newman stars as Frank Galvin, a down on his luck lawyer who is desperate for a big case to get him back on his feet and move his failing career along. He sees this potential in a case involving a woman who was allegedly put into a coma by the doctors at the hospital she was staying at. Galvin becomes obsessively determined to win this case at any cost, even with all the hurdles and obstacles that come his way while he gets closer and closer to court. It's an exciting film with a great storyline and incredible performances from all, especially the great Paul Newman.Sidney Lumet has a way of filmmaking that is so subtly excellent, and subsequently so under-appreciated. In some ways The Verdict is just a standard courtroom drama, but in other ways it's not. Lumet employs a grittier and darker style of filmmaking that sets The Verdict apart and puts it way ahead of its time. It has that subtle effect of not being a loud or obvious film. It's not one that you are blown away by or absolutely astounded by, but the level of appreciation one has to possess towards this film is insurmountable. It is that brand of high quality filmmaking that one just doesn't see every day.The Verdict has the kind of raw finesse that can only be picked up by those with an astute appreciation for this kind of subtle filmmaking. This quality lies in the direction of the film, but also in the script. The always incredible David Mamet is the screenwriter for this film, and it's very easy to tell. Mamet does with words what action films do with explosions. He creates a riveting and enthralling experience just through the fancy wordplay and the sophisticated dialect all of the characters flaunt. It is a script that never gets unbearably dull and the dialogue never fall short of genius. Whether you like the movie or not there's no denying that it is of a truly profound quality.The Verdict is a quintessential court room drama film that you would be foolish not to see. It's got all the star power you could ask for from a dramatic exposition like this. Sidney Lumet, David Mamet, and Paul Newman all come together to make this is great film that my admiration for goes on for a long, long time. It might be a little slow and moments and it is certainly a very high brow film, but my respect for the quality of this film knows no boundaries. "},{"Title":"Former rising star lawyer played by Paul Newman has been reduced to chasing ambulances and getting drunk when a plum malpractice case falls in his lap.","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At the risk of this Israelite being cast as a Philistine by the many who apparently saw a great film... the movie I saw was a shallow, disappointing mess. Great director, amazing cast, but zero acting and no character development. So many things happen without reason - Newman's character's unexplained epiphany leading to moral redemption being just one. Similarly, one of the film's most dramatic courtroom moments - the jury's decision - makes absolutely no sense, at least given the scanty trial information the film provides. As courtroom drama it is shockingly unconvincing. Thus, when the judge breaks into Newman's character's cross examination of his expert witness to do the work of the defense attorney, supposedly a world-renowned attorney played by the ever urbane James Mason, it is simply not credible. Newman's character's entire case hinges on a single witness, who conveniently disappears on the eve of the trial, leaving him depressed and self-pitying. He is given no solace by the mysterious and beautiful woman who turns out to be complicated and may actually have something to do with the movie, though it isn't ever made clear. Jack Warden plays his friend and partner in the fateful case and is totally wasted, as is Mason and everyone else in this bad film. Sorry, I really expected much better. "},{"Title":"Always Bothered me","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an entertaining movie but it has always bothered me that the plot hangs on the last minute witness who comes forward. Why was the woman in the coma? She aspirated during general anesthesia for a C-Section. What did the doctor do wrong? He changed the time that she last ate on the ER record. That's what the nurse testifies to at the end of the case. Why did she have the C-section? Was it an emergency? If that was the case then you don't wait 8 hours. Aspiration is a risk of anesthesia. Was it elective? She would have known to wait 8 hours before coming in for surgery. Besides, even at this time most C-Sections were being done under Spinal or Epidural and aspiration would not be an issue. Bottom line, there was no reason to change the time on the ER record, the doctor had no reason to do so. The patient died from a complication that was not his fault. "},{"Title":"The Power of Paul Newman!","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet's Classic 'The Verdict' shows us The Power of Paul Newman! An Actor So Powerful & Sharp, that he catches your attention the moment he comes on screen. 'The Verdict' features one of Newman's Best Performances, and he without a doubt, is THE Best Thing about the film.'The Verdict' tells the story of a down-on-his-luck alcoholic lawyer, who pushes a medical malpractice case in order to improve his own situation, but discovers along the way that he is doing the right thing.'The Verdict' is a Well-Made Film and Lumet has Directed the film bombastically. In fact, the film begins remarkably and catches you as a viewer. However, I found, the film as Slow-Pace. I really think the pacing could have been faster. David Mamet's Screenplay is convincing. Cinematography & Editing, are nice.Performance-Wise Newman rules the show all the way. He plays the down-on-his-luck alcoholic lawyer, with amazing ease. Newman, truly is One of THE Greatest Film Actors Ever. In the supporting cast, James Mason & Jack Warden are terrific and stand out.On the whole, 'The Verdict' is a Must Watch for Paul Newman Fanatics. Newman...lives on! "},{"Title":"Paul Newman as a down-and-out ambulance chaser seeks redemption.","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman was in his mid-50s, and plays a similar age Frank Galvin, attorney, who drinks too much and who hasn't actually won a case in some time. He needs to make a living, and resorts to funeral home visits, pretending to be an old friend of the deceased, and passing out his card If there is anything I can do... Frank gets a case handed to him by an old cohort, it should be an easy settlement, and with the customary 1/3 Frank would have enough to live on for quite some time. But Frank somehow gets a conscience, sees what he believes is an injustice, and vows to try and win the case.It involves a young pregnant woman who is admitted to the hospital, given an improper anesthetic, and is left in a vegetative state, only being kept alive by hospital equipment. Frank is determined to prove malpractice. Not for the money, but for doing the right thing.James Mason, in his 70s, is Ed Concannon, a very powerful and organized attorney who, along with his eager team, represent the hospital and the physicians. Charlotte Rampling, who was about 35 and still stunning, is Laura Fischer. Frank meets her at his local evening hangout and they become a number. Jack Warden is Frank's old friend, attorney Mickey Morrissey who helps Frank with the case.The movie isn't so much about the case or the trial, it is about Frank, to see if this derelict lawyer can get his life together and do something worthwhile. He refuses an attractive settlement, intent on going to trial. Paul Newman is superb.SPOILERS The Laura character actually works for Concannon, she was a plant to be used to spy, to listen in and reveal Frank's strategy. At trial, the judge was clearly on the side of the hospital and the doctors. One former nurse testified that one of the doctors changed the admittance form to cover his mistake, but she had made and kept a copy. However because of a technicality the judge ruled her testimony not admissible. Still, after deliberation, the jury found for the plaintiff. Frank won his case, he had restored his honor, and presumably the even larger monetary award set him financially for life. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman leads a strong cast in a fine courtroom drama","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two things struck me about this movie the uniformly excellent cast and the lighting. Paul Newman, in one of his best performances, plays Frank Galvin, a middle age alcoholic lawyer who is down, way down, on his luck. Opening scenes often set the tone for a movie, and that is the case here. Frank is seen glumly playing a pinball machine and drinking a beer. The camera slowly zooms in on Frank's profile where you can read dejection and weariness. That one scene tells us a lot of what we need to know about Frank.Frank's friend, and sometimes associate, Mickey refers a medical malpractice case to Frank that looks like it would be a slam dunk for a quick settlement. And that is what develops initially, but in a well scripted and filmed transformation Frank comes to see the case as an injustice that should be righted with more than a pro forma settlement. The case is also probably Frank's last chance to redeem his career as well his sense of self worth.The ever intriguing Charlotte Rampling is perfectly cast as a woman who takes up with Frank. My early reaction to Rampling, and the way she was filmed, was to agree with Frank when he said to her, My god, you are some beautiful woman. James Mason is superb as Ed Concannon, a cynical head of a top flight Boston law firm; Ed leavens his killer instinct with a sharp wit. Jack Warden shines as Mickey and Milo O'Shea is positively chilling as a powerful and politically connected judge you don't want to cross. Clearly a lot of work went into designing the sets. Frank's office looks out into an archway that always seems to be cloudy--it provides a perfect backdrop for the grayness of Frank's life. It's an achievement that such a small space as Frank's office is made to accommodate many camera angles. One intense scene is made powerful by having the camera appear to be mounted on the floor looking up to Frank on one side of his desk and Mickey on the other. The scenes filmed in the courtroom and courthouse accentuate the formality of such venues and make the people and their cares seem small.Director Lumet uses closeups to great effect, particularly by the way they are lighted. Light often strikes a face at an angle, creating a contrast of light and shadow that almost achieves the effectiveness of black and white portrait photography. Scenes in the courtroom that appear to be lighted by natural light are also effective. The final scene left me wondering about Frank's future. Too late now for a follow-up in the way that The Color of Money updated The Hustler. "},{"Title":"An entrance into the complicated world of the law","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First of all i should say that Paul Newman, as always(as far as I've seen), gives a spectacular performance, as the main lawyer in this movie. Although the movie follows regular movie rules and has a very little original content it does offer good insight on the politics of law. There seems to be a sort of cynical tone somewhere in the writer's head, trying to show how justice does not always have its way, especially when a competitive corporation is up against a small group. There is a monologue I particularly liked, one about the firm paying employees to win and not to do their best, otherwise their existence would just fade, there seems to be a dichotomy between survival and justice depicted which is done in a very effective manner. This is a movie enjoyable even by people who are not movie geeks, though maybe not for the fanatic action fans P. "}{"Title":"A Newman masterpiece","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm sure this film was quite provocative in its day, but its subject matter is fairly tame to anyone who has watched any of the kajillion lawyer shows on TV over the last 20 years. But though some of the particulars may be a bit dated, there's nothing that can take away from Paul Newman's performance as one of the great characters in movie history.Frank Galvin (Paul Newman) is a middle aged attorney who would technically be called an ambulance chaser, except Frank isn't even good enough to chase ambulances. He actually scams his way into funeral visitations and gives his card to grieving family members, passing himself off as an old friend of the deceased. Frank drinks a lot, but it's still not enough to completely drown his own self-loathing. He works out of a tiny office with no secretary and barely manages to get into court. Frank Galvin is pretty much the last person you'd want arguing your case.But Frank still has friends who remember him from better days and one of them, Mickey (Jack Warden), has thrown a case Frank's way. It's about a young woman who went into a Catholic hospital with nausea, was given the wrong anesthetic and wound up a vegetable. Her closest family wants some money to take care of her and maybe help get themselves started on a new life. At first Frank is thrilled with the case. He's got a great expert witness on his side and he can smell the retainer he'll collect from the Church's settlement offer. But then Frank goes to see the young woman lying comatose in her hospital bed. He wants to take pictures of her he can wave in front of the Bishop to try and get them to raise their offer. But something happens to Frank when he looks at that young woman. He actually sees her. He doesn't see a settlement check. He doesn't see his retainer. He sees a ruined human being and he just can't let this case go away for money.Frank rejects the settlement offer, without checking with the woman's family, and heads into court against the Church's army of lawyers, led by Ed Concannon (James Mason), a professorial yet utterly ruthless attorney. Frank wants this trial to redeem himself, but that's an easy thing to want when you think you're going to win. When Frank's expert witness disappears, his cross examinations fall apart and the judge openly sides with the defense&#x85;Frank stops thinking he can win. But even with defeat weighing him down like a suit of armor, Frank manages to find one witness, one shred of evidence that might save the day. That is, if it doesn't get thrown out of court on a technicality.As I mentioned before, the desperate tactics, underhanded maneuvering and seemingly unfair and arbitrary nature of the legal system may have been quite a shock to folks with a Perry Mason view of the law. But whether you've watched L.A. Law, Law and Order or O.J. Simpson's murder trial, you've probably seen a lot worse and a lot more twisted stuff than you'll find in The Verdict.That doesn't detract much from the greatness of this movie because the heart of the story remains Newman's outstanding performance as Frank Galvin. This is a deeply flawed man. A broken man who in a crisis of conscience clutches to what he thinks may be his last chance to save himself. But what truly sets Frank Galvin apart as one of the great characters of American cinema is that he remains flawed, even on his road back to redemption. When the case turns against him, Frank frantically tries to weasel his way out and runs to his girlfriend for sympathy. Even his desire to take the case to trial is fundamentally a selfish one. He's willing to risk the welfare of a comatose young woman and the future of her family for his shot at redemption. But Newman totally succeeds in making us care about Frank's struggle for his soul, even while showing us that Frank will never be perfect.Aside from the reason why Frank's new girlfriend (Charlotte Rampling) takes up with him just before trial not making a lot of sense when you think about it, the plot of this film is very solid with very powerful, though perhaps not that memorable, dialog. There are two points where the judge (Milo O'Shea) acts in service of the Almighty Plot Hammer, but that's largely forgivable.Courtroom dramas, especially on TV, have long since outpaced what you'll see in The Verdict but there hasn't been much to compare to Frank Galvin, and one of the greatest movie stars in one of his best roles is more than enough reason to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing ...","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Great performance by Paul Newman and Charlotte Rampling. Remarkable acting by Paul Newman and he shines a lot in this role. The story is very simple with no complicating plots , very simple dialogs and scenes with a great humanity depth. The trial scenes are so clear and straight forward , Newman as  Frank Galvin  deserved the best leading actor Oscar. What is touching about this masterpiece is it talks about a morale side and about how humans treat and deal with each others. Sidney Lumet directs this movie cleverly , its one of his best movies ever. One of the best courtroom dramas, with profound medical error case that should be going for a publicity trial. We have to be responsible about our acts, jobs and professions . We have to be professionals and not to lose our humanity at the same time which allows us to be honest with each others and any carelessness carried out effects on our human side . "},{"Title":"Don't Miss It","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Folks, If you pass up a chance on seeing this one, your making a big mistake. The anticipation in this movie will give you a heart attack right up until the end. I sat on this for quite some time before finally giving it a try. To say I'm glad I did is an understatement. The looks on each characters faces are painful to see when you know the crux of the story. You feel for each one. The insight into what lawyers are really in it for is eye opening. If your ever in the market for a lawyer, It might make you think twice about choosing the right one.If things are going bad throughout your day and you think a nice romantic comedy would make you feel better, do me a favor, give this a try. I promise, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is not only one of my favorite films of all time, it's one that I find I can watch again, and again.Robert Redford was to play the lead role, but worked with the writer, David Mamet, to change the character, to eliminate his being an alcoholic. As much as I admite Redford more than any other modern actor / director / producer, I think that he missed the point here. The fact that the lawyer was an alcoholic was essential to the character.This was one of the best courtroom dramas ever produced. Filled with emotion, and real life experiences, I found the movie to be unparalleled in its realism, emotion and feeling.I loved this film, and I cannot recommend it enough. If you want to see the real world, depicted with beautiful imagery, great acting, and realism not often evoked by Hollywood, watch this movie.I can't say more than this Please watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Newman, Mamet, Lumet deliver a classic","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman pulls off quite a feat in 'The Verdict;' he succeeds in making us sympathize with an ambulance-chasing, alcoholic lawyer. The whole idea here is redemption, and once we see his character, Frank Galvin, making a stab at it, well, he's got us. If the film wasn't so skillfully put together, so well acted and directed, one might consider the ending a cheat. But it doesn't feel that way. It feels like justice. At the beginning, the boozy Galvin is shown going from funeral to funeral passing out business cards, always hurrying to his local watering hole at the end of the day to swap stories and jokes with the regulars there. He actually does have a case, one he doesn't pay much attention to until it's almost too late. A young woman is in a coma after a difficult childbirth, and her sister has sued the hospital and its doctors for not preventing it. When Galvin finally gets around to checking into it, something stirs inside him. He sees a chance to do something right again. He's not even sure why he's doing it and he wavers often. His mentor, Mickey Morrissey (Jack Warden, in a great, gruff performance), is really Frank's strength, helping him, encouraging him, criticizing him. Galvin turns down a substantial offer from the hospital's sponsor, the local Catholic diocese, to settle out of court and proclaims his intention to try the case. Everyone, including Mickey, thinks he's crazy. James Mason plays Ed Concannon, the hospital's attorney, and he is smooth and cunning as we would expect. He has a battery of lawyers to assist him and all the money and resources one could wish for. Concannon is supremely confidant and it isn't until the final few moments that he has any reason not to be. He hires a woman, Laura Fischer (Charlotte Rampling), to befriend and seduce Galvin, so that he'll know exactly what the other side is doing at any given moment. David Mamet's screenplay is near-perfect, displaying that great writer's brilliance with dialogue, relationships, and situations once again. Sidney Lumet's direction is sombre without being stodgy, deliberately paced but always moving the story forward, letting us see it from all the characters' perspectives. Even with a wonderfully varied cast of supporting actors, this is another latter-day showcase for Paul Newman, reminding one in many ways of 'Absence of Malice.' His characters in these films are not dissimilar; down-on-their-luck through much of the film but always ultimately rising to the occasion. And the ending of 'The Verdict' is every bit as satisfying to us as it is to Frank Galvin, sitting in his office and refusing to answer Laura Fischer's phone call. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Verdict was a good film.They bring their prejudices, their fear, their life experiences, their lack of interest, and their anonymity into a room to make a decision--that's when the real story starts. Is the hospital at fault or the doctors?We all think about the possibility of having to face that day--some relish the opportunity while others fear making a bad decision. It's one reason this film resonates with so many people. It's a common experience that brings out different emotions in different people. The remake, although not as effective because of the lack of originality, is also good and brings in other points of view, including racial issues. Both lack one thing--a female's point of view! But that creates even more tension. After all, men don't want to deal with their emotions the same way women do.Paul Newman was awesome and should have won the Oscar with James Mason. "},{"Title":"The Verdict is in-Newman Does It Again! ***1/2","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Remember in 1959 when Paul Newman played an attorney who rose among the affluent in The Young Philadelphians? As Frank Galvin, in the 1982 film, The Verdict, Newman again is practicing the law. He has been down and out in his luck and has essentially become an ambulance chaser.A long comes a case of a woman given the wrong anesthesia and as a result, she is comatose.Galvin takes the case and immediately nothing seems to go right. The presiding judge and defense attorney for the accused doctors seem to be in bed with each other. A doctor, who was going to testify for the comatose victim is bought off, and Newman's new love interest is working secretly for the defense team as well. In addition, Galvin is screamed at by the brother-in-law of the victim. The former wanted Galvin to take the money that was being offered to settle the case.What makes this movie so memorable is that it deals with our court system and seeming injustices. The church, which ran the hospital, does not come out looking too well at all. There seems to be corruption at all levels.While the jury did reach a verdict quickly, this is definitely a story of redemption and remarkable courage. "},{"Title":"A Film with Personal Meaning","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love this film. This is probably Sidney Lumet's last great film after such classics as 12 Angry Men, Serpico, Fail Safe, Murder on the Orient Express, Dog Day Afternoon, et al. Paul Newman was robbed, this is one of his best performances, and that's saying a lot. I love the little nuances of his performance, like when he greets the witch doctor at the railroad station, he feels the material of his overcoat as Galvin is sizing up his expert witness. I've always thought Newman had a great comic sense, which can be seen in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, for example.This is my 2nd favorite film of all time with deep personal meaning. No I am not an alcoholic, but most of us have been underdogs at sometime in our lives. We've all had people doubting our capabilities, just as James Mason's team of lawyers discount Galvin's competence. This film is about personal redemption. Further, I admire Frank's strength in not going back to Laura after she betrayed him. We've all known a woman like that in our lives...The cast is outstanding James Mason, Milo O'Shea, Charlotte Rampling, along with perennial Lumet actors Jack Warden and Edward Binns. The script is by the best American Playwrite, David Mamet, who doesn't require an introduction.As I stated, Newman should have won the Best Actor Oscar. It was a tough year, against the great Peter O'Toole and Ben Kingsley. I always thought his first and only Oscar for The Color of Money was out of sympathy for losing in 1982, but he gave a great performance in that film as well. Still and all, this film is timeless, important, and motivating to all of us who have faced a personal crisis. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman,(Frank Galvin), supported by a very strong cast with performances that make this movie a classic courtroom case win. James Mason as the defendant's lawyer, (Ed Concannon), Charlotte Rampling as (Laura), the mole for Concannon who becomes a Galvin believer and the rest of the cast were excellent. Why Newman did not receive the Oscar for his performance must have been a Hollywood political decision among those who voted. His work in this movie outshines The Color of Money where the voters gave him the Oscar to make up for a bad call in The Verdict. Engaging and cerebral, this movie is to viewed over and over again. "},{"Title":"Act as if ye have faith, if faith is to be given to you","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Solid courtroom drama with Paul Newman as an old broken down alcoholic ambulance chasing lawyer, Frank Galvin, who finally gets a case with the help of an old friend attorney Mickey Morrissey, Jack Warden, and in pursuing justice turns his life around. After almost being disbarred for being too honest Frank's career as an attorney had gone straight down the toilet with him handling four cases in the last three years losing all of them. Unable to get over his drinking problems Frank spends his time in Boston bars playing pin-pall machines and telling corny jokes to the patron's, just so someone would buy him a drink. Frank is now down to attending funerals where he hands out his business card to the outrage of grieving family members.Mickey Morrissey an old and good friend of Frank's hands him a case that he feel Frank can handle involving a malpractice case against a Boston Catholic hospital St. Catherine's. Debroah Ann Kaye, Susan Benenson, had been admitted to the hospital to give birth and after being treated with amnesia fell into a coma after her brain was kept, as a result of her treatment, for getting oxygen for as much as 10 minutes.The Catholic Archdiocese that the hospital is part of offers an out of court settlement for $210,000.00 to Frank's clients Sally, Roxanne Hart, Deborah's sister and her husband Kevin Doneghy, James Handy, who are caring for the comatose Deborah. Frank balks on the deal and decides, against Mickey's strong objection's, to take the case before a jury. Frank also very unprofessionally, to the point of again being disbarred, keeps the news of the settlement offer from his clients which can also get him fired as their lawyer. On top of all that Frank foolishly falls in love with a woman Laura Fisher, Charlotte Rampling, that he meets while he's getting smashed in one of the many bars he drinks at who's working for the enemy, the defense, who he confides his most personal feelings about the case and how he plans to handle it in court!Great courtroom drama in and out of court with Frank Galvin, who never seemed to give up drinking during the movie, using his sense of justice and bulldog determination more then his knowledge of the law to overcome a battery of lawyers from a multi-million dollar law firm. The firm is headed by defense attorney Ed Concannor, James Mason, and his very good friend, who seemed to be working for Concannor in every decision he made on he case, Judge Hoyle (Milo O'Shea).Frank goes as far as breaking the law, by breaking into a mailbox, to get a very important witness who can break the case wide open former St. Catherine's nurse Kaitlin Costello Price (Lindsey Crouse) to testify. Kaitlin's appearance and explosive cross-examination testimony about how the hospital mishandled Deborah's operation had the smug and so-sure of himself Concannor almost get a heart attack and run, with his tail between his legs, to his very good friend and secret tag-team partner in the case Judge Hoyle. Concannor wants the Judge to strike all of Kaitlin's damaging testimony against his client from he record which a very willing helpful Judge Hoyle did.Touching yet simple closing statement by Frank will have you like it did the jury and all those in the courtroom, and even I suspect Judge Hoyle, almost in tears that went right to the heart of the matter. Frank appealed to the jury's sense of of real justice not the justice that those in power always get with their money and influence and, in case that doesn't work, by intimidating, persons like nurse Kaitlin Costello Price and ambushing and defaming defense lawyers like attorney Frank Garvin. P.S That big sneak Laura who worked her way into Frank's heart and apartment and was sandbagging his case from day one got her share of justice as well; a solid right-cross straight POW in the kisser from Frank. "}{"Title":"Paul Newman's best Movie Role","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those perfect movies and I have to think that as good as the screenplay is (one of Mamet's best--a great adaptation from Barry reed's novel) this movie would be nothing without Newman's portrayal which is as fantastically fresh as it is every time I watch it.Some of the things that go on in the movie are not realistic (Dr. Gruber being bought off and disappearing; the judge injecting himself into the case). It is all about the character portrayal.James Mason adds a lot as the Price of Darkness. He is very reminiscent of his VanDam character in North by Northwest. Milo O'Shea and Jack Warden are great.But in the end this movie is what it is because of Paul Newman. "},{"Title":"The Verdict. - Edit swear words out for great SCHOOL version!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Comments above sum up many of the MAIN movements in this movie. Here are a few more...A self-doubting, hard drinking lapsed Catholic remembers the ethics of his youth and fights for the severely brain damaged & disabled young woman. ***How can alcoholic Frank Galvin come back enough to fight for his poor and silent client, the brain damaged young woman?Lots of ethical questions, dilemmas could be discussed after viewing this movie. (Note on TV the many F words are edited out.)In addition to the major cast players, watch for great performances by Edward Binns (Bishop Brophy--late coming to realize he needs to do some ethical housecleaning...but still realizing this) and the middleaged, brutally honest nurse (a bit tough, beat up by life some)--Maureen Rooney (played well by Julie Bavasso). One hopes the Bishop starts listening regularly to the little people such as Nurse Maureen, who could have given the Bishop the real story ages ago... ...had she thought her opinion would have been wanted.(After all, most Christian hospitals were started to serve the weak as in the story told by a Jewish man 2000 years ago. Thus, the Bishop must house clean to get back to the Good Samaritan.)(SPOILER below...I thot of The Verdict and the barely seen other 12 heroes... the JURY. Despite the legal webs woven by both hostile judge and corrupt superlawyer Concannon, the jury does not let themselves stay enmeshed in such legal minutae. They look at the whole picture and return the just verdict. I just wish the legal gods' known as the US Supreme Court (and the demigods of Florida) could have had the view of the jury in THE VERDICT and looked at the whole picture instead of drowning in their own legal minutae, for instance some judges... (like the judge in The VERDICT) felt that they needed to protect their judicial turf or needed to teach upstarts who challenged their position---and thus did not deal with the CRITICAL issue---a severely brain damaged, yet healthy young woman who was being forcibly starved to death...I thought of THE VERDICT many times as Terri Schiavo took the couple weeks to slowly---die. "},{"Title":"Movie was not a typical Mamet slow ball.  Frank Galvin is Newman's Best to Date","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a great movie, a classic. It should be among the 10 greatest films ever made (but then again I think that the Big Lewboski should be up there too). Newman's best performance ever, and I mean ever. Jack Warden was perfect as Galvin's enabler. Newman's Frank Galvin was hopeless, helpless and drunk. He didn't elicit much sympathy either. This was a dark movie, set in a cold, overcast Boston winter. It could have been shot in black and white (maybe it was, I couldn't tell). James Mason was more evil then he was in North by Northwest and Stephen King's Salem's Lot combined. Mamet's script was superb. However, I missed Joe Montagna. Lumet didn't let the actors dialog slow down to that speech pathologist helping a traumaticlly brain injured patient pace usually found in Mamet's work. It wouldn't have worked here. The pace was perfect. I usually end up finishing the actor's lines in most Mamet movies. The director captured the hopelessness of the story perfectly. Certainly not the best of Lumet, but it was great. David Mamet, Sydney Lumet and Paul Newman, the perfect storm, the Joe Tinker, to Johnny Evers, to Frank Chance. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman and James Mason star in a tense drama","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman is great in this fine courtroom drama that details the struggles of an attorney to recover his self respect after years of being in a downward spiral. A washed up attorney with a drinking problem, Newman takes a malpractice suit and ensuing cover-up filed against a hospital and the Catholic Church that results in a taut, absorbing courtroom drama. Newman draws on an inner strength that convinces him that he can win his case in spite of the opposition of a brilliant courtroom adversary and a biased judge. The film was something of a comeback of sorts for Newman, and James Mason is great as who the attorney who represents the Church. Jack Warden is good as Newman's sympathetic friend who gets Newman his big break as he tries to reverse his career fortunes. Charlotte Rampling, Milo O'Shea and Joe Seneca are solid in supporting roles but Lindsay Crouse makes the best impression as a former nurse on the witness stand who comes forward in the interests of justice. "},{"Title":"Oscar-worthy","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In my mind, Newman should have taken home Oscars for the followingHud; Cool Hand Luke; The VerdictThe Color of Money was just a make-up call. I suspect that Newman's early image of a pretty boy probably hurt him in some respects, but, man can he inhabit a character. In The Verdict, his Frank Galvin character is, essentially, a rather ugly, unsympathetic character. Through Newman's talents, he converts him into someone that you hope can turn things around. At the end, you still aren't sure if he has achieved this, but you get the feeling that he at least has his feet under him, and chances are good. Lindsey Crouse nearly steals the movie with a remarkable courtroom performance, but it's Newman who truly shines in this somewhat dark, engrossing tale of utter desperation and redemption. "},{"Title":"You just know he has body-odour!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Atmosphere, tension, pathos and drama combine to make watching this movie a life-enhancing experience.  Strange, moody lighting, unexpected camera settings, the story twists and all-round absolutely superb acting set this one way above the rest.Newman plays the quintessential anti-hero superbly, you feel a sense of distaste when he appears on screen, you just know he has body-odour, but gradually he wins your sympathy.  His performance is seminal here, however even the minor roles are performed superbly. There is an unmistakeable sense that everyone on set knew they were making something significant.For me, there is one little scene which I will always remember, Possibly the most moving moment I have seen in a film.  Newman's friend has to tell him some shattering news but we don't get to hear it with him.  We are watching from a far-away viewpoint, yet the body language alone conveys everything.  Simply brilliant "},{"Title":"A quietly powerful drama about doing the right thing...","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My only prior experience with Paul Newman is from nearly a decade before this movie in The Sting. Watching him here in The Verdict, therefore, is nothing short of a revelation. Where a lot of actors would need a couple of paragraphs of dialogue to give you an idea of what is going through their minds, Newman tells you with just a look. The broken nature of the court scenes (abruptly leaving during the middle of Newman's opening argument, never hearing Mason's closing one) may be a bit much for some to take, but as the rest of the movie makes clear, the case is only part of the story. The behind-the-scenes manuevers, the strategy sessions at the firm of Newman's opponents, Newman's scrambling for any solid straw in the wind--due credit goes to one of my favorite screenwriters, David Mamet, as well as Newman for making these just as, if not more, important than anything that we missed in the courtroom.The images, I think, that will stay the most in my mind are the opening scene at the pinball machine and the unanswered call at the office at film's end. It struck me how much the sounds of the pinball machine ringing and the phone ringing were so much alike. But maybe Mamet was going for symbolism; the pinball machine representing randomness, chaos, luck of the draw and the phone as direction, purpose, focus. Regardless of such speculation, it helps to make the same point that High Noon made three decades before doing the right thing is never easy...and sometimes, the price is VERY high. "},{"Title":"A superb, complete film. Paul Newman's best work.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my all-time favorites. Truly, a complete film with coherent, complex plot; superb acting from a wonderful cast; darkly appropriate cinematography and excellent editing. Paul Newman at the peak of his easily-underestimated talent. James Mason's performance is controlled and disturbing. The only misstep is the lack of development of Charlotte Rampling's character. A great film. "},{"Title":"Newman's Greatest Performance and a Terrific Legal Script","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is probably my favorite movie about the law.  Its portrait of legal ethics is far more scathing than And Justice For All? and far more informative.I admire so many of Paul Newman's performances but this one most of all. Milo Shea is terrific as the defendant-loving judge, making about the same point as Dean Stockwell's judge in The Rainmaker but being less obvious and more sinister.  James Mason is perfect as the defense attorney for a powerful entity--cheating at every turn even though he has overwhelming advantages.  Charlotte Rampling plays Laura perfectly.  Edward Binns, whom I seldom see praised, is terrific as the bishop whom Mamet has mouth the words What is the truth? like a latter-day Pilate.Best of all, the ordinary folk in this movie get an opportunity to challenge the tendency of professionals to bury or to bankrupt their mistakes.Don't let the title fool you.  There are multiple verdicts that will determine multiple fates. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie was genius! This was Paul Newman's last Great and Powerful role. He's made tremendous movies since this, but this stands out as perhaps the best lawyer movie ever made!  Newman and Jack Warden mesh in this film like Newman and Redford in Butch Cassidy!  One of my favorite all time movie! "}{"Title":"Better than The Color Of Money","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In my view, both Paul Newman and James Mason should have taken the Oscar that year. In Newman's case, although he was good in The Color Of Money, it was familiar territory. The Verdict was much more intense, I actually was repulsed by the opening scenes of him at funerals handing out his business card. And it happens no matter how many times I see it. He and Jack Warden also worked very well together, it was like they had actually known each other all those years. My hats off to Paul in his best film since The Hustler! "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Intense film that shows the devastation of alcohol.Great performance by Mr. Newman. One of the best in his entire career.I see that this film got a low 7.5 rating. Please ignore the rating. This is what happens in a society where ignorance still flourishes. You will notice that the majority of the comments are all very positive. That's because the REAL people who went and saw this movie knows just how good it really is. I'm sure the majority of the scores that are below a 6 are from jealous people who didn't even see the film. They are just trying to hate on Paul Newman and his films because they are successful. The film was one of the best in the U.S. "},{"Title":"One of the best courtroom dramas","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet's film about a lawyer who sees the chance to resurrect his career and self-respect by taking a medical malpractice case to trial instead of settling. Newman is great in the lead while Charlotte Rampling is decent as well, Jack Warden checks in for a great supporting performance and James Mason is pretty good as well. The film is written very well by David Mamet, i thought the screenplay was the focal part and had it not been for Mamet's great screenplay, Lumets film could have fell short of success. I liked Lumet's modern direction in the much more comedic Find Me Guilty much more, but his direction here is also not bad, a bit slow at times, but the dialogues and great newman performance make up for it. I liked the cinematography from Andrzej Bartkowiak (The Devil's Advocate, Speed, Falling Down). The score was also good from JOhnny Mandel (Caddyshack). All-in-all a good courtroom drama with great performances and screenplay.---IMDb rating 7.6, my rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"The best courtroom summation on film","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all, David Mamet wrote the screenplay.  If Mamet thought it was worth the time to write it, it's probably worth your time to watch it.  Paul Newman is great as the desperate lawyer.  The rest of the cast is wonderful, too.  She's on screen only briefly, but Lindsay Crouse's Caitlin Costello burns her way into your memory and just won't leave (WHO WERE THESE MEN?). And Newman's (Mamet's) final summation is just about as good as a film speech gets.  So much of the time we're just lost...  Am I over estimating this film?  See it a few times & decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Newman brilliant as always","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A good cast with Newman standing out as a washed up lawyer almost makes up for the story flaws. Why does an idealistic doctor, who is actually the one to persuade Newman's character to take the case to court, suddenly take a bribe and disappear to the Caribbean never to be heard from again? Why doesn't Newman cross examine his own witness in the final court scene? And why don't we get to hear James Mason's closing? These and other mistakes are annoying and, one would think, unnecessary. Despite it all this is still a better than average movie. I give it good solid 7. "},{"Title":"David takes on Goliath in this brilliant Mamet script.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are so many lasting quotes from this film. Inspired dialogue, emotional soliloquy. Truly one of the finest pieces of writing from one of the best, masterfully given life by Sidney Lumet at his zenith, brilliantly delivered by Paul Newman-Cool Hand Luke and Eddie Felson are distant shadows to Newman's portrayal of Frank Galvin here.Perhaps further tribute to the power of the writing is the countless brilliant performances, Charlotte Rampling, who seems to struggle in most everything she plays, is solid as a rock. Jack Warden's performance as Galvin's mentor and partner is flawless. James Mason gives us the best of what a truly great actor can give. Superb also is Milo O'Shea, Wesley Addy, Lindsay Crouse, Ed Binns, in small roles, each is given their moment and each uses it wonderfully.The story unfolds, from seed to seedling, to flower. We hold it in our hand, we feel the pulse, we are right there with it for the entire 122 minutes.A masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant look at the law where justice righteously prevails.","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Courtroom dramas come at a dime a dozen. John Grisham has become the popular voice for pitting lawyers up against the most intricate cases and nearly always having their client come out winning in the end. The Verdict, unlike others of its genre, refuses to be mired down by the standard conventions, preferring to look beyond the courtroom into what makes an attorney tick, the stress they are under to succeed, and the myth that they are all out to make a fast buck. Paul Newman has one of his best and most interesting character portrayals here as Frank Galvin, an admitted ambulance chaser who has a sudden attack of conscience during a medical malpractice suit. A heavy drinker and deeply fearful of entering the courtroom again, Frank refuses to accept an offer from the church and the hospital to let the case go away easy.  Justice is what he is after, even if the odds are dreadfully against him. Especially when he is against James Mason as the prosecuting attorney does he have reason to be anxious. You get to see behind-the-scenes what an attorney is all about, combatting the stereotype that lawyers are whores without a sense of loyalty or esteem. This is one of many Newman characters who is not ashamed to show weakness and vulnerability, but still fights for what is right and just in society. It's not surprising to discover David Mamet wrote the screenplay; each line is soaked with meaning and truth. The final summation by Newman is beautifully delivered without excessive theatrics. It is a beautiful pairing of a fine actor with a juicy script. Sidney Lumet, the director, keeps the atmosphere dark as always, but preserves the necessary realism to make this law drama shine like few others have done before or since. Every case a lawyer faces must be treated as if it were their last, and Newman is put through the ringer like nobody else. The conclusion (which I won't reveal) makes you stand up and cheer for its vindication and glory, not only for Newman but for the belief that justice can triumph in the face of a sometimes corrupt legal system. In the end, only the jury's verdict makes the difference. "},{"Title":"Newman's best","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the greatest performances ever.  For the first twenty minutes of the film there is nothing behind his eyes.  His gradual awakening is a tour-de-force.  Even though the plot is full of legal improbabilities, his performance mesmerizes.  Can't wait for the DVD. "},{"Title":"without exaggeration, a masterpiece","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best courtroom dramas ever made. Newman's Frank Galvin is one of his most stellar performances. Excellent supporting work from all others - Jack Warden, Charlotte Rampling, James Mason, Milo O'Shea and the ever-durable Edward Binns. As a metropolitan Boston native, the locales give me added pleasure, as well as providing a quibble - the Boston accents of Roxanne Hart and James Handy don't cut it. Superior script and directing makes this a totally engrossing and involving story of personal redemption and justice triumphant (an anomaly for a Mamet story).  "},{"Title":"The Verdict","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the role that made Newman a legend. Frank Galvin is a man possessed by his demons. He takes them into the courtroom with him, not knowing if they will ever disappear. It's a performance of sheer brilliance. Mason is also amazing as Newman's in court nemesis. Lumet's direction is extraordinary.  "}{"Title":"Terrific Drama","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having watched The Verdict at least a half-dozen times since its release, I finally picked up a DVD copy of it. Paul Newman and the rest of the cast are nothing short of outstanding. His portrayal of an alcoholic has-been lawyer is right on the mark, along with the challenges and recovery he undergoes while rendering service on the trail case. My background is in anesthesiology and I can say that the aspects regarding the profession were given taking very little in the way of literary license. These aspects are very close to how things really can happen. This is not a Friday night movie meant to let you sit back and be entertained. This is a Saturday night movie when you've gathered your wits after a long week and you're prepared to watch a dramatic endeavor that challenges you to think about what you would do if you found yourself in a similar situation. "},{"Title":"Newman's Best Performance in Probably His Least Glamorous Role","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For most of his career, Paul Newman played characters who always knew how to make their situations work for them, because of their self-assurance, and confidence. Even if there existed a darker side to his jovial laughter, Newman's characters always had a clear sense of who they were. From pool sharks to train robbers to grifters, Newman's characters were always likable, even if they were not always completely comprehensible. Interestingly, Newman was nominated seven times for acting without winning until he snatched the Oscar for The Color of Money, reprising his Academy-nominated role from The Hustler, Fast Eddie Felson. Some Hollywood insiders viewed the win more as recognition for Newman's career than a truly outstanding performance as the other nominees seemed to have offered far more powerful performances. However, some critics regard his performance in The Verdict, for which he was nominated but lost to Ben Kingsley (Gandhi), as quite possibly his best.Newman plays Frank Galvin, a character who is not the typical Newman self-assured role. Galvin is a nearly washed-out civil-suit attorney who is in the twilight of his career. Having once, we learn, been part of a prestigious law firm until he's forced to play fall guy for the firm's scandalous behavior, and is fired, Galvin is a depressed barfly sporting hard drinks and frequent turns at the pinball machine. And he seems lost in a world where he doesn't know where he fits in. His law practice is dismal, and he's resorted to attending post-funeral wakes hoping the family of the deceased might retain him for services provided the death seems wrongful. At one such wake, he's thrown out when he lies to the family, claiming he knew the deceased. He's not just an ambulance chaser, but a hearse chaser in some sense.Mickey Morrissey (Jack Warden), a colleague and former teacher, brings him just the case he's been looking for a young woman who fell into a coma during a failed childbirth at a Roman Catholic hospital in Boston. The family of the comatose victim desires to sue for malpractice. He meets a prestigious anesthesiologist who is willing to support the case, possibly testify at trial. At first Galvin is convinced the hospital and diocese will settle out of court, but then Galvin has a change of heart. He is technically not the attorney of the family members. His client is the comatose victim. He decides to take the case to trial despite a relatively large settlement offered by the Diocese. As a result, the surviving family, the victim's sister and her husband are incensed.A sub-story develops when Frank meets an attractive young woman at the bar he frequents, Laura Fischer, who we learn was once married to an attorney. The story moves on both fronts, in which Frank pursues the case and simultaneously engages in a relationship with Laura. Several stumbling blocks occur in the wake of declining the settlement, including the sudden unavailability of his star witness. Galvin then must pursue other witnesses, some of whom don't wish to testify, while also pursuing another medical expert willing to testify. And then his colleague Mickey stumbles upon something which could put the entire plaintiff's case in jeopardy. The final summation at the conclusion of the trial may be the best courtroom speech of its type since Atticus Finch's summation in To Kill a Mockingbird, as realized by Gregory Peck. The Verdict is an outstanding character-driven story which has as its theme the idea of second chances. As the story unfolds, we learn several characters were compelled onto undesirable paths which were not of their own making, Galvin being the obvious example along with his comatose client. Others are also in similar situations, but more subtly. Larger forces were at work which drove these characters out of their desired situations and into mediocre existences. In this story, there is the possibility for another chance to achieve their desires and reclaim their paths. Some characters succeed while others are denied this second chance at fulfillment and/or redemption. "},{"Title":"Newman at his best.","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are a number of actors that can give a performance everyone can agree on. Some of the best performances are the ones that aren't well-known to the Academy. In addition, an performance must convince the audience and insure us that the actor is willing to expand his or her character to desperate measures. Paul Newman is one of those actors who doesn't take any chances when it comes to acting out his roles. And in The Verdict, his performance is outstanding.Newman plays Frank Galvin, a once-promising Boston lawyer who just lost four cases in the last three years. His addiction to alcohol has increase over the years. He tries to make amends to clients that he doesn't know and his best friend, Mickey (Jack Warden), is just had enough of his losing streak. All of a sudden, Galvin is given a last chance at a big moneymaker case. The case is a malpractice one and the client want to take the case to trial. With the help of Mickey, Galvin manages to put together the trial. But, another lawyer, (James Mason), is willing to take part in the trial, too. With the two opposing sides working their way toward the trial, an woman, (Charlotte Rampling), falls in love with Galvin. To matters worse, Galvin's star witness disappeared before the trial and the doctor that Galvin appointed to doesn't have any prior knowledge of the case. As soon the problems start to mound on Frank's shoulders, it soon becomes clear that the odds are stack against him. The question will be Can Galvin pull himself together to make things right for himself and for the people around him?Paul Newman has never given a better performance than this. In my opinion, I wish that the Academy would give him the Oscar for his performance in this movie. He really convince me to believe that his character is not going to win the case. But yet, the people want him to do the right thing. His character is on the cuff of self- destruction. Basically, he is surrounded by a world that's filled with manipulation. Not only to himself, but to his peers. When the movie creates several drawbacks on the case, I started to realize more often that the movie is going to pull a fast one on me. What's surprising is that the movie pulls a fast one on it's itself when it does the reaches the climax.The supporting cast is absolutely wonderful. Jack Warden should've been nominated for a Oscar for his portrayal of Mickey. He is the last person that Newman wants to deal with. James Mason is also excellent as Newman's opponent. His character along with the others are strong in appeal because we, as the audience get a sense that Mason is going to win this case because he has a bigger team than Newman and Warden. Just as I mention above, the movie pulls a fast one on itself once again.David Mamet, who is a playwright author have written a brilliant screenplay. The dialogue is sharp, crisp, and explicit with meaning. When the characters begin to talk in the court and outside the court, you can hear these people talk the way they are meant to talk. The language is striking with the characters judging each with knowledge. Mamet's script is read like a book. Each scene is like a page in a book, with new and rich dialogue. These characters are believable and plausible because they are city-people with city lives. There's a lot to be said about the themes in The Verdict. One of those significant themes is redemption and manipulation. Throughout the entire movie, Galvin is trying to rebuild his reputation as a good lawyer. Meanwhile, Mason's character is also trying to rebuild the case on his terms. The end product is something extraordinary. There's are several moments when Galvin trembles in fear because he dreads for the worst to come. His anxiety gets the worst because he fears for his identity as a lawyer. Toward the end of the movie, Newman give a beautiful written speech toward the court and jury about having justice in their hearts. That's the one thing I'll never forget that scene. Newman doesn't play out his character. He acts it out. That's why I think his performance is award-winning. He acts in desperation as the character. You see it in his face that's he's acting as Frank Galvin. ★★★★ 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A career highlight for the director and star.","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Iconic actor Paul Newman plays Boston attorney Frank Galvin, a Boston attorney who's reached the lowest point in his life. He's all washed up and dejected, and is an alcoholic to boot, reduced to handing out his card at funeral services. His good friend Mickey Morrissey (Jack Warden) has thrown him a bone, however a possible medical negligence case that an expert witness has told Frank should be a slam dunk. This motivates Frank to lift himself out of his personal abyss and fight for the kind of justice that he still cares about, while restoring his self respect in the process. He decides that instead of settling, he will take the case to trial, which will prove to be a challenge.It's been said that the late, great director Sidney Lumet was particularly strong when it came to working with actors, and he gets a wonderful performance out of Newman, one of the actor's all time best. The story (adapted for the screen by David Mamet, based on the novel by Barry Reed) may not always be credible, but it's utterly compelling and is extremely well told. If nothing else, the film does score on an emotional level, without ever going overboard into melodrama. Music (by Johnny Mandel), editing (by Peter C. Frank), and cinematography (by Andrzej Bartkowiak) are all first rate.In addition to the excellent Warden, the supporting cast is full of fine actors who bring their A game Charlotte Rampling as Laura Fischer, the new acquaintance in Frank's life, James Mason as the smart and crafty attorney Ed Concannon, Milo O'Shea as the judge, Lindsay Crouse as former admitting nurse Kaitlin Costello Price, Edward Binns as the bishop, Julie Bovasso as nurse Maureen Rooney, Roxanne Hart and James Handy as the victims' sister and brother-in- law, and Wesley Addy and Joe Seneca as doctors. Mason is great fun to watch and Crouse has a powerful scene where she gives some revelatory testimony. Be sure to try and spot Bruce Willis and Tobin Bell as courtroom spectators.Newman, whose final speech to the jury is particularly well done, absolutely shines. Overall, this is a must for any fan of him or Lumet.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Courtroom Drama","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet's The Verdict had the most intense storyline for a courtroom drama in movie history. The movie tells the story about a defense attorney named Frank Galvin (played by Paul Newman)who sees the chance to salvage his career and self-respect by taking a malpractice case rather than settling in and not trying the case. The man who persuades him to take the case is a fellow associate named Mickey Morrisey (played by Jack Warden in a great supporting performance).This was to me one of Newman's top performances of his career in a captivating portrayal. Director Sidney Lumet has crafted a courtroom drama masterpiece that to me came out to be one of his greatest films, and his best courtroom drama film since his first movie that came out in 1957 12 Angry Men.This movie compares to courtroom movie classics like To Kill a Mockingbird, A Few Good Men, Amistad, A Time to Kill, and many more. Like i said before in my review for Schindler's List that i said it was remarkable but this movie was remarkable as well. But it would be too depressing for children's eyes. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie and Paul Newman at his best.","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this in grad school when it first was in theaters. As time passes and I have seen it again it only gets better. All actors and director Sidney Lumet were just wonderful and the final shows. In my opinion this is some of Newman's best acting. His expressions and cues seem effortless. And many of the camera angles are superb. An example is the peer through the jury as Newman makes I believe his opening statement. Another is his and Lindsay Crouse's touching looks when they are speaking in the children's playground. I truly love this movie, and supporting efforts of Jack Warden, Charlotte Rampling, Joe Seneca, and the not liked judge marvel to this day. Much of the beauty I believe is in the understated performances and subtlety of the delivery. That the Oscar's snubbed this makes me only respect the actors and director more. And since 1982/1983 I have never looked at the Oscars given since with much measure. I was glad to see it again recently and smiled humbly when it was given a 4 of 4 stars by the showing carrier. It is truly deserving of that rating. Another good piece of Newman's work that is often underrated is Nobody's Fool. "},{"Title":"There are no other cases. This is the case.","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having recently read 'Paul Newman, A Life' by Shawn Levy, I was fascinated by the idea of Newman, himself a functional alcoholic at the time the picture was made, portraying a functional alcoholic attorney. You can doubt me on this but you can check it, Newman was knocking down a case of beer a day whether he was working or not. However shortly before making this film, Newman found a new energy by getting involved in car racing, and he brought a renewed sense of enthusiasm and spirit to his acting. Director Sidney Lumet challenged Newman to really let go and find himself in the character of Frank Galvin, and the result was outstanding.As far as courtroom drama goes, there's not much of it in a film with a title like The Verdict. It's more about the story of one man's attempt at finding redemption after being set up for failure a few years earlier. Newman is at his finest as he wrestles his inner demons trying to do 'the right thing' by his client. Moments of doubt enter, and it's the see-saw swings in Newman's performance that make this one of his finest roles.Of course the movie takes liberties in the writing department; it seemed unbelievable to me that the judge (Milo O'Shea) would interject himself into the proceedings the way he did by coming out against Newman's character. I guess that's why you have to watch these pictures as entertainment rather than a representation of real life drama. Still, the story will have you rooting for the underdog attorney who rises to the occasion to make good on his promise - The weak have gotta have somebody fight for 'em. "},{"Title":"Newman's best performance in his lengthy and glorious career!","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another courtroom drama from the director who brings us 12 ANGRY MEN (1957, 9/10), Sydney Lumet inducted Paul Newman into a performance of his lifetime, but as usual the Academy members thought otherwise. As anyone who is familiar with the pattern of an underdog's courtroom victory, THE VERDICT is strictly following the procedure, Newman plays Frank Galvin, a washed-out ambulance chaser who receives a wake-up call in his fifties, stands up for his client just for once, for justice. Needless to say it is a lopsided trial, Frank and his aid-cum-mentor Mickey (Warden), whose plaintiff is a woman in a vegetative state, versus two cocky defendants (both well-respected doctors) and their stellar defense team, led by a top-notch attorney Ed Concannon (Mason). Apart from his omni-competent opponent, Frank has to endured&#x8;&#x8; a worst-case scenario during his rushed preparation for the trial, the disappearance of a key witness, an uncooperative insider, a maledictory judge (O'Shea), a questionable deponent (Seneca), a hostile client (the plaintiff's brother in law) who takes umbrage at Frank's arbitrary turn-down of a handsome settlement from the defendant for their medical negligence. And it is a miracle he could still squeeze some time to have a fling with a mysterious divorcée Laura (Rampling). Things will nonetheless turns to a rosy side for Frank, as his trials and tribulations will eventually pay off, which doesn't prevent one from sensing frustration to witness all the paddings before a bleak light of hope comes to the rescue, a dogged Frank fortuitously grabs a clue lead to a game-changer in the accident, but meanwhile an unexpected betrayal is the last blow to complicate the case. And the ending with an prolonged and irritating ringing of the telephone, does certify a stark love-or-hate stance for its audiences. However, Newman is impeccable here, he is a pampered child living in an adult's body, strives for his last chance to revive his life, a salvation of his ill-fated past, during the taxing process, he also begins to examine himself, to overcome his weakness (a terrific rendition of a panic attack) and reflect his goodness from the pestilent barriers around him and around us too, one long- take of him making a phone call with his adversary manifests Newman's top-tier stretch in bringing authentic force of emerging into his character. Preciously, the film is not an outward feel-good film, Rampling's stern-cum-icy presence and Laura's underdeveloped storyline mars the narrative but at the same time mirrors Frank's own rite-of-passage, so we might not feel much relieved when at the end of the day he won the case, it intrigues us more after the victory, what is next for Frank? James Mason is Oscar-nominated along with Newman and the film in toto seized five nominations (including BEST PICTURE and DIRECTOR), his malevolent silver-tongue and smug sanctimony is spot-on, a paradigm of the miasma of our legal system. But Warden in my opinion is also Oscar-worthy, restrained yet faithfully being a helping hand and a firm buttress for both Frank and the spectators! "},{"Title":"Very Good, But Not as Good as I Expected It to Be","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I finally got around to seeing this famous 1982 Sidney Lumet courtroom thriller and can't help but admit that I felt ever so slightly disappointed.Paul Newman plunges himself into the unflattering role of an ambulance chasing booze hound of an attorney who, in a last act of desperation, takes on a possible malpractice suit against a Catholic hospital. He falls in love with a woman (Charlotte Rampling) who turns out to be not all that she appears, and receives counsel from his long-time friend and partner (Jack Warden). Meanwhile, the defense attorney (James Mason) prepares to decimate Newman in what seems to be an open-and-shut case.I called this film a courtroom thriller, but that's actually misleading. The Verdict is much more a character study of middle age male desperation than it is a legal suspense film. There are many scenes of Newman poring over details of the case and gathering evidence, but all of these do more to develop his character than keep us engaged in the trial itself. The actual trial is dealt with in a couple of dismissive scenes, and the outcome, when it arrives, feels anticlimactic. That is until the final scene of the movie, when we realize that the verdict of the film's title is referring to something completely different than what we thought it was for most of the film's running time.It's certainly a very accomplished movie, but it is slow, talky and a bit too gloomy for its own good. It received 5 Academy Award nominations in 1982 Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor (Newman), Best Supporting Actor (Mason) and Best Adapted Screenplay (David Mamet). But this was the year of Academy juggernauts Gandhi and E.T. The Extra Terrestrial, and The Verdict went home empty handed.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Mixture Of Melodrama, Suspense & Psychology. ♦ 76%","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A little bit of philosophy, too. Sidney Lumet's The Verdict is an engrossing thriller in the second half, but the first half is infested with psychology of a no-man, drunkard.Talking on the crucial lines of judicial system & some of its loopholes, the plot revolves around the infamous Quinlan case. Much like in theory, it takes a shady turn towards the end which kinda surprised me than ridicule. Paul Newman is raw as the unlucky advocate embroiled in a game of politics among big hospital bigwigs. A harsh reality is depicted, although in a shoddy manner as it goes from low to high in a span of 2 hours. Yes, it does evince the inner devils of human nature, throwing light on loneliness, love, relationships & betrayal.The last 45 minutes is sure-shot winner but this is not what I expected from the man who gave us 12 Angry Men & Dog Day Afternoon. Perhaps, it marks the start of the departure of the maker's career.BOTTOM LINE Recommended due to the nature of the plot. Quite a thrilling courtroom drama but the makers could do better.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YESProfanity Mild | Vulgarity/Mouth-Kiss Very Mild | Sex/Nudity/Porn No | Violence Very Mild | Gore No | Smoking Very Strong | Drugs No | Alcohol Mediocre "}{"Title":"Very well shot and acted, but it's so cold and subtle that it's difficult to connect to.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sidney Lumet had conquered the courtroom drama subgenre 25 years prior without even having to show the courtroom, with his classic 12 Angry Men. This more conventional courtroom drama is consistently solid throughout, but it lacks a punch that could've made it even better. It's essentially a classic redemption story, but it's dealt with such subtlety that it's incredibly hard to emotionally connect with, though easy to empathise. While it handles the material strongly, the case itself feels interchangeable with any other case as it lacks political or personal significance to society or the protagonist.Granted, Paul Newman gives a strong performance as always, even if it does lack identifiable moments. It has impressive production value with a lush colour palette especially in the wide angles but it doesn't use them often enough. Mamet's script spends too much time dodging sentiment, exposition and clichés (if hitting conventions) and neglects to fill the gap with some unique charm to make it special. It's certainly not unsatisfying and it's definitely engaging, but it is underwhelming. Fortunately Lumet adds enough sophistication to give it a mature presence, thereby justifying its subtlety.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great acting by an excellent cast","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of my all time favorites. Poignant performance by Paul Newman, absolutely deserving of the Best Actor Oscar. Particularly notable supporting performances by James Mason, Jack Warden, and Miles O'Shea. The rest of the cast deserve honorable mentions all around. In general, a very strong cast.The brilliance of this movie is how well Frank Galvin's despair and desperation are conveyed by Newman.Another reviewer commented that it was unrealistic for Galvin to grow a conscience in the short time he visits his client in the nursing home. This is pivotal point in the plot and worthy of some analysis. What that reviewer fails to account for is that we're told (by Jack Warden, in a monologue about Frank's life to Charlotte Rampling) that Frank was idealistic before he sank into a bottle and began malfunctioning as a lawyer and a human being. In the nursing home scene, he wasn't growing a conscience. He was unearthing the one he'd buried under years of boozing and self-loathing.I actually think it's one of the most powerful scenes in the movie, and Newman does a great job, with single line (I'm her attorney) and body language to communicate the waning excitement of a fat payday, to one of profound sadness about her and his own failings as he was preparing to exploit her destroyed life for a profit.The movie has a period-look to it that is very late 70s. The winter landscape of the Boston neighborhoods is depressing. The smokey clubs, bars, dark paneled law chambers, Frank's threadbare office and apartment, all have a feeling of darkness that reflects the cynicism of the era. It's ugly scenery, beautifully captured and perfect for the movie's context.This is a dialog heavy, character-driven movie that many moviegoers will reject for slow pace and lack of action. The wealth here is in the craft of the script and the performances. "},{"Title":"A courtroom classic carried by Newman's performance.","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Though Newman's Cool Hand Luke days are behind him, the verdict on this courtroom drama is an unanimous decision--an American classic, and one of the finest courtroom films in cinematic history. The film is based on the Novel written by Barry Reed, and nominated for five Oscars.A down and out alcoholic lawyer Frank Galvin (Paul Newman), whose better days are behind him, suddenly finds a case that falls into his lap that will earn him a significant paycheck - a settlement over a medical malpractice suit. Galvin is all set to take the settlement, but something inside of him is now thinking twice, and he realizes that he will not take the easy money. This is his one and last chance to remember what it is like to be a lawyer, and decides to move forward and go to trial against insurmountable odds. As the details of the case emerge during the trial, the once quick buy-out/make it go away case now becomes a matter of exposing criminal behavior, negligence, and injustice. Newman's performance is spectacular as a man struggling, and then pulling himself together after hitting rock bottom, and finding his way again. The final scene with Frank just letting the phone ring is fantastic. "},{"Title":"The Verdict - a win for friendship and faith","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have been told by an ex-student of mine who is now a lawyer that there are many aspects of the legal procedure in The Verdict that would not be allowed to happen in a real life courtroom. I am sure that this would be true of many courtroom dramas but it doesn't detract from the fact that dramas like The Verdict are a wonderful forum for the exploration of values and ideas related to justice. In the case of The Verdict, it goes even further into the realms of friendship and faith and redemption. For me, it is the friendship between Mick and Frank as played by my favorite character actor, Jack Warden, and Paul Newman respectively that is at the heart of the film. Mick's gruff devotion to Frank despite all of Frank's flaws is touching and inspiring. My favorite line comes from Mick when he retorts to Frank's estimation of the opposing lawyer, Concannon,played by James Mason in his most charmingly malevolent manner Frank He's a good man. Mick He's good man?! He's the prince of f.... darkness. Warden as Mick is unforgettable as he mouths silent thanks to the heavens as the jury asks if it can recommend an increase in the damages from the defendants.That Newman didn't win a best actor Oscar for his performance in The Verdict but did win one for The Color of Money is the final word on the value of the Academy Awards. Newman had to dig very deep for this performance and it remains my favourite Newman portrayal along with that of Eddie Felson in The Hustler - not The Color of Money. "},{"Title":"There is no other case, this is the Case!","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, this movie says more about his redemption then about outcome of whole case, because even the Verdict was made from inner guts and trust in human judgment. Trust is something that he lose from using dirty tricks in past and trust is something that he can't regain from person that give him strength to persevere during the entire unfair trial!On the other hand, this is not ordinary courtroom movies, unlike the others, this movie deals with the topic from the perspective of a failed lawyer which gives him one more chance to do something good in the world where the lawsuit has become just a business. Don't know how realistic is this movie, but to me clear message about, that is easier to lose trust than to regain same, is sent and when that happens, you don't know what hits you.All in all, movie is great and this kind of drama I would recommend to everybody.Similar looking movie A Civil Action (1998) and A Few Good Men (1992) >> Acting factor4/5 Plot factor4/5 Fun factor3/5 Art factor4/5 "},{"Title":"Medical Malpractice in a Boston Hospital","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This 1980's movie shows Paul Newman at his best in the second stage of his career. He has moved on from Hud and The Sting. No longer the youthful sex symbol, he is the aging character actor, who performs the role of Frank Galvin, the alcoholic lawyer. Galvin never amounted to much and is shunned by many of his profession. He is faced with a moral dilemma of taking quick money or pursuing his own conscience. The case centers on medical malpractice at a Boston hospital. A legal team, led by James Mason, is stacked against him. The movie is grim and often dark as the viewer goes from pool halls to cheap hotels in the dark, cold New England winter; however, there are a few stunning shots taken on the streets that just seem to light up the movie. Newman is helped by friend and colleague Jack Warden as he tries to get witnesses that will establish the truth for the jury. Newman makes a few misfires in the courtroom that embarrass him and it becomes apparent that his own reputation is a drag on him, with even the judge showing little respect. The courtroom eventually comes to grips with the truth. Frank's summation is restrained but heartfelt. I found the movie riveting and had great respect for what the justice system can achieve even when obstructed by those who would rather not shake that system when justice is crying to be heard. Sidney Lumet, the director, has to my mind left a tremendous body of work and this ranks as a worthy addition to that legacy. "},{"Title":"Excellent Courtroom Drama","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The mater of the courtroom - Sidney Lumet - returned to the genre he made his own 25 years before in 12 Angry Men, and this time he was armed with a script by David Mamet and with Paul Newman in the lead. A dream team like this promises nothing less than superb filmmaking, and The Verdict indeed delivers; it's a practically flawless legal drama, wonderfully and wittily scripted, and Newman delivers yet another fantastic performance in his much celebrated career. He creates a realistic, multi-faceted character who gets the audience fully invested in the trial at the center of the story - this time not around a murder or a rape, but the less sexy but just as important world of medical malpractice.The Verdict is, to all intents and purposes, a nearly perfect movie. It's entirely a genre film though - it lacks a special something that could have made it a timeless classic by its own right like 12 Angry Men or Witenss For the Prosecution, there isn't a strong moral dilemma, a strong twist or an interesting enough conflict, and the ending is oddly anti-climactic. Ultimately it's more about the personal journey taken by Paul Newman's character than it is about his conflict with any other character, or about the trial at hand. This just stops it short of being a classic, but it's still a great movie and a captivating character-driven drama. "},{"Title":"A great one for a rainy Sunday afternoon!...","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very well made film that may come over as slightly dated today, but even so, it's the interaction between the characters that's the important thing. A film with quite a slow measured pace; the events are allowed to evolve quite slowly on the screen. Quite a long time is used at the beginning to set the scene and explain just what life is like for Frank. The reasons come later, but I felt a little too long was spent on this portion of the story. Having said that, I found it an engaging and entertaining film and I could easily get involved in the characters and the storyline. If you're partial to the odd courtroom drama, or you just want to see Paul Newman in Oscar-worthy form, then this one comes HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.My score 7.8/10IMDb Score 7.7/10 (based on 14,845 votes at the time of going to press).MetaScore NO DATA (Based on 0 critic reviews provided by Metacritic.com at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score 96/100 (based on 24 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score 73/100 'Want to See' (based on 8,442 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What starts off as an interesting character study later becomes just another courtroom drama here, as although Newman's character is central to the first section of the film, by the final third it is the court case that is the main focus. Still, as a well made film of its type, it is arguably worth a look, with some shots that are set up very well by Lumet and great acting, especially from Jason Mason as a cunning, scheming lawyer who Newman's character comes up against. The film has some ideas concerning both morality and self-redemption, and the sets are rather good, often with washed-out colours to reflect how the protagonist feels. This is a well done courtroom drama, even if it is one that had the potential to be better. There are a few more things that could be picked on - the occasional lack of realism and the abrupt ending in particular. Even so, this is solid stuff, with quality acting and the skills that Lumet possesses as a director to carry it through. "},{"Title":"Newman's best role, and one of Lumet's best films","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How Paul Newman did not win the Best Actor Oscar for this is a complete mystery. This is the best role he has done. He plays his character as a weak man who redeems himself but nearly crumbles at the process of prosecuting doctors in court. Also equally great in the role of defense attorney is the great James Mason, in my favorite performance from him.. The other great performances out of the supporting cast come from Jack Warden, Charlotte Rampling, Milo O'Shea, Lindsay Crouse, Julie Bovasso, Wesley Addy, and Jon Seneca. This is one of director Sidney Lumet's finest films in a career with many other great films. I believe no other director could have done it the way he did. "}{"Title":"Terrific performances","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Verdict was enjoyable on so many levels. The first to note is the interesting legal drama. It certainly is no more clichéd then countless other plots in the court room genre. What is so good about The Verdict however, is the film is not really about the morality and the out come of the case per sé but rather the evolution of Paul Newman's troubled character Frank Galvin against that backdrop. Newman in a very moving and convincing performance takes us on the journey of his triumphs, trials and tribulations. His summation speech is particularly memorable. Jack Warden as always plays an excellent mentor and the consistently great James Mason (The Boys From Brazil) is also very good as the trial lawyer opposing Galvin. Highly recommended for the performances of all three principal actors. "},{"Title":"Above Average **Contains spoilers**","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie after having seen it years ago, bought it at a local supermarket to add to my DVD collection. And what a good choice it was. First, I want to say, although it appears to be a courtroom drama movie..it's not. It's a movie about a man's character with the use of a courtroom and a lawyer to show it. It's definitely quite different from Newman's typical movies. This movie is about the character development of Francis and his descent and ascent in his personal and professional life, how the former affects the latter. It's quite introspective, which I believe he quoted in the featurette on the DVD. We see a man struggling with his sense of self worth and hit rock bottom with the typical use of alcohol as a means to get there. Newman is fabulous in this movie, we see him raw and vulnerable, his acting is remarkable. His mentor, played by Jack Warden, is also worth noting. Although their relationship is one that is typical for any movie of this kind, Warden is extremely believable.. Of course, it's a dated movie (1982) but for its time, it's worth watching, or even purchasing if you can get it for a discount. My rating 7/10 stars... "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of Good vs Evil","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  THE VERDICT is a masterpiece of good versus evil. It is also a portrayal of failure turned into success as a result of a challenge accepted by an individual whose inner character and core beliefs sustain him during a time of bitter struggle. This is a bittersweet victory for the hero. Having achieved professional glory by virtue of a single jury verdict, he suffers the loss of a woman who betrays him both personally and professionally. Supporting actors are superb and add a touch of reality that is almost brutal at crucial moments of the unfolding plot. A monumental film that has the flavor of Boston and beautiful courtroom surroundings. A movie that one can watch over and over and always be captivated, never bored.  "},{"Title":"Overwrought, theatrical...and not very special apart from Newman","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Screenwriter David Mamet has turned Barry Reed's novel--about a boozy Boston lawyer getting one last chance to prove himself in the courtroom--into theatrical dramaturgy. Perhaps he thought this story had the potential to be another Death of a Salesman, but unfortunately it's closer to a well-heeled movie-of-the-week (sprinkled with expletives). Paul Newman was at precisely the right age to tackle the role of Frank Galvin, the little guy who takes on the system in a case against a hospital owned by the Archdiocese of Boston, and Mamet stacks the deck against him...even the judge has ties to the Church! Still, the film has an anti-climactic feel; there's very little emotion expended--in court or out--and really no suspense. Director Sidney Lumet sets the pace at a workmanlike even-keel, though it might have been more effective had he instructed his cinematographer, Andrzej Bartkowiak, to keep the camera active instead of inert. Opening near the end of 1982, the filmmakers clearly saw this as prestigious Oscar-material, but, aside from Newman's solid work, it isn't very extraordinary. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"great performance from Newman","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film excells in showing us Newman as a frustrated lawyer who is simply lumbering along not knowing what else is left for him in a judicial system that has rotted away(his closing arguments at the end are masterly stated from Newman)thanks to greed and corruption. Newman is shown at the beginning as a man who struggles with the bottle and goes to hospitals and funeral homes jobbing for cases. He gets a case handed to him that resurrects not only his career,but his soul along the way. He realizes that he was just part of the process of corporate greed when he was taking pictures of the vegetable he's defending against a experienced and well established anesthesiologist of a catholic hospital. He,at first,is thrilled about the payoff( called a deal in other terms..I'll call it what it is)which is substantial. But he finds himself one day when he's taking the girl's picture. This film conveys a man who battles through the mire of a decaying judicial system and finds strength to hold his head up and come out on top. The film has a depressing and haunting quality. It follows the course of it's hero and comes out also on top. *****/***** "},{"Title":"Probubly Newman's best performance","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Verdict is a quite forgotten film these days, but in it its time it was nominated for several academy awards, including best picture, unfortunately it won none.  Paul Newman is terrific as a washed up lawyer who has one more chance to redeem himself with a malpractice case. Riveting from beginning to end. This is also the best courtroom drama ive ever seen, and the best I probubly ever will see.  This is probubly Newman's best film and performance.  ***1/2 out of ****, or 8.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Paul Newman's finest hour!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think most courtroom films are not very good and cheesy. The Verdict though is a great exception. This is not only the best courtroom drama ever but also one of the most underrated movies ever. I don't know why this isn't considered a classic and more well known.This is a top-notch film in so many ways. The script is short of amazing with its interesting twists and great character development. However, the best part is Newman's performance. He plays the character with great flare and it is his best role ever. His betrayal of a down on his luck alcoholic lawyer is amazingly powerful. He should have won the Oscar for this film. Besides Newman's acting the supporting cast is extraordinary as well. James Mason was also very good in his role and almost stole the screens from Newman.I cannot say enough about this movie and I loved every inch of it.  "},{"Title":"Newman's Best Performance (this is the one he should've gotten the OSCAR for!)","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" THE VERDICT (1982) **** Paul Newman, Charlotte Rampling, James Mason, Jack Warden, Milo O' Shea, Edward Binns, Julie Bovasso, Lindsay Crouse, Joe Seneca. Powerhouse courtroom drama by Sidney Lumet about alcoholic screwup attorney Frank Galvin (Paul Newman's greatest performance, hands down) facing one final shot at self-respect and redemption in a case against a Boston Catholic hospital that turned a young pregnant woman into a vegetable. Stirring script by David Mamet based on the novel by Barry Reed. In my opinion Newman was robbed of the Best Actor Oscar (he lost to Ben Kingsley in Gandhi - which I have yet to see). Brilliant, simply brilliant. ** Real trivia note look sharply during Newman's closing trial sequences for a very young Bruce Willis seated among the court audience members (!) "},{"Title":"Ambitious, but somewhat remarkable legal thriller.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ambitious, but somewhat remarkable legal thriller about Frank Galvin (Paul Newman), a struggling alcoholic Boston attorney who tries to put the booze aside and taking a well-known local hospital (and the archdiocese) to court over a not-so strong yet horrifying case of medical-malpractice.Despite having a heavily acclaimed director at the helm, Sideny Lumet (Serpico), a gifted writer/director, David Mamet, and a nice supporting cast (Jack Warden, Charlotte Rampling, the late James Mason, and Milo O'Shea) in the movie, I felt there wasn't enough emotion even though some of the characters here try to show how they really feel. For example, the Mason character is referred to as the Prince of Darkness when he questions a witness and the unorthodox tactics used outside of the courtroom. I'll admit that the movie provides Newman with one of his most memorable performances. "},{"Title":"Tightly constructed script by David Mamet","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Verdict is one of the finest films ever done by Sidney Lumet.  It also features a controled and low key performance by Paul Newman.  The screenplay is the best part about the rich because of the richness in characters and certain scenes brought on by David Mamet's fastpast writing.  As far as screenplays go The Verdict(1982), Glengarry Glenross(1992), and The Untouchables(1987) are Mamet's best. "}{"Title":"THE COURTS DON'T GIVE YOU JUSTICE; THEY JUST GIVE YOU A CHANCE AT JUSTICE","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman makes a statement that sums up the idea of this movie, when he tells Charlotte Ramhling The courts don't give you justice -- they just give you a chance at justice -- that chance appears to be in direct relationship to how much money you have.. one brilliant scene shows the stark difference between the 2-man plaintiff counsel and the Prince of Darkness (James Mason) and his huge entourage of defense attorneys.  This film reportedly made quite a stir when it was released, from legal circles as well as from the Catholic Church.  A wonderful film about how justice works in our system today. "},{"Title":"The Path Back Morality Over Law","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadLet's get the objections out of the way. Is the movie too long, yes. Are there a few scenes that could have been cut, yes. Yet, in my opinion, it has a place in my library for the key scene that is my header. Concannon has just used his superior legal skills to disallow the eyewitness nurse testimony that would have won the case for Galvin. Galvin's case now collapses, realistically, Concannon annihilates Galvin due to his huge staff and frankly his mole inside Galvin's office Rampling. Galvin's closing statement speaks for all the people watching; how tired we are of the minutia of legal rulings being used to protect evil people, in this case, the Archdiocese and their dangerously incompetent doctor. The summation points out what many people forget the law is the bastard child of philosophy. Ethics were the sub discipline of philosophy that laws were drawn from. Here Galvin uses ethical principles to ask the jury to, implicitly, supersede the legalities that shield a crippling, negligent doctor and the powerful Church standing behind him. When you re-watch it listen to his argument Ethics over the Law. How tired we all are of the law being subverted to protect the rich and the powerful. The best part of the movie and frankly, friends, why I am a philosopher and not a lawyer.The movie is one long existential path back for Galvin. When we meet him, he is a drunken ambulance chaser being ejected out of a funeral where he is trying to shake down the grieving family for business. Warden throws him this bone of a case that is sure to be settled out of court. When he thinks he has a good expert doctor witness, the decision point ensues, take the money or fight? The poor vegetable's family, put into a coma by an idiot doctor who operated not reading her chart that she'd eaten just before, is livid and attacks Galvin. I admired the move though everyone, including Warden, think Galvin has flipped out. Concannon, played brilliantly by James Mason, has a whole team of lawyers and unbeknownst to Galvin has planted a spy in his office as an assistant. The film's bravery to defy expectations and have Concannon kick Galvin's butt destroying witness after witness, scaring his expert doctor away and secreting the eyewitness nurse who falsified the patient chart, at the doctor's behest, is stunningly one of a kind for a legal movie. The movie shows the triumph of the parent over the wayward son. Ethics, that is the core of Galvin's summation; ignore what the legal rigmarole orders you to do, apply ethical law inside of you for the irreparably injured vegetable in the bed and her grieving family. The movie is the best delineation of how lawyers often are lost within the minutia of rulings and precedents forgetting the ethical code that these decisions were putatively predicated upon. Watch the movie for excellent acting, the brave walk back into life by Galvin and for the triumph of God given ethical principles inside everyone of us over ciphers lost within their law books never to return who personify losing the forest for the trees. When the precedents take you to evil, they are wrong end of discussion. The reason the film resonates is this ethical conquering of greed and power by their using the laws' esoteric rules to cover their collective butts. He finds his way back, they reward his faith in their ability to transcend the corruption that is human law and government. An existential redemption with a glorious crescendo of a burst of pure spiritual Light. The relationship between Right and the law has always been tenuous, at best, given the rampant corruption. These are the geniuses who gave us the Dredd Scott decision that said black people were worth a fraction of white people. Take it from a philosopher, don't set your moral compasses by them. A Masterpiece. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"fine courtroom drama","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to say that I disagree with many of the comments on this film. I totally agree on that it is a fine movie. It's got great actors, it's got suspense, I liked the twist and the ending and the characters. But - I'm sorry - I didn't like Paul Newman's acting. Yes, he has a big reputation, he is handsome and charming and clearly he is good in some roles, just not in this one. His acting was decent for most of the film. But when the acting got more difficult, when he had to show how the character he was playing changed he did not do well. See for instance the scene when he is offered $210000 from the archdiocese. That was mediocre. I just didn't buy it. But see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman at His Finest Hour","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw The Verdict in my early teens, which was when the film had just been released. Although I was too young to grasp the legal technicalities and complications that the plot involved, I was still deeply touched by the simple yet powerful story Frank Galvin (Newman), a lawyer who is on the brink of alcoholism and professional bankruptcy, takes a case involving a medical malpractice in which a young woman who was about to give birth has fallen in a terminal coma. Although the defendants are prepared to offer a good amount of money to the victim's family as an out-of-court-settlement, Galvin refuses to accept it, going for a trial instead; this is done against the advice of everybody, including his partner, the presiding judge, and even the plaintiffs themselves. Galvin sees this case as both an opportunity to show his capabilities again after many years of idleness, as well as a rightful struggle to punish those responsible for committing a shameful act who are now trying to get away with it lightly. Against him stands the formidable defense lawer E.J. Concannon (Mason) and his well-organised team, and Galvin's chances to win get bleaker day after day... Amidst all this, Galvin bumps onto an attractive woman (Rampling) who complicates his already complex life further.Viewing the film again now with the mind and experience of someone in his early 30s, I can make a more balanced, thorough, and accurate review. However, it is astonishing that my conclusion is the same as it was more than 20 years ago The film is superb, and Paul Newman definitely gives an amazing performance. Not that the remaining cast is not good Everybody does a great job, with Mason being first among equals. Yet, Newman is simply unforgettable, as he does an excellent job in portraying this lawyer who manages to get back from the brink of disaster, and show his true form-no matter what.Some might say that the plot is simplistic. However, the purpose of the film is not so much in showing the story (which is interesting anyway), but in portraying the interactions and clashes of the personalities involved. And it does a great job at that! 9/10. "},{"Title":"Great acting and good story line but missing heart","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really thought that i was going to love this film. Being an enthusiast of Law and a film geek. but with the great story of redemption and under-dog facing all of the challenges that are in front of him, the movie lost me at his capability of trying to defend his client. Apart from the obvious objection ,he did not even try to do anything to save himself. He always gave up and took a seat. While the other Lawyer payed the judge, his girlfriend and experts, he also was shown to constantly search for angle around when presenting his case. Where as Newman's character just simply asked questions and then sat down. There was no skill, but pure luck that he won that case. I wanted to like this film, but unfortunately in the end i couldn't. "},{"Title":"Quite disappointing","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a great fan of the courtroom dramas, but I found The Verdict, which seemed to be a classical one, much worse than other - rather average - movies of that kind, e.g. A Few Good Men or Presumed Innocent.It is quite boring and predictable in a lot of moments. Furthermore, certain events and dialogues seem to be rather unrealistic (on the other hand - that is very typical to David Mamet).Notheteless, I gave it 6 - because of the great and unforgettable performances of Paul Newman and James Mason. These two make The Verdict worthy of recommendation. "},{"Title":"Boston's Greatest Movie","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I caught this on one of the HBO type channels the other night but had seen it before. Has lots of good views of Boston but why it was filmed in the dead of winter I do not know. Makes Boston look like Siberia. Everything is covered with road salt and the sky is gray. Great story, great characters and great view of what people looked like back in the late 70's. I gave it a STRONG 8!!!  "},{"Title":"Not the Best Courtroom Drama that i have seen","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman is a great actor and he puts up a performance that will keep you glued to the screen but i don't think this is the best courtroom drama that i have seen.The movie is about an alcoholic lawyer who is fighting one last case to redeem himself. But he has a non cooperating judge and a hard nose Opposition lawyer to fight against him. All the evidence produced by him are turned down / overruled and inspite of this in the end the jury gives a decision in his favor. How it happened and why i don't have an answer to. The movie has some great scenes like the one where newman gives it back to the judge in the chamber but it doesn't make it a great Court Room Drama.I have my own fav. like A few Good Men, And Justice For All, Philadelphia, Primal Fear, My Cousin Vinny,Amistad and this one doesn't belong to th same category. I saw it cause it was rated very highly on the forums and on AFI' s site but i sure do not agree. "},{"Title":"A good movie with an abrupt ending, worth a view","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie but it had a few flaws. Without spoiling it, I have to say there was a subplot element that escaped me. I was never satisfied that there was a point to that aspect of it. Call me stupid if you got it.Newman's performance is certainly noteworthy, but borders on the overacting of CSI Miami's David Caruso (the King of overacting). But that was Newman's performance over 25 years ago, so we'll let it go.This film features the direction of Sidney Lumet who has to his credit 12 Angry Men which I must say is so engaging, I watched it until 4 in the morning after having seen it on DVD only a few months before (as of this writing, that film is #14 on the IMDb top 250).The Verdict is not a bad movie, but it does not compare with anything I've seen in terms of genre. I was enamored with Runaway Jury which can loosely be argued as among the same 'genre'.The Verdict ends so abruptly, giving you pause to wonder what the actual end might be. This can be thought of as an artful approach, or a disappointment. I view it as the latter. I see the film as unfinished.While it is well worth watching and kept me engaged quite successfully, I cannot say this movie will pass the test of time. If you are a fan of The Practice or some other court room drama, I expect that you will find this falls short.If you enjoy seeing a character redeemed by their new outlook on life, this picture will not disappoint, but only by a fraction of a hair. "},{"Title":"Fatally flawed","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film struck me as a complete mess. None of the principal players in the legal system is portrayed as a real character. They just do not act like real lawyers and Judges would act.Paul Newman plays a down-and-out lawyer who takes on a malpractice case against a big Catholic hospital. James Mason plays the defense lawyer who is willing to stoop to anything to oppose Newman's effort to obtain justice for his clients. SPOILERS The problem is that the filmmakers have these lawyers and the Judge in the case do things which real lawyers or Judges would never do. For example, when Newman receives a generous settlement offer from the hospital, he turns it down without even consulting his clients. This is such a blatant ethical violation that the film loses credibility already at this point. Any attorney practicing in this fashion would be severely sanctioned.The defense lawyer marshals all the people in his large firm to work on this one case. He asks them to drop everything else they are doing, including canceling planned vacations, to concentrate on this one case. This is ludicrous; no big firm could stay in business by ignoring all its other clients to concentrate on one case. Granted, it is an important case, but it is still only one case. More realistically, in an important case the lead attorney would typically have an attorney helping him as second chair, and perhaps a para-legal to run errands as needed, but to pull every single attorney in the firm off their other work defies credulity.And then there is the business of planting a spy in the defense camp. Of course this is beyond the pale ethically. Mason is such a sleazy character here that he is unpleasant to watch on the screen. This would have been a much better movie if Mason had been portrayed realistically, doing whatever he could within the law and Newman then has to surmount these obstacles.Worst of all is the unholy alliance entered into between the Judge and the defense team. The Judge's ire is raised when Newman turns down the settlement offer. Now, it is certainly not unusual for Judges to encourage parties to settle. But when Newman wants a trial, the Judge should allow him to have it. Instead, he does whatever he can to thwart Newman's efforts to present his case. When Newman unexpectedly comes up with the witness who can help his case, the defense attorney vociferously objects. He is silenced by a stern glance from the Judge, and the viewer is led to believe that the Judge is now going to allow the truth to come out. How disappointing, then, when we discover that the Judge actually silences Mason so as not to draw undue attention to the witness, and he then goes on to rule the testimony inadmissible.The sad thing is that there are issues here which need to be aired. We have seen in the sexual abuse scandals that have recently come to light that the Catholic Church has indeed been guilty of covering up misconduct of its Priests. So it is not surprising that it would also cover up misconduct by its doctors. Further, I am told by a leading malpractice lawyer that these days the hospitals will, in more cases than not, attempt to falsify evidence. What they do is substitute another patient's records for the plaintiff's records, and submit it as the plaintiff's own records to show that nothing improper was done. The thinking seems to be that they are going to lose anyway if they present the actual records, so why not take a chance and hope they won't be caught?So the problem with the film is not that the hospital is crooked, but rather that it portrays the defense lawyer as being part and parcel of the chicanery. No lawyer would keep his license to practice law after something like this. In actuality, the client submits the doctored evidence as real and the lawyer is kept in the dark.If you want to see a good film about the legal system, there are many to choose from. A short list includes `Inherit the Wind', `To Kill a Mockingbird', `Anatomy of a Murder', `Witness for the Prosecution', `Judgment at Nuremberg', `Breaker Morant', `My Cousin Vinny', and `Amistad'. Go rent any of these fine films, but skip `The Verdict'.2/10 "}{"Title":"cheating","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie cheats, probably as Mamet would like to but has not the skill to do with his favorite game, poker. It is a supremely inauthentic film, but with fabulous performances. First, if this woman is sent in as a spy, why in the world are they paying her off with a check. That would surely be cash and not traceable. Now the verdict of the story would still turn out to be the same, so what is it all about Alfie, the whole subplot. Also the fact that the critical mail arrives at five o clock in the morning(or so it seems to remind Newman that the phone company is coming like the cavalry, well also convenient that its early mail over at the Rooney place too. Also and its a big one, even larger in fact than the rest, lawyers don't turn down that kind of money AND IF they do, the plaintiffs would yank him and ask for a continuance, AND if none of that applies, Newman waiting on Doctor Gruber to come back from the Bahamas, hells bells, he just fakes being sick as long as it takes to contact the Doctor...and while we are at it...IF the doc has really been corrupted then why go to the trouble to tell you how INcorruptable he is.But that's Mamet. Very overrated writer with all this supposedly great...and highly inauthentic dialog. Still this movie does have some wonderful scenes by Newman and Jack Warden and James Mason. So. The Verdict? About a 5, no more. "},{"Title":"This was the first movie that I saw after September 11.","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Because it was, it was basically a look at the world of yesteryear, when even a drunk lawyer like Frank Galvin (Paul Newman) could suddenly get called onto a case and not be paranoid about terrorism. A time when people weren't going around calling each other terrorists. And above all, a time when it was possible to have trials, at least fair ones.Watching The Verdict, one gets the feeling that it didn't please the New England legal establishment. But it sure pleased me. Galvin starts out the movie in a sleazy bar in Boston playing pinball. His life looks as though it's wasting away until he gets hired to represent a malpractice plaintiff. Jack Warden, looking his usual menacing but kindly self, plays Frank's cohort Mickey Morrissey, and makes a comment at one point about a doctor who wasn't Jewish (one gets the feeling that these guys might be a little anti-Semitic, or at least hold some Archie Bunker-esquire stereotypes).More than anything, the movie really gives the feeling of Boston crisp air, Irish population, and dark indoors. We would usually expect Sidney Lumet to do a good job, and he doesn't disappoint here. Also starring are Charlotte Rampling, James Mason, and Lindsay Crouse, all in top-notch form. A perfect movie. I guess that I would have interpreted it differently had September 11 not happened, but there's probably no point in dwelling on that. "},{"Title":"fine film","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've watched this film a few times and I definitely rate it highly. I found some of the comments by other users interesting and wanted to ask a few things and point some things out. Firstly somebody said this is the greatest film ever made. This surprises me. Why do you say that? can you say that so and so a film is greater than another film if they are both great? if so how? also some people say that newman uses alcohol to reach rock bottom. I'm not doubting that he isn't in a bad way at the beginning of the film but i think it's important to notice that he was still true. Maybe you could think of the way he was at the beginning almost like an illness. He could only rise up from it when he was given the chance. If you think about the film you realise the character is very lucky. But it's not the fact he succeeded that made him a hero. He is a depicted as a hero all the way through in my opinion. And it is because of his heroic qualities, that gave him a chance to find justice (maybe i'm inspired by the film itself when i say that last sentence). "},{"Title":"One of the best courtroom dramas ever.","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is certainly one of the best courtroom dramas ever. The cast, directorSidney Lumet, screenwriter David Mamet, and especially Paul Newman are atthe top of their game. Newman should have won the Oscar for his role, butOscar voters can't get enough of bio-pics, and gave it to Ben Kingsley forGandhi instead. The drama, twists, and emotion are perfectly depicted, as Lumet uses longcamera shots and the wintry Boston setting to slowly build the tension. It' 's not a whiz-bang, action-filled movie, but for those who have some patience, it'stotally rewarding. A must-see. "},{"Title":"Over-Rated.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman (Oscar-nominated) tries to get something out of a career of loss as a lawyer who refuses to settle in a messy malpractice suit in this smart, but sometimes dull courtroom film. The over-rated Oscar-nominated screenplay by David Mamet never does intrigue the way it was meant to. The same goes for the under-achieving direction by Sidney Lumet (Oscar-nominated) who has a real struggle here surprisingly. His earlier works on 12 Angry Men, Dog Day Afternoon and Network are all much deeper and arousing films than this. James Mason also got a curious Oscar nod as Newman's enemy in the courtroom. Newman's character is not even very endearing throughout most of the production's running time. Good, but given way too much credit. 4 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"Simply average; nothing more, nothing less.","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Newman dominates the screen in a quiet, careful role that isn't one of his best, but still what I found to be the best part of this movie. The supporting characters are mostly good as well, and director Sidney Lumet handles the material very smoothly. However, I felt that David Mamet's screenplay was only ordinary in its approach to the way Newman's character gets this chance at redemption in the form of an easy case. To me, nothing inventive really occurs or for that matter, nothing too dramatic that sucked me in and kept me riveting the entire time. I must admit, some of the twists Mamet injects into the story were good, but we've seen them before in other dramas just like this in a very tired, bloated genre. I don't want to take anything from Newman's fine performance, but The Verdict feels only like a two hour version of Law and Order; and I can watch that for free. This movie is simply average, nothing more and nothing less. And while it is far from a poor film, I just had so much more expectations from a director like Lumet and a writer like Mamet. "},{"Title":"Alright","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the story of one man's will to do and complete something in his life. He might not be the best of lawyers and always say 'yes' to a drink, or two, or three. He has come to crossroads. This is something very important.It's an alright flick with Paul Newman. A nice story really and very interesting. It's not a rarity all these lawyers, their lawsuits and the big name companies but it's some nice entertainment. Newman as handsome as ever and acting as well as ever too.Downside is that you've seen it all before. All this. It's not something new. I don't know what it was like when it was released and was screened on cinemas, but it's just not that special, except for Newman of course. Brilliant actor. He is this film's difference between bad and alright. "},{"Title":"Eggs In Your Beer","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This greatest of movies, so drained of light it's noire, proves that as long as the alcoholic keeps drinking, good things will happen! Charlotte Rampling is stunning as Paul Newman's seedy girlfriend. James Mason is James Mason Templar. The judge is your worst nightmare. The young couple with the vegetative state on their hands is you and me wanting to split town with some sense of having tried. Our only hope is lawyer Newman, and he looks okay to us, in his trench coat and silver hair, his file cabinet and desk and old archy office. But we are small folk easily swayed. Unbeknownst to us, our guy plays pinball for breakfast and drinks eggs in his beer. Our guy skips business meetings for happy hour. Our guy is a drunk.Nothing good can come of this.... "},{"Title":"Newman at his best","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of Paul Newman's best performances, and a hidden masterpiece of acting of its time.  James Mason, as the defence attorney, also does well in what is at times actually a weak script.The thing is about these kinds of trial films is that, once you know who the good guys and the bad guys are, you can predict the ending.  In this case it wasn't as predictable, but I guess when you have a black and white trial verdict, there's not much else you can do.This does look a little dated now, but is still worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Timing in film is off","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Verdict is a pretty good film.  I would not say it is the best courtroom drama of all time as others have said (see A Few Good Men with Tom Cruise).  Nor would I say that it is Newman's best film - it doesn't have that upbeat, cool, comic quality that characterizes many of his films such as Cool Hand Luke, Butch Cassidy... and more recently, Where the Money Is,  Overall it is a pretty good film - 6/10.The one major error in the plot of the film that I noticed was the timing of the incident that the trial was all about.  In Kaitlin Costello's testimony she states that she was the admitting nurse in 1976.  The check that Laura Fischer receives from Edward J. Concannon is dated February, 1982 (same as the release year of the movie).  That would make the operation six years earlier.  However, several times in the film it is mentioned that the operation took place four years ago.  So within the film, there is a discrepancy of two years from the operation to the trial.  "}{"Title":"Sluggish, lackluster but effective and realistic","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You might be disappointed if you expect a on-the-edge-of-your-seat court room drama like Few Good Men. This movie has a very slow pace.Nevertheless, Paul Newman is great(as always). And the movie has a definite touch of realism.Rating as a movie 7.5/10 Rating as entertainment 5/10 "},{"Title":"Alright","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great actingGood character developmentGood storyIt drags on at times but overall it is a good movie. If you don't like dialogue driven movies than I wouldn't recommend this movie.**1/2 out of **** stars "},{"Title":"No redemption","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While this tried to be great acting, I don't think it was. It feels like Newman plays his character as either depressed or hyperventilating -- nothing else (bi-polar?). I only see one moment, when he asks Kaitlin help me?, where he significantly breaks out of this pattern. We haven't seen Newman in this mold before, but that doesn't make it less monotonous. Mason plays Mason and Warden plays Warden as always. Laura Fischer doesn't have much of a role, and plays it correctly as not much. Milo O'Shea plays the judge ambiguously as cute but mean. Only Lindsay Crouse does a really good job as Kaitlin. If I were on the jury, I would believe her absolutely too.Now for the plot *** Major spoilers *** In refusing the $210,000,Frank is clearly putting his own redemption (as a lawyer) above that of his client. Only way too late does he try to correct this.The love interest, Charlotte, secretly works for defense attorney Ed Concannon (James Mason), but stops being a spy before telling Ed about Kaitlin. You see her staring at a phone, but not calling him. Indeed, she secretly gives Frank the letter that allowed him to trace Kaitlin. Because of this, the jury was able to hear the other side - that the doctors had changed the one hour to nine hours. Yet at the very end, Frank refuses to answer Charlotte's phone calls and listen to her side - that she stopped spying in time. This verdict of Frank against even listening to Charlotte belies Franks closing argument about a prayer for justice. So I don't see that Frank is redeemed at all. "}]