[{"Title":"I didn't expect it to be so good","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I bought this because it was cheap and had 'massacre' in the title. What I didn't know is that this is a really tense movie. While not quite scary, it does have very suspenseful scenes, and the killer is classic! It's not filled with nudity like I had expected, and the killings are pretty gruesome. I'd recommend it to any slasher fan. "},{"Title":"don't ya just hate party-crashers.","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Totally unpretentious '80's slasher is a cheesy, but fun ride.Some lovely young ladies decide to throw a get together, only to have some loonie with a drill stop in to kill them all.Slumber Party Massacre is a slasher fan's guilty pleasure with a pretty silly edge to it! One might just gather that from the DVD cover or poster for this film. It takes the predictable elements of the splatter film and with a complete lack of seriousness has a ton of fun with them. It makes sense considering that this film was originally written to be a slasher parody, and frankly still works well as a parody. The acting, directing, and special FX are all B-grade stuff, but overall that helps rather than henders the mood of the film.At any rate, this film is strictly a good-time party kinda film, certainly nothing to be taken serious, but just enjoyed for it's humor (both intended and unintended) with the horror genre.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"A true '80s slasher film!","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is definitely a true '80s slasher film! Since Slumber Party Massacre was released in 1982, you can say this may have been one of the films to create the '80s cheesy/slasher films...which is great! It is your basic '80 horror film; slumber party, drinking, comedic moments...and of course, the escaped maniac who is on his way to the party! Keep an eye out for Brinke Stevens as Linda, as this was one of her first roles. This is definitely a popcorn flick; so just sit back, & enjoy yourself. Also, the late Robin Stille was one of the leads in this film. She appeared in a few other '80s horror films, & is truly missed! "},{"Title":"As bare-bones as any slasher can get, and still it delivers...","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Without further ado, this simply is an early 80's slasher that's worth seeing (at least once). If not for any other reason, then watch it for the fact that this was written and directed by two women. I still can't believe it! All women in this film are portrait as helpless victims (except for two or so). Most of the killings are bloody and gory. And after only 8 minutes in the movie, the whole teenage female basketball-team goes fully nude and hits the showers(!). The camera gratuitously focuses on boobs and buttocks. Who said women can't make a decent horror movie? Haha! So boobs galore, spiced up with some good-looking gore. Unfortunately there's no story (the movie's title actually is the story). And we know who the killer is right from the start of the movie (we see his face all the time). It's just a crazy man escaped from the loony-bin. I was at least expecting some kind of twist, but about halfway through the movie I gave up this wishful thinking and just enjoyed the rest of it, being as there weren't going to be any surprises anyway. But still, this is a must-see for everyone who calls himself an 80's slasher-fan. "},{"Title":"The title tells it all","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A good, better than usual Halloween clone set in a quite Venice suburb of Los Angeles where an 18-year-old girl, Trish, decides to throw a slumber party for her friends, members of her school's girls basketball team. Little do they know that a wild-eyed, middle-aged, maniac named Russ Thorn, who killed five people back in 1969, has escaped from a mental hospital and spots Trish and follows her to and from school to her house and, undercover of darkness, invades their party. Pre-slumber party killings include a telephone repairwoman named Mary, whom Thorn steals her van and drill he needs for the killing, and teammate Linda (played by Brinke Stevens in an early movie role) but they woun't be missed by the others. This one has all the elements of a good 1980's slasher flick, a high body count, a fair amount of splatter, a most phallic weapon, lots of false shocks, some gratuitious female nudity, etc. Given that this was writen and directed by women one would expect anything other than this material would have been given an edge of parody or irony, but it's all played straight. There is no masked killer, no surprise killer, no twist in the end, just straight-forward horror. Despite some cheap qualities it's all not badly done, especially in the last 20 minutes where the driller killer finally breaks into Trish's house and the girls dashing from room to room getting killed one by one, all the while the girl next door, Valerie and her little sister, Courtney, are oblivious to the going-ons. It is notable for Robin Stille as Valerie in the Jamie Lee Curtis heroine role and Andree Honore and the party goer with the largest bust.Contents 11 killings, good graphic gore (including a head lost and a hand getting chopped off), female nudity galore, lots of screams, a more stylish-than-usual, energetic flick.  "},{"Title":"Wait! I think I hear someone! I better go play the piano&#133;","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The above is not a direct quote, but a quote of the action. At one point, one of the girls is home alone, talking on the phone, and tells the person on the phone that she has to go because she thinks she hears someone. She hangs up the phone and walks immediately over to the piano and starts playing. Now, I normally reserve my votes of one out of ten for movies that are absolutely incomprehensible on any level. Slumber Party Massacre has a definitely decipherable plot, but the plot is nothing but a flimsy clothesline along which are staged a lot of cheap thrills and boring murder scenes.And, ironically enough, even in the case of a movie that is obviously driven by nudity (of which the film features remarkably little), I don't mean cheap thrills as far as shower scenes or lingerie scenes or any weak trash like that. You have the screeching cat scare, half a dozen or so friends sneaking up on people and viciously grabbing their shoulder from behind or something, only to throw up their hands like, What? What? I scared you? Each successive one making this movie more and more of an endurance test than the weak horror, awful acting, or abysmal script-writing could ever do.And who's the killer? No one. Some tool in cowboy boots and a lot of denim. Evidently he's an escaped mass murderer who went on a killing spree in the late 60s, which I guess would explain why he appears to be nothing but a middle-aged man with graying hair and a three foot drill. It's like they picked some jerk off the street and said Hey, hold this drill and let us film you running around this locker room for a little while. That should be good enough for this movie. I love all of the attempts to impose some deep women's lib meaning into this movie by commenting on the obviously phallic drill that this jean-jacket-clad maniac chases these women around with. Not that there's anything wrong with the women's liberation movement or implying that a film like this has any meaning in regards to the plight of women, I just think it's really funny to inject meaning into a film as meaningless as this one.(spoilers) There's one scene at the end of the film where there is a weak attempt to suggest the insanity of the killer as he mumbles his total of I think 21 spoken words (not including the gibberish he screams after he gets his hand cut off), the first few of which are, You're all so pretty, and, shockingly enough, I love you. Very cute, it's too bad this sudden moment of character depth comes so far out of left field that it is memorable simply because of its separation with the rest of the film than any meaning it might carry. Joseph Ulibas (my neighbor right over in Sacramento) makes an interesting comment that Freud would have loved to psychoanalyze the killer in this movie. Sure, this last scene definitely implies some serious sexual anxiety, as this is apparently a man who gets his thrills by killing pretty women that he loves, but to be perfectly honest, I think Freud would have more of a field day analyzing the writers and, at least as much, whoever it was that read the script and decided that this would be a good movie. "},{"Title":"Surprise! It gets better with age.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've seen this one three different times - once in childhood, once in my teen years and finally again now as an adult as part of IFC's month-long 80s Slashback series (August 2005). I watched every single retro slasher film they played and this one was by far one of the most enjoyable. Sure it is just a simple low-budget horror outing rife with chances to criticize it (as Siskel and Ebert, Leonard Maltin and many others did upon release), but what is maybe not-so-simple and not-so-typical in this critically disreputed genre is that it is put together with enthusiasm, a good sense of humor and surprising attention to detail. And while it provides the requisite nude scenes and gory murders, it does not put viewers to sleep in between the exploitation.In other words, compared to the absolute crap we horror fans are subjected to nowadays, this movie is funny, clever, entertaining and fast-paced. SPM possesses a genuine sense of fun that is just about extinct in today's slasher movies. The principle cast (Michele Michaels, Debra DeLiso, Robin Stille...) is comprised of mostly unknown young actors and actresses, but they are fun, natural and appealing and none of them walk through their roles acting disinterested in the material. Brinke Stevens, one of the most ubiquitous Scream Queens of the past twenty years, has an early role here, as does Aaron Lipstadt, the director of the sci-fi sleeper Android (1982) with Klaus Kinski. Humorously scripted by feminist author Rita Mae Brown (of 'Rubyfruit Jungle' fame).Score 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad, Bad, Bad","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" To my utter amazement most of the comments concerning this film are somewhat positive. Now I really love decent slasher films, and the year 1982 is certainly vintage for those types but this stinker is just plain bad.Now I don't know about most slasher lovers but I'll name a few who set the bar Halloween I don't think there are many people who dispute the fact that Halloween is a real horror classic. It's got many of the slasher film elements but it's also a really good demonstration of how to make a great horror film with little more than enthusiasm and skill.Friday the 13th A really great slasher film. Nowhere near Halloween in terms of atmosphere, suspense and overall craftsmanship but the woods scenario was pretty much perfected here, the kills are great and the wooden disposable teenagers are presented here basically for the first time.Black Christmas A moody, atmospheric sorority slasher that is a bona fide horror classic. Here lighting, music, grueling set pieces, good acting and an OK sense of humor ensured that Christmas was always going to have a dark side. Made before Halloween so in some ways this film could be considered the granddaddy of all slashers.Now these are three excellent films and belong as top referrers to any horror lover. Then there are those copycats and while some are really good (some Friday sequels, some Halloween sequels, The Burning, My Bloody Valentine for instance) many are not at all good. Many films fall somewhere in between, displaying some features that are to be admired. Films like The Prowler, Happy Birthday To Me, Prom Night, Dead and Buried, Maniac and The House on Sorority Row have some features working for them, be it atmosphere, gore, solid display of originality or good craftsmanship - something ensures they have good entertainment value.Then there are those that have none of that, just copy from better movies and do it in a cheap, unimaginative and talentless fashion. Now seriously, those who won't find this little outburst of mine helpful will agree to the fact this this film has any of the features that make a solid horror movie.It's horribly acted with one badly staged set piece swiftly followed by another. The set ups here are painfully bad (that pizza delivery boy who's just had his eyes drilled out was a particular fav). Honestly, I wish there was a comment section here so I could have admirers of the film point out to me what they liked and why.Now, maybe I was just in a really foul mood when I watched this and I certainly don't want to imply that those who like it are any certain type of individuals, hell, I like some movies that get horrible beatings here. But, in my humble opinion, it's movies like Slumber Party Massacre that gave slashers a bad name and I'm just amazed to see that many horror lovers seem to think highly of it. "},{"Title":"77 Minutes In Hell","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Wow...I don't even know what to say...TERRIBLE MOVIE...I suppose they inserted topless teenage girl scenes to regain any audience interest, but I hate to say it...Even that wasn't enough to make me enjoy this film. the sound is terrible, the killer's character is not established at all, that is to say he has absolutely no motive whatsoever. the effects are terrible... and what really gets me is how they turned this into a series. I'd much rather stick to my Jason, Freddy and Michael...hell i would even take Chucky over this garbage heap. the one good thing i can say about this movie is that it wraps up rather quickly i believe the DVD reads 77 minutes. The people i feel bad for are the one's renting/buying this film expecting a cheesy slasher flick and ending up with something much much worse. the true horror in this film lies in it's production..not it's content. "},{"Title":"One of the top ten best slashers of the 1980's!","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" First film of the Slumber Party Massacre series, isn't to imaginative when it comes to creating story, but was a fun gory ride. As in many slasher flicks released shortly after the Friday The 13th/Halloween films. The story features a vengeful maniac escaping from the mental hospital, where after doing away with some selected victims here & there (a girl locked inside her school by accident & a pretty electrician) stalks the girls & their pretty neighbour, a new female classmate & the girls younger, bratty sister, not to mention a pizza delivery boy & the girls boyfriends who arrive unannounced to the party. His weapon of choice? a Drill & soon the maniac is boring holes into each one of them, while the remaining survivors attempt to stop the crazed maniac before they to wind up on his list of victims. SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE is a well directed & well acted (surprising considering the genre's state at the time) slasher film that still works up a few chills & thrills, despite many bad imitators & it's bad reputation it has received from parent groups & critics who label it as nothing more than sleaze, & violence against women. Such people obviously can't accept the fact that we live in a naturally violent society & choose to pick on things that can't answer back in order to try & hide what the really issues are. In English, what I am trying to say is, did these people who critically slam this film for the reason mentioned, the sleaze & violence committed against women, see the same movie I saw? THE SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE is violent, yes, it has the requisite nudity, true, but this film is no more violent & bloody, nor as sleazy, nor is it a film that glorifies violence against women then half of the films being marketed & put out today horror or other. Unlike a lot of slasher films released at the time, SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE is a lot more fresh & inventive. For starters, the film sort of does a sex switch take on the usual slasher spoon fed story telling, here it's the girls who come to the rescue & save the day, not the men, the women here are smart, sassy, sophisticated & tough, with a lot of females used in roles usually given to men (telephone repair person, gym coach, carpenter etc.) while the men are the ones who make the stupid decisions & suffer far more violent deaths. That out of the way, as much & all as I love the film, I will say the film was padded at times, clocking in at 76 minutes, a lot of the film feels stretched out to far in areas, like how many times must we see the two sisters go out to the backyard to investigate a noise or sit around & talk to each other in the house? & how many trips to the garage must we be forced to sit through, as the girls from the slumber party are constantly making frequent trips out there? & I would have loved to have seen the killers earlier killing spree done in an epilogue before the real action begins, but I guess it just wasn't in the budget. Horror fans looking for some cheap thrills should get a kick out of it. Highly influential, spawning countless rip-offs, THE LAST SLUMBER PARTY, BIKINI BLOODBATH series, SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE 1-3 etc. among others. All in all, in terms of 1980's slasher films, SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE is still one of the best. Highly recommended to fans of the genre. Followed by two sequels starting with, SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE 2PROLOX TRIVIAScenes from this film were also used as back story & spoofed in Jim Wynorski's fun & funny SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE 2.***1/2 stars "}{"Title":"Pizza time!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've always had a soft spot in my heart for Slumber Party Massacre ever since I first saw it at the ripe old age of 11. Sure it's not the bloodiest, scariest, well acted or written horror movie that wonderful 80's produced- but it does have something that makes it special and a standout on its own.Trish (Michelle Michaels) is a popular basketball player whose parents have gone away for the weekend. Just so happens that the night before, convicted killer and mental patient Russ Thorn (wonderfully played by Michael Villella) has escaped from confinement. Awww...timing is everything! Val (Robin Stille) is the new girl in school as well as on the basketball team, who also happens to live right next door to Trish. Of course, Trish decides to gather her girls for a night of fun at her empty house. She suggests they invite Val, and is of course is rejected by her snobby & trampy friend Diane (Gina Mari).Cut to the chase...the girls have there slumber party. Of course Russ has been following them around all day and is just waiting for his moment to strike. Val on the other hand is alone too next door, with the exception of her boy crazy 13 year old sister Courtney (Jennifer Meyers). When the pizza delivery boy shows up dead on Trish's doorstep- mayhem ensues. The girls (along with some boys who have crashed the Slumber Party) are scared to death. They are afraid to leave the house - so the boys volunteer to make a run for it.One by one our teenagers get hacked away. Eventually Val and Courtney get involved in the goings on and before you know it our girls are in some serious trouble.The movie works due to some genuinely funny comedic dialogue- and Michael Villella's great portrayal of the Driller Killer. When he says I love you in his sick and twisted way- you genuinely feel creeped out! The music is also quite good as well. With a 77 minute run time- Slumber Party Massacre doesn't drag and keeps pace quite nicely. If you collect horror and are a big fan of the classic cheesy horror movies from the beloved 80's, Slumber Party Massacre is worth an entry into your DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Thinly veiled Womens Lib masquerading as Horror","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Many critics of the time, Siskel and Ebert as I recall, and others considered the slasher films of the time to be misogynistic.  I presume mostly because many women/girls died deaths as grizzly as those suffered by the males.    One thing they missed, and apparently not lost on Rita Mae Brown, was that it was almost always a female that dispatched the killer at the end, sometimes with the help of a male lead.  On the one sheet for this movie we see the killer with a drill hanging between his legs like an oversized penis and the message is clear--fight back women and you wont get drilled.  But dont get me wrong guys, on the way to her womens lib message, the director provides more than her share of titilation for your average slobbering teenage(or older) boy.  Brinke Stevens also does one of her famous butt shots in this one.  Read the message, ignore the nudity, or enjoy the nudity and ignore the message  This movie works both ways. "},{"Title":"Just so terrible, its enjoyable","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love 80's horror movies. They are so cheesy now, but having grown up in the 80's, it is fun to watch them and be taken back to my parents basement when we would watch these really scary movies as kids!Anyway, Slumber Party Massacre is not original. If you have seen Halloween, Friday the 13th, or any of the dozens of slasher-horror movies, then you know what happens here.So the plot is that a mass-murderer escaped from prison recently and he begins killing high schoolers almost immediately. You know the rest, some kids have a slumber party where the murderer descends and gore and blood ensue.This movie has all the typical 80's horror movie elements gratuitous nudity, lots of blood and gory death scenes, mediocre acting, and ever- present boo scary music.SpoilersNow, like I said, pretty much all the slasher movies are the same, other than the killer and his weapon of choice. In this movie, the killer picks a power drill (or whatever it is called) as his weapon of choice. That would not have been my pick if I were a mass-murderer. I mean, sure it can be efficient, but it sure is bulky, and very noisy. You better hope that there are a lot of coincidental cover noises around when you are dispatching another hapless teen. Luckily for this killer, there are plenty of blenders and other noises to allow him to kill around a dozen people before people suspect something!I laughed out loud at some of the scenes...especially the par where the killer is running from the school, where he recently killed a girl, in broad daylight with his bloody drill and he's looking around to see if anyone sees him...hahaha, I mean, subtlety is not this guy's motif!And of course there is plenty of nudity. Lot's breasts in this movie and an prolonged shower scene where the camera actually does a slow pan down a girl's back to see her butt. I'm not complaining but at least in other movies, the nudity isn't this blatant.The acting is about what you expect from a movie like this...below average. Now I will say, I did enjoy this movie, but its not going to be considered a true classic. "},{"Title":"Good Film On A Low Budget","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's been several years ago since I last saw this film and it really is an amazing movie to see.From the very beginning it's very obvious that it was made on a low budget,however it's still an amazing film to see!Halloween was made on the slimmest of budgets as well and Slumber Party Massacre proves like Halloween that an excellent film can be made on a tiny budget.From the very beginning,it's score promises a chiller with creepiness oozing out of it's pores!I admire these filmmakers for what they accomplished. It's a spooky movie with a sense of humor,but often the parts which are meant to be frightening are very effectively handled such as the girl who's pulled into her truck to be murdered and also the student who's trapped in her school's locker room while she desperately tries to escape from the killer who's stalking her.....both scenes are great and handled with good direction,good acting,good camera work,a great score and a real understanding of how to make a chiller that will grip an audience.This describes the entire film which it's main part takes place in an old house populated by teenage girls who are falling prey to an escaped murderer who repeats some philosophy used by real life killer Charles Manson.Yes, this film has it's faults...the actress who plays the younger sister named Courtney is too old for her part and she's also just not very good in playing her part.Also the male neighbor who's supposed to keep an eye on the girls is miscast in the role because he's too young.However,these are extremely minor things when you look at this picture in it's entirety which is a real accomplishment that can entertain a true lover of good chillers. Every time that I watch it I can't help but be amazed at how good this film is even though it's made on the smallest of budgets.It's proof you don't need a million dollars and well known actors to make a good movie. "},{"Title":"Better than any Hollywood Neo-Slasher film...","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Slumber Party Massacre, Quickie Review Oh classic slashers! Where would we be without them? And hey, it don't get more classy than this! If you read the title, you know what you're getting with this. Sexy women being butchered by a madman. With a great big drill. Hey, for what it's worth, it's not that bad. I've also seen Slumber Party Massacre III, and let me tell yah, that is some purile sh*t right there. This one, on the other hand, at least has being the first movie in that series on it's side. So it feels at least a little refreshing. It has decent atmosphere and story--from the early to mid 80's when slashers were in their prime of course. But we're really watching this for nudity and slayings. Which we get, the film's not too shy. The nudity and gore are pretty average and nothing all too special. The driller killer? Just an escaped lunatic with a big-assed drill. He doesn't wear a mask, just a grimace. Some decent tension and a pretty good climax (ha ha) prevent the film from failing--though, the story and setting are really damn average. Worth a gander for horror and especially, slasher fans. 5/10(www.ResidentHazard.com) "},{"Title":"California Girls & a Psycho Meet","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" One gets exactly what one is promised in this somewhat low-budget slasher film that would go on to spawn at least a couple sequels. The film's premise is about a group of girls & company(voyeuristic boys, a neighbor, a basketball coach, etc...)spending an evening together for a slumber party only to have things go awry when an escaped serial killer with a penchant for drilling people to death comes onto the scene. This film has two points to make primarily one, kill as many people as possible in the most unnatural ways possible and two, mix as much senseless nudity, sexual innuendo, and sophomoric humour into the film without turning it to a comedy rather than a slasher flick. Well, Slumber Party Massacre is fairly successful on both counts. There are a lot of murders, particularly with characters that are not characters(pizza guy?). The film is fairly gory but not hyperbolic by any means. I was more disturbed by the screenwriter's lack of humanity and the director's lack of good taste and sense more than what I saw on screen. One can make a film like this and create characters we care about and place some value on life. When one character dies after another in some weird way, the audience becomes removed from what is going on in the film and what is going on in the film becomes something distant. OK, enough of my sermonizing on the need of directors, writers, and audiences putting a little more value into human existence. As for the film, it is not a good one ,but it is not real bad either. I have seen far worse. The actors and actresses, despite the ridiculous lines that must utter, are efficient. The girls too are lovely to look at. The killer is, well, a type that has been unfortunately seen in far too many films despite his lack of dimension and purpose. "},{"Title":"Excellent slasher/driller killer film - it is what it is!","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Yeah, I gave this a high rating - it's totally worth it. I don't understand why some ratings for this film are so low - it's an 80s slasher, what are you expecting? There were plenty of gruesome kills, it didn't take the film long to get in to the killing so doesn't keep you waiting like some modern slasher films do. There is a good, basic story line which doesn't make the film difficult to follow. We are reminded throughout the film that a killer has escaped from jail so it's not a random attacker. The loose ends are tied up, there aren't any questions left unanswered at the end (apart from when she plays her piano after she thinks she hears someone in her house, haha)and the story line isn't dragged out unnecessarily. I totally recommend this film and will be buying the DVD to watch again (I watched it on the horror channel). I find that the older slasher/ driller killer films are far better than the more modern horror flicks - the killing is more original, better thought out and more believable. "},{"Title":"Amelia, It Was Just Another False Alarm","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Although most of the 18-year-old girls in 1982's The Slumber Party Massacre do some pretty dumb and questionable things, Trish (Michele Michaels) shows perfectly sound judgment when it comes to one area When your parents split for the weekend, THAT is certainly the time for an open house! Doritos? Check. Beer? Check. Maui Wowie? Check. Pizza? Check. Too bad, though, that psycho driller killer Russ Thorn has just busted out of jail and has decided to crash the party... Anyway, although my beloved DVD Delirium book claims that this film has not a single moment of cinematic fat in its 78-minute length, I would have to respectfully disagree. There are SO many instances of false alarms here (you know the kind I mean...you think the boogeyman is about to pounce and it turns out to be a cat or something) that things get rather annoying. Sure, I know that these moments, used with discretion, can add to a film's suspense, but when you string over a dozen of them together, it gets pretty old and downright frustrating. The last 20 minutes of the film are fine, though, as nutzo Thorn tries to finish his night's work with a clean party sweep. It is a little hard to believe that this film, which revels in topless shots and shrieking bimbos, was written by feminist author Rita Mae Brown and directed by another woman, Amy Jones. Still, it IS a group of women that ultimately gives Thorn a tough time, after the doofy boys fail (although it is fairly obvious who will be the last girls standing). And I just love it when Robin Stille's Val delivers that symbolic castration! Too bad that future scream queen Brinke Stevens has such a small role here, though; wotta looker! Anyway, this movie is fairly lame but somewhat fun. You probably know what to expect. "},{"Title":"Not a bad 80's slasher","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Managed to get this one cheap and enjoyed watching it, but could be better.In the same vein as Halloween (though not nearly as good) it manages to create that classic 80's suspense. The basic premise is that there is a slumber party and the teenagers begin to get picked off one by one - your pretty standard slasher affair. In terms of nudity we get a few decent glimpses of T&A and I would say thats OK, its not overdone.Blood is sadly lacking I'm afraid. Although it picks up a bit at the end, it still leaves the film feeling a bit bare. Halloween can enthral its audience with suspense and atmosphere, but as this film lacks a bit in this department, we're left with a gap to fill.Complaints aside, it does the job pretty well, we have a houseful of satisfyingly terrified teenagers, lots of screaming and running and some decent music.But yeah, if you're a slasher fan or a fan of 80's horror in general, I recommend giving this a view. Just to say you've seen it, and its a good Halloween substitute (I thought I could go a review without mentioning Halloween, but oh well). "},{"Title":"a childhood classic","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" i have never forgotten this movie, and how scary it was to me. as a matter of fact, my entire fear of basements as a child stems from this movie. i was utterly convinced that someone was lurking down there with a giant power drill waiting to attack. i think what got to me most was the way many of the victims were attacked, wounded, and then allowed to briefly escape before, once in a weakened state, the killer swooped in to claim his prey. imagining myself in their situation, wounded and alone, i would lay awake in bed for hours. i think part of what terrified me so much was the normality of the man carrying the drill. compared to his peers he wore neither a hockey mask, nor a glove with knives for finger nails. but what's this i hear about it being a feminist flick??? "}{"Title":"Standard slasher film, made by mostly women, is pointless, gory and exploitive","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" An eighteen-year-old girl (Michelle Michaels) who is left at home by her parents decides to throw a slumber party for her friends. Little does she know that an escaped psychopath (Michael Villela) is on the loose and threatening to kill them off with his portable drill. He even uses the drill on one of the girls' heads.Standard slasher film, made by mostly women, including writer (Rita Mae Brown) and director (Amy Jones, who also co-produced), is pointless, gory and exploitive. Feminist author Brown's script is routine and clichéd. False scares (cat jumping out of the closet), unconvincing characters (wimpy teens and a lame killer) and excessive nudity doesn't cut it. Aimed mostly at fans of gore and nudity; others beware. My evaluation * out of **** "},{"Title":"Well Not An Oscar Winner","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well i love gore and horror from the seventies. This one is from the eighties and its pretty lame. Okay, its alot of blood and gore in it but its not a good movie if we are talking horror. A killer is killing alot of teenager(wow i have never seen that before)with a drilling machine. The story is poor and the acting to. This movie contain alot of breasts and nudity. Watch it if you dont have anything else to do but like i said its not great...... "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A group of teenage girls hold a slumber party on a Friday night, but a recently escaped mass murderer with a portable power drill turns this slumber party deadly.Adequately acted and casted film seems to play up to its cliches instead of trying to avoid them. Some funny moments, good gore effects, some scares and excitement, and sometimes clever direction make this a lot better then you would expect. Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence, Nudity, Profanity, Drug Use, and Mild Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Feminism in a slasher film? -- I think not!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've heard a lot of stories about this film that it was directed and written by a feminist of the 70's; that it stood as an allegory for Women's Rights, or in this situation, P*ssy Power and the S.C.U.M manifesto; that Amy Jones' main proposal was to present her victims as developed characters and not pieces of meat. However, after finally viewing Slumber Party Massacre, I wasn't impressed one bit, and did not identify these redeeming qualities mentioned above.  	The film depicts a group of beautiful teenage girls planning for a weekend slumber party. Two male characters decide on panty raiding the party, as well as picking up a few assets; however, what they don't know is a drill-welding sadistic murderer has just escaped from prison and he has a few plans of his own.  	A large percentage of the film features some brutal scenes, and sometimes reaches the point of gratuity. Overall, Slumber Party has a few chills but mainly works under a hackneyed slasher-flick foundation (i.e., who is the most foolish? Who will be the survivor(s)? Will the killer be a sequel? etc.) Nevertheless, it's a very violent and foolish film (nice try Amy) but if it's a overall feminist statement the director was trying to make, why does she have to resort to the sophomoric horror commonplaces that we are sick of. And of course, this film was followed up by 2 sequels.Rating 1 star. "},{"Title":"Surely They weren't Serious....","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  And stop calling them Shirley. Come on, The killer has got a double handled electric drill that would dim the lights in the Astrodome, hundreds of feet from the nearest outlet! What does it run on, his imagination?  If this was intended as anything but a spoof, we have the 80's incarnation of Ed Wood in charge here....It's uneven, certainly not a laugh a minute, but no way is it on the level. It has just enough fake gore and mild sex to make it a bit stressful (the way they like it) for the 5TH grade set, yet it won't give them as many nightmares as Halloween or something built with a bit more care (and talent).  "},{"Title":"just one of those movies.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Every once and a while I rent a movie and at the end of it i just have to say what the hell was that? this is possibly the worst horror film of all time, the acting was just poison.  The characters were dumb as anything in one seen they are all bunched together and discover a body so they all split up and of course are butchered. The cover of the movie looked pretty cool but the reality is that it wasn't.   "},{"Title":"Drill Happy.","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Why is this slasher more accommodating and entertaining than most of its kind? This question seemed to be running through my head. It is because it brought across leering sleaze (like that long shower scene with constantly intrusive camera-work) and brutal violence with a healthy body count&#133; I guess. But as slashers go, it delivered on what seems to count and the execution was always spot on. I wouldn't call it great and it's quite routine as they go, but 'Slumber Party Massacre' holds a maniac edge and competent air that easily makes it one of the sub-genres' best and funniest to view.Brimming with attitude and energy (thanks to Amy Holden Jones' efficiently upbeat and gusty direction and an effectively foreboding electronic score), it pretty much gets right into it and never really let's go. As suspense is well placed and shaped (with a certain nightmarish intensity and nastiness), as the pace goes straight for jugular with the running time being quite short (75 minutes). What we have is an escaped loony killer (with no motive) who randomly decides to terrorise some girls at a sleepover. Talk about being at the wrong place at the wrong time. The material plays with the conventional clichés and exaggeratedly draws them up with a rather humorous tongue&#133; even the visuals are obvious (like the organism weapon of choice). The usual teenage banter provides realism and the performances are wholesomely brought across. Robin Stille and Michele Michaels are sound in their roles. Plus you got an early, but memorable part by Brinke Stevens.Silly and seamy, but likable 80s stalk n' slash exploitation fare. "},{"Title":"Slahser film that offers nothing new, just had things borrowed and left me blue","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" My two favorite things in the world are slumber parties and massacres so having both represented in a horror film title was titillating to say the least. Slumber Party Massacre boasting a movie poster that had four scantly clad women viewed from between the legs of the killer was something of teenage pin up fantasy. The phallic killing weapon of choice is a portable drill with a bit the size of John Holmes. The victims are a bunch of high school girls that look as old as College sophomores but thanks to the tight form fitting fashions of the time (the film was shot in 1982) they are every bit as sexually stimulating as they were intended.So with the setting established &#150; a slumber party at the home of one of the girls homes, the characters all exposed as expendable and the killer on the loose after having escaped authorities, we were set for some bloodletting.There is nothing new about Slumber Party Massacre. Even in 1982, the film was a rip of just about every other horror film that was hitting the theatres in rapid releases. Even the film's score was an organ key shade away from John Carpenter's classic Halloween winning number.Surprisingly directed by Amy Holden Jones (women directing horror films were not of the norm), the film does at least try to use the horror playbook to ensure that all the plays are executed. We have a shower scene that is definitely a press pause and zoom experience. There are countless individuals that are lined up as plausible victims. And there is a killer that has a kill toy of choice even if he doesn't have any kind of personality present within the film's frames.Slumber Party Massacre was originally written with the intention of being a slasher movie spoof. It was reconstructed into the straight horror that it ends up becoming, but the resonating humor is still present throughout the film.One of the worst things that can happen after viewing a horror film is having the details of the film forgotten. This is exactly Slumber Party Massacre's problem. I remember the shower scene, but just two days since my revisit to the experience, I can't remember anything notable about the films plot, it's characters and most importantly, it's killing.www.robertsreviews.com www.killerreviews.com "},{"Title":"A choice chunk of early 80's slasher cheese","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Slasher films were hugely popular in the blood-soaked, cadaver-ridden, horny teenager-populated early 80's, a golden period when all one needed to crank out a horror pic was a bunch of over-aged actors and actresses trying unsuccessfully to palm themselves off as moronic, libidinous adolescents, a steady supply of Kyro syrup, a deadly sharp implement of one kind or another, enough reels of cheap grainy film stock for an 80 minute feature length running time, several thousand bucks, and no discriminating taste or restraint to get in the way of good old fashioned cheap thrill-driven junkbag exploitation movie entertainment. Well, this bluntly titled beauty reigns supreme as the sina qua non of early 80's teen-kill trash, a gory, campy, purposefully cheesy and low-brow zero artistic merit no-brainer howler that goes out of its way to deliver winningly abundant amounts of thoroughly pointless and gratuitous, yet still quite enjoyable sex, violence and nudity with an irresistibly lip-smacking demented gusto. Naturally, the story ain't much, but it nonetheless gets the job done with thrillingly brisk streamlined efficiency your garden variety leering, sweaty, glassy-eyed lunatic wackjob with completely unsuppressed homicidal tendencies and a lethal portable drill escapes from a local booby hatch and rudely crashes the titular nocturnal bash. In due course beauteous'n'bountiful breasts are frequently bared, the bimbo high school student victims smoke weed, talk about boys, make out, disrobe, scream, and get savagely offed at pleasingly regular 10-15 minute intervals, a few dorky uninvited party crasher dudes also wind up eating it, and in the rousing poolside grand finale the small handful of girls left band together and stand up to the murderous freak. WARNING Possible *SPOILER* ahead. And boy is the bravura ending a real dilly the take-no-crap ladies cut off the nutso's drill bit (thereby symbolically castrating the foul fiend!), slice off his left hand, and finally impale the creep on the business end of an upright machete! This wonderfully brazen,perversely ebullient, and wholly ridiculous el scuzzo celluloid swill marked the directorial debut of Amy Jones (who went on to make much more respectable films like Love Letters and Maid to Order) and was, unbelievably enough, written by renowned feminist author Rita Mae Brown (the title character in Educating Rita was named after her). Both Steve Parker's lively, polished cinematography and Ralph James' vibrant, propulsive score keep things hoppin' from start to finish. Moreover, the production values are slick and solid, the corpse tally sizes up as an impressive eleven, and the entire feature lasts for a compact, but wildly eventful 77 minutes. Popping up in quick bits are Android director Aaron Lipstadt as an ill-fated pizza delivery boy, luscious 80's horror scream queen Brinke Stevens (she gets bagged after showing her considerable all in a tasty high school girls' gym locker room shower sequence), and Joe Dante as a nice guy motorcyclist who gives the heroine a ride home from school. (By the way, snippets of Pino Donaggio's gorgeously melodic Piranha score can be heard on a radio and a scene from Hollywood Boulevard plays on a TV screen.) Energetically stupid, gleefully shameless, and utterly bereft of any true quality or significance, this choice chunk of 80's slasher cheese rates highly as one of the single most righteously tacky 80's slice'n'dice doozies to ever ooze its way across drive-in and grind-house movie screens back in the day. "},{"Title":"this was s-o-o-o-o funnY!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I love slasher flicks but this was the worst and it had me laughing in tears! The part where the girl is hitting him with the fire poker, and it wobbles like rubber had me laughing and the part where he hides under the rug like Elmer Fudd! I'll get those wascally women! This is awful beyond comprehension but still a laugh and a half. "}{"Title":"in it's own way a classic","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Slumber Party Massacre is loved by some and hated by others, i thought it was good for the most part. there is a big deal since it's written and directed by women, not to be sexist but most horror films i have seen by women suck, only Debra Hill can do horror, when it comes to acting then i would rather see women, director Holden Jones does a halfway decent job, this is one of the few horror films by women i do like. the story is simple some guy named Russ Thorn killed 5 people in 1969, he is in a mental hospital and one day he breaks out, thats all we find out about him, then we have Trish she is left home alone so she invites a few friends over for a slumber party, Trish wants to invite the nice shy girl Valerie over but her friends don't want her to. well as the movie goes on the driller killer shows up and starts to take out the girls, Valerie who is watching her younger sister Courtney end up getting stalked by driller killer. may not sound to great but if you like 80's horror you should like this one. i have the dvd version the good thing is it's in wide screen the bad thing at times when the characters talk you can not make out what they are saying. oh yeah and some women complain about the nudity in horror films well they can't say anything anymore since there is tons of nudity in this and The Slumber Party Massacre is done by women, i give The Slumber Party Massacre 7/10 worth a check if you like 80's horror like i said in it's own way a classic.R.I.P Robin Stille who played Valerie sadly she killed herself a few years back "},{"Title":"Uninspired Garbage","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie seems to have some fans; I am not one of them.  Okay, this is a slasher movie, so I wasn't expecting a great movie, but The Slumber Party Massacre is just uninspired garbage.  The killings are boring (no pun intended).  There really isn't any decent gore, just some bloody t-shirts.  There is no atmosphere; the film just feels bland.  The music is unexceptional.  Everything is just so mediocre, and that really hurts this movie.  Slasher movies usually at least have one interesting element.  This doesn't even have an interesting killer.  It's just some 40-something guy in ordinary clothes.  I never thought I'd say this, but The Slumber Party Massacre makes me appreciate all the interesting elements in a movie like Class Reunion Massacre.  I really don't see how so many people rated this a 10!  It's not even bad enough to like it on a cheesy level.  This movie is just bland. "},{"Title":"An 80's slasher at it's best","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" i love the 80's well...almost at it's best. I've seen more gore in other 80's horror flicks. but if you want nudity and lots and lots of screaming girls getting knocked off one by one by a mad man with a power drill...it's a real safe rent. the scares will not make you jump out of your seat...but really...it's just a movie meant for you to sit back and laugh at. For slasher fans...it's a must see. hold on though...is it breaking a slasher movie rule to have the killer talk to his victims??? i was wondering that when it happened. still though it doesn't take away from the overall experience. oh yeah. just watch this one...don't bother with the others. they are not at all worth it.kjfear@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"ok movie that lacked in the gore catagory","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie once a long time ago and dicided to go ahead and rent it again just to jog up my memory sense I've heard so much about it over the years as being a cult classic.  Well, I had expected more from this movie as far as the blood and guts were concerned because it seemed that just when the killer would get ready to kill the victim, the scene switched and you never got to see what happened, you just saw the victim lying in a pool of blood after the killing and that really annoyed me to no end.  It had that 80's type of suspense that I do always love, it was a bit slow at parts and it could have picked up the pace a bit but overall, it was an interesting 80's flick that brought back memories. "},{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I read about this one beforehand - the feminist aspects of it - and so I kind of knew what to expect. The fact that the identity of the (male) killer is known from the get-go, does change the angle, as does the fact that several women here do things which are stereotypically done by men. Still, the male fantasy parts, in which gorgeous girls bare themselves continuously, does not seem so feminist, but then consider the fact that the female writer wrote explicit lesbian novels also... I really liked this different-and-yet-not-so-different take on the slasher genre, maybe not for all the right reasons, but hey...The killer reminded me of another film creep Killer Bob from Twin Peaks, I'm curious if David Lynch could have been inspired by this...? With this character, the film does earn its feminist label; when he finally speaks, it is sexist, nihilist nonsense, and he is castrated in the end, and killed, only by a few girls who fight for their lives. Good on them.But will it make me think and reconsider ever watching male chauvinist slashers again? Yes, to the first, no to the latter. Blood, gore and female nudity are facts of life, why not combine them into a titillating movie? Moreover, usually in those male chauvinist slashers, there's a deeper story behind the killings, and there are not only female victims, but also male.As a feminist statement, 'Slumber party massacre' works only partly, but it's more like an extra, a 'thing' that makes the film stand out more than most slashers, even if I should not end before saying point taken.A big 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Typical Slasher","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Slumber Party Massacre will never stand out in the slasher genre the way My Bloody Valentine, Friday the 13th, Prom Night, Happy Birthday to Me, Black Christmas and Sleepaway Camp have. Still, it manages to be entertaining enough, although the killer is easily predictable.A group of basketball players decide to have a slumber party, but make snobby remarks about the new girl on the team and she refuses to go to their party. Little do the girls know that a killer with a thing for drills is out there...The soundtrack was terrible, just the same repetitive organ music played at the murders. However, the acting was decent enough. If you want a cheesy slasher film to pass the time, check this one out. "},{"Title":"Boobs, Drills & Pizza","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When Trish's (Michaels) parents leave town for the weekend, she invites three High school friends over for a slumber party. She also invites her new neighbor Valerie (Stille) who lives across the street. Valerie declines because she overhears Diane (Gina Mari) talking bad about her. Meanwhile, mad killer Russ Thorn (Villela) has killed a phone repair woman with a giant power drill at the girl's school and stalks the girls to their house. While the girls get high and order pizza Russ waits in the shadow with his huge drill and begins picking them off. This routine slasher film garnered some attention on its release due to its female Director Amy Jones and Female writer Rita Mae Brown. With slasher films getting clobbered by critics due to their violence towards women at the time, Jones and Brown use every cliché in the book with gratuitous nudity and gore! They would say this was a parody and there are some flashes of that, but this is a straight ahead slasher film. An early scene has Linda (Brinke Stevens) locked in the school gym and dodging the killer. This scene draws out some real suspense and the scene is visually engaging. Everything is very predictable but the massive power drill provides a lot of gore and the killer himself meets his match with neighbor Valerie in the conclusion. If you can get pass the mindless script, this film can be fun especially for stalk and slash fans. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good 80's Slasher Flick!","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This 1982 horror film stars Michelle Michaels, Robin Stille and Michael Villella. Michaels plays teenage girl, Trish who decides to have a slumber party with her friends while her parents go away for the weekend. Soon, an escaped killer, Russ Thorn (Villella) decides to crash the party providing bloody mayhem. Stille plays Valerie, the new girl in school who is invited by Trish, but decides not to join because she feels she doesn't fit in with her friends. She also lives across the street which makes it handy for the girls in their time of need. Though some of the acting is weak, This is a pretty good 80's slasher flick with plenty of gore and a bit of humor. Fans of the horror/slasher genre may want to see this. "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This was a very good 80's slasher film! There was lots of gore,nudity, deaths, and it was very fun! When I first saw this movie, I didn't know what to expect. I pretty much new it was going to be very good because it was an 80's slasher film (I do love 80's slasher movies). I watched the movie 3 times already and I'm looking forward to see parts 2 & 3 on DVD even though I heard that they sucked. I wonder what the remake of this movie would be like? I would recommend this to many people that I know. I can't even stop watching the trailer of this movie! I thought some parts were a little funny like when one of the girls eats the dead pizza guy's pizza. This was an awesome movie from beginning to end! "},{"Title":"What's the damage? Six...so far.","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a very simple story here of a group of high school girls having a slumber party (despite looking too old for that sort of thing) while their horny male counterparts goof off and while a degenerate mass murdering creep, Russ Thorn (Michael Villella) stalks both men and women alike with his handy power drill.The Slumber Party Massacre is of course unique for the slasher sub genre for being written and directed by women. Noted feminist writer Rita Mae Brown wrote the screenplay, and Amy Jones, a graduate of the Roger Corman filmmaking school, is the director. Its element of satire may not be readily apparent, but it *is* there. When the movie comes to its now iconic shot of the killer standing astride a cowering victim, with his deadly weapon dangling suggestively between his legs, it does become more apparent that this movie does work as a comment on other slasher films of the era how they centre on depraved male killers and how their weapon can be viewed as a surrogate penis. Note, too, how most of the male characters are not terribly useful, even if they're not utterly demented the women will have to learn to fight for their lives if they're going to survive this night.Of course, this delightfully trashy flick does manage to have it both ways, as it's heavily exploitative as well, taking the time (and we do appreciate the movie for this) to stress the ladies' assets in a nice shower scene. Gore effects are also impressively done, and some great and memorable gags are created, like the one with the pizza delivery guy. Clocking in at a very reasonable 77 minutes, The Slumber Party Massacre is the kind of flick that gets down to business pretty quickly, and in which the prospective viewer won't have to deal with too much in the way of filler. The acting is just what one should expect adequate at best, although it must be said what a beauty co-star Robin Stille is, as the appealing next-door neighbour Valerie. The film also began a very respectable B movie career for co-star Brinke Stevens, who plays an early victim. Hell, there's a lot of eye candy here, as even an unfortunate telephone repair woman is played by a lovely blonde named Jean Vargas. The music, which is by the brother of director Jones, is some delicious organ based stuff, strongly reminiscent of Bach's Toccata and Fugue in D Minor, and is cheesy and creepy in equal measure.All in all, this is fun stuff if one enjoys the sleazier side of slashers, and it works whether you care about the movies' message or not.Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"Fun no-brainer vintage slasher flick","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Awww the 80s slasher flick, how I love thee. Let me count the ways. Sure, most of the low budget slasher films that came out after 'Halloween' and before the end of the decade borrow from better films, but that doesn't necessarily make them all a waste. This 1982 Roger Corman production is no exception, for even though it may be lacking in fresh ideas it has a certain charm about it.Pros A simple, yet effectively creepy score. Good work by a likable cast of young people. Pace just moves right along. Has a good sense of humor. The killer is one super creepy dude. A fair amount of blood, gore, and carnage. At least a couple good jump scares.Cons Want originality? You won't find it here. Loaded with slasher movie clichés, including a cat jumping out of a closet. It's no mystery who the killer is.Final thoughts I really shouldn't be so generous with this movie, but there's just something so endearing about it. It's not the best of it's kind, but for such a low budget film with a virtually unknown cast and little in the way of novelty it's pretty darn good. Now pass the maui wowie.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Better than expected!","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I got this with very low expectations and was very surprised at how much I actually enjoyed it. Yes, it is terribly clichéd, predictable and stupid but Slumber Party Massacre does not skimp on the nudity and body count which is really all a slasher is. The story (or lack thereof) is about a psycho who has escaped a mental institution somehow and happens to stumble on a group of girls planning a slumber party. Breasts, 2-foot long power drills, dope, booze, false scares, dead pizza guys and death follows (a body count of 12 to be precise). This is all crammed into a nice running time of 74 minutes! Honestly, I do not understand why this movie has such a low rating when it isn't as bad as it sounds. It is an entertaining movie that delivers what an 80's slasher always does. This should please most slasher fans.3/5 "},{"Title":"A fun way to kill 80 minutes","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is not to be taken seriously, it's just a fun way to kill some time. This isn't any different from other Slashers that came out at this time, An escaped mental patient escapes and torments the young girls who are home alone, nothing new, but this one is done with such a subtle knowing finesse, poking fun at the conventions of plot with gratuitous nudity, black humour, purposely dizzy dialogue, gobs of gore, in-jokes, and more boo scenes than you'll be able to keep up with. But make no mistake, it's got its share of seriousness too, and that's a good thing too... there are some pretty tense scenes that give it balance. There's a particular scene with a young Brinke Stevens (apparently she was offered a bigger role and had to turn it down) being stalked through the halls of a high school... she almost gets away, but is given away by her trail of blood... probably one of my favourite stalking scenes in a slasher movie. It's not a movie afraid to keep you on your toes either; This movie delivers a short-but-sweet and neatly packed into eighty-minutes. The script has a dry wit and the characters get you involved. Overall, a fun flick that doesn't take itself too seriously, knows it's limitations, and above all, let's you have fun with it. "},{"Title":"Done with panache and enthusiasm","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Surprisingly good, this starts immediately and doesn't stop.This may not spurt blood as much as some but nor does it have dull periods in between the slasher action.Done with panache and enthusiasm and even style, this energetic little number speeds along and providing just the right balance of skin and thrill.Having a female director at the helm seems not to alter the accepted slasher dynamics and much fun is had by all.This most affective outing lead to quite a franchise, some of which are more bloody but none as good. "},{"Title":"The epitome of an 80's slasher film","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Written an directed by two women this has become what a lot of horror films represented in the 1980's but it also proves that even if your female in the movie making business money is still the focus point. Story is about a bunch of teenage girls who decide to have a slumber party one Friday night but what they don't know is that a mentally disturbed man has escaped and is roaming about the same area where he committed his crimes in 1969. The party is held at the home of Trish (Michelle Michaels) and her friends who are attending are Diane (Gina Mari), Kimberly (Debra Deliso), and Jackie (Andree Honore) but her next door neighbor is Valerie (Robin Stille) who is the new kid in school and has been has been treated unfairly by Diane so she decides not to show up.*****SPOILER ALERT***** Lurking around the house is Russ Thorn (Michael Villella) who's an escaped mental patient and armed with a two foot power drill that he uses to kill everyone that he comes in contact with. From horny boyfriends to oddball neighbors Thorn kills them all and starts to pile them into the trunk of a car but it's the pretty teenage girls at the party that seem to be where his real interest lies.This is directed by Amy Holden Jones and written by Rita Mae Brown and just goes to show that even female movie makers want to make money because this is one of those films that has become a cult favorite. You know your about to see an exploitation classic when during the opening credits actress Michaels has already started getting naked for the camera! We have all seen our share of shower scenes but the one that takes place at school in the girls gym makes you re-check who made this film because you would swear that a man was involved. The camera pans from one girls tight butt up to their perky boobs and then moves on to the next girl where we see the same thing! While the camera pans from one naked girl to the next it's absolutely impossible to concentrate on what exactly they are chatting about but the scene is there for one point and it's to show nudity and nothing more! There were a few things that I couldn't help but notice and the first is the goofy (and seemingly sexually indifferent) neighbor David who spends his Friday nights by the woodpile killing snails with a cleaver. He didn't seem to care that there are some hot chicks parading around and instead mutters that makes 53 tonight! Stille who plays Valerie is the spittin' image of Virginia Madsen and as big a compliment as that is it was Jennifer Meyers (as Courtney) who stayed in my mind because she's one of the few girls I have seen sporting a mullet for a hairdo. The cast is basically unknowns but the one familiar face (and body!) that is recognizable is Brinke Stevens who plays Linda and she's the first nude body that we see in the shower scene. What makes this film work is how basic it's premise is as it has the usual gratuitous nudity and gore and show's you early on who the killer is without having the audience think who might be the one responsible. It's simplicity makes this a film that's hard to dislike as it delivers exactly what it advertises and offers none of the ridiculous plot twists that usually has viewers rolling their eyes. This has become quite the cult sensation and it's fairly easy to see why and while it's certainly no cinema classic it is a piece of exploitation that works perfectly on it's own. "},{"Title":"This is Boss","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Let me first tell you something about myself I don't ever call anything Boss I never saw something that was worthy of the term THIS MOVIE IS BOSS! My head almost exploded watching it - all I wanted to do after it was hang out with people with power drills and crash slumber parties The pizza guy is by far the best actor in this film - the way he falls -priceless.The Drill guy 'Russ Thorn' or whatever, he's the man too - you might think he's just one of these insane guys from all other horror movies.This guy is beyond insane - watch when he just randomly goes to sleep.Mad Props to the Gym Teacher in this movie, she rules - If she wasn't only into other girls, I'd give her a call up! All the random cats in this movie are also awesome.There is just a random cat here or there - one of the cats just drinks milk.I saw this movie with some of my homies the other night, and afterward Boogens came on - the Boogens looked like it would rule as hard as this and then it didn't. The Boogens becomes such a disappointment after how awesome this movie is.This movie is like being dead a million years and then someone plows a truck into your face and you're awake again and in touch with all that matters in life.<3 SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE <3 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Garbage","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is no Halloween or Friday the 13th, that's for sure, but i enjoyed it. It is stupid, full of horrible dialog, retarded teenagers and nudity. So, what's not to like?! At least it delivers the goods, it has a pretty high body count and, while not Dead Alive, it has enough blood and gore to satisfy a horror fan such as myself. The killer is pretty retarded, not very scary, but he gets pretty creepy towards the end. He ain't no Michael Myers, that's for sure. The main protagonist is cool and likable, mainly for her disdain for the cool girls and her dry humor. The cool girls are extremely obnoxious and piggish, so you don't really mind watching them get there's. SPOILER At one point, one of the cool girls eats a piece of pizza off of the recently de-eyed pizza delivery boys' dead body. BAD TASTE. If you love early eighties slashers, this is a must see. Dumb, bloody fun. "},{"Title":"Fun, B-movie.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Slumber Party Massacre is a low budget slasher from the 80s written by feminist writer Rita Mae Brown and directed by Amy Jones.A lot of people have complained about this movie being bad, and yes it is bad but if your'e familiar with B-movies you should know that they arent going to be oscar winning material and will have bad acting and a terrible script. I quite enjoyed this movie, its not to be taken too seriously on any account(Jackie's pizza) and some scene's wont make sense (the killer lying down for a nap). The actors are mostly newcomers and their acting is amateurish, but it doesnt harm the film at all. The killer would have to be the most unscary maniac ive ever seen but he is amusingly weird at times. I would give this movie at least a 6/10 its not terrible by any account, ive seen worse. "},{"Title":"Classic slasher.","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie when I was very young and It turned out to be a really great slasher flick! The acting was good, the killer was actually very frightening, and it also featured Brinke Stevens in an early role. She did a great job! Better than some her present movies. I'm glad it didn't feature as much nudity as the sequels did. This on is tasteful. Rent or buy this one and watch it on a Friday night with friends. "},{"Title":"I liked it's wicked sense of humor","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've watched quite a few horror movies, and my goal is always to laugh at them. The Slumber Party Massacre had some great laughs. My favorite scene was when Val's kid sister repeatedly opened the fridge in search for a beer, not knowing what's really in it... And of course, the pizza eating scene is so hilarious, that it becomes an instant classic. The sarcastic dialog provides even more laughs and the shower scene in the beginning is very appealing. Not a blast, but pretty good fun. "}{"Title":"The best one","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is classic 80's horror. 1) Snobby girls have sleepover, excluding one of their teammates because shes new to town.2) Snobbist Girl gets killed early in her high school locker room3) The actor who played the killer was dead On Great Job4) Once at the party and the killer strikes its up to the ones not invited to save the day.5) The blood was good and the nudity flowed like most 80's Slasher FlicksActing A- Gore A Plot B+ Directing B+ Nudity A-Overall A- "},{"Title":"A Good Frightfest","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed The Slumber Party Massacre because I found it to be a good suspense film with the right mix of violence and laughs.  It is meant to be a parody of the sexism that existed in slasher movies back in the 70s and early 80s.  The sex crazed teenage girls and boys and the film makers who exploit them.  However, some people say the nudity in the movie makes it nothing more than a slasher film and not a parody.   I have this interpretation of the nudity  doesn't it show that the lesbian film director who made this film is as sexist towards young, attractive women as the male film maker who does the same?  It does.But, it doesn't take away from the fact that this is one of the goriest, sexiest, and thrilling horror films of the 1980s.  The directing is good, the acting works, and all other factors makes this a solid frightfest for a night of fun.  Watch out, because if you get too into it you'll want to be the maker of a Slumber Party Massacre! o "},{"Title":"Mindless slasher","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE couldn't fit in the slasher favorites of the early 80's. And surely, it will never do it.  The plot is simple but likeable (the plot in a slasher is important)  A girl is left home alone, so she has the bright idea to invite her friends to party. You know, get drunk and laid. A killer that just escaped finds it's way to this girls' house. When the party is at it's highest point, these teens start to disappear one by one. You can expect they're dead. There's absolutely no gore factor (although there's a drilled head scene), and I guess that nudity is basic in a slasher but here it's just too much to be likeable. I don't think it's a classic on it's own as it doesn't offers something remarkable for the genre. Avoid the sequels!Awful slasher, watch it only if you are a truly slasher fan.2-After watching it, immediately boot it to the trash can! "},{"Title":"The best one in the series, but still pretty damn dumb","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  (** out of *****)The first in a series of generic killer-slashes-girls-in-and-out-of-their-underwear movies.  At least, unlike the others, this one doesn't clumsily try to throw plot twists and possible suspects at you -- it's just straight-ahead, unashamed gore and exploitation about an escaped mental patient with a large power drill who crashes an all-girl basketball team's slumber party.  With all of the gratuitous nudity and violence, it's hard to believe that all three of these movies were directed by women -- if they were intended as feminist satires, then the makers didn't do a very good job of it (other than some obvious phallic references represented by the killer's probing `drill,' this movie could have been directed by any number of misogynistic men.)  And, as with the other movies in this lame series, there's a fundamental flaw in the plot that requires all of the characters to remain in the house with the killer when, several times, they could easily walk out the damn front door.  In spite of all of this, there are just enough thrills and jolts, and even some unexpected humor, to keep this one from being a total turkey.  Curiously, this movie ties in with the Sorority House Massacre series (including Jim Wynorski's 1990 Hard To Die) by having some of the same characters, actors and even scenes (both SHM2 and Hard To Die use lengthy clips from this movie as flashbacks -- ?)HIGHLIGHT  Just because the pizza boy's lying on the floor dead, with holes drilled through both eyes, doesn't mean the pizza should go to waste, so eat up, girls! "},{"Title":"After seeing this, Freddy is Average.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I had been waiting to see the Whole Entire Slumber Party Massacre film for a long time. I had seen bits and clips of it, as well as the Trailer, but Nothing can compare to the whole 90 minutes this Classic film put me through.The Killer in this film is Classic. Not only the Creepy look he achieves, but his Classic line (SPOILER)  It takes a Whole lot of love to do this.No humor or Cheap shoes in this film, just high school guys and gals getting chased by a cool killer. Very good and typical low budget horror movie from the 80s and worth an hour and a half of anybody's time.10 out of 10People who liked this movie might like Puppet Master, Halloween, Sorority House Massacre, Stage Fright, and Race with the Devil. "},{"Title":"An classic example of early 80's slasher flicks.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing this film for the first time some 13 years ago. Untill recently, I did not know it had been re-released, but I saw it cheap on DVD and bought it. Basically the movie is about this weird looking killer who uses a drill to kill his victims (the film does not actually explain why this guy is going around killing everyone, but considering that it's a early 80's slasher flick I didn't really expect them to go into great detail about the killer.)This movie has some disturbing death scenes, one that I will always remember is the pizza boy with his eyes gouged out that falls to the ground when one of the girls answers the door. Other than the death scenes look for the standard 80's horror movie formula nudity + paper thin plot + gore = A decent but not great horror movie. There were alot better slasher movies from the 80's than this one. Actually they managed to make two sequels in the series, and there's rumor that a part 4 is on the way. Speaking of the sequels, part 2 is a mix of Nightmare on elm street and the first SPM. Overall this film is worth watching if you like these early slasher movies and there's nothing else on. Going by what's on TV anymore you would be better off watching this than the half ass shows that are always on. "},{"Title":"Entertaining horror flic","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  While not being anything groundshaking, I found this movie to really be quite entertaining and suspenseful. Even as you knew exactly what would happen next, you'd still be scared to see the  drill come shooting out of nowhere.  I have definitely not seen  many horror films so far, so there may be many better ones than  this, but I thought it was definitely worth our time and good in the  sense of a rollicking film that was not toooo graphic or disturbing. 7/10 (for a low-budget '80s horror flick) "},{"Title":"A simple movie that does the job","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, first of all, fans of the horror-genre will love this movie. Why do I say this? Cuz people who don't appreciate & understand these movies are always the ones to rip apart these movies. I don't understand... The '80s were the best time for these movies. So many horor movies were put out, & this was one of them. Yes, there's not much to the plot; a nutball escapes from a mental institute & follows some teens home who are having a slumber party, hence the name. The movie doesn't show the actual gore, but the movie is fun to watch. It's a great B-movie. Even Scream Queen Brinke Stevens has a small role. It's fun. "},{"Title":"My kind of party!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ah, the eighties...such a great time in horror pop culture. We had all of those great slasher films that no one seems to like. After Halloween did box office gold, a whole sub-genre of films was created...THE DEAD TEEN GENRE! nowadays these types of films have come back into style (thanks to the pretty good Scream), but man you can't ignore the classics. Friday the 13, Prom Night,My bloody valentine, and of course...THE SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE!! This film (in my opinion) has the best titles of all the eighties horror classics, and it's the best Halloween rip off that i've ever seen. I watched it with my ten year old sister and we had a lot of fun with it, pointing out the cliches and giggleing with delight at the fun gore. Sure its got the fake scares, the unnecessary nudity, the phony gore, the bad acting, and the stupid characters, but's thats why i love horror movies and always will...by the way, it's about some chicks who have this slumber party and half to put up with annoying guys and a creepy killer with a drill!Yo.ur best fiend in horror Jesse Tucker P.S. I LOVE SEQUELS!!! "},{"Title":"The Best Slumber Party Movie of all!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I had rented this movie from Blockbuster and I fell in love with it.  The killer had me amused with his tight pants, and believe me, he would never let go of that drill.  I would mostly recommend this movie for a sleepover.  I loved this movie so much, I had to end up finding it at a horror movie convention that I had to pay a lot to get in to.  Even though the movie was very short, it was well put together as it went along.  If you haven't seen this movie yet, believe me, you will really like it even if you don't love it. "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is the first in my all-time favorite horror/slasher series, and definitely the scariest.  Eighteen-year-old Trish is left home alone by her parents and decides to have a slumber party with her high school basketball teammates.  None of them are aware of the fact that Russ Thorne (who has murdered five people in the area 13 years before), has just escaped and is armed with a portable electric drill.  Of course, he will be making an appearance at the party.  There isn't that much gore in this movie, if that's what you're looking for.  However, there is a lot of female nudity.  Hey, this is a HORROR movie we're talking about.  Anyway, this movie offers a lot of suspense and is highly recommended.  Be sure to check it out, along with the sequels.  ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"A lot of people missed the whole point of this movie.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" In his comments, Matthew Patay wrote that Given that this was written and directed by women one would expect anything other than this material would have been given an edge of parody or irony, but it's all played straight...In her book Starting From Scratch, Rita Mae Brown related how she wrote Sleepless Nights as a parody of the T&A-teenage-girls/slasher-maniac sub-genre, but that it, unfortunately, was produced, directed and played straight. Very few ironic touches remain - of the few I can recall, one is a scene in which the killer counts the bodies in the trunk of the car, finds that he's one short, and goes off in pursuit of a second try at the severely wounded victim, and the other is the scene in which he is more enraged at the amputation of his phallus/drill bit than his hand.I feel that I am in agreement with Ms. Brown that irony and subtle satire are an exercise in futility when aimed at the average American media consumer, and also in agreement with Ambrose Bierce when he describes wit as the salt of literature the lack of which cripples our artistic cuisine. Our audiences are unable to recognize humor without a laugh track. I, for one, would like to see someone to do Sleepless Nights as it was originally intended. "},{"Title":"Business as usual, female writer and director notwithstanding","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This slasher movie, which came out during the peak of the early 80s slice and dice era, is remembered for having a female director, Amy Jones, and a feminist female writer, Rita Mae Brown.  Yet there is nothing at all to distinguish it from the same type of films directed by men.  A psycho escapes from a booby hatch and decides to kill girls (and guys when they get in the way) with a power drill.  This is the second of the driller killer movies, beginning with Abel Ferrara's THE DRILLER KILLER and ending with Brian DePalma's BODY DOUBLE.  Here the killer's name is Russ Thorn, and that's all we find out about him, except that he killed five people in 1969.  The movie never explains how he became insane.  There is one shot in the film when he has a girl cornered with his drill.  We see the girl's face between the killer's legs as he lowers the drill toward her.  Perhaps impotence is the reason?  Or maybe he's related to Damien Thorn.  The film has all the required elements of a low budget slasher flick--female nudity, false alarms, blood, strange noises, mistaken identities, etc.  The film was made on a low budget, using only a handful of locations (it takes place mostly inside two neighboring houses) and actors.  It does have a few shocks, though, especially the first murder.  Whatever you do, don't see part 2 of this trilogy, which is completely beyond belief. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, gory, and scary!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I admit it. I loved this movie. It is very well-made and the acting isn't that bad. The plot is fairly simple, with a wild-eyed, drooling psycho killer named Russ Thorn escaping from the asylum and terrozing some well-equipped California babes and their boyfriends. The chase sequence in the high school with Brinke Stevens was great, and the finale was so gory and scary my eyes were wide open with anticipation. Cheesy, hokey, but nonetheless it scared the pants off me. Some will love this movie, some will hate it.  "},{"Title":"Cool Fun","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Living in Ireland had a drawback, this movie was cut to hell and the cuts where noticeable. But i loved this cheesy 80s slasher film, it has some great chase scenes and some cool deaths and sound effects and the last 20 minutes rocked, go get this now. "},{"Title":"Cool 80's slasher fare","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Pretty cool 80's slasher film made in the HALLOWEEN rip-off era of the late 70's to late 80's. !!!SOME SPOILERS!!! A group of teenage girls have a slumber party at a friends house. Suddenly they are attacked by an escaped mental patient.One by one he kills them off until the survivors really mess him up in the end. Good story, death scenes, and o.k. acting. ***1/2 out of *****. Advice Skip the awful part 2 and move on to part 3. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie, what more can you say!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was one of the most frightening movies I ever saw.  I loved it, my favorite part was when the little girl opened the refrigerator and found the dead body.  A must see for any horror fan.  Suspense to the very end. "},{"Title":"It's fun for the whole family!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is definitely a cult classic. It is obvious that some of the more recent horror movies have stolen some of their ideas.The movie is hilarious and not to mention scary due to the hairdos of the times. I recommend to all ages.  "},{"Title":"Best slasher film ever?  Not quite...","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Normally, I don't sum up the plot of a movie that I'm reviewing unless it hasn't been summed up before.  People have told the point of 'The Slumber Party Massacre' many times, but I feel it's my duty to sum it up once more for the viewing public.  So, without further ado, ...The first hour or so is more or less 'Wow.  Teenage girls played by actresses in their mid twenties.  And wow, they're getting naked and smoking marijuana.  This hasn't happened in a horror movie before!  And, well, now people are getting killed!  What a surprise!'The rest of the film starts turning into what fans of cheesy movies enjoy -- lots of bad lines, really horrible acting and as much blood and gore as you can pack into thirty minutes as possible.  In a way, this partially redeems for how boring the first half is, but not quite.As everyone has said before, rent this movie if you want to see breasts but aren't old enough to rent pornography.  'Slumber Party Massacre' isn't a scary movie.  It barely even counts as a funny movie.I'm not sure what the best slasher film is, but this definitely isn't it... "},{"Title":"I've seen worse...","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen worse, but I've seen better. I rented this after all the hype I heard (I know, hype is bad to follow, but oh well!) and I was really interested in how it would be. Though I was ready for the overly-feminist situations (girls beating up boys, boys afraid of girls) I wasn't ready for how mindless this really was.Did I expect a Silence of the Lambs? No, of course not. Was I looking for the extreme horror of Texas Chainsaw Massacre? Of course I wasn't. But was I looking for some actual horror? Sure.Okay, the killing of the girl Linda in the school was great. I really liked that, even though I've seen it done many times. But after that, it was like, Okay.... This girl Trish and her thirty-something high school friends have a slumber party for the hell of it. Meanwhile, the good girl that overheard a few of them talking trash about her is at home with her younger sister, who was probably the only one in the movie under 24. So, after the stories jump back and forth--and a few times to the lesbian (?) basketball coach, there are some killings. A killer with a drill does in a couple in the garage, and then the pizza guy. The surviving five, in a frenzy, send two jokers who stopped by (haven't we seen THIS before?!) out to get help. They were gonna try to make a run for it for the good girl's house across the street. Of course, this proves fatal. And now the good girl, Valerie, and her younger sister Courtney are getting curious, as they have been all night, of what's going on at Trish's.Apparently, it is a sin to leave the house when something like this happens. The whole movie seems to just keep struggling to keep everyone inside. It is so stupid. Like, the front door would be wide open, and the killer could be chasing a girl towards it, but no!! She'll run in the basement! My God, how stupid!The rest of the movie is standard fare. It continues with the whole hand-reaching-out-and-grabbing-her-shoulder shock, which happened perhaps a dozen times during the whole film. Luckily, by now, the guys are gone, so the consistent pranks are done. Oh wait, Courtney still wants to jump out of the bushes and scare her sister! I mean, this stuff never lets up until the last ten minutes, when the basketball coach gets there to check out what's going on because she got a strange call earlier (the girls screaming, and then the line being cut. By now, Valerie and Courtney are trapped! in the house after finding a body in the refrigerator (!) and seeing some mysterious figure coming downstairs. By now, it's them, and Trish, and soon, the coach. And the killer....The rest is pretty obvious stuff, with Valerie searching for a weapon down in the basement, Courtney hiding under the couch (!!), Trish being terrorized by the driller, and the coach arriving just in time for the terror. Then the tearful ending two or three minutes later, with total girl power. Even though the three left (I wonder who!) are sitting there crying as if they're watching some chick flick. I suggest you watch a chick flick, too. There really isn't much in this, and all that is in this review is all there is to notice, as well as the neighbor who walks around the neighborhood with a hatchet to kill snails (!!!). Oh well. Pass over this one, and rent something good, like Texas Chainsaw Massacre.  "}{"Title":"This is the movie that every teenage boy should see!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I was a freshman in high school, a friend of mine showed up at a party with a copy of Slumber Party Massacre.  My life would never be the same. Yes, it is a T&A movie.  Yes, it is a slasher movie.  But, somehow it was also a good movie.  It is not going to win an Oscar but it will win the hearts of teenage boys everywhere.I really like how the girls were not only attractive but strong. It was a nice change of pace in horror flicks.  The killer was scary and also funny at times.  Yes, this movie made me laugh, and it also scared me at times. If you are into slasher flicks like Nightmare on Elm Street and Halloween, than this movie should appeal to you.  "},{"Title":"Routine, but good 80s slasher film","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Perhaps I am partial to this film since it is the first horror film I ever saw.  I found it to be quite interesting actually.  Trish decides to have a slumber party for the girls basketball team.  Once the party starts, an unexpected visitor shows up with is portable drill.  He then proceeds to kill everyone off one at a time.  This actually was a pretty good movie. It is safe to say that I've seen worse movies than this.  "},{"Title":"GENIUS!!!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie might be one of the greatest achievements of the eighties.  It's rivaled only by Slumber Part Massacre III, and maybe Dark Tide.  Go see it!!!  "},{"Title":"Deja vu, methinks..","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Having bought this from my local vid shop`s ex rental sale, I think it's fair to say I knew what was in store after looking at the title... Routine slasher on hopelessly predictable lines, (I`d say more Halloween than, say, Friday 13th).  Not even any big mystery over the killer... Our country`s version of this film is brutal with it`s cuts of the film`s violence (at one point, the killer seems to slow dance with a babe who then dies without reason), but doesn`t mind showing us ample sights of flesh (particularly in the most gratuitous shower scene ever), but it passed 70mins away, I guess.. "},{"Title":"T n' A...OK!!!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Yah, this movie has nudity...believe it or not.  And this nudity attempts to make up for the story...but who really cares?  It's about a bunch of hot girls that get naked and get killed.  What more did you expect?  Oscar caliber performances...Nope.  Just T n'A and blood.  What more do you need? "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie wasn't all that bad. It was a small ripoff of the first Halloween. But it was reasonable. You have a maniac getting hacked up with all these sharp objects. Out of the three of them this was an ok movie. You can't say the same thing about the second and third. "},{"Title":"Bloody, busty slaughtering hayem! Jolly good!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Run of the mill 80's slaughter flick delivers the goods. Lots of busty girls get drilled to death, but this movie is unique for its portrayal of the strong athletic woman who takes charge. Subtle lesbian references and weak male characters make for some interesting comedy as the madman with a power drill attacks a slumber party. Why did butch little sister Courtney have a banana in her bed as she read Playgirl magazine? One wonders.   "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those extremely cheesy 80s slasher flicks(obviously), but it's also very enjoyable! Trust me, invite a few friends over, rent this movie, and have a good time. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror, Nuff Said","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have seen The Slumber Party Massacre 3 times now. And to be honest I love it but I still stand by my rating above. It's an OK slasher but it definitely has a lot of clichés' going for it and a lot of 'fake' boo scares which should'nt have been there. It will never rank up with Halloween (1978) or Black Christmas (1974) but it sure is one of the most underrated slashers of the 1980's.First off, let's talk about the plot The plot was great. Definitely not what you get from most modern slashers these days. This girl is left alone while her parents goes away. While they're gone, she decides to invited friends over, to have a SLUMBER PARTY. A killer called Russ Thorn though is on the loose and happens to make his way to the party. AND KILL THEM! Yes really a good plot which never suffered from gap holes.I loved the musical score. Quite chilling and undeniably scary. They say this is a spoof but I believe that this music really rang a door bell for me because it was that scary. It was like 8 bit music mixed in with stalkerish, piano-ish music. It was that darn creepy! The actors are all fine. They were all very convincing and the actress who played as Courtney was my favorite. She was really beautiful bringing innocence and naughtiness to her roll. The other girls were good. Just not as good as her.The guy who played as Russ Thorn was good. He's not a really memorable killer and he just runs around with a power drill, killing all these girls in weird, and bizarre ways. I thought that it was done OK, but he is definitely not a Billy Lenz or Michael Myers. He wouldn't rank up with them because sometimes he was a little off edge. But he did a pretty creepy job.I also liked the overall tone of this film.The cliché'd 'fake' boo scare did not work for me at all. It was just a little unnecessary and it didn't make me laugh nor get scared. If they wouldn't have used them, the film would've been 100% more scary in atmosphere and tension.Overall I can't really complain about this film that much. It's not up with many of the other greats, but it certainly beats a fair amount of cheesy, unworthy modern-like ones I've been seeing. Ones such as Uwe Boll's undeniably terrible Seed or the Sorority Row Remake from 2009. Those film were badly made for all the wrong reasons.But on another note, Slumber is definitely a good dose of slasher. Watch this at night time and I tell you, you will not regret it.It's 7 bloody power drills out of 10 for me. This film doesn't even come close to a 5.2/10. "},{"Title":"Great slasher from the early eighties","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Slumber Party Massacre is one of the best lost 80's slasher.**SPOILERS**With her parents gone for the weekend, Trish Devereaux (Michele Michaels) decides to let loose and invite her friends over after school for a slumber party. The new girl Valerie Bates (Robin Stille) is invited, but she overhears Trish's friends Diane (Gina Mari) and Jackie (Andree Honore) voice their disinterest in her attending. Trish tries to get her to come and be accepted, but she blows it off and Kimberly Clarke (Debra Deliso) says she can attend instead. Later that night, the girls arrive, but they don't know Valerie is next door and can see the party. Valerie and her younger sister Courtney (Jennifer Meyers) watch the four girls as they all have fun. After a few weird occurrences around the house are revealed to be the work of two practical jokers, the four girls are eased of tension. While Courtney is trying to convince Val that she should crash the party, a serial killer is on the loose and begins stalking them. Trapped inside the house with no way out, they try to survive the night.The Good News This is one of the best slashers ever made. It has everything that slasher fans need in a good movie great kills, a unique setting, a menacing killer, cheesy lines, a bevy of beautiful woman taking their clothes off, and great atmosphere. It features the entire movie talking place, for the most part, inside a woman's house, with the kills taking place around the house. There are quite a few good kills a man gets his eyes drilled out, another is stabbed in the stomach with a power drill, one has a slashed neck, and another is decapitated. There is more, but most of it is off-screen, so the die-hards can only see the after-effects of the kill. More often than not, a person will stumble upon a dead body, and that provides the majority of the film's scares. I also have to mention that the great Brinke Stevens is in this, and her role is the absolute best example of suspense. She mentions to friends that she has to retrieve a book she left in her gym locker, and upon trying to leave the building, she finds all the doors have been locked. As she tries to open the main door out, she comes across the killer, who waves his drill in her face, scaring her and forcing her to run. The resulting very long chase through the girls' gym is the best stalk scene this side of Crystal Lake. It is believable as well, since what happens could actually happen to a person if they were chased by a maniac in a building where they knew the location and the maniac didn't. It is my favorite scene, aside from the ample nudity. I really should mention it first in the bottom line of the review, but I think I left it in the right spot. What's also great is that the killer is a master at two things most killers never do he's great at silently stalking a victim, and he's great at picking off the person you wouldn't expect at that time. The deaths are seen coming a mile away, but he then switches his aim and picks someone else off that wasn't who the audience thought was the target of the attack. That was a great twist. Also, there is one scene that I simply have to mention here, as it is a personal favorite, and I know many of my friends really hate this scene, but I love it Trish and another girl are upstairs in her room, and they escape the killer and move a large cabinet in front of the door, preventing him from entering. After waiting for several moments with no apparent evidence that he's there, they let down their guard. We then switch to her window on the other side of the room, and we see him entering through the window, with the girls completely oblivious to his presence. He gets right up on them before he creaks the floor, alerting them to the fact that he's literally breathing on their necks, forcing them to run. I love it, but because the killer can be seen stalking the woman when every single person in the world would've noticed it, my friends hate the scene. I think it's a genius scene.The Bad News First of all, it's far too short. It barely lasts over an hour, and with the end credits it reaches an hour and fifteen minutes. I think it could've been expanded a little more, with maybe more emphasis on what they are doing at the slumber party. They are there for what seems like a long time, but nothing happens and most of it is split between the party and Val and her sister arguing whether Val should go or not. They needed to bump that up some more, and maybe get some gore in the film. It is bloody, and I like it, but maybe some more flowing red stuff would make it a scarier film.The Final Verdict With a bit more running time, this could be one of the best slashers to come from this time period. As it stands, this is still something most single red-blooded males will want to see, with the blood and nudity, and all 80's slasher fans will definitely like this one. Get it if you can (it shouldn't be too expensive.)Rated R Graphic Violence, Nudity, and mild language "}{"Title":"Drilling Home a Point.","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" (Some Spoilers) One of the better slashers movies of the 1980's that gets right to the point even before the opening credits stop rolling. Escaping from prison where he's been incarcerated since 1969 Russ Thorn,Michael Villella, doesn't take long to start on his murderous campaign against society by drilling to death a telephone repair worker, Jean Vargas, and then using her company van to make his getaway.Already having murdered five people for which he was given a life sentence the on the loose Thorn is out to make up for all the lost time that he spent behind bars. Thorn using a power-drill ends up boring to death some ten persons, as well as some members of the audience, before his reign of terror is over. Slumber Party Massacre is a lot better then you would have expected it to be with the tension and action nicely paced. Thron goes from victims to victim from one part of Tris Devereaud's,Michelle Michaels,house to another as he slowly knocks them off one person at a time until the final scene.Thorn is confronted at the end of Slumber Party Massacre by Trish together with Val and her kid sister Courtney, Robin Stille & Jenifer Meyers, and the girl's high-school coach Carpenter, Pamala Gazano,who all turned out to be more that a match for the insane killer. Like most, if not all, of these movie slasher psychos Thorn seems to have supernatural powers and no matter how much punishment he takes Thorn still comes back for more. Even when he has both his hands sliced and chopped off as well as run through with a machete and then thrown into a swimming pool where he's left to both drown and bleed to death.The acting in the film isn't anything to write home about with the girls trapped in the house by Thorn about as convincing, in trying to show any kind of fear and terror toward him, as if they found to their shock and horror that the hot and sizzling pizza that they ordered ice cold. In fact in one of the scenes after the local pizza delivery boy, Aaron Lipstadt, gets killed by Thorn they act so shrill and phony that for a moment you thought that it, the delivery boys death, was some kind of prank played on them by their boyfriends. They act more realistic and show more emotion eating slices of the pizza that he delivered then they did when he was murdered right in front of their eyes.You have to give the acting credits in the movie to Michael Villella as the psycho/driller/killer who uses his power drill as if it were an extension of his own libido. He's even photographed in some of his scenes with his power drill pointing menacingly between his legs ,geared up and ready. It's as if he's about to drill, or screw, to death his mostly female victims. Thorn looked like he was far more hurt when his precious power drill had it's point chopped off by Valerie then when she sliced him up like a piece of swiss cheese. Thorn who didn't say a single word during almost the entire movie did open his mouth finally at the end. You could see why the director was wise enough to have him keep his mouth shut for as long as he did. He was a lot more effective when he let his drill do the talking for him. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Slumber Party Massacre is one of the foundation slasher flicks of it's time (early 80's). It's based on a high school basketball team that has a slumber party. Nearby, Russ (Michael Villella) Thorn just escaped out of the local mental hospital and he decides, even though he wasn't invited, to crash the party. Hell, I would too, these ladies are hot! However, Russ doesn't show up with booze, instead he brings along a huge drill, which is his primary weapon. So, we have a slumber party with the basketball team, an escaped mental patient and I almost forgot about Brinke (Linda) Stevens. Brinke, plays the girl next door. She is babysitting her little sister at the time and kind of wishes she was invited, too. Shame, shame on the popular teammates for not inviting her. Anyways, soon enough, they'll be needing her help. I really do have a special place in my heart for this movie. It's one of those slasher flicks that I saw when I was a kid. Later on, I showed it to a buddy of mine, and he didn't have the same admiration that I did. I remember him quoting me that the music score sounded like a keyboard exercise. To this day, I still laugh at that remark. Anyhow, if you are into the slasher flick scene, you need to see this! "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Teen slasher films!","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Slumber Party Massacre (1982) is your typical early 80's slasher/horror flick. A sweaty, sleazy psycho escapes from the nut house and stalks several over-the-hill teenage girls who are coincidentally enough are going to have a slumber party!. The Psycho decides that he wants to attend the party himself. So, he brings along an industrial sized drill (check out the length of the drill bit!!) with him as a party favor!! I recommend this movie. Surprisingly it's quite entertaining. Just a small film about a psycho and his phallic drill crashing a slumber party!1-2-3-4......P.S. Freud would have loved to psychoanalyze the film's villain. "},{"Title":"A tragic waste of my time and money","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The total budget of this film was about the cost of a used chevy chevette, I'm thinking around '84.  Several dashboard cracks and swiss cheese frame, you get the picture.  It's a very typical horror film, lots of breasts and lots of death.  The killer runs around with a strange drill that he uses to plunge into his victims, yet he holds it up in the air as if plunging it into them would help the drilling process.  Idiot!There was a meaningless shower scene where the cameraman apparently has too much fun while shooting the women's bodies.  No relevance at all to the plot. Also, at one time the killer the killer decides to take a nap after finishing a brutal murder.  He just sorta grabs a blanket and lays of the ground, while there were still girls running around in the house.  I would be a little smarter than that.  "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A bunch of hot looking high school girls get together, get naked, and have a slumber party, but guess what? A killer with a big drill shows up drilling holes into them. Production values are pretty low, but very surprisingly this was penned by feminist Rita Mae Brown who does manage to inject some humor into it and the movie does have some interesting camera angels and can be a ton of fun to watch. What's more fun to watch then seeing naked girls getting killed? 5/10 "},{"Title":"A horrendous, relatively bloodless excuse for a slasher film","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Slumber Party Massacre (1982) C-77 min. D Amy Holden Jones. Michelle Michaels, Robin Stille, Michael Villella, Debra Deliso, Andree Honore, Gina Mari, Jennifer Meyers, Joseph Alan Johnson, Brinke Stevens, Rigg Kennedy, Jean Vargas, Anna Patton, Howard Furgason. Originally scripted as a spoof of teen slasher flicks, the producers scratched that idea and filmed it with serious intentions. Big mistake! A horrendous, relatively bloodless excuse for a slasher film (even by slasher standards) has way too many false scares, horrid acting, inane dialogue, and is extremely slow. The `plot' concerns a psycho, armed with his electric drill, out to crash a high school slumber party. This film has a reputation of being the best of its kind, but that distinction goes to SORORITY HOUSE MASSACRE, not this shlock. RATING 1 out of 10. RATED R for graphic violence, grisly images, profanity, sexuality, nudity, adult themes.  "},{"Title":"Awful from beginning to end","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Bad acting, bad script, bad camerawork, bad music, bad, bad, bad.I fail to see why this movie is actually admired by some fans of the Horror genre. It just fails miserably on all counts. There are some funny moments in it (like when killer counts the number of bodies in the trunk) but there is almost nothing memorable about SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE except for the nudity at the beginning of the film. And the fact that every actress playing the teenage girls looked like they were actually 29 years old. The killer is lame and the uninspired cinematography is so dark that I had a hard time seeing what was going on at times.Not funny enough to be considered a successful parody of slashers. Not gory enough for gorehounds. Not scary enough for those looking for thrills. But boring and unmemorable enough to be forgotten. For horror films completists only. "},{"Title":"One of the better 80s slasher movies","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If the title hasn't already sold you, I doubt I'll be able to convince you that this film is worth a look.The plot is a slightly tweaked and thinly veiled rip off of 'Halloween', but this movie doesn't take itself anywhere near as seriously as John Carpenter's classic shocker, and this is perhaps its saving grace.Like all good horror movies of the period, 'The Slumber Party Massacre' aims to provide us with two things; mild titillation though its utterly shameless use of female nudity and cheap thrills though its corny murder moments. While the latter is hardly on a par with many slashers, it is a bit of fun. Some of the murders are quite inventive, if a little sparing on the gore.As far as the nudity goes, the premise dictates a fairly abundant use of boobs and thighs. While some may consider this sexist, it is important to note that the director is actually a woman. Stick that in your feminist pipe and choke on it!Happilly, not only is the film graced with some deliciously and flagrantly gratuitous breast exposure, but the owners of said breasts are uniformly gorgeous. Movies like 'The Mutilator' (which contained not just ugly but fully-clothed ugly women) could learn a lot from this masterpiece of schlock!This is not to everyone's taste but, if you've read this far with a smile on your face, I'm pretty sure it's the film for you. "},{"Title":"80s Gold","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is like a cinematic equivalent of getting into a Ford Taurus and driving to Kansas. It's a boring vehicle that takes you to a boring place. Formula, '80s style, let's see - five or six teenage chicks who take their clothes off frequently (check!) Maniacal killer on the loose (check!) What else is there? A few stupid guys to mix things up a little. That's what's so great about these kinds of golden flicks they don't even try. But why try when you can put boobs on it? Watch this when your movie-watching needs meet the following criteria (a) you're doing an '80s slasher marathon Halloween party, (b)you're stuck in the house on a rainy eve with absolutely nothing else to watch, the cable's blitzed, and you're tired of porn, or (c) you're a film student pretending to study feminist influence in postmodern film. When really you're just interested in watching boobies, '80s style. "},{"Title":"Awesome slasher.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" THE SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE (1982)starringMichele Michaels, Robin Stille, Michael Villella, Debra Deliso, Andree Honore, Gina Mari, Jennifer Meyers, David Millbern, Joseph Alan Johnson, Pamela Roylance, Brinke Stevens.plot Trish (Michele Michaels) decides to invite her friends Kim (Debra Deliso), Jackie (Andree Honore), Diane (Gina Mari), Linda (Brinke Stevens), and new girl Valerie (Robin Stille) to a slumber party at her house while her parents are away for the weekend. Valerie hears Diane talking bad about her and declines the invitations, while she stays home and watches her 12 year old sister Courtney (Jennifer Meyers). While pranksters Jeff (David Millbern) and Neil (Joseph Alan Johnson) crash the party, someone else crashes as well. Crazed escaped mental patient Russ Thorn (Michael Villella) arrives at the party with his portable drill!the good First of all, even though this slasher has a very unoriginal plot (very similar to HALLOWEEN), it tries a very cool thing having the girls not be dumb bimbos but actually very down-to-earth, realistic characters. That gave the death scenes more of an impact. I cared about all the main characters. That is a very smart thing to do in a slasher film.Now yes, there is a lot of nudity, but unlike most people believe, it's not the main focus of the movie. This movie is about real teenage girl's trying to have a fun time but their lives are quickly ruined in one single night.Now for the villain, Russ Thorn a.k.a. The Driller Killer! He's very creepy, you see his face throughout the whole movie but he still scares the hell out of me. When he finally talks to Trish at the end we know that he has no motive for killing, he's just a psycho!the bad Just the unoriginality. More of a plot would be nice. "}{"Title":"An epic tale of the likes of Ben-Hur or The Lord of the Rings....","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Syke - this movie was a complete and utter joke.  The only reason I mentioned Ben-Hur and LOTR in my summary line is because this movie felt about as long as the two combined - IT WAS THAT BAD!! The acting was horrible even for a cheesy B-movie like this.  The story was lame, the sets were lame, etc. etc.  Some of the scenes were so utterly ridiculous that I felt the strong urge to stick syringes in my eye.  Here is an example  The pathetically lame killer is in the house going on his rampage.  Two girls from across the street go in the house to investigate and find the killer slaughtering one of the girls.  Instead of running outside the two girls run into the basement and lock the door.  Does the killer come after the two girls like anyone with common sense would - NO!!!  Instead he lies down in the middle of the floor, puts a blanket over his face and starts to take a nap. Wait, it gets even better.  A moment later the girl's softball coach comes over to the house, enters when no one answers her knocks and calls out Hey girls, It's me coach Jan.  Just wanted to tell you practice is canceled tommorow, then she just turns and leaves.  That's it.  I don't know about you guys but I've never had a coach come over to my house, walk in, yell practice is canceled and then just leave.  Well I'm going to stop now because writing this is giving me a killer migraine.  My rating - Negative 1billion out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Standard, yet enjoyable, 80's slasher fare.","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Trish (Michelle Michaels) has the house to herself, so she invites her friends Diane (Gina Smike), Kimberly (Debra Deliso) and Jackie (Andree Honore) over for a slumber party. However, recently escaped mass-murderer Russ Thorn (Michael Villella) is in the area and has plans to crash the party.Feminist director Amy Jones (who wrote the screenplay for &#145;Indecent Proposal) is probably the last person many would believe responsible for a film such as &#145;Slumber Party Massacre', but strangely that is the case. The movie is obviously made to appeal to young men, with scenes of nudity that serve no purpose, as well as roaming shots of naked teenage girl's bodies as they shower yet despite the unnecessary nudity &#145;Slumber Party Massacre' still works as enjoyable slasher movie. Taking probably influence from Abel Ferrara's &#145;Driller Killer' (1979), &#145;Slumber Party Massacre' is a bloody, absorbing and moderately entertaining horror movie featuring some inventive scenarios, numerous fake scares, sporadic attempts at black humour (such as the refrigerator scene) and some of the standard slasher movie clichés. Unlike many similar movies such as &#145;Friday the 13th' and &#145;Halloween' there is an attempt to actually develop the characters, though such attempts prove to be desultory in the end.The screenplay (written by Rita Mae Brown), no matter how unrealistic, is of an average quality for this type of film as is the acting. No specific performance stands out except perhaps that of Robin Rochelle (Babs from &#145;Sorority Babes in the Slimeball Bowl-A-Rama' (1987) who sadly commited suicide in 1996) in the role of the out-casted Valerie who continually fears that something is not quite right at Trish's home. Michael Villella is particularly creepy as the psychotic Russ Thorn. His relentless stalking of his `prey' is similar to that of such characters as Michael Myers and Jason Voorhees. The character of Russ Thorn benefits somewhat from something that the other aforementioned characters lacked &#150; humanity. Thorn is a human killer and kills because of a psychological disease rather than the standard senseless stalk-n-slash characteristics of many other slasher movie villains. These attributes, in some ways, make Russ Thorn a far more intimidating and unsettling presence. Thorn is presented as a manic, yet intelligent, murderer. His presence on screen is both portentous and alarming.Fans of slasher movies such as &#145;Halloween' (1978), &#145;Friday the 13th' (1980) and &#145;Sorority House Massacre' (1987) will probably enjoy this fun little addition to the slasher sub-genre. Though &#145;Slumber Party Massacre' offers nothing new to the horror genre it is still an entertaining movie with a number of memorable sequences. The black humour within the movie is infrequent and does not over-shadow the horror aspect. An unsettling musical score and reasonably competent direction help to ensure that &#145;Slumber Party Massacre', though nothing special, does not become inherently tedious. It's far from great, but not too bad overall. My rating for &#145;Slumber Party Massacre' &#150; 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of 5","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Amature scripting, acting and direction comprise this low bigdet quickei of an escaped mental patient who bored holes into young girls with a power drill. Although being overshadowed by genre blackbusters Friday the 13th and Texas Chainsaw Massacre the film is slightly entertaining even though horribly cliched and predictable. Gore hounds should be pleased due to the high level of violence but eveyone looking for something original should look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"The perfect horror film to watch at a, uh, slumber party!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Slumber Party Massacre, written and directed by women, is a perfect definition of what an 80's slasher movie is.  Girls, gore, and psycho killer. It was never meant to be nothing more.  With that in mind, it is one of the most entertaining entries into the genre around that time period.  Basically, a killer with absolutely no motive shows up at a high school slumber party with his handy drill to pick off the teens one by one. (And an occasional pizza guy!!)  I guess it can't get much simpler than that.  Some disturbing murder sequences, a wonderful final showdown between the killer and virginal heroine, and countless cheesey dialogue, make this a worthwhile flick for any horror fan.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary nudity, but cool movie","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I recently watched The Slumber Party Massacre. It was a pretty good movie. The acting in it was ok, I thought Robin Stille and Brinkie Stevens did the best. The killer was kind of weird though (not really in a good way). He uses the same object and that gets a little boring. Also, his motive isn't clearly explained. Over all, it wasn't a bad movie. I give it about a 7 out of 10.***Just one thing. How can Ryan Kennedy have played Mr. Contant if he played a high schooler in Scream (1996)?  "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This low budget 80's slasher stars Robin Stille, Jennifer Meyers, Michelle Michaels, Brinke Stevens,  and Michael Villella.plot Trish (Michelle Michaels) is invited her friends on her basketball team to her house for a slumber party. The new girl, Valerie (Robin Stille) declines because she has to stay home with her little sister, Courtney (Jennifer Meyers). But a mental patient has escaped and he starts to kill off the party guests. But Valerie and Courtney plan on coming to the party.I loved this movie, its a basic 80's teen slasher. The thing about the killer escaping from a mental hospital and killing teenagers has been done so many times, but its still cool. We get nudity and gore and its never wrong to have those in a slasher.4/4 "},{"Title":"Greatest Slasher Film EVER MADE...Seriously!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this epic film with my brother because he thought the cover looked awesome. So we rented it and sure enough, it delivered. Using every horror cliche in the book, SPM was good to the last kill. The cheesy dialogue, naive characters and a crazed killer out on the loose come together to make a superb film. After doing research on its production, it turns out that the film was written by an ultra-feminist, who purposely wrote the film to be overtly exploitative and degrading towards females. By trying to hit the viewer over the head with moral commentary, she inadvertently made a cult classic in my book. A great film to have at a party!  "},{"Title":"Another miserable slash for cash","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" More slasher gold! A maniac with a shrill drill terrorizes and kills horny teenagers at an innocent (?) slumber party.Director Amy Jones, working from feminist-of-some-repute Rita Mae Brown's screenplay, promises a potentially entertaining potboiler by delivering a slick, stylish opening.But by the time the false alarms and contrived scares approach double figures, you just know this filler has very little invention on its mind.Brown's dialog is quite realistic, to be fair, and Jones tries hard to raise the limitations of a tired genre, but the illogical climax, setting the film up for two sequels, negates all good intentions.Teener Trish Devereaux, who plays the film's leading lady, went on to be a top porno personality and is now married to the great John Buttman Stagliano. "},{"Title":"The Slumber Party Massacre","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" No big-breasted teen chick is safe when escaped driller killer Russ Thorn crashes your slumber party. The guys aren't safe, either. The film also focuses on two sisters who live across the street from the girls being terrorized. The film shows that these sisters may be the only hope for those being chased and surrounded by the killer. Made by women, I'm guessing they wanted to prove that the females can create a film as luridly exploitive and violent as their male counterparts..and perhaps do it better! They do depend on a LOT of false scares, and the plot is a bit cliché, but there are plenty of gory thrills to keep slasher fans entertained. One thing that is perhaps a draw is that the killer really gets his comeuppance.I'd say it's one of the better slasher films of the early 80's. "},{"Title":"The worst thing to come out of the 80's....","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I usually don't write reviews, but I felt compelled to do so to hopefully spare someone else from wasting their time watching this garbage. It should be noted that I'm a horror fanatic and have been watching horror movies for over thirty years.This movie gets pretty good reception so I thought I would check it out, apparently having missed it the first time around in the 80's...apparently there was a reason I overlooked this trash the first time back in the 80's. The plot is fairly simple and straightforward a high school girl's parents go out of town so she decides to throw a slumber party with her friends. A deranged killer having escaped a mental institution crashes the party killing the young beauties one by one. You know how sometimes movies will only have vague information released about them with some embedded plot twists or surprises to be found later on in the story? Well, not in this case...When the movie first began I started analyzing the production values. The cinematography and art style were decent for an 80's flick indicating a moderate budget, not spectacular but not the worst either. The musical over-scoring is atrocious and noticeable withing the first fifteen minutes. Back in the 80's production companies were unaware of the importance of the musical score and how it affects the drama on the screen. Good music which compliments and coincides with the visual imagery can make an epic scene feel larger than life (i.e. Gladiator), a dramatic scene compelling (Saving Private Ryan), a horror scene absolutely terrifying (Jacob's Ladder, The Exorcist, America Psycho), or a comedic scene outrageously funny (can't think of any examples at the moment). A good composer knows when to enhance the drama or terror on the screen with the right amount of scoring and when music needs to be absent to let the strengths of the actors to carry the scene. Well, like most 80's films with cheesy scores this film isn't any exception to the trend of its era, but this movie has the worst B budget musical score which detracts from the effectiveness of the film even more. It sounded like midi synthesizer crap composed on an Amiga 64 or Apple IIC and it's way over-scored throughout the dreadful length of the film.The acting delivered by the actors is nondescript and unconvincing for the most part with a few minor exceptions. While a few of the characters are decent, over 95% if them are underdeveloped and unilateral filling the screen with stilted acting. Since the characters really never develop into anything meaningful it's impossible to feel sympathetic for them in their plight of survival. Then there's the killer...the thing that made me despise this film within the first thirty minutes was when they plainly showed the killer's face during the second death scene thus negating any possibility of tension or suspense. When movies keep a killer's identity secret it creates an aura of mystery which can keep audiences on edge because it could be anybody thus formulating the possibility of a plot twist or a double cross, etc. This is not the case in slumber party massacre, they clearly show you who the killer is and boy was he an ignorant looking moron. His presence on film wasn't threatening in any way and he gets my vote in being the worst villain persona in any horror movie. Then there's the matter of his acting...they could not have picked a more atrocious actor to deliver such a horrendous performance as a killer, especially in the climatic scene, if they had wanted to on purpose.Usually when a movie has mediocre production values or worse there's something else, whether it be a plot twist, surprise, imaginative story, well written story, clever direction, etc., which redeems the film from falling into the bad film category. I kept waiting for that plot twist or that surprise in a really imaginative story to understand why this movie merits generally positive reception amongst horror fans. Slumber Party Massacre has none of these elements...nothing could be more linear, dull, or pointless as this waste of time. The majority of the deaths, while highly unimaginative, happen off screen, there isn't any excess of blood or gore to compensate for what this movie lacks in every other aspect, so I really couldn't find anything redeeming about this movie to appeal to real horror fans. Except maybe the gratuitous nudity.This movie was an attempt at the slasher flick popular horror subgenre in the 80's and miserably failed to deliver anything worthwhile. This will appeal only to the hardcore slasher fans, but if you want a horror movie with more depth and substance than what the name implies avoid this one like it's cancer. Also, don't fall victim to what the people on the boards say about this film (i.e. underrated horror gem thread) like I did. These people either aren't true fans of good horror or they have such bad taste their opinions shouldn't even be considered. They probably wouldn't know a good horror movie if it jumped out of their TV/computer and pimp slapped their momma. "}{"Title":"funny","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" what a dog this thing was.i'm just glad i saw it on premium cable,and didn't lose any money on it.i did however lose 77 minutes of my life.it actually seemed like three hours before this thing finally ended.it's done in the style of the original Halloween,and the original Prom Night,but it's nowhere near as good as either of them.there are some very funny moments here,(unintentional)and the acting is worse than usual for this genre.the plot is also sillier than usual.yes,there are some scenes of naked women,but that is not enough to save this clunker.the only reason i got through it were the above mentioned funny moments,which i at least got a chuckle out of.for that,i give Slumber Party Massacre a 2/10 "},{"Title":"Early 80's slasher flick with a misogynistic streak.","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A slumber party is invaded by a psycho slasher who kills with a large drill in this would-be satire of the hack-'em-up genre scripted by feminist author Rita Mae Brown.However the film becomes a prime example of the gratuitous sex and violence toward women which it hopes to mock.Horror fans will surely enjoy it particularly a jolting scene involving a pizza-delivery man who shows up at the door at the wrong time.The film has some genuinely inspired moments of sheer lunacy and offers tons of female nudity.The uncut version features also a good bit of tasty gore including some lovingly bloody electric drill killings.I haven't seen three sequels that followed,but maybe someday...8 out of 10 for this crypto-feminist slasher flick. "},{"Title":"Weak Slasher - The Killer's Identity Is Known from The Beginning","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" After the training of the high school girls' basketball team, a group of players schedule a slumber party. Most of the girls agrees to go to the party. Meanwhile, the serial-killer Russ Thorn (Michael Villela) escapes from prison and comes to the school with a drilling machine in the beginning of his crime spree. The Slumber Party Massacre is a weak slasher, since the killer's identity is known from the beginning and the story is not original. In 1979, Abel Ferrara directed The Driller Killer, where a serial-killer kills his victims with a driller. There are hot girls nude, but they do not save the movie since the story is lame. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) Not available on DVD or Blu-Ray "},{"Title":"What A Really Good -- or Is it Bad -- Slasher Should Be!","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A group of girls decide to throw a slumber party, with no boys allowed, in order to bring back the good old days. Well, that plan is ruined when the boys decide to show up anyhow. And who invited the mass-murdering psychopath with the drill? All he seems to want to do is kill everyone, and that is not nice.I first saw this film at a Chicago film festival, which is the ideal location to see such a picture. I do not think I have ever seen such gratuitous nudity, with cameras making obvious panning shots towards buttocks and breasts, plenty of shower scenes and women changing clothes. Who would have guessed this was directed by a woman? Especially someone who went on to write Mystic Pizza?Not only directed by a woman, but written by known feminist Rita Mae Brown. Of course, we all know she wrote this as a parody and the film was shot with some level of seriousness. Is it what she intended? Probably not. But it makes for a better slasher, with more humor, and the parody aspects are still there in many respects.Indeed, while most of the nudity was scripted, the director says the nudity in the first two or three minutes was a Roger Corman requirement, and not her idea. Jones was given the job after reading only the prologue, not realizing how violent it was or that it was a ripoff of films like Friday the 13th. She was making her directorial debut, and had previously worked as an editor.How much of this film could have been done if people knew they were making Slumber Party Massacre is unclear. The filmmakers received permission to film in real homes by using the title Sleepless Nights, which was not changed until much later. (The older title is better, but admittedly does not reflect the tone of the film.)What made the festival the ideal location was the jeers from the audience, the hoots and hollers, and the sarcastic cracks from the back of the room. And the laughter, oh the laughter. Things you would have to keep quiet for at a regular theater, you can laugh proudly for here, knowing your neighbor is just as amused by gallows humor as you are.Slumber Party Massacre is little more than an exploitation film featuring 1980s scream queen Brinke Stevens. There is a vague plot, with some vague characters (though trying to tell them apart is pointless). Mostly we have 20-something women playing nude high schoolers and a man with a drill who kills everyone. They do not even try to disguise the face of the killer with a mask or shadows -- this is just pure slaughter. Why does he target this group? Who knows?What made this film amusing -- aside from the sexual innuendo and bad jokes -- was the sheer number of clichés and fake-outs featured. How many times can you mistake the neighbor for the killer? In this film, many times. And why is he in your garage? If it is not the neighbor causing the girls to jump, it is the boyfriend. Or the cat. Or the maintenance woman. If you are prone to jumping, you will jump -- this sets a new record in fake-outs, blowing away all competitors.Fans of 1980s slashers will devour this like Rosie O'Donnell on a cheesecake. Breasts, buttocks, psycho killer... Maui Wowie... some pre-teen girl (played by an actress actually much older than her character) who is obsessed with Playgirl magazine. There is not an excessive amount of blood or gore (well, okay, the pizza guy has no eyes) but the entertainment value of this far surpasses its predecessors. Friday the 13th? Nothing compared to Slumber Party Massacre.The Scream Factory disc is impressive with a slew of extras. There is a commentary that has Gomer Pyle moderating a discussion with the director and actors, including Brinke Stevens. Other features include a full-length documentary on the film directed by the amazing Jason paul Collum. "},{"Title":"She drinks too much milk.....","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" An eighteen-year-old high school girl is left at home by her parents and she decides to have a slumber party. There is friction between some of the guests and the new girl, who is better at basketball than they, so the new girl decides to stay at home. Meanwhile, a murderer with a propensity for power tools has escaped and is at large, and eventually makes his way to the party, where the guests begin experiencing an attrition problem, with only the new girl to help them.......So when the slasher genre was at its high during the early eighties, there were some rife ones released to earn a few bucks, and this was one of the biggest stinkers.It just consists of a man walking around and just happening to be in the right place and the right time to murder a high school student.The film makers must have been having a whale of a time, because the first act consists of the camera focusing on parts of a woman, and nothing else.The second act is none existent, and the third act really just consists of actors running out of select doors screaming and stabbing the killer with various objects.The film is awful, with really bad acting and a silly ending. "},{"Title":"That's a BIG tool you have there, Mr. Killer...","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a movie from the early 80's and it contains the word massacre in the title, so you know the&#133;um&#133;DRILL! Standard, by-the-numbers slasher except that this is supposed to be a feminist slasher! In all honesty, I don't really get it. Portraying dumb but hot-looking girls stalked & killed by a homicidal maniac is a sexist crime, but if this exact same formula is presented by a FEMALE director and a FEMALE scriptwriter, it all of a sudden becomes a parody and/or a feminist statement? The male characters in this movie may be a bit dumber than usual but the teenage beauties are all still defenseless little lambs to the slaughter, so where exactly lays the girl-power element? Oh well, since I absolutely don't wish to receive negative feedback from female readers, I'll just restrict myself to reviewing the actual movie and leave the speculations of possible deeper meanings behind. Talking purely in terms of 80's horror, The Slumber Party Massacre is a pretty good effort with likable characters, a fair amount of suspense and a handful of excellent gory killings. With her parents away on holiday, a schoolgirl invites her friends for a sleepover party with the usual pizzas, beer and soft drugs. Unfortunately for them, an escaped lunatic with a gigantic power tool still terrorizes the area and he shows up as the party-pooper, drilling holes in everyone whose path he's crossing. The only hope for rescue in the new girl who lives across the street but &#150; oh no &#150; she wasn't invited to the party! The identity and motivations of serial killers are usually kept secret in 80's slashers until the ending (as they're frequently acquaintances of the victims), but you don't have to worry about that in this case. Right from the opening minute, newspapers and radio bulletins loudly announce that a psychopath escaped from the local asylum and he doesn't even bother to wear a silly mask, as he's already carrying the drilling device &#150; which symbolizes a male penis &#150; instead. There's little else you need to know, except that nearly all the girls willingly take their clothes off and that the obligatory after gym-class shower sequence comes early in the movie. Hooray for feminism! "},{"Title":"is feminist slasher an oxymoron??","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Trish decides to have a slumber party while her parents are away, but won't invite the new girl next door because she's good at basketball. Lesbian feminist Rita Mae Brown wrote this first installment of what would be the franchise known as The Slumber Party Massacre. How can you tell that it's a feminist horror film? Well the escaped killer shows up with a large phallic drill signifying male inadequacy (feminist clue number 1), the men are obviously gay, signifying the only good man is a homosexual one (femanist clue number 2) & the heroin of the day is the best basketball player, the WNBA would be proud (feminist clue number 3) If you can get past the silly feminist twaddle, the obviously gay 'straight' men, and the most unmenacing looking killer to be caught on film since The New York Ripper, this slasher film isn't half bad. Just if you stick it up against nearly any other slasher film of the '80's that it'll fall short. Still somewhat fun though.My Grade D+ Eye Candy Debra Deliso shows breasts; Michelle Michaels and Brinke Stevens provide breasts and buns; Gina Smika (the prude) relies on Michelle as a body double BOO!!! HISS!!!! "},{"Title":"Trashy slasher fun.","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Scriptwriter Rita Mae Brown originally intended The Slumber Party Massacre to be a feminist parody of the misogynistic slasher genre; however, thanks to intervention from the producers and a by-the-numbers treatment from director Amy Jones, there is very little evidence in the finished movie to suggest that this was ever going to be anything but a trashy, sexist, and violent body-count flick. Which is fine by me&#151;I hate to over-complicate my horror!Barely two minutes into the film and viewers are treated to the first of many topless scenes, which, as far as I am concerned, is a fairly good indication that a film ain't trying to be too cerebral (sometimes, I just can't be bothered to think!). And sure enough, The Slumber Party Massacre proves to be nothing more than your typical, brainless 80s slasher, with bums, boobs and blood aplenty. In other words, good old-fashioned, unpretentious fun.The thin-as-a-wafer plot sees a promiscuous group of pot smokin' babes stalked and killed by an escaped psycho, and features all of the hokey clichés that one typically associates with such a film, including the virginal goody-goody heroine, her obnoxious younger sibling, a creepy neighbour who provides several scares, a cat leaping out of a cupboard, and a couple of overly-hormonal nerds just ripe for the slaughter.Whilst the killer himself isn't particularly memorable, the fact that he equips himself with one of the largest power-tools in slasher history (Leatherface's chainsaw aside) means that you won't forget him in a hurry the huge cordless drill that he uses to slaughter teenagers is very impressive (what size Rawlplug fits a hole that size?!?!).After much routine stalk 'n' slash mayhem (plus a whole lot more female nudity), with a fairly impressive body count (but not that much in the way of gore), the film finishes by displaying a touch of the female empowerment that Rita Mae Brown had probably initially hoped for the survivors attack the killer, with one character symbolically emasculating the lunatic by chopping off the end of his extremely phallic drill.6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Long Before Scream","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Slumber Party Massacre (1982) *** 1/2 (out of 4)A group of girls decide to throw a slumber party but they pick the wrong night because an escaped maniac has broken free from an asylum and goes back to his killing ways.For my money THE SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE is one of the decades greatest slashers because it not only delivers the T&A and gore but also delivers some rather effective laughs. People seem to give SCREAM all the credit for mixing horror and comedy but I think think film should get a lot more credit than it does. This film certainly wasn't as ground-breaking as SCREAM but there's still plenty of great stuff on display here and especially if you grew up in the 80s renting videos.Back when the slasher was in its Golden Era you needed certain things. One was nudity and there's plenty of that on display. We get a lot of great looking women taking their clothes off for no other reason than the producers knew guys wanted to see it and they offer it up in a rather unforgettable shower sequence. The film also offers up some rather memorable death scenes with the killer effectively running around with a drill. The film isn't overly gory but for the 80s it's good stuff.It also doesn't hurt that you enjoy all the teenage characters. Another major plus is the fact that killer played by Michael Villela is actually rather creepy and menacing. There's just something in his eyes that tell you he isn't all there and it was rather refreshing not having someone stalking around in a mask. THE SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE is highly entertaining and manages to hold your attention throughout it's rather short running time. "},{"Title":"Not as fun as the first time watch","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" it's as been long time since I seen this movie, I would say about 10 years or maybe less. I did enjoy the last time watch, it fun and very cheesy but after giving second watch, it didn't seem to have the same impact as first time I saw it.There were okay-ish deaths scenes, some very bloody moment in this movie, that I enjoyed but I didn't think it as fun as last time or I didn't really find that cheesy this time around The acting was really decent for this kind of movie. 5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Repugnant.","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Originally intended to be a feminist parody of the slasher formula that was running rife post Halloween, The Slumber Party Massacre was tampered with so as to make a serious horror movie. So how come it's still hilarious then?Plot for what it's worth finds a bunch of teenage girls throwing a slumber party only to get menaced by some psycho with a power drill. Cue an excuse for nudity, tight fitting pants, some gore, a bad actor guy living next door, an awful 80s score that sounds like Harold Faltermeyer belching, and the killer's drill lamely portrayed as a penis extension.Devoid of shocks or suspense, film plays out as some ludicrous exercise in bad amateur dramatics. Even it 1982 the reliance on false scares were getting boorish, while the inability to not hide what is obviously coming around the corner in the next scene is just poor directing from Amy Holden Jones.Generic and predictable tosh that only succeeds in making you treasure the likes of Black Christmas and Halloween even more! 2/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing too high of quality but it's entertaining enough.","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It uses all of the stereotypes and formulaic genre elements. It's really a slasher movie by the book. It therefor also isn't anything too special or surprising but it honestly could had all been a lot worse.A power drill is a great weapon of choice. Having a power drill killer is great choice for a genre movie such as this one is. It's noisy, big, heavy and not really handy to use. In others words it's like one of the most unlikely items to use for a serial killer but for some reason this also works well in a genre movie. The bigger and the more unlikely, the better and scarier. Also just think about Leatherface and his chainsaw in the The Texas Chainsaw Massacre-movies. Too bad that the killer himself is in this movie quite boring and normal looking.The killer gets on one big and good killing-spree though. There's basically one person dying every 5 minutes. In that regard this movie won't disappoint the genre fans, although the movie is not too heavy on its gore, which might be a disappointing aspect for some.Having some false scares in an horror movie is always a good thing but having too much of them obviously isn't, as this movie proofs. It also takes away a lot of the tension after a while. It doesn't make this the most scary or effective genre movie to watch.The acting is of course obvious below average, which is consistent for these sort of movies. Same obviously goes for the story. It's the sort of movie in which you just know who is going to die next. Splitting up is never a good idea and having sex means you're going to die next. Like I said before, this movie follows all of the slasher 'rules' and doesn't really surprise. The story also just gets plain ridicules at times. None of them seems really scared, even though people are getting killed all around them and despite what's happening all. They even start to worry about food after a while, even though they are trapped in the house and there is a killer somewhere outside, killing them one by one.Quite ridicules all and nothing to great of quality but it's entertaining enough all to watch, especially for the fans of the genre of course.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Moderately enjoyable eighties slasher","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Slumber Party Massacre is clearly a film made with horny teenage boys in mind. As if the title wasn't a big enough clue on its own; the fact that most of the cast are young girls, and most of them spend the majority of the movie in their underwear, means that the film is obviously pandering to a certain group of people. Like most eighties slashers; the film is not very original, and actually manages to take in even more clichés than usual...but despite that, there are worse ways to spend seventy five minutes; and this film is among the upper half of eighties slashers (though that says a lot about the competition!). Anyway, the film takes place around a high school; and one of the girls is planning to have a slumber party while her parents are away. She invites her closest friends; but not the 'new girl' (who happens to live just across the street) because some of the girls are jealous of her good looks and basketball skills. Around the same time, a murderer has escaped and is on the loose along with his trusty power tool; and naturally it's not long before these two often-seen plot threads are tied together by way of the killer slaughtering the girls.Some slashers add an extra element of interest by not letting the audience know who the killer is until the end. There's no such inventiveness here, however; and we are shown the killer right from the start. There's nothing distinguishing about him either; he's simply an escaped lunatic with a great big drill. So of course you would be expecting the film to make up for this with inventive kills, suspenseful plotting and interesting characters...but no such luck. The fact that the film is more interested in showing flesh than anything is made obvious throughout; although the director is at least good enough to ensure that all the girls are nice to look at. Most people will be going into this film hoping to see some gory kills; although in spite of the fact that the killer brandishes a really big drill; there's actually not a lot of blood on display. Most of the kill scenes cut away before any blood is shown...which is disappointing. Still, in spite of the flaws; The Slumber Party Massacre is decent lightweight viewing that doesn't outstay its welcome. "},{"Title":"What, do you think I'm stupid? I ain't going out there alone in the dark. Average slasher.","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Slumber Party Massacre starts one morning with teenager Trish Devereaux (Michelle Michaels) waking up & finding out on the radio & splashed across the local newspaper that convicted 'mass murderer of 5 Russ Thorn escapes' & is likely to still be in the area. We, the viewer that is, quickly learn that her mum & dad (Anna Patton & Howard Furgason) are going away & Trish will be left home alone. That day while at school Trish invites some of her friends to a slumber party she intends to hold that very night. Elsewhere at school a telephone repair woman named Mary (Jean Vargas) is brutally murdered & her van stolen, a short time later a female student named Linda (Brinke Stevens) is also murdered by the escaped Thorn (Michael Villella). So that night Trish & her invited female friends Kim (Debra Deliso), Diane (Gina Mari as Gina Smika), Jackie (Andree Honore) & a few uninvited male guests Neil (Joseph Alan Johnson), Jeff (David Millbern) & Diane's boyfriend John (Jim Boyce) settle down for some drinking, TV watching & drug taking fun. However it's not long before Thorn kills the pizza boy (Aaron Lipstadt) & sets his sights on our slumber party guests, there only hope is that their neighbours Valerie (Robin Stille) & her sister Courtney (Jennifer Meyers) will discover what's happening & help...Directed by Amy Holden Jones Slumber Party Massacre is as by-the-numbers slasher film as one could hope to find. The script by Rita Mae Brown is as clichéd as just about any slasher film you can think of, everything is here from the sequence when one of the main character's knocks the killer out but then just runs away instead of finishing him off to the usual false scares & practical jokes. There is no mystery element as to who the killer is & you can pretty much guess what's going to happen in the film within the first 5 minutes with the revelation that murderer Thorn has escaped. The character's are one dimensional & your typical cardboard cut-outs that have no personality or common sense, I didn't care for anyone & Valerie does virtually nothing for the entire film except run after her annoying sister before they eventually figure out what's happening next door. I wasn't convinced about the obligatory isolated location either, I mean it's in the middle of a town for starters & there was only on killer so why didn't they just make a run for it? It's not like they were going to get lost or anything & they only had to make it to a house on the street & ask for help, or just stick your damn head out of the window & scream bloody murder! Someone's bound to hear & call the police if just to report you for making too much noise! I know for a fact that I wouldn't barricade myself into a room & just sit there, & what is it with the pizza boys hat? It never falls off even though he has his eyes drilled out, falls over, is dragged along the floor & thrown down a flight of stairs but in spite of this his hat never moves an inch! Having said that it is just a slasher film & it does what it sets out to do reasonably well enough with a pretty impressive body count & thankfully at only 74 minutes long it moves along at a fair pace & doesn't outstay it's welcome. The violence & gore is disappointing, virtually all of the murders are off screen, someone gets a drill through their shoulder & Thorn's inevitable death by the avenging survivors is satisfyingly gory but other than that very little is shown except after the fact dead bodies unfortunately. There is some pleasing nudity too as you would expect including a gratuitous shower scene in the girls locker room at school. Technically the film is OK considering the supposed $250,000 budget, it's professional & well made enough with simple cinematography but the music is terrible. Director Jones fails to create much tension & as a whole there isn't much build up to the murders, The Slumber Party Massacre is a stalk 'n' slash film without much of the stalk. One thing that makes The Slumber Party Massacre somewhat unique amongst slasher films is that it was written & directed by females, unfortunately the end result only proves that women can make horror films as unoriginal as any man. Overall The Slumber Party Massacre is passable entertainment especially for slasher fans but is both far from the best & far from the worst the genre has to offer, average at best. "},{"Title":"They got the Slumber part right!","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm not even going to bother writing down the plot summary for you. I love slashers so naturally I try to watch all the slashers that I can. I saw this one years ago and remembered enjoying it. That was the furthest thing from the case this time around. This moves as slow as molasses! I can't believe all the positive reviews for this movie! I respect opinions, but did we watch the same movie? To make things even worse, there isn't much gore in this movie either. Those are two of your main ingredients when it comes to making a slasher movie, fun & gore. The drill attacks aren't anything special...nor is the killer himself. The 80's are responsible for some of my favorite slashers, but it's also responsible for some awful stinkers. The acting isn't worth talking about very much because it's amateurish. Since I am masochist I'll probably check out the two sequels. I hope they are at least somewhat better than this one was. 2/10 "},{"Title":"A Guilty pleasure","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When Trish (Michele Michaels) invites her friends over to a slumber party while her parents are away for the weekend, they are expected to have a good time on Friday night. However, a homicidal maniac(Michael Villea) has escaped from a mental hospital as he has a love for knives and power- drills as he crashes the party to start making a bloodbath but can some of the ladies escape from the killer?Exciting and intense 1982 slasher film from Roger Corman productions and was directed by Amy Jones and written by a feminist as it was one of the first horror movies made by women. There is nudity with graphic violence and gore abound with some very weak acting plus an okay story, i saw this on video as a kid and thought it was decent.slasher film. Not a very good movie but still a decent time waster. "}]