[{"Title":"Go ahead and laugh! It's okay!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"55 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can certainly understand adults not finding this film as funny as adolescents will. This story of high school buddies trying to infiltrate a Florida brothel in the 1950s is neither classy nor sophisticated.It is, however, quite funny. Just sit back and watch the group of pals playing tricks on each other and sticking together when things turn serious. Watching it today brings back memories of some of the stupid things me and my high school friends did back in the late 1980s and early 1990s. We all tried to get into strip clubs before we were 18. We didn't see any trouble with breaking the law as long as nobody got hurt. We all were out to have a much sex as we possibly could. That's what a good portion of growing up for us guys is all about! That said, the events depicted in this film, such as destroying a night club and sticking our manhood through a hole in the girls' shower didn't happen. That's why films are made. They take ideas in our heads and try to show what would happen if they actually played out.Only the coldest and stiffest of men couldn't find anything to laugh about with this movie. It is in no way meant to be taken seriously. It has been criticized to the point of no return, though. Why? Are some people unable to laugh at juvenile pranks, or were they on the receiving end of them when they were in high school?If you had fun growing up, you will probably like this film. If you look back at your younger years with regret, then you most likely won't enjoy it.8 of 10 starsAnd just gotta add 4/4/2007...... RIP Bob Clark. We'll miss you, man!The Hound will see you on the other side some day! "},{"Title":"Telephone call for Michael.....","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's is the original teen sex comedy.I had the great pleasure of seeing Porky's in a late night showing on opening day in March 1982 in a theater packed to the gills with 18-25 year olds (although I was 30). I hurt for 3 days from laughing so hard.There is a portion of the movie, beginning close to the 1 hour mark that is the absolute funniest 14 minutes ever put on film. This includes these three hilarious scenes Coach and Lassie in the boys locker room (Coach Brackett finds out why they call Miss Honeywell Lassie), then it segues to the guys peeping through the holes into the girls shower room, where Beulah Balbricker gets a 'handle' on Tommy's situation, immediately followed by the scene with Coach Brackett, Coach Warren and Head Coach Goodenough in Principal Carter's office with Beulah describing the incriminating mole. There were people out of their seats, laying on the floor of the theater screaming with laughter. I have yet to see another motion picture invoke this kind of hilarity in a movie theater. I saw it in the theater 2 or 3 times in it's original theatrical run with the same response. When it became available, I bought the VHS copy, then the laser disc copy and when I got the DVD a few month's ago, I watched it for the zillionth time and I still laugh my butt off when I see those scenes. The acting is great for a bunch of no-names, there are actually great multiple plot-lines (in addition to the typical get laid at any cost plot) and the cinematography, editing and sound is above average. They made this movie in 90 days for less than $4 million and it grossed $7 million opening weekend and has grossed over $100 million in theaters to date, most of that in 1982 dollars. The only thing I can say bad about Porky's is that they should have stopped after the first one. The first pathetic sequel (The Next Day) lacked humor, the second sequel (Porky's Revenge) had 30-year-olds playing teenagers and they had long-since lost their youthful charm. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I looked at the first two pages (here on the IMDB website) of other comments and am not at all surprised to find comments ranging from very good to very bad; this is that kind of movie.If you haven't seen it, here's my take on it.  People who are stuffy, proper, sophisticated, and politically correct in a social sense are not going to care for this movie.  On the other hand, if you are laid back, easy going, don't have to have an uplifting and moral story line, and appreciate comedy (often sexy and somewhat raw), you are going to love this movie.  The producer and director very obviously made this movie for the simple purpose of providing the audience with a lot of very funny comedy.  And they succeeded immensely (if you are laid back, easy going, etc.)  The scenes range from funny to hilarious.Buy or rent the video.  I've seen this on network TV and it is very sanitized. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All of us have certain films, not well liked by either critics or public, which nonetheless really strike a chord within us. They're our guilty pleasures, movies that we never tire of, but don't brag about. Porky's is one of mine. It's insipid, inane, and amateurish. The plot doesn't make much sense, and the characters don't behave rationally. But I don't care. Porky's is fun, transporting me back to a mythical time in America when it was great to be a teenager. Life was a lark, issues were black and white, and all endings are happy. In this regards Porky's resembles many of Disney's movies like Pollyanna, a haunt of other guilty pleasures. Sheer fantasy, sheer entertainment. I dig this movie, but that's just my opinion.  "},{"Title":"The guiltiest of pleasures....","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  No one goes into a movie like Porky's expecting greatness.  But if you get at least one good laugh, that's good enough.  Two laughs, even better.  Three, great.  Four, fantastic.I got more laughs than this out of Porky's, but since I went in expecting them to reach the lowest common denominator, I got just what I came in looking for.Who doesn't know the story, o connoisseurs of lowbrow humor?  What you want to know is if it's funny.  Of course it is, but this isn't the best movie for family video night (then again, it depends on the family).I won't spoil any of the gags for you but I can tell you the biggest ones depend, separately, on eggs, oversized condoms, holes in the girls' showers and a prank call to the local diner. And where, in one instance, you'd keep a driver's license.Sorry, you'll just have to see the thing.Eight stars, and beware of moral turpitude. "},{"Title":"Everyone's favorite guilty pleasure!","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've never met anyone in my life who didn't love Porky's (in real life, that is, because on the Internet you always encounter people with different opinions) and that is probably just because this is an irresistibly energetic and out-and-out funny 80's teen comedy! The essence of juvenile & vulgar comedies lies here within this film, and arguably also Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Animal House, but definitely not in the lame and uninspired nowadays flicks such as American Pie. All the classic gags and politically incorrect jests are here small penis jokes, big penis jokes, sticking penises in usual things, voyeurism through minuscule peepholes, the eternal virgin nerd, loud-screaming girls, redneck humor and much more. If you ever wondered where Bart Simpson found the inspiration for his prank calls, well that's probably because he watched Porky's as well! This is the simplistic tale of a bunch of teenage friends, all of them with incontrollable raging hormones, attending high school in the 1950's. In their never ending journey to get laid, they battle against all types of annoying authorities (read adults) like gym coaches, parents, police officers and obnoxious nightclub owners. Particularly this last group forms a severe obstacle, as the boys are desperately trying to get into a strip club in a neighboring county but the owner &#x96; a fat and sleazy hillbilly nicknamed Porky &#x96; and his gang of local yokels get a kick out of humiliating and beating up juvenile visitors. In between all their hectic adventures at school, the group plots the ultimate act of vengeance against Porky and his whole county of hillbilly freaks. Personally I don't understand how you could NOT enjoy a movie like Porky's, as it is so stimulating, cheerful and harmlessly infantile. The main characters are delightfully stereotypical high school bastards (especially the unforgettable Pee Wee) and some of the situations they find themselves stuck in are indescribably hilarious. A few of the highlights include an outrageous sex sequence with future Sex and the City starlet Kim Cattrall and the legendary coach Balbricker's quest to have one of the boys suspended for obscenities in the girls' shower. Needless to say Porky's is a sex comedy chock-full of gratuitous T & A (and enough wool to knit a sweater with&#x85;) and crude insinuations, but if this movie is too offensive for you already, you better sing up in a convent straight away. This was the biggest box office hit for the versatile writer/director Bob Clark, who directed pleasant comedies like this as well as creepy horror movies like Black Christmas and Dead of Night. He sadly died in a dramatic car accident in 2007. Thanks to films like Porky's, he at least leaves behind a spirited heritage! Rest in peace, Mr. Clark. "},{"Title":"Laugh mom!","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First I read the review that Maltin and Ebert gave for this movie.They were bad.But they were wrong! Porky's is a great old school comedy! It's about friendship,It's about girls,It's about life and how life should be likeJOKES,JOKES,JOKES!!! Having fun with your friends,having fun with girls and yes having fun with your enemies!!! I really liked this movie,it made me laugh;showed that you cannot solve all your problems by your self...If your friend is drunk,help him,if your friend is beat up,stand by his side,if you have a problem with girls perhaps your buddy will help you... Maltin,Ebert go watch Casablanca one more time.You missed something,there's no jokes,no shower and no Porky's!!! "},{"Title":"Very fun comedy","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am proud to say this is one of my favorite comedies, and I normally don't even like the American Pie type of sex comedy. The humor is raunchy, but in a good-natured way, and all the actors look like they're having a blast. The odd thing is that there doesn't seem to be any real reason why it's taking place in the 50's, except maybe to get across the message that teenagers have always been, and always will be, horny. Also, to the people who say this is dated... you guys do realize it's taking place 30 years before it was made, right?It's not the funniest movie you'll ever see, except for a few truly hysterical scenes, but you have to love the way it captures the fun irresponsibility of high school. I think a lot of people can relate to this no matter what generation they're from, making it a definite classic. My advice is to steer clear of the upcoming remake, which will undoubtedly be raunchier and ruder, but probably have ten times less heart. "},{"Title":"made me laugh","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"32 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw it  in middle school, thought it super-cool, and most of mycollege friends had fond memories to share of sneaking in to seeit. The subject would come up over a game of quarters orsomething.Porky's isn't brilliant and maybe deserves a lot of socio-criticaldissection, but I just thought it was funny at the time. I don't know itdeserves film-critic attack - wasn't it low-budget and lucky to getsome mainstream distribution?Anyway, my memories of Porky's made American Pie a lot morefunnier, too. The two would be a good movie night double feature. "},{"Title":"Pure hilarity","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's is a film that has so many funny moments in it that you don't really have time to catch your breath before the next gag is hurled upon you. This is absolutely one of the funniest films I have ever seen.  And the reason for that hilarity is because of it's frankness and propensity to take risks. They don't make movies like this anymore.  Everyone is so worried about the damn sensors and that is too bad because a movie like this, while I can acknowledge may not be for everyone's taste, is one that explores teens in high school and it also explores how innocently cruel we were to each other in high school.What makes this film so funny is that the characters look like they are having fun.  They like to mess with each other.  They enjoy embarrassing one another and they are sex starved high school kids.  And really, weren't a lot of us males like that in high school?  Are a lot of us still not like that?You have an assorted cast of characters from Meat, the rather large ( in many ways ) guardian of the group.  Women love him for various reasons and it is his size and manliness that makes him so much fun to poke fun at. Then there is Tommy Turner.  He is the leader of the group and always seems to come up with the ideas to get his friends laid or in trouble.  You have Billy and Brian and of course PeeWee.  He is the guy that everyone likes, yet his exaggerated Casanova stories get him in several sticky but funny situations with his friends.  The characters at Angel Beach high school are hilarious and I honestly wish I could have known guys like this.The true strength of this film is the hilarity.  The kids make it funny because they always look like they are having fun.  When one person is taking their licks, the other five that are in on the gag are laughing under their breaths and all you get is a snicker or two.  And we can all relate to that.  How, something is funny but we have to play our part to keep the cherade going.  These kids do that with perfection here.  I also have to mention some of the scenes that make this film the teen classic that it is. The first is the scene when Mr. Carter, their principal is being pressured by Ms. Balbricker to find the guy who had his penis hanging out of a drain pipe in the girls shower.  Mr. Carter is doing his best to keep a straight face but he is going to crack at the absurdity of the request.  To make matters worse, the two male gym teacher are not making it any easier by snickering to themselves.  When Mr. Carter finally cracks, we crack with him.  This is comedy at it's best.  Also very funny are the Lassie part and the beginning when PeeWee is running down a country road naked.  You really have to see it.This film is unapolegetically crude, lude and vulgar in many ways.  But it is so damn funny that you don't pay attention to that stuff.  My gut still hurts from laughing when I watch this film.  And oh yeah, the shower scene isn't bad either. "}{"Title":"Worth at least seeing once","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Funny movie, as long as you go into it with an open mind and realize This ain't suppose to be Shakespeare.The concept is raw and a bit sophomoric (s) but, it is a great mindless movie to sit back, have a beer and some chips and kill a couple of mindless hours.Like Caddy Shack, it is a movie worth seeing only the first in the series. The sequels should be lost in movie obscurity. If you were ever a teen age guy most of the gags in this movie will ring true, if only as a thought you once had of actually doing (i.e. The guy, the hole and the girls locker room. "},{"Title":"Deserves a higher IMDb score","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's was one of the originators of the teen-sex genre and remains one of the best. Since it takes place in the 50's, I find it's not as dated as a lot of 80's films, especially with this mostly unknown cast. I was too young to see the film in the theaters when it first came around, but I can imagine the entire audience rolling out of their seats with laughter through virtually every scene.Any fan of American Pie owes it to themselves to see what started it all, and in many ways delivers far more. Tons of nudity, profanity and laughs make this an R-rated treat.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Quintessential sex comedy remains a guilty pleasure","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Accept the fact from the start that no one is intentionally viewing the Porky's films for scintillating social commentary and high art, but rather for cheap low-brow humor and titillation and you may actually end up enjoying this guilty pleasure. Porky's pretty much came out of no where in the early 1980s and became a surprise smash hit - largely due to its imaginative ad campaign, but also because the film delivers on exactly what it promises.Set in the early 1950s at a Florida high school, the film follows the mischievous adventures of a gang of high school students on the hunt to lose their virginity, with various obstacles thrown in their path. Porky's is the name of a legendary strip joint where the gang is thrown out of and humiliated at in the beginning. Porky's is owned by the titular character - a Boss Hog-type involved in various shady activities whose brother, the sheriff, aids and abets. The gang agrees to set aside personal differences to pool resources and get some revenge on Porky and his pals.Dissed by the critics who could not understand the film's popularity, the film is really like American Graffiti with nudity on Viagra. The success of the film as a sex comedy is not hard to understand. First, the guys that comprise the gang are distinctive enough and well-played enough to engage the viewer. A number of familiar faces and character actors pop up. It is not a stretch to wonder whether Kim Cattrall's performance as a sexy gym teacher nicknamed Lassie did not help influence her casting in her ideal role years later on Sex and the City. Solid actors like Alex Karras, Susan Clark and Boyd Gaines show up in various roles. Nancy Parsons is pretty hilarious as the nightmarish gym teacher Ms. Balbricker, who becomes a thorn in the side of the guys. The sequence where she tries to convince the principal to have a line-up of the male students' privates so that she can identify which private she caught in the girl's shower room, while her fellow gym teachers snigger away behind her is worth the price of admission. Of the guys, Don Monahan is probably the most memorable as the eternally luckless Pee Wee, who forever manages to get humiliated in some fashion. Kaki Hunter is also pretty good as the lead girl, delivering a healthy dose of no-bull bluntness.The film has a good share of belly laughs and is not afraid to push buttons. It even manages to sneak in an anti-bigotry message. It also succeeds because it is actually able to appeal across the genders. While the search for guys to lose their virginity was recycled over and over again in other films, few had the success of Porky's and its sequels. This is for several reasons. First, while the guys are not above leering at naked girls, the girls are not afraid to give back as good as they get and are oftentimes in on the joke. The film's matter-of-fact, unguilty embrace of sex and nudity is a plus. The notorious scene with the guys spying on the girls in the shower becomes far less exploitive when the girls discover the perpetrators and start antagonizing them. On a side note, what a refreshing twist it would be to have a scene like this with the genders reversed - do filmmakers not think that young girls have any sexual curiosity? Additionally, while the film has a healthy dose of female nudity, it is also refreshingly awash in male nudity - including surprising frontals - so that the girls dragged along to this by their significant others at least have some eye candy of their own to enjoy. This is something other films of this ilk more often than not failed to get.In the end, for low-brow laughs, nudity and titillation, it is simply hard to find another sex comedy - then or now - that delivers it better than Porky's. The fact that this remains true nearly 30 years later must count for something. "},{"Title":"classic raunchy early 80s juvenile movie","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just scratch my head in disbelief while reading some comments... * movie to be cursed & disemboweled * vile * women hating * i'd rather die than see it again * gone into conniptions at the VHS rental store because they carried it.Come on! You people need help FAST. Yes, it is true this movie isn't refined, sophisticated and its attempts at sociology (EG the antisemitism angle ) are paper thin; yes, it is true it belongs among the juvenile junk movie production of the reagan era, even if the movie isn't a full fledged US production; yes, it is true characters are stereotypical & paper thin...as with most character of juvenile 1980s movies anyways; yes, it is true actors no way look like 16-17yo (that is high school, not middle school like some accurate critic suggests ), but that is true of most juvenile movies, including the pathetic Beverly Hills of the 1990...Luke Perry looked what, 38? And I laughed crazy at another 30-something-looking actress playing the maladjusted teenager; yes, it is true they laugh too much on screen, but so much for many other bigger productions. HOWEVER This movie still oozes some kind of (weird) charm because -let's face it- it depicts highschool years like we wanted ours to be...fun...sleaze...pranks...some minor violence for thrills, but nobody dies, gets permanently hurt or sent to jail for life. Sure, women are mainly praised for a bunch of hair down there...but if the movie is women-hating, then women looking at which car men drive or the like (=movies ) are men-hating. That is how teen years are supposed to be, while old eyes see this and react to this like Beulah Balbricker. Not award-winning material, but neither the vile, demeaning tripe some want it to be. Or perhaps those people in high-school were debating global warming, exploitation schemes in perspective since Gengiz Khan & so forth. As well, end titles give 1981 as year of release. That period (late 70s-early 80s) was plagued by escapist movies, preferably set in the 1950-60s...remember the cold war was at its highest, and masses needed escapism. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First R-Rated movie that I ever saw, I still remember the night at my grandparents with their free weekend of HBO, me sitting in the dark with the volume turned so low I am not sure if I could even hear it.  I was 12 at the time and I still remember changing the channel at 1 o'clock in the morning thinking I just heard my grandfather get up.  A truly funny movie. "},{"Title":"silly comedy  loved it","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  10/10 for sure...if you didn't like it to bad don't watch it again, and if you complain it waisted 2 hours of your life boohoo...nothing in life is a waste..didn't like it oh well move on then .. Its funny for what it is... I don't think this movie was made to be a brilliant piece of film history...the kids are hilarious...its high school antics is it only a good movie if there is blood and guts, sex or major star...this movie has so many silly parts to it, so there is a bit of nudity bit deal..at least you don't see pee wee shooting anyone..You can watch this movie knowing that there is one person in your life that is characterized in this film...laugh and have fun with it... I enjoyed all three  "},{"Title":"The film Animal House wishes it was","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porkys is the original base comedy teen film and does it oh so well. From Porky's pig pen, the holy grail of sex to the howling PE teacher (a young Kim Catrall)the classic comedic moments just keep coming, the moral of the story (anti-anti-semitism) seems as if it may have been levered in as an after thought to give the film more depth but this could just be the film ageing. Overall Porkys can be clunky but this is an inevitable part of it's 80's heritage and it beats the pants off Animal house blow for blow (atleast Porkys has a plot)though not as side splitting as American Pie this again seems to be a product of age. See it but treat it like your mates dad, where your mate gets all his jokes from but your mate tells them in more your way. Respect for the Porky's sign though, i want it on my wall. "},{"Title":"rotflmao!","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" O.K....First, I am 48 years old, female, and a teacher. second, I have seen all the Porky's movies multiple times. I saw the original first release in college with friends and peed in my pants laughing. I read a comment by someone here that if you still like this movie after 40 that you need help. Thank GodI can still see the humor in this movie. My husband and I watched it together and both died laughing all over the place again. I hope I am never too old to laugh at sex jokes, pompous teachers and administrators, red-necked bigots, and horny teenagers. A sense of humor has helped me to survive 25 years of teaching and right wing conservatives with absolutely no sense of humor(I think that, more than anything, is why I am not a conservative anything!!). Parents wanting to know about this movie 1.15 and under; No way! (They wouldn't get the best jokes anyway) 2. 15 and up; with parents (but only if the nudity doesn't bother you.) 3. Language is very crude (Hey, it's supposed to be High School!!!) 4. I saw it in college, which I believe is the perfect age for this flick. You can really appreciate the high school stuff (not too far removed) but you can see the adults side of the movie. 5. Basically, this is just your old fashioned us against them and we get 'em Good movie with a lot of penis jokes. "},{"Title":"Has anybody seen Mike Hunt?","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Raunchy '80s sex comedy that takes place in the '50s. So yeah, it's mostly lame but it was a lot funnier back then. Of course I was a stupid tadpole then so sex jokes and stuff were titillating and new to me. Truthfully, very few of these types of movies age well. This is probably one of the better ones, for what that's worth. There are some laughs to be had, as well as a valuable lesson about anti-Semitism that I'm sure changed the minds of many bigots. Sexy young Kim Cattrall is a plus. The parents from Webster are here as a corrupt sheriff and a hooker. Classic car enthusiasts and (male) children of the '80s will probably get more out of it. Ladies, I doubt you'll like this one. "},{"Title":"Porky's","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've never seen such wool, you could knit a sweater.In the 50's, high school kids just want to get laid and have an awful hard time doing so.It's amazing that one film can almost completely focus on getting laid, but Porky's does so, and is successful at it. The jokes are almost entirely based solely on sex. Such gags as Cherry Forever, Mike Hunt, Lassie(..Miss Honeywell's response to the smell of a boy's locker room), Ms. Balbricker's request for a mole inspection(..after letting something slip through her fingers)and the principal's response to such a scenario(tallywacker), all contribute to the crude hilarity that is Porky's. While tame compared to even PG-13 comedies today, Porky's is certain to offend some with it's naughty humor. And, before there was Meg Ryan's fake orgasm in When Harry Met Sally, there was Ms. Honeywell(Kim Cattrall, who would've had to have been a major wet dream for many teenagers at that time, I imagine, was a fox!)announcing to the whole gym what a real one sounds like! And, Dan Monahan's Pee Wee is a priceless character, finally getting his cherry popped at the end, securing a neverending pursuit of satisfying a lengthly quest. Good support by Art Hindle as a police officer whose younger brother, Mickey(Roger Wilson)wouldn't halt waging war against Porky(..the massive Chuck Mitchell). Interesting enough, Susan Clark(..as Cherry Forever)and Alex Karras(..as Sheriff Wallace, Porky's brother)both would later star as husband and wife on the popular sitcom Webster. The cast work incredibly well together and share a camaraderie that's actually quite poignant, even though their topic of choice is chicks(..my kind of guys).The drama aspects are also here. One of the group of horny males is a kid named Ted whose abusive father just got released from serving time for homicide. There's an emphasis on accepting a Jewish student who, for a time, was frowned upon, but is actually a hospitable guy. But, the core is a large repulsive strip bar owner in the next county from where most of the film is set, named Porky whose equally repellent brother is the sheriff. The boys attempt to pay for sex from some of his girls, get tricked and humiliated, and seek revenge against him for their mistreatment. So there are alternating story lines which accompany the main point of the students seeking sexual fulfillment so they can no longer dream of what it's like.The grand finale, when the gang put together a plan to get Porky back for putting their stubborn friend in the hospital because he wouldn't quit returning to the bar to get revenge, adds the exclamation point, even though we're asked to believe they could get away with it just through crossing over into another county. "}{"Title":"Just funny","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first saw the ads for this film in the theater, I thought it looked like yet another absurd, stupid, juvenile comedy.Then the producers made the astute move of airing commercials showing brief interviews of people leaving the theater after having just seen this movie. They were all smiles, and universal in explaining just how funny they thought it was. It sold me and my wife and I tried it.The movie was indeed at times absurd, often juvenile, and one of the absolutely funniest movies I've ever seen. It may well have the single funniest scene in any movie, ever. (Ms. Ballbricker explaining to the principal and the coaches about her desire for a 'lineup'. If you haven't seen the movie, this doesn't sound like much. Watch it and see. You'll turn red and be holding your stomach for all you're worth before the end of the scene).When you feel you are in the mood for a sometimes silly, often raunchy, but VERY VERY funny movie, put this on some Friday evening. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Porky's is as reckless as its characters and as memorable as its best scenes","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's is the ultimate teenage fantasy, a movie celebrating group mentality shenanigans, everything from obsessing about sex to pulling the ultimate prank on that one old guy always bringing you down. It's a film that says that at heart, we're all good-natured kids that wish we could be irresponsible every so often.This is Porky's only point, both its hindrance and most celebrated characteristic. There isn't any character development or a through plot line -- going to the strip club Porky's is only representative of two major scenes in the movie. It's about high school kids horsing around and trying to get laid in Florida in the '50s. There are some admirable but pointless subplots fixed on anti-Semitism and parent abuse, but it's just about laughs.What makes Porky's unique is that it's about laughter, it's not just about creating it for the sake of being a comedy film. A stand-out scene is when the strict oafish gym teacher Ms.Ballbricker is explaining to the principal her plan to identify a trouble-making student by lining up several of the boys to examine their manhood. In the background, two of the students are dying from laughter and even the principal at one point can't hold it in any longer -- then a nice close-up of a portrait of President Eisenhower with a big grin on his face. That sums up Porky's nicely we all need to laugh at the ridiculousness and humor of certain situations. If only the film spent a bit more time hammering that in instead of meandering about like a bored high schooler.This is a film you can watch over and over again, not only because it can be funny for all appropriate ages, but it only thrives from scene to scene. The entire high school-aged fantasy of boys getting spy on the girls' showers owes its birth to this film, the hilarity as the new gym coach learns why the attractive young girls' coach is nicknamed Lassie, and of course that ultimate revenge against the powers that be, in this case Porky and his redneck sheriff brother, who try and stop kids from having fun. It can be watched one scene at a time -- there's nothing gluing it all together.Bob Clark's film has a carefree and reckless attitude that resembles that of his characters, but as admirable as that is -- and a rare find in a movie indeed, especially comedy -- there's no doubt that Porky's avoids being the kind of coming-of-age film it could have been. There's no substitute for memorable characters in addition to unforgettable scenes, but Porky's viewers can at least relish the latter. "},{"Title":"Porky's","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I expected this to be some sort of early American Pie, with teens desperate to lose their virginity, except in a strip bar, slightly more tasteless though, from director Bob Clark (Black Christmas, A Christmas Story, Baby Geniuses). Basically it is 1954, and we are following a group of high school teens going through puberty, and only thing on their minds, sex. We have horny toad Pee Wee (Dan Monahan), bad boy Tommy (Wyatt Knight), tough jock and abnormally packaged Meat (Tony Ganios), wise-ass redneck without any care Mickey (Roger Wilson), smart Jew Brian Schwartz (Scott Colomby), and racist Tim (Cyril O'Reilly). So they are peaking through holes to the girl's shower room, and making life difficult for teachers and each other, and then they find striptease bar Porky's, only to be thrown out and humiliated soon after entering. They realise they won't get in, so they plan revenge, but they know that owner Porky (Chuck Mitchell), his brother is Sheriff Wallace (Alex Karras), making it difficult, and they also have to forget their differences to work together. Also starring Mark Herrier as Billy, young Sex and the City's Kim Cattrall as Honeywell, Kaki Hunter as Wendy, Nancy Parsons as Ms. Balbricker and Susan Clark as Cherry Forever. The highlights of the film for me are young Cattrall having sex, and her screams echoing in the below basketball court, and after peaking at the girls, one of the guys sticks his penis through one of the holes, and gets it clutched by the teacher. It is quite tasteless, but there is a tiny strange sense of charm about it also, a quite entertaining comedy. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"A bit overrated but still a very funny teen sex comedy","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated R for Strong Sexual Content,Nudity,Language and Some Violence all involving teens I first saw Porky's II The Next Day about six months ago on TV.I was a bit disappointed with it but I heard it was a disappointing sequel and I wanted to watch the original Porky's.Ireally enjoy the teen film genre.People compare this film to American Pie but I think American Pie is a bit better.Not to say that this isn't a hilarious film which is miles better than the sequel.The film takes place in the 1950's and it is about a group of friends and their funny misadventures while trying to have sex.They try to get into a nightclub called Porky's but the owner harasses them.One of the members keeps going back and gets his ass kicked plenty of times so they exact revenge on the nightclub.Porky's is a fairly funny teen film but I have seen better.The Last American Virgin I find is a better teen sex comedy(it is my favorite actually) because it has plenty of gross-out humor but it is also dramatic and realistic.Anyway, funny film. "},{"Title":"That'll never be all, folks!","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bob Clark's untimely death in a car crash a few days ago brings to mind his career, including the hilarious T&A fest Porky's. When I was really young and walked by it at the video store, I always assumed that it had something to do with Porky Pig; it does, if only very loosely. Watching the movie, I could only wonder how much fun they must have had filming it. I almost never stopped laughing, and when I did it was mostly because I ran out of breath from laughter. It's hard to say whether the best scene is the shower scene, or the whole end sequence. It's the sort of movie that you just have to see to believe.OK, so a lot of the movie consists of what are probably male chauvinistic fantasies, but this is a comedy, folks! You're not supposed to take it seriously. But no matter how you interpret it, you gotta love it. Among the cast members is Kim Cattrall, many years before Sex and the City. I liked the sequel equally.In conclusion Bob Clark, wherever you are, we'll always remember you, if only for this movie and its sequel.Bob Clark directed movies as different as the Porky's movies, Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things and A Christmas Story. The things that we see in life... "},{"Title":"Still one of the funniest high school comedy movies of all time","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's was a pleasant surprise to me when I watched it years after it's screening. If I had been in a movie theater, I would have made frequent trips to the urinal and likely evicted for loud, uncontrollable laughter.The practical jokes, the sexual tensions of the teachers, and the sheer lust of high school vs. the moral majority is magnificently depicted. The shower scene was classic, only to be followed by Ballbricker's plan for catching the culprit. I still laugh until I cry when I see this, even on highly censored TV screenings.This should be a classic teen comedy, if it isn't a cult classic already. "},{"Title":"Adolescent male fantasies.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like this movie. It's funny, it's entertaining and it is perverted. This movie is a collection of common adolescent male fantasies sewn together into story about Florida high school kids in the fifties. Fantasies depicted include a peek into the girls locker room, a trip to an adult club, making it with that especially good looking teacher, (done vicariously teacher on teacher) revenge against a group of bullies and more. Add to this several just plain funny practical jokes mixed in between the other scenes and you get an entertaining movie. Just about every male out there will be able to relate one or more situation or one or more characters. If you are looking for art or a message then this is not your movie. If you are looking for a glimpse into the teenage male mind, then you may enjoy this film, just don't become indignant when you see yourself dimly reflected here and there in the film. "},{"Title":"surprisingly decent overall, very funny","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's is no ANIMAL HOUSE or FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH, but then again, what is? Still, it has one of the funniest scenes I've ever seen in film. The 'Lassie' scene? No. The 'shower' scene? Nope. The scene following the shower scene, featuring the coaches and the school principal discussing the possibilities of a 'line up' is still hilarious.The comedy is raunchy, that's true. The 'plot' is simplistic, sure. The acting is passable, but nothing remarkable, OK. But it is funny, and it is still a lot of fun 20 years later. And, of course, it spawned a thousand imitators and two sequels. None quite capture the original's humor and somewhat innocent raunchiness.Keep an eye out for Kim Catrell in an early role as Lassie  "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie when it came out and have seen it at least 5 times. It is one of the funniest movies ever. You need to see it twice to really catch all the nuances. It is just as hysterical to me now, at age 50+ as it was when I was younger. It's a little raunchy at times but not so bad that I can't watch it with my teenage kids. It shows them a little slice of what kids were like during that time period...a little harmless fun and games. The movie's writers also fought against racism long before others had the nerve to do so. I would definitely recommend the movie to anyone with an irreverent sense of humor. In fact, see all 3; the naked KKK guys being paraded into the stadium are hysterical. "},{"Title":"At times extremely annoying, but at times actually pretty funny","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My boyfriend and I were at a DVD store the other day and he saw the big special edition of Porky's and was like I loved this movie so much, isn't it so funny? and I just looked at him and was like Ummm, I never saw it and he just looked at me like my hair fell out. He said this was such a classic and that I shouldn't call myself a movie buff if I hadn't seen this film. So I took his advice, I rented it, and watched it this morning. I know he's gonna hate me because to be honest, I didn't really find it that funny. It just seemed like a typical teen sex comedy that was more gross and unrealistic than actual comedy. But I admit that I did have a couple of laughs here and there, the story wasn't really that bad.Basically a bunch of boys in high school are determined to get laid. Some have been laid before, but there is a guy they call Pee-Wee, understandably by his lack of a package, they take him to a strip joint called Porky's. There they give the owner, Porky, a hundred dollars to have the strippers for an hour, but Porky tricks the boys and ends up humiliating them instead. So throughout the movie one of the boys keeps going back to get revenge and finally they all just do it together for the ultimate revenge tactic.Porky's did have a few funny scenes, like the love scene between the coach and Honeywell, played by a very young Kim Catrell, her screaming was so hilarious. Then the female gym teacher going after the boys because they were teasing the girls in the locker room through the peep holes, she was pretty funny. Over all, I wouldn't say that Porky's is at all a bad film, it has it's moments here and there, but I'd rather stick with other teen sex comedies, but this one is worth a look if you're into them.4/10 "}{"Title":"Reasons why this movie rules","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 1) The infamous girls' shower locker room scene. Boy, do you get to see plenty of smoking hot young ladies parading about in their birthday suits. Plus the whole gag involving one guy shoving his penis through the peephole is totally hilarious. 2) There's something for the ladies, too. A bunch of young guys disrobe and bare their entire bodies as well, so this film can't be accused of being sexist. 3) Kim Cattrall. She's always been (and still is) a major babe. Well, she's absolutely delectable here as a luscious coach who howls like a dog while making love to a fellow high school coach in a men's locker room. 4) The cast have a ball with their roles. Dan Monahan portrays the libidinous Pee Wee with impish charm and glee to spare. Kaki Hunter is likewise absolutely adorable as the brash Wendy. Popping up in nifty supporting parts are Nancy Parsons as the uptight gym teacher Ms. Ballbricker, Chuck Mitchell as detestable brothel owner Porky, Alex Karras as a corrupt sheriff, Eric Christmas as the meek principal, and Susan Clark as a bawdy prostitute. 5) The anti-Semiticism subplot about one guy who antagonizes a Jewish student because his brutish dad beats him up is surprisingly strong and poignant. Moreover, it's real heavy stuff for a comedy. 6) The picture's outrageously raunchy sense of no-holds-barred crude'n'rude humor will never win awards for either taste or subtlety, but it's nonetheless constantly funny in a blithely lowbrow sort of way. 7) It's a well-made little flick with slick cinematography, a rockin' score, and a catchy golden oldies soundtrack. 8) Writer/director Bob Clark. Does this man have an amazingly eclectic resume or what? From the seasonal slasher prototype Black Christmas to the utterly charming yuletide favorite A Christmas Story to the first two Porky's movies, Clark delivered a steady succession of on the money solid and enjoyable features. Rest in peace Bob Clark and thank you for all the terrific entertainment. "},{"Title":"raunchy low brow cinema at its finest","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i'm almost ashamed to admit it,but i loved this movie.it's sick and demented,offensive and political incorrect.but its a riot.it's set in Florida in 1954.it's basically about a bunch of horn dog teenagers trying to lose their virginity.but there's a lot more going on than just that.there's a lot of double entondres(not sure if that's the right spelling or not)here and lots of sexual innuendo and and also sex without any innuendo needed.this is low brow cinema at it's finest.i can see why it's classic though. i laughed my ass off so much i thought i was gonna die.Bob Clark,who directed the original horror classic Black Christmas also directed this movie.there are a few serious moments dealing with racism and antisemitism,but mostly it's all about the laughs.if you wanna know what the title Porky's refers to,you'll have to watch the movie.i have to give this movie 10/10 for making me laugh my ass off so much. "},{"Title":"PORKY'S (Bob Clark, 1982) **1/2","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this and its first sequel in tribute to director Clark's recent tragic demise; I recall it being shown on Italian TV as a kid, but I was never all that interested in checking it out - since I'm not a fan of teen flicks and, basically, I had always felt that Clark debased himself somewhat by choosing to make such films in the first place... Now that I've had the opportunity to watch the film for myself, I found it a surprisingly tolerable if uneven comedy - and occasionally uproarious; thankfully, the teenagers here aren't as obnoxious as in other films of its ilk. It also takes care to provide mild social commentary by having its characters stand up for a put-upon member of the Jewish community.Though some gags eventually grow repetitive or outstay their welcome, its best moments are the following the scene with the prostitute played by Susan Clark, the numerous clashes with the obese female teacher (especially the shower scene and its aftermath in the headmaster's office) and the climactic demolition of Porky's red-neck establishment. "},{"Title":"Lots of Laughs","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've been told that the Porky's movies were films that portrayed Porky's Hideaway in Ft. Lauderdale in the 50's and 60's. They could have very well been. I worked part time at Porky's from 61-63 and never saw so this much excitement, but the thousands of college students that came all knew about Porky's and was the place to go back then if you had the right identification, because you were checked at the door. It opened at 8PM and closed at 4AM and always had the best entertainment in South Florida. Porky Baines was nothing like the character playing him, but these films were great for lots of laughs.I have several of the Porky films and they are great entertainment.Jack Proctor "},{"Title":"Enter the world of hilarity!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is the ultimate of comedy and sex. I'm talking about Porky's! This movie is incredibly raunchy as well as very funny at the same time. We have quite a few well known stars of today Susan Clark & Alex Karras(Webster); the vivacious Kim Cattrall(Mannequin and the ever popular Sex & The City). There were a lot of scenes that made my insides hurt bad The pseudo-interaction with a hooker and the three guys. The burly black guy was about to blow the whole thing, with his snickering and he later does his part with the machete at the horny little dogs. The second one was the sexual interaction with the two coaches when Cattrall's character howls. I couldn't stop laughing. You thought that was bad, the male organ was the tops of the laugh fest for me. My insides was about to go BOOM! After seeing it all, the entire movie was not boring at all. It was funny, it left me in stitches! Call 911 if necessary, rest for 2 hours before seeing the other sequels. Rating 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Can't find something to laugh out loud about? You're obviously dead","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's completely adolescent in every way. It's entirely rude and somewhat crude. It's high-school, folk(s). Yet you will be compelled to laugh out loud. I've seen this monster more than 5 times and I still get teary eyed. Interestingly the situations by themselves are only mildly funny, but the spin and nuance the actors/actresses apply to their characters transforms what could have been ever so much more lame into over-the-top hilarity. There is magic in this movie. You feel it and sense the great fun the cast had doing it. This movie gels in every way. The same thing was attempted in 'Porky's 2' and seemed forced - which translated into a rather lame follow-up.Not for the easily offended or naive. Ultimately the driving force for nearly everything in the plot is sex. Yes, there's nudity but it doesn't get past a high PG-13 or low R, IMO. Also of interest is there doesn't seem to be an abundance of foul language. Oh, it's here alright but it seems appropriate and not gratuitous or indulgent.I'm not going to even cite examples from this movie. It would take too long and you're better off just going out and viewing it. Even if I told you what happens it wouldn't spoil a thing anyway - and that is what makes this an all-time classic. In fact, 'Porky's' is a lot like sex - if you do it once you'll eventually do it again. Worth repeated viewings!! Do it and do it again. "},{"Title":"Outrageous Fun","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A bunch of high school students, after just one thing, p*ssy, p*ssy and more p*ssy get caught up in a whole lot of trouble. On an outing to a nightclub called Porky's, desperate to get Pee Wee (Dan Monhan) Laid, the owner with the help of his brother, the local sheriff, embarrass them and rip them off and leave them p*ssed off and horny.The Lads plot their revenge, and implement a plan to destroy the nightclub, but what happens to Pee Wee that's his last chance, isn't it? Great Fun, and i, for one can't wait for the remake.7/10 "},{"Title":"Proverbial American Humor","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everyone who has ever seen this movie seems to remember it in great detail. Chuck Porky Mitchell is an action figure that will always be remembered by the audience for his very real portrayal of a river entrepreneur. This is a movie you will NOT forget. It is a peoples movies, not for the faint of heart. It borders on being an Art Film. The photographic quality of this move alone sets it apart from most other films. It appears to have been shot on real locations, not in a studio lot. The signage on Porky's establishment is eye catching and cleverly portrays what he is offering to an adoring adult male public. If you are a ballet fan or a classical music fan, you will doubtless NOT want to view this film. If you are a Red Stater politically, you will find this movie to be a must see - several times at least. It embodies the spirit of the Television Series Happy Days, except with a bit more edge, especially regarding the moral climate in which shotgun weddings were in vogue. It is one of those FEEL GOOD movies that has a mostly happy ending and makes the viewer crave more. And there are two EXCELLENT follow ups. "},{"Title":"A good way at losing your naivety...!!!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw PORKY'S at a time when my fellow school pupils seemed to be one up on me when it came to matters of nocturnal pleasure. I was a late developer, certainly when it came to girls as a whole and I have to admit that I probably would have been a lot like Pee Wee in being foolish around sex. As it stands, PORKY'S is a great teen movie and one which clearly inspired the likes of AMERICAN PIE in terms of teen stupidity. As with the more recent movie, the plot is slight, but enables some memorable moments to occur, which will remain unsaid here and you can't help but root for the boys as they are shortchanged by the venue of the title...... "},{"Title":"funniest movie I have ever seen","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Porky's was the funniest movie I have ever seen. I liked it because they are all friends playing tricks on each other. I mean, who doesn't do that. I have always played tricks on my friends. It made me laugh. That's why I enjoyed it so much. Laughing is my most favorite thing to do. I'm 28 and still playing tricks. I love to laugh. All the characters made me laugh. I like comedy. And this movie made me laugh the most. This is funnier than American Pie. That's only my opinion. I laughed throughout the whole movie. I still watch it. It's fun to joke around with your friends. I loved this movie. It still makes me laugh and have a good time. My dad loves this movie. It's just a bunch of teenagers playing tricks on each other. It's the greatest! "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Honestly, it is. I don't have a problem with low-brow, gross-out humor, but I expect a movie to have at least one redeeming quality - a likable character, an unpredictable plot, good one-liners, or, at the very least, funny jokes. Porky's has none of those; every character is a flat and familiar caricature, every joke can be anticipated thirty minutes in advance, and there's no motivation to root for or care about anybody. It may indeed be the ultimate teen sex comedy in that it adheres to every possible clich to the letter. If you want a hilarious comedy centered around horny young people doing dumb things and trying to get laid - compare and contrast Animal House, released only four years before. That's a real comedy. Porky's is real trash. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this film because my mum recommended it as funny.  I watched it and thought i wish id have been in that movie. It must have been so much fun to film the cast are all hillarious and the mischievous characters are amazing. Tommy Turner one word - phoaw - Billy, Brian and Mickey joint second and the rest of the gang joint third.  The humor in this is way beyond any young comedy i've ever seen, sure Scary Movie and such like are funny but this is pure humor, not ripping off or following the ideas of someone else, this film is original, with the best cast to do the amazing side splitting comedy justice.  Anyone who doesn't find this film funny needs their heads reading. "},{"Title":"A true comedy classic","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the greatest comedies ever made! Porky's is an absolute joy to watch full with extremely funny gags and wonderfully rude set pieces including that legendary shower scene which has to be seen to be believed. This film just puts modern rip-offs such as American Pie to shame with it's unrivaled hilarity. Wonderful! If you have never seen this brilliant film then you haven't lived. This is one of the most enjoyable films that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"who can beats porky,s","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Always i find my self attached to this movie even after 25 years of seeing it and still the scene of the incriminating mole in the principal office for me is the climax of the movie , which i keep repeating on and on , and i still laugh out loud . No wondering that this movie is one of the gems of the eighties . and the movie is full of smart scenes and how to make life so funny , so worth of living with spirit . no body should miss it . funny enough in this movie that most actors and actresses couldn't make it in large caliber movie business except may be for kim catrral ( miss honeywell). some of them died . for other movies one would remember the sure thing , though in different scale , revenge of the nerds . but porky would bypass the animal house even ,in this category . "},{"Title":"Too puerile, even for me.","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A group of horny high-school pals visit Porky's, a redneck bar in the Everglades, where they have heard that they can pay to get laid. After they are ripped-off by the bar's obese owner and his brother, a corrupt sheriff, the friends decide to take revenge.Porky's was one of the first American teenage sex comedies to be a major hit at the box office, but I find its success rather perplexing. As a coming-of-age story, I think the film works well enough the nostalgic setting and strong sense of camaraderie is certainly appealing, while the bitter feud between the teens and the Everglades rednecks, and a subplot that deals realistically with the issues of racism and family violence adds drama to proceedings. I do, however, find the film's raunchy antics nowhere near as funny as its characters, and director Bob Clark, obviously think they are.The 'Mike Hunt' telephone gag which has the teens in stitches isn't that hilarious, or original, having been conceived in the mid '70s by pranksters John Elmo and Jim Davidson; the repeated jokes about penises soon become very tedious; and as much as I enjoy seeing a young Kim Cattrall without her kecks on, her 'Lassie' scene is embarrassingly bad and far too drawn out. Clark seems to think that if his characters roll around in uncontrollable fits of hysterics for long enough, it'll eventually have the audience laughing along with them. Not in my case&#x85; I just found it irritating. "},{"Title":"A jumbled mess","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's, the 1981 sex comedy, was popular among teenagers, and maybe some teens today might like it, who knows? But this movie IS NOT well made at all. The acting is so- so at best, the script is dull and poorly put together, and the characters are just stupid annoying teens who are SEX OBSESSED. I absolutely hated the characters in this movie, especially the main guy that is trying to lose his virginity. The amount of nudity and just disgustingly sexual scenes in this movie is almost shocking. For example, the shower scene where a teenage boy sticks his **** through a hole in the girls shower room, and the big female teacher comes and just grabs it! Eww! That wasn't even funny, it was just gross! That is what porky's suffers from, it's just not funny, it's just a bunch of horny teens doing nasty things and trying to outwit some sleazy night club owner. It's boring, dull, and poorly written. There are some sex comedies that are funny, this is not one of them. 2/10 for Porky's. "},{"Title":"The first half is really bad and things don't improve that much in the second half","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first American Pie film and its subsequent sequels were the 'gross out' teen films of my generation and I have gone on to enjoy all of the main American Pie films (except the direct to DVD offerings which were all beyond awful). I was therefore surprised how much I disliked Porky's (considering the fact that the central idea from American Pie has been lifted from Porky's - the only difference is that in American Pie they make a pact to lose their virginity before Prom night). I think what made the Pie films better was that the writers seemed to make more of an effort to develop the main characters and I think for that reason it made it easier to identify with them.In Porky's rather than giving us characters we can identify with or relate to the writers give us characters that, at best we are unable to connect with, and at worst are going to end up hating. Many of the jokes in the film are crass without being funny and much of the dialogue is clumsy, irritating and unfunny. The writing is also very uneven whereby it starts out as a bunch of high school kids wanting to lose their virginity and then that concept is all but abandoned in place of gaining revenge against ol Porky himself. I can perhaps understand the change of tone as I was losing interest in their quest as well so perhaps the writers did too. This shift in tone admittedly makes the second half of the film slightly better than the first half, but it's still pretty weak - although I did find the final act quite amusing even though I could see it coming a mile off. Some people may condemn a film like Porky's for its lack of subtlety, but I think that's probably a little unfair (that's a bit like criticising a porn film for having poor acting or a lack of plot). The sign for Porky's that we see at the start is beyond suggestive, but to me much of the humour felt a little forced rather than feeling natural. The performances from the cast are variable - none of the male leads are that good and are rather forgettable. Kim Cattrall isn't given much to do in the first half, but she does have one memorable scene in the second half (she looks good here too). Nancy Parsons is the scene stealer in this film as the feisty PE Teacher who's aptly named Balbricker.Ending on a positive note there were a couple of scenes that I did enjoy; the shower scene with Balbricker was funny as was the aftermath of the event. The prank call to the diner was quite funny as well even though I'd heard the joke before. Porky's is more than likely where the creators of The Simpsons got their idea from with Bart's prank calls to Moe. All in all Porky's isn't completely terrible, but there are nowhere near enough laughs to warrant the running time. I can (and have) watched The American Pie films (particularly the first 3 films) over and over again, but I can safely say that watching Porky's once was more than enough for me. "},{"Title":"Before American Pie, there was Porky's","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's 1954 Angel Beach, Florida. Pee Wee Morris is the butt of the jokes. Meat is the muscle bound friend. Tommy Turner and Billy McCarty take the guys for a night out with Cherry Forever. Then they play a prank on them and Pee Wee ends up running home naked. Redneck friend Mickey Jarvis suggests going to Porky's. The boys get embarrassed by Porky and his sheriff brother. Back in school, Tim Cavanaugh picks on Jewish Brian Schwartz. Tim has anger issues from his biker father. Brian defends Tim from his father and they become friends. Billy, Tommy and Pee Wee go to peep on the girls' showers and coach Balbricker catches Tommy by the penis. Coach Brackett finds out why Miss Honeywell is called Lassie. The boys come up with a plan to take revenge on Porky. Finally Pee Wee gets his time with Wendy Williams.There was Animal House in the beginning. Porky's takes it up a notch. Some complain about the denigration of women but one of the best character in the movie is Wendy Williams. If the women are denigrated, Pee Wee is the most ridiculed of them all in the movie. It is rude and crude and a harbinger of things to come. Also it's the friendships that make the movie great. The cast has great fun chemistry together. "},{"Title":"Maybe I watched it at the wrong age","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's isn't at all what I was expecting, and that's the real disappointment. Part of the reason is that it's Bob Clark, and that movie's not nearly as funny as A Christmas Story. Along with that, the VHS box (saw it a lot as a kid) left me to believe there'd be a lot more nudity than there really is (a surprising deficiency). For a horny teen comedy, there have to at least be some hot chicks, right? All we get is a shower scene full of breasts. One scene. Seriously? It does have Kim Cattrall, but she's criminally underused, even at that point in her career. But what's the point of aiming at the sex-crazed teen crowd if you're running short on tits? At least supplement it with decent comedy.4/10 "},{"Title":"Tame for today's standards.","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember in junior high the shock and excitement about Porky's! The forbidden pleasure concept is out of date. With internet porn, cable, every other sex comedy trying to out do the other with toilet humor Porky's is tame and or lame by today's standards. The nudity and pranks/stunts are used in mainstream comedy. (ie The Hang Over) Even a few of the concepts would never be used with today's 24 7 cable news, with sexual predators, hazing incidents etc. Anyone peeking in the girls showers in today's environment would be a candidate for intense counseling. The male bonding, and pranks of the 1980's are of a gone by era, where a hand shake after a fist fight was common. I like the music, and had a few cheap laughs from Porky's which was low story line. The story-line of messing with Porky got across as lame for anyone who remembers the, sinister, Harlan DeGroat character from Out of the Furnace movie. Overall six Porky's out of ten. "}{"Title":"It's better than the sequels","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A grubby but mildly entertaining comedy whose target audience is its own characters, a crowd of horny teenagers whose quest to get laid leads them into the titular strip club and a feud with its owner. They're not a particularly likable bunch, but the fun they have rubs off; their constant laughter is infectious, particularly during the scene in which the girls' gym coach tries to explain her plan to identify a student by his 'tallywhacker' while the guys in the background are helpless with laughter. Genuinely funny gags are thin on the ground, however, as are decent performances, although a couple sneak through the slimy tone and gratingly juvenile humour. Best viewed before you're old enough to get your hands on real porn. "},{"Title":"Folly of youth.","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A film from my youth that I will never forget for various reasons. Looking at it now, years later, it still has a certain charm, like a tribute to true folly of youth. And it even contains a few lessons in manners to some, if you will - but most of it's just adolescent hormone-driven fun and I can't help but appreciate it just about enough. The Lassie-scene is classic, the cabin-in-the-woods sequence just as much, and it actually goes on for a while, but i'll stop at Beulah trying to get a 'tallywhacker' line-up together, with the men laughing right beside her.The acting may not be the best, but it's all done enthusiastically and it seems to have been as much a blast for the cast at the time as it was for me back then to watch. Back in those days I'd given it a much higher rating, but 6 out of 10 from this old sod will do today. "},{"Title":"Porky's","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this film reminds me of what it was like growing up a bit. I know it will reveal my age now.. well on to the movie,, Porky's came out when I was 12. so 30 years later I watched it again, I still love everything about this movie,, all of the locker room gags.. the hole cut out in the wall of the women's shower room,, the female teacher who grabs the boys willy and tries to yank it out of the hole.. I liked the whole idea of the bar set out in the Everglades in the middle of nowhere, the character of Porky himself,, that was something else,, the way he and the other roughnecks at the bar , treated those poor kids,, just trying to get laid.. one of the kids keeps going back and back for more punishment, poor thing just keep returning getting beat up time after time.. well the boys decide they finally had enough and they all set out to Porky's one last time,, you will have to watch and see what happens,, it's definitely a heck of a ride. "},{"Title":"80's Classic to me,","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First Time I saw this movie was 6 years ago and it was not TV, I actually shocked that never heard even seen this movie before. I was in my bed night ready for bed, I did movie started, I could not stop laughing at all (This 12am , everyone else in house was sleep) I did wake them laugh my Head off. I found the whole movie funny from start to end, Yes some these Joke can ready rude at times. I yet this movie dose some very mild nudity scenes, which not on for too long. The acting was great from whole cast, I can't believe I saw this movie SO late in life. Next Day I brought this on DVD back to Back with Porky's 2 10 out 10 "},{"Title":"This movie is for the pigs. Oink! Oink!","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The American pie of the 1980'S, and like American Pie (1999) somewhat unfunny. But this Bob Clark movie isn't American at all, it's an Canadian film, so Porky's can be classed as one of the highest-grossing Canadian film of all time in Canada's domestic box office, with over the total of $111Million CDN. Set in the 1950's, the film charts the usual round of high school jerks who's sole purpose in life is getting laid with seems more trouble than it's worth. There was just something smug and smarmy about their attempts to have sex that makes you wish that they get what deserves for their pre-adolescent actions. The actors don't even look like they belong in high school nor does they look like they should be allow to be on school grounds with such stalking and pervert like actions. If this was a real life, their actions would have leaded to criminal convictions and require them to register as sex offenders for the rest of their lives. I don't like films that glorifies their actions. The adults in this film are not better. For somebody running a school in high school in Eisenhower Conservatism America, their principal makes light of the boys actions. To make matters worse, the two male gym teacher are not making it any easier by snickering to themselves. It is simply a teen exploitation film put together by a bunch of adults with actors in their early twenties pretending to be high school kids and adults being children. It's hard to sympathize with them with all the unappealingly misogynistic and vile. You want them to get hurt by the end. It doesn't matter, if it's the girl's school shower room antics, where one of the gang actually gets a lot more than he bargained for or Porky's nightclub who humiliates the kids and steal their money. This movie is so raunchy, but it's less about sex, but more about revenge against the people that does them, wrong. Most of the movie is trying to get revenge against Porky's nightclub. There is a sub plot saying that people of different religions and beliefs need to more understanding. Wow, that's seems out of place. Was this thrown in to make it socially relevant? It's doesn't help the movie when its show cast more nudity, than social tolerance. There is a lot of nudity, both male and female. Sadly sex sells, even if the jokes are awful. The T&A doesn't titillate as much now as it did then, but you can still imagine teen boys laughing hysterically the first time they watch it. It's not what one would call a deep or engrossing movie though. It lacks the complexity and genius of an Animal House or American Graffiti. Both based on 1950's teenager sex-life. The movie has two familiar characters that audience will remember most, which are Edward Pee Wee Morris (Dan Monahan) who is the funniest of the group, despite being a one dimension character. Pee Wee is so named because of his little man part, and inability to score. Another would be Coach Beulah Balbricker (Nancy Parsons) who borderline cartoony with her butch female coach look. Another note character would be Kim Cattrall as Miss Honeywell. Miss Honeywell earns her legendary nickname of Lassie, the description of the wanted poster for the male private part. Don't get me wrong, I have an sense of humor, but overall, this film a sexist and primitive film, whom never either condones or rejects their behavior. I just can't watch this film any more than once. Unfortunately it spawned 2 bad sequels as well. Not worth it, in my watch list. "},{"Title":"Pork this","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's deserves to be credited as a good teen comedy. Many years before American Pie came along, this little treasure did. The actors here, most who never went on to anything, are so good and damn believable, they simply melt into their characters. Sadly one actor, Wyatt Knight, a.k.a. Tommy Turner, the impish teen who was always at war with Ms Beulah Ballbreaker, the overweight female soccer coach, topped himself last year as suffering from some cancer. One guy, pee wee (Dan Monahan) the laughing butt of his friends, wants so desperately to get laid, one classic hoax scene near the start of the movie, has him scared out of his wits, running down a highway, naked. He even has a penis chart he keeps tabs on. At the advice of one of their friends, where his own advice nearly gets him half dead, they head to this bordello out in the Florida glades run by fat corrupt owner, Porky, who's brother runs the sheriff house next door, just as corrupt. Porky's promising them a night to remember, rips them off, the most cheesed off of the boys, Mick (Roger Wilson?). The Sheriff even smashes up Mick's car a little, to stretch his warning, to never return. Mick goes back and back, obsessed with getting even with Porky, the second time, the most dramatic, with him ending up in the hospital, so a certain revenge awaits, as the boys of Angel Beach with a help from authorities (Mick's brother a cop) get revenge, two fold and pee wee finally gets laid. Porky's is not all a comedy. It has a little drama, where a little is to be said about racism too. One of the new kids, Brian, a Jewish boy, isn't accepted by one of the mob, Steve, because of this. But we see why. Steve's dad, a real piece of .... has drummed it into him as well as his fists where he's a regular punching bag of his Dad's. Porky's is better than a lot of sex comedies, whether it's Up The Creek, Where The Boys Are, or the unbelievably cheesy and degrading, Screwballs. It's a sex comedy on a higher plane of worth, dealing with real characters and real issues. The eye peeking scene through the girls shower block is funny, but what will really crack you up, so much, you almost feel like you're having a heart attack is the next one. Ms Beulah Ballbreaker, such a miserable so and so, who pulled onto something she shouldn't of, is describing to the small and gawky principal, 70's, in great length the incident, but more so her plan of strategy which has the three basketball coaches in the background, in fits of laughter as this scene will have you. It's one of the funniest scenes in movie history. One head, drowning in a bowl of chili scene, may put you off it for good, plus witness the world's biggest rubber, that fits perfectly over Pee Wee's head. "},{"Title":"a bona fide comedy classic, the American pie of the 80's","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" as a teen sex comedy porky's is miles above the rest, in fact the only movie too touch it was 1999's American pie. everything about this movie is brilliant, its truly hilarious, the set pieces, the dialogue, all the cast are brilliant, and the script while not art, for what it is, is very well written. following the antics of a group of sex obsessed teens from angel beach high, we follow them on all kinds of hilarious escapades, i could just tell you all about the funniest parts, but why, if you haven't seen it, i don't want to give anything away, the main lead though 'pee wee' is one of the funniest characters in any comedy, and his misadventures are laugh out loud hilarious, as are all the other character like 'meat' 'tommy' 'billy' 'brian' 'wendy', and unlike most teen comedies of the 80's they seem like real people, talking like real people, a must see comedy i highly recommend "},{"Title":"More than just a teen sex comedy","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The well-remembered PORKY'S was the American Pie of its day, a sequel-spawning popular hit about a group of male students and their encounters with the opposite sex. Seen today, it's a film that hasn't dated too much, which may be due in part to the clever decision to set it in the 1950s (much like GREASE).Obviously, sex and nudity play a part in the film, but it all feels underplayed and no longer shocking, especially in comparison to the latest gross-out humour filling the multiplexes. The jokes are tame and the emphasis isn't on titillation but rather humour stemming from the libidos of the central characters. The surprise is that this is actually an entertaining, well thought out movie with a heart. It addresses coming-of-age issues and it looks at racism, revenge and familial abuse in a matter-of-fact way that many an '80s teen film aspires to. Kudos to director Bob Clark (BLACK Christmas), seemingly at home in any genre. "},{"Title":"Growing pains","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The years of the last Eisenhower administration loom large in this story about a group of teenagers in high school that, at the time it was released, caused quite a stir by its irreverent dialogue and situations not shown in a typical film directed to that age group. The students from Angel Beach, Florida, were addicted to sex in whatever way they could get it. They get inventive in ways that some of their contemporaries never thought possible.On second viewing, Bob Clark's 1982 Porky's, still packs a punch in the way the people depicted went about their salad days getting into all kinds of problems. The frank talk in the film will turn off, and may be offensive to a lot of viewers. Mr. Clark captures the mentality of the times vividly, right down to the way most of these kids viewed their lives, and that of others.Nancy Parsons made a mean coach Balbricker. Kim Cattrall, who went to bigger and better things, and Kaki Hunter, one of the trashiest teens ever seen on a film, are good. Dan Monahan, Scott Colomby, Susan Clark, Alex Karras, and the rest of the large cast do fine work for Bob Clark. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly important","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's really isn't a very good film, if one is to be brutally honest.But it is an important film because it created a template for horny teen high school comedies which has been followed by many movies since.If it wasn't for Porky's, there would be no American Pie, which IS a good film (I'm not talking about the sequels or the other films which carry the American Pie brand).And Porky's itself has some pleasing elements - the 1950s setting rings true, and there are decent performances from Dan Monahan and Kaki Hunter, not to mention an entry for Kim Cattrall (by which I mean an entry into her movie career, what did you think I meant?). "}{"Title":"Robert Clark (In Memorial)","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Film director Bob Clark, best known for the holiday classic A Christmas Story, was killed with his son Wednesday in a head-on crash with a vehicle that a drunken driver steered into the wrong lane, police and the filmmaker's assistant said.His breakout success came with this film.It is Florida in the 50s and Pee Wee (Dan Monahan) desperately wants to get laid. His friends arrange trip to Porky's, a redneck sleaze joint built over a mangrove swamp (a sad disappearing thing in Florida).Check out Boyd Gaines' pursuit of Sex and the City's Kim Cattrall; and the scenes with Ms. Ballbreaker (Nancy Parsons. Robert Clark directs a well-paced film which also includes a glimpse of ethnic prejudice and class difference. Sure, it's crude humor focusing on penises and getting laid, but it's harmless fun. "},{"Title":"A must watch guy comedy","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first watched this film my senior year in high school, and it remains one of my favorite movies of all time.The movie is about some high school friends who try to have sex and also get into a 21+ strip club called Porky's. When they do get in they are kicked out by the owner and plan a revenge to get back at Porky.This movie is full of stereotypes (Meat, the jock, Wendy the town slut, Brian, the Jewish teenager who knows how to fight, Pee Wee, the guy who all he wants is to have sex, etc).This movie has some of the funniest scenes I have every seen. I had to pause the movie while I was watching it, because I laughing so hard I was crying. This movie is must for all guys to watch. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"It's like getting surrounded by tallywhackers","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are certainties in life. One of those certainties is that a guy getting his genitals stuck somewhere (or to be more precise, anywhere) is always funny. Throw in a fat woman and you have yourself a movie. Some might find this stuff low-brow and repulsive and I'll throw them a bone, it is. But they keep leaving out that it's really effing hilarious and incredibly entertaining. This old underdog story has been done millions of times, but these guys make it work so well. I suppose that's largely thanks to the clever writing which shows some depth when it's called for, but then quickly goes back to stuff about Mike Hunt. The contrast between the good guys and the bad guys is really textbook but hey, I wouldn't want it any other way. This is just the epitome of teen sex comedies. Many have tried to copy it, but this thing is pretty close to perfection. One of the most awesome things ever created. "},{"Title":"Decent First Effort for a New Sub-Genre","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's kicked off the teen-sex comedy sub-genre that led to so many classic 80s movies and the recent American Pie series. Generally speaking, the first of something won't be the best as filmmakers learn as they go along, and this is no exception.Porky's revolves around a group of high school boys in the 1950s and their attempts to get laid. These attempts bring them to Porky's, where Porky rips them off and humiliates them, then it's time for revenge.Strangely, this is a period comedy that makes almost no jokes about the era in which it's set. The first time I watched it, I didn't even realize it was set in the 1950s. I just figured everyone was driving classic cars.There's some nudity here, though not as much as in its spiritual successors.Like those, it's as much about situational humor and awkward situations as titillation.Overall, the joke density is a little low by modern standards and the more serious subplots are somewhat questionable, but the scene in the girl's shower is priceless. And no one ever gets tired of revenge. In the end, a decent comedy.  "},{"Title":"Crass but funny","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A group of horny high school students in the '50's plot revenge on the owner of a nightclub/cathouse who humiliated them.  Okay, I realize that reasonable, sensitive adults are not supposed to like this tacky, low-class film, whose huge box office success spurred a wave of terrible rip-offs that linger to the present day.  (American Pie anyone?)  However, I must give this film the nod since it did make me laugh out loud, which is more than I can say for a lot of the more acceptable politically-correct comedies.  Director Bob Clark's film output consists of a positively schizophrenic series of highs and lows.  This is one of the highs. "},{"Title":"Classic Farce","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     (Possible Small Spoilers)   I cannot believe how many people here are downing this film. It is flat-out hilarious! Maybe it's generational prejudice on my behalf I was sixteen when this one first hit the theaters. This was THE movie everybody my age needed to see. Forget John Hughes, Bob Clark's Porky's was definitive to us as Animal House was to our older brothers and sisters.       It strikes me as funny to keep reading references to the actors in this film as a bunch of Unknowns. They aren't unknown; they're the cast of Porky's, darnit, they're icons! What's more, the characters they create here are distinct, appealing, and funny. Sometimes it's better to use actors who are a little bit older, and therefore wiser, than the types they are spoofing.   People deride this movie's trashy story line. Comedy is designed to depict humans in their baser states of being. If Porky's is nothing more than a low-budget, low-brow farce, well shoot, that's all it was meant to be. Desperation is the key element of farce. A bunch of teenage boys who desperately want to get laid is a situation both timeless and humorous.   Sure, this is mostly a guy's film, and it definitely objectifies women. But women went to see this movie and laughed at the mostly-male antics. They received equal opportunity to view the men on-screen in an objectifying manner, too, since most of the guys in the movie shed their clothes at one point or another.      Filming people who are laughing at their own jokes is not always funny. But the scene in the Principal's office where the three phys-ed coaches are desperately trying not to laugh while Miss Balbricker states her case against Tommy Turner is perfectly executed and side-splitting. Even President Eisenhower agrees!   It'd be funny if Hollywood spent a fortune re-making a movie that was made this cheaply, and got it all wrong this time around. I must be getting old, because I can't see any reason why anyone wouldn't just want to enjoy the original.                   "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  PORKY'S is no NATIONAL LAMPOON'S ANIMAL HOUSE.  Not even FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH.  But it is what it is, and that's a funny, kinky, wild comedy, and it's carved out its own niche in comedy cinema.Basically, the plot centers around four or five high school boys in the 1950's who are desperate to get laid.  There's a few subplots here and there, involving everything from the titular strip joint to anti-semitism, but basically the movie is a showcase for gags involving the boys getting into various misadventures involving their johnsons.There's the famous shower scene, which starts as a gratuitous excuse to show a half dozen naked girls, but then turns into a side-splittingly funny slapstick masterpiece.  There's the infamous Lassie scene, in which a young, hot and bare-bottomed Kim Cattrall demonstrates why she's nicknamed after the world's most famous canine.Unlike a lot of raunch comedies which try to excuse their excessive crudeness by throwing in some sort of socially redeeming subject matter, writer/director BOB CLARK handles the semi-serious aspects of the movie with surprising ease, smoothly fitting them into the rest of the story.If you haven't seen PORKY'S, then check it out.  Long before AMERICAN PIE was this gross-out comedy.  And, in my opinion, it's far more outrageous than anything within the last few years.  Nice to see a handful of male actors who aren't too chicken to show their manhood either! "},{"Title":"The first raunchy high school comedy","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky'swas the first raunchy teen comedy,Animal Housewas the first raunchy college comedy andAmerican Graffitiwas the first coming-of-age teen comedy.All of them are great.I remember watchingPorky'sseveral times on HBO in the 80's,this movie was very funny but kinda weak compared to gross-out movies of today's standards,alaAmerican Pie,Mallrats(The smartPorky's),andRoad Trip,but is still a classic.Kim Cattral is so hot in this movie as usual,and Don Monahan has great comedic acting skills,he should of been a huge star.Porky's is one of the all-time classic teen movies.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Porky's kicks ass","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's kicks ass, though being so antifindus... We at FindusClub would like to be like 'em, but we can't... help us! )Anyway, we found this movie quite funny and brutal, and, why deny it, that's what we are looking for when watching a film on TV, don't we? Cheers, and be pure! "},{"Title":"The Epitome of '80's T & A Flicks","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This whole franchise is great for what it is  gratuitous sex and hi-jinx with a group of friends.  If you view it for that reason, Porky's is a very entertaining movie.  I always thought it would be nice if they did one of them in college, but anything beyond a third installment of a movie is usually trash. "}{"Title":"Classic teenage comedy with that extra special touch of sexual flavor","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's will forever go down as the ultimate teenage movie that came out of the 1980's. The movie has the perfect combination of comedy and sexual situations. Kim Cattral's scene in the boy's locker room is still embedded in my mind to this day. "},{"Title":"Funny for it's time!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This flick was a classic. No morals here for sure. Sad but funny. Dan Monahan was very funny as Pee Wee. Meat, oh please! The gym scenes, Miss Balbricker grabbing things, oh please! Very farfetched but funny. Sadly, most of the story dealt with the pressure Pee Wee felt about getting laid. As if getting laid makes would make him a man and give him confidence. Any High School flick always generates thoughts of when we were all in school.  When this film came out I was in High School myself and so was my wife. As a matter of fact, Dan married my wifes cheerleading coach, and voted for my wife to be a cheerleader at cheerleader tryouts! Yes, she's a fox! Flamio....... "},{"Title":"Good raunchy fun","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A down and dirty comedy filled with pranks of all kinds. A group of guys in the late 50's or 60's trying to get laid is what the film is about. Not much substance, but one of the funniest movies ever and with a few memorable characters. Belongs in everyone's movie library. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest teen-age movies ever!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although I am NOT familiar with the sequels to the movie, PORKY'S is by far one of the greatest teen-age sex farce movies ever.  All I have to say is that it was a major inspiration for Kevin Smith (of Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma fame) and is still a major influence in the lives of teenagers today.  From what I've read about Kevin Smith, MALLRATS was an attempt to bring back that entire attitude about film making and making movies that critics will probably hate but those that kids will love more. If you are a lover of 80s movies, do yourself a HUGE favour and rent this movie because it is wonderfully incredible.  "},{"Title":"The one that really started it all!!!!!!!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now, I saw American Pie and thought it was one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. There's only one problem....... it's only, in my opinion, a nineties version of Porky's!This movie is the teen practical-joke movie by which all others are judged!! It is simply the wackiest movie I ever saw. For those of you who have not yet seen it, WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU WAITING FOR!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"funny as hell!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's is a blast to watch and it's unique. The characters, most notably Pee Wee and Meat, are guys that YOU would wish to hang around with at school.  10 stars! "},{"Title":"N1 comedy of all times.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can the people vote an average of 5.5 on this movie?. Its not fair. I propose everyone to watch it again (I saw the 3 Porkys movies more than 4 times) and then re-vote, because this movie deserves better ratings. Now you will think this movie is offensive and its sexual content is too much for me. Even if you are 90 years old, dont tell me you didnt think of doing (or didnt do) what Pewee and friends do in this film because I dont believe it. Now, look at Porkys again; now pay attention to a pair of scenes in it that are antological the one in the girls shower-room (I cant describe it, you have to see it with your own eyes), and the one that comes after it (the gym professor telling the school director what happened in the shower-room). And I can count more like them. I think this movie is worth a look (and then some).It is hilarious and addictive (just read the other user comments about it). I dont understand why there were no more Porkys; they are essential to my mind and for everyones too. So please you people be more open-minded. I give this excellent film an 8.5 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"An imperative watch for all teenagers","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I saw the rating for Porky's was a mid 6, a realization occurred to me. I came to the conclusion that almost everyone who has voted for this movie is either a girl, or an old man with a sense of humor that involves watching reruns of Gomer Pyle.  All young guys that watch this movie that I know love it, because we all can identify with it.  If there was a teen imdb,  this movie would be a high 9.  Shazaam! "},{"Title":"A Comedy full of Humerous Pranks!","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's is a great comedy full of laughs and humorous pranks.  I literally laughed my socks off as I watched this movie from beginning to end.  Mostly sexual humor, the movie has some of the best pranks I've ever seen.  A delight to watch. "},{"Title":"Not funny, not raunchy, not good","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's is a coming-of-age movie. The teenage boys the story focuses on think coming-of-age is just about seeing naked girls and, if at all possible, having sex with them. So we follow this band of horny young men on their quest to see some breasts. They go to a nightclub where love is for sale but that trip doesn't end up going according to plan. In the movie's most famous scene they spy on a group of girls in the shower. At least that leads to a pretty funny scene in which coach Beulah Balbricker, whose name tells you all you need to know, lays out her plan to identify one of the peeping Toms. Sadly, that's pretty much the only funny scene in the movie. And what the movie lacks in laughs it doesn't make up for in outrageousness. Porky's has a reputation for being wild and raunchy but it is actually rather tame. If the most outrageous thing in your movie is a scene featuring a handful of girls in a shower for a minute or two your movie is not particularly outrageous at all. So there's no laughs, no raunch, and pretty much no plot. That's not a formula for a successful teen sex comedy. Toss in the fact that supporting characters, such as the aforementioned Balbricker, are more interesting than the guys the movie actually focuses on and the movie is clearly doomed to fail. The fact that the character of Pee Wee, who is focused on most of all, is incredibly annoying certainly doesn't help matters any. The fact that the threadbare plot ultimately leads to a simply absurd climax is just the final insult. Porky's is noted for helping to launch the teen sex comedy genre. It may be among the first, it's certainly among the worst. "}{"Title":"That was then","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the early 1980's, I attended Leroy D. Feinberg, an elementary school located on Washington Avenue in South Beach (for those not familiar, if you've heard of Ocean Drive, Washington Avenue is one street over). Behind Leroy D. there was a large white building that used to be an adult school; some of our classes were held there. This building was also the set of Porky's. I was too young to see Porky's in the theater &#x96; had to wait for that all-important late-night cable sneaky-view &#x96; a staple of teenagers in Generation X. I loved what I saw, but what boy wouldn't? You talk about sex a lot, and show naked girls, any teenage boy is gonna be smiling. And I felt a connection to it because it had been filmed at my school. But recently, for fun, I've been re-watching movies that meant a lot to me as a kid. Some, like Risky Business and The Sure Thing, still hold up. Porky's, though, doesn't hold up, but it is interestingly odd.First off, they don't make them like this anymore. This kind of unabridged sex urges and casual racism doesn't fly in the PG-13 world. In many ways, these kids' (who bordered on actually being 30 when the movie was filmed!)racial attitudes are both despicable and realistic given they're supposed to be 50's era high schoolers. There's a scene at the beginning where three characters discuss the plan to hire a N-word to scare the others in a prank; yeah, two of them scold the southern boy for using the word, but it's a casual scold and then answer, yeah they got one. Their description of him is even more offensive, right down to his low-level labor-status and gold teeth. There's another scene where two of the kids tell the Jewish kid that, hey &#x96; they're sorry about the racism of their friend, but he ain't a bad guy and they gotta support him because, you know, he's their bud. The casualness of all this is shocking &#x96; the film kinda accepts it as correct &#x96; which it is, given the era the film is representing, but still. This is a comedy and it's bordering on maybe being too accurate in the worst ways.This doesn't make the movie evil, though. Bob Clark wrote and directed a slice of life film that got the reputation for being the daddy of all high school sex flicks. It is a sex comedy, but I think it's also a 50's era portrait of high school. It's not well rendered on that level, but it is that. And so Clark incorporating racism and casually dealing with it isn't offensive on that level &#x96; and to be fair to him In the end, the characters bond with the Jewish kid. He does try to come out on the right side of things.But the weirdest part of the film? It's acted and shot in a way that the majority of the characters are difficult to distinguish; if you noticed, so far I haven't named any characters, because I can't remember them. Save for Meat or Pee Wee, named for their, um, god-given abilities, it's tough to remember these characters' names. I think that has to do with the big three the writing, acting, and mainly the direction &#x96; unlike most films aimed at teenagers, Clark avoids cloying musical interludes, close-ups and punch-line dialogue &#x96; instead he films group shots with a lot of overlapping speech, offhand jokes, and laughter (have you ever seen so much on screen laughter in a movie? I haven't and I admit, it works &#x96; it does make a lot of scenes seem funnier, especially the tally-whacker inspection scene). If you think about it, either Clark's techniques here are unexpectedly arty or incompetent and make the film uninvolving on a character level (probably both). It's a slow film, too, with often telegraphed from a mile away jokes that still many times hit, somehow (case in point the screamer. Who couldn't see the joke coming &#x96; Clark takes forever to get to it and yet, it does end up getting some chuckles.) Outside of those chuckles, though, what's left for a modern audience to enjoy? Not much. It's a raunchy comedy with a slow pace, little music, and remote, often boring personalities played by actors who look like they're in grad school rather than high school; it contains casual racist and sexist attitudes that are bound to un-funnily offend because they aren't underlined and loudly pronounced bad. The Regan Era was the last time that the 50's could not only be romanticized, but tolerated. That era of segregation and conformity has passed us by, thankfully(it had cool cars, though). Rock n'Roll was a sign, as were the Beats, that something was off in this decade for so many, and no matter how much Regan wanted to paint the 50's as the perfect America, he was bound to fail; nostalgia for this decade worked from the early 70's into the 80's because of all the strife going on, but eventually, I think people realized or remembered a lot of that strife happened because of the 50's way of thinking. Porky's was a Regan Era film thru and thru which ironically, he would have hated. But nowadays, like the 50's itself, it seems racist, sexist, and a little slow. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We follow a bunch of high school kids through a period in their puberty. Their lives mainly consist of watching the girls in the shower and making life a living hell for their teachers and for each other. The movie is packed with practical jokes and eccentric characters, like Pee Wee with the short d**k (which he measures every morning) who met up for sex with the school mattress Wendy already wearing a rubber, or the fat teaching b***h Beulah Balbricker who is determined on making life a living hell for the boys. The name Porky's is the name of a striptease bar the boys get thrown out of and humiliated in in the beginning of the movie. They have their minds set on revenge, but that's not easy as the owner's brother is sheriff. Only by forgetting their internal differences can they defeat Porky and his gang.Funny comedy, but it's not the best in comedies. Still, it's funny. Never a dull moment. Although, the script destroys a bit of this film.Rated R for Profanity and Graphic Nudity. "},{"Title":"Hilarious High School Hijinks","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's was the only chance for the sex crazed students of Angel Beach High School to satisfy their needs. Unfortunately Mr. Porky just didn't like the uppity punks from ABHS, except to rip off, beat up and just generally abuse. And thus the stage is set for the ongoing battle between the forces of horny and evil. When not waging war on Porky the students are constantly pulling all the pranks, almost always sex related, that you remember from your own high school days. Funny from beginning to end, you don't need to look for the hidden meaning, the statement being made or any other underlining truth. It is just totally straight ahead funny! Good ol' locker room humor and definitely not a movie you take your Mom to! "},{"Title":"Great Goof-off film","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really can't understand why this movie has so many detractors. I think this thing is absolutely hilarious. The actors look like they are having a blast. This is not a movie to take seriously. Think of it as a visual stand up comedy. Think back to the pranks you pulled in high school. This movie reminds me of many of the fun things I did or saw in school. Of course, the things depicted in this movie would land all the participants in jail today. A lot of the things that I did would be the same. Yet, 99% of all these things were harmless. No wonder the kids today are wound so tight. If they even look like they are having fun, the cops come. It is a light hearted movie, that captures a time when a boy could want to catch a glimpse of a girl without being labeled a sex offender.  "},{"Title":"THE FUNNIEST DAMN MOVIE IN THE WORLD!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All of the Porky's movies are the funniest that you will ever see! Its loaded with sex humor that you almost pee all over yourself for watching it. But please do not let your kids watch this movie because it is full of nudity.  I give this movie a TTTTEEEEEEEEENNNNNNNNNNN!!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome....my favorite flick","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow...i'm 17 and i saw Porky's for the first time a few weeks ago and immediately rented Porky's 2 and Porky's Revenge. It's appalling that none of the wonderful actors had good film careers after these. Dan Monahan starred as Pee wee. Tony Ganios as Meat, Roger Wilson as Mickey, Mark Herrier as Billy, and (MY FAVORITES) Scott Colomby as Brian, Cyril O'Reilly as Tim and Wyatt Knight as Tommy. Seeing these guys pull their hilarious pranks on each other and the evil Ms. Balbricker (Nancy Parsons) makes my day every time i watch it. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best of the 80s but I don't know why some users hate on this movie. Now the cast maybe not big time stars but I will pick this over any teen movies that came out of the 80s thats why we need more movies like this but some kids love the breakfast club. So I give this an ten. "},{"Title":"A really good time. Lots of laughs","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Never in any film have I wanted to laugh so much.  How this film accomplishes it, is pure Genius. For every joke you get 2 laughs! One for the joke and one for the cast laughing at it.  Laughter is contagious and no other film actually portrays laughter better then this film. Its amazing how the director got the actors to react the way they did. The gym scene shows what I'm talking about better then anything. Laughter in that scene looks so legit. If they were faking the laughs then I'm one of the many who were fooled!  Great job!! "},{"Title":"More realistic than American Graffiti or Lords of Flatbush.","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First, you have to rent this film because any funny scene will be edited on television.  The film goes into the 1950's nostalgia territory but tells the story of the regular guys not the squeeky clean geeks of American Graffiti or the greasers of Lords of Flatbush.  These are the guys you hung around with and told dirty jokes with (regardless of the decade).  The jokes here are mainly on the guys, especially with one guy named Pee Wee.  We see guys get caught literally with their pants down in various situations as they try to spy on girls in the shower or lose their virginity.  Kim Cattral is hot and the film is worth a look just for her performance (which is way to short and could have shown more skin considering the movie does feature nudity.)  "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd have to say that Porky's was the first important teen movie of the 80s. What I like most about this movie is that it didn't contain any of the trademark really deep moments of discovery and truth that laid beneath the comedy of John Hughes's movies. It was just a movie that was really funny and can probably be considered a flip-off to the really nice prim and properness that most people still associate with the 50s. After all, am I the only one who knows that Elvis's hip movements were considered so blatantly sexual during that decade that when he performed on the Ed Sullivan Show (which captured the attention of at least 60 million viewers) they filmed him from the waist up? I know the movie is anything but deep and profound, but seeing as how other teen movies like She's All That and Crossroads are nothing shy of cheesy garbage, I was thrilled to discover a teen movie which focuses on teens who are anxious to get laid. I mean, during adolescence, weren't we all so curious about sex that it almost hurt if we couldn't get so much as a small helping of it?  "}{"Title":"FOR A  HIGH SCHOOL PRODUCTION- NOT BAD","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie has all the appearances of being a class project at the local high school. Hey, I'll give this school project an A. It certainly isn't quality Hollywood material, but pretty good for a bunch of teenagers. The movie has some memorable moments. The shower scene with the beaver shots is every teen guys dream. Kim Cattrell shows her real talent. The characters are likeable and there are enough gags and goofs to keep me interested. The acting, surprisingly, isn't that bad. I'm just wondering who Mike Hunt is. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous Money Maker","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is little sense going into any story of that his movie really has a plot. The thing is humor doe not need plot. This is the tame version of Borat only it has more taste than the dictator.It made so much money that sequels were made. So like it or hate it, an American Success it is. As for why it made so much money? I can not explain.Maybe it is like JAWS - you just can not avoid going to it. There is just so much room for good taste anyhow.Put your brain in park and enjoy it. After all, most people miss their best chances at sex in their life times anyhow. So here, enjoy the funny worst chances at sex in comedy. "},{"Title":"If you are a male between 12 and 16 years old, you will love this...","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's is one movie from the 80's, I think I would have better appreciated if I saw it in the 80's. As an adult I'm not so impressed by a little nudity and lowbrow frat boy humor. This film has a lot in common with Animal House and like Animal House, this is also set in the 1950's. Even though I am not a fan of this movie, I give director Bob Clark some props as a diverse film maker. He has worked on a wide range of films from Black Christmas to A Christmas Story. A Christmas Story works much better as a period piece of the 50's and is a much better film as well. However, the two pictures are much different and that is where their similarities begin and end. Unlike many other movies that people consider to be classics, I don't think the movie aged well. Porky's as a movie is not that spectacular and while the acting performances are not bad, they are not great and do not elevate this substandard film. Plus most of the jokes are pretty dated, dumb and not funny. I can absolutely understand why critics panned this movie on its release. It is dumb. However, Porky's was a huge hit. "},{"Title":"At this point, I guess it's OK if the robots just take over","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, I know what Porky's is, a raunchy teen-sex comedy and, yes, I fully realize what the film makers intended to make. What exists, regardless of any and all intentions, is f*cking insane. Yes, like the actual kind of insane, like as in your goddamn brain. It's like, how is this a human's life? Have you seen Porky's? Were you cool with it? You weren't ever like, what the f*ck are these creatures DOING? So like the part where a bunch of high school kids buy a hooker, each boy intending to bone the hooker, like over five boys, and you were like, what,  that's normal human behavior ? For realzies? A dude shows a lady his penis to explain why his name is Meat, is that what people do? "},{"Title":"disgusting garbage.","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is not funny. It is disgusting garbage. It is sick. I can't believe people like this movie. The story line is awful. The hummer is awful. Pooh pooh thats all it is. Don't wast your money. This movie stinks. Pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh. Never see this movie. Pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh. The pretty girls can't make up for the awful hummer. Dreadful hummer. Pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh. Stinky stinky pooh. I hate comedy movies this awful. I like comedies that are funny not when there poop. Don't see this movie don't see it don't see it. "},{"Title":"Successful at its goal, but disappointing in places","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's spends more time being almost a biography of a group of teens from a small town rather than being clever and funny. Not to say it's bad, but most of the movie is a few chuckles, smiles, maybe a few memories of your adolescent years. What it boils down to is this is only funny if you've been through something like this or can recall your quest for sexual satisfaction.Even someone's strangest quest for pleasure probably wouldn't touch some of the desperation focused on in Porky's. It aims below the belt, and sometimes results in either a hilarious scene or an awkwardly thrown together one. I knew what I was getting into when I hit play, so don't accuse me of misjudging or misinterpreting this film.The plot is a group of high school boys in 1954, Tommy Turner, Edward Pee Wee Morris, Anthony Meat Tuperello, Mickey Jarvis, Billy McCarthy, and Tim Cavanaugh, are content on losing their virginity and will do it whatever way they can. They first try to go to a rundown shack at midnight in hopes to get lucky with a stripper, but end up humiliated. The next guess is to try to go to Porky's and pay for sex. This seems inches away from happening when the owner, Porky, dumps them in a swamp after taking their money. Now it becomes a quest of sex and payback.Porky's is sort of like a steam roller on a newly-tarred street. It paved the way for other teen movies (cars) to follow. It was like the leader of the pack in 1982 next to the 1978 classic Animal House. So, in its own respect, it should be recognized and someway appreciated for that.But by the time the end scene rolls around, we don't feel accomplished. Our characters certainly do, but for some reason, the movie seemed to want to focus on so much in such a little time frame. In order to do so many things with the same characters you have to first introduce them properly and give them their own chance to speak. That is done here, but the development isn't very large. I could probably write one, two sentences max on each character.I liked Kim Cattrall as the drop-dead gorgeous teacher, but wasn't very amused by the Lassie scene. I liked many of the boys and wanted to learn more about them, but didn't. Porky's has laughs and a few smiles, but not enough to recommend to someone looking for a great comedy. If someone asks me a film with screwball antics and below the belt jokes Porky's will be the first film that will come out of my mouth.Starring Dan Monahan, Mark Herrier, Wyatt Knight, Roger Wilson, and Kim Cattrall. Directed by Bob Clark. "},{"Title":"mediocre at best","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Certainly not the worst comedy I've ever seen, but there's more misses than hits here. Even though there aren't a lot of laughs, Porky's contains a couple iconic scenes (shower scene, PeeWee running naked down the road) that keep this one from being a true stinker. Tolerable after a few beers.Unfortunately, most of the jokes are old and stale or obvious with too long of a set-up. Mike Hunt may have been hilarious in 1953, but not in 1981 and certainly not today. The opening scene where the boys are naked waiting to get laid and a black guy jumps out with a knife seems to go on forever and the joke is spoiled before you even get to see it. We already know what's going to happen because they tell us and sure enough, that's exactly what happens. The film makers are violating some basic rules of comedy here.And even the much lauded scene where the two gym teachers have sex scene is likewise ruined. Gee, I wonder why they call her Lassie? Why might that be? Now having said that, a young and enthusiastic Kim Catrall saves that scene from being completely dreary.And what's the deal with the characters laughing like hyenas all over the place? There's nothing worse than someone trying to tell you a joke who can't spit it out because they're laughing so hard. Funny for them, not for you. Watching this movie, it's pretty clear that the people involved were having the time of their lives. Unfortunately that doesn't necessarily translate to a good time for the audience. "},{"Title":"The first and best of the series.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's (1982) Was the first and the best of the Porky's trilogy. The kids are always getting into trouble and trying to score. The biggest perv of the group is Pee-Wee, he's always trying to get some and he'll do anything to get it. One of the places they figure is a sleazy dive bar that's out in the boondocks. The talked about Porky's. Will this solve their problems? Nothing but madcapped adult themed humor geared towards the late teens and early adult crowd. Years later the comedy still stands the test of time. Fun stuff. Just remember, Get it, at Porky's!Fun stuff and it's highly entertaining. Kim Cattrall (who was smoking hot in this picture) makes an appearance as Lassie. A lot of Canadian actors also co-star in this feature (well, this is a Canadian production). Bob Clark also helmed the sequel Porky's 2. Funny but not a classic like the first film. Then followed but the dreadful Porky's Revenge.ACheck it out!xxx  "},{"Title":"Amateurish as it gets, but entertaining","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie with lukewarm expectations.  Sure, the film did develop a reputation, but it was basically a cult success and the critics panned it unanimously.  Well, this is in no way an intelligent comedy with sharp writing.  As a matter of fact, I found some of the jokes to be way too mean-spirited (I didn't find the torturing of nice, innocent Pee Wee to be funny at all) and I wouldn't put this in the same league as the American Pie movies.  Though both raunchy sex comedies, the AP movies have wit and the gags are delivered with fine timing and delivery.  Porky's is one of those effortless sex comedies where the actors literally laugh at themselves while delivering the gags.  There are some funny moments, but I wouldn't go as far as to call it a riot.  However, I was oddly engaged for the most part.  One reason was because I felt the boys' rage in getting back at Porky and his whole establishment.  The good ol' revenge plot can go pretty far.  But as many insults as I have about the film's writing and direction, Porky's works as a pretty good guilty pleasure.  But I don't believe it's one of the funniest sex comedies ever made.  Nor is there as much nudity as the film has a reputation for.  My score  6 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"the cornerstone of an empire of bad teen movies","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   This is probably the one that started it all the beginning of all those horrible and not so funny movies that portray every teenage adolescent as a horney sex-crazed hooligan who parties all night. One of the most insulting stereotypes ever given in a movie, and copied in stuff like the American Pie movies. At least compared to those movies, this one is hilarious. It was actually quite funny back in the eighties. The fact that this was the most high-grossing film in Canadian history even up to the new millenium is proof of how horrible the distributing in this country is. Movies like The Sweet Hereafter and Goin' Down the Road have trouble making money, but this does well? Well, to be fair their weren't many good movies in the eighties from Canada, even though there was a few in the seventies and increasingly more in the nineties. But Bob Clark has done some pretty good movies over the years, and this, although not great, is still somewhat of a landmark. "}{"Title":"Classic comedy","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, this movie wasn't as funny watching it now, as it was when it came out. A lot of comedies suffer from this, most don't have the staying power of dramas. But some of the scenes, say, the shower scene for instance, are all-time comedy classics. Now, I wasn't around in high school in the 1950's (70's for me) but it seems that most of the characters behaved like '70's people instead of '50's people. Okay, maybe the boys were much the same, but the girls? I'm thinking of the Wendy character played by Kaki Hunter. Were ANY high school girls so openly slutty back then? Anyway, Porky's belongs in everyone's collection. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Funny mixed with sex","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very funny mixed with alot of sex anyways a funny part is the shower scene when the guy is looking through the hole into the girls shower and then he sticks his penis throgh and the gym teacher walks in I give this movie 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Keep it in context and you won't be disappointed","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are looking for a cinematic masterpiece, then Bob Clark's comedy about a group of teenagers at Angel Beach High School is not for you.However, if you are like a majority of people who like a damn funny movie for pure entertainment purposes, then Porky's is definitely worth the rental or purchase price.Clark's 1981 film about Edward 'Pee Wee' Morris and his basketball buddies at Angel Beach is the quintessential teen comedy. Its raunchy, very adult in its humor and nature and hilarious, especially in the gymnasium scene.While this is not Clark's best work (see 'A Christmas Story') this is a far cry from being as awful as others believe it is. Go in expecting a laugh or two, and you will be satisfied beyond belief.7/10 "},{"Title":"Best teen  movie of the 80s","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's too bad none of the cast became big stars  like in other movies when this movie came out it change a lot of things I seen a lot of porky's rip offs like screwball and a lot of others. Now part 2 and 3 was any good but thats what happens when you trying to be greedy. "},{"Title":"''Hello,is a Mike Hunt there ?''","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Outrageous sex comedy is overly hilarious to watch.This an ADULTS only comedy.Rating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Not modern? Give me a break","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One commentator named Jerry said American Pie was more modern and teen movies came a long way since Porky's.  How so?  I'm assuming Jerry is or at the very least was a teenager 2 years ago in '99 and thus is biased towards American Pie.  Fair Enough.  I was 23 when American Pie came out 2 years ago and I thought it sucked.  I suppose if I was a teenager my opinion would have been different.  Granted, Porky's was a bit before my time as well.  I was only 5 years old when Porkys came out.  Its not like I was a teenager back then and I hold some heavy bias towards Porky's.  But Porky's is just as raunchy and I dare say even more raunchy than American Pie.  Its a common misbelief to think that as time goes by, things get more raunchy and racy. What they didn't have sex and raunchiness in 1981?  They had it all in the first century A.D. Jerry.  Now I had some similar beliefs around 1994, 1995 when I was in my teen years.   Every teenager thinks their generation is the coolest and most hip and raunchy, then another bratty generation comes along and thinks they are better.  When in reality, teenagers NEVER change. "},{"Title":"eh.....","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented the movie expecting to see something I haven't seen before. I mean, it's considered to be the raunchiest teen movie of the 80's, which it is, and it is original, but some of the scenes are so mean and inconsiderate that it really tainted the film's enjoyment. I would say it is the least satisfying of it's genre, however if you want some good laughs and have nothing to do, see the movie. 3 stars out of ***** "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On my deathbed, I will lament the loss of the two hours this piece of crap stole from me.  Because I heard so many good things about it, I continued to watch, waiting for something funny to happen.Very misogynistic and mean-spirited, this movie has few redeeming qualities. Many reviewers compare this movie to movies like 'Fast Times at Ridgemont High' and 'American Pie'.  However, those movies were actually funny and were well-acted.  If you like this genre of movie, watch those instead. "},{"Title":"Hilariously, raunchy comedy.  This is where it starts...","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm quite sure that if it hadn't been for this movie, there never would have been an American Pie or an American Pie 2.  Porky's takes us back to the good ole days when sex was EVERYTHING to a teenage boy.  That's right, some may beg to differ by saying what's changed? it's still everything.  In some ways they would be right, but this was back in a day before drugs had really taken off and the only ones smoking pot on a regular basis were jazz musicians.  The story centers on a high school virgin (PeeWee) and his buddies, their quest to get laid, and all of the hijinks and pranks that ensue.  Speaking of pranks, this has some of the BEST pranks ever put on film  PERIOD.  This fun-loving group tries EVERYTHING in their power to get laid.  When one of them suggests that they take the 70 mile journey, down to the swamps, to a legendary red-neck dive called Porky's, the group happily pile in their cars and take the trip.  When the evil proprietor, Porky himself, takes their money and humiliates the guys, it's revenge time.The movie moves along at a nice leisurely pace, but things are NEVER boring.  There is always something going on that will have you in stitches.  Whether the boys are watching the girls through a peep-hole in the shower, or Pee Wee is going on and on like he's NOT a virgin, you will be cracking up.  I really don't want to give too much away for those who haven't seen it, but I will say that this one will find a place in your collection.  I wouldn't reccomend the sequels quite as enthusiastically, but they do have their moments.  If you loved Pie or Pie 2, this is your movie. That's all I gotta say about that. "},{"Title":"Ah, this should make the heart stir","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porkys, is without doubt one of the most funniest comedies ever.Bob Clarke, my opinion has created, a timeless masterpiece, that certainly has more to offer, than the Americian pie garbage.Dan Monahan, Wyatt Knight, Scott Colomby, Nancy Parsons, Tony Ganios, Roger Wilson, Mark Herrier, and Chuck Mitchell are simply brilliant, in this comedy of extremes. Certainly not for little kids, but a definatly for the adults, this is one smart piece of work.10/10 If you haven't seen this, GO AND GET IT, you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"So much Funnier tha American pie","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now this movie hasnt dated at all.its still very funny much better than a guy who makes out with a pie.theres nudity of both sexes.not the tame stuff you get nowadays where the cast show reluctance to show anything.the film has many classic scenes and its story has a plot.unlike pie. "},{"Title":"the second best in the series","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  porky's is a funny and entertaining movie. it's kind of a sex comedy, but has a little more heart than your average sex comedy. but that doesn't mean it's better. screwballs in my opinion is the best sex comedy of all time. but porky's is good too. i give porky's *** out of **** "},{"Title":"The best teen sex comedy ever!","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Spawned from the success of ANIMAL HOUSE, PORKY'S was released in 1982 and quickly became a box office success. Now 23 years after its release, PORKY'S remains the best movie in the teen sexy comedy genre ever. Period. There is no denyting it. It started a trend that is still popular to this day. Its influence can be seen in basically every teen sex comedy that has come out since its release in 1982. Even today, PORKY'S remains one of the funniest movies ever made. Everything about this movie is great. The characters are lovable, the dialogue is well written, the dramatic scenes work perfectly, and the film captures teenage like few films have been able to. Despite its excellence and cult status, Fox has yet to give it a decent DVD release. The DVD that is currently out right now is a bare-bones release with the only special feature on the disc being the theatrical trailer. There is hope however. Fox just released the hilarious FREAKED on DVD so obviously they are paying some attention to their cult films. I can't think of a greater movie that deserves a special edition DVD. In my mind, PORKY'S truly is one of the best pictures ever made. There is nothing else like it. It is one of a kind. "},{"Title":"Juvenile, puerile and dammit just not very funny","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A group of young men are in high school and, as always, are interested in only one thing.  They go to Porky's night-club to get laid but Porky makes fools of them, takes their money and throws them out.  The boys go on with their antics but keep revenge on Porky at the back of their minds.I enjoyed American Pie and Something about Mary even though I thought they were stupid and tasteless, why?  Simply because they were funny.  So when I eventually go round to seeing this film I assumed that I'd feel the same way.  Plot barely matters here but it's worth noting that the plot of `revenge on Porky' is tagged onto the start and the end.  In between are tonnes of stupid antics round school.  This isn't a problem because who cares about the plot in these things yeah?  What matters is that it's funny.  And that's the problem for me.It isn't very funny.  It has it's moments, Balbricker demanding a penis line-up is one but that's about it.  The rest is so dumb and puerile that it isn't funny.  The antics are tired but they are very basic and show no real planning or humour.  It may be partly the fact that it almost 20 years old but still, I found it to be one of the most basic teen comedies I can remember seeing.I any of the cast went onto be stars then I certainly have never seen them.  Only Cattrall was one I knew now.  She plays a horny woman who screams like a wolf during sex &#150; the best thing about her performance was that I was amazed that she'd been typecast for about 20 years!  The rest of the cast are very average and we have the usual bunch of jocks, nerds etc having fun and learning to stand up to adult injustice etc.  It's not very inspiring at all.Overall I'm not a big fan of this type of teen comedy but I do find them funny on the whole.  Sadly this isn't very funny.  It has a couple of funny scenes or moments but really the rest is pretty thin on laughs.  There was plenty of stuff I knew should be funny but I just didn't laugh.  The Porky's stuff is mainly at the start and end and in-between feels like a run of gags that aren't joined together by anything.  Like I said- juvenile, puerile and just not that funny. "},{"Title":"What Was the Big Deal?","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I could never see what the big deal about this film was.  All it was was a bunch of horny teenagers trying to get into the ultimate redneck bar/bordello to get as much sex as they could before they graduated from high school.  This film is nothing compared to a film that came out a year later, Fast Times at Ridgemont High.  At least Fast Times had a story behind it and at least you can remember most of the actors that were in it.  Also, Fast Times could be seen as a cautionary tale whereas Porky's was all about sex and nothing but sex.  Porky's was overrated then and it is overrated now. "},{"Title":"Get it at(or lose it) at PORKY'S!!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's has a great mixture of humor, sex and yes, drama all wrapped in one libidinous flick.I like movies that are raunchy and yet have a good plot. Some scenes are more memorable than others like the locker room scene withLassie and the infamous shower scene. Others just help the story along. All in all it is a good movie about friendship, sex, relationships, and even bigotry. All of which comes full circle. It is too bad they ruined a better than average movie with two bad sequels.I was only 13 when I was actually Allowed to see this movie and I liked it for all the obvious reasons. "},{"Title":"Soft-porn for high school kids -- VERY dated!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's did for high school kids what Animal House did for twenty-somethings. At 15 we might get a few thrills out of peeking into a girls' shower room at the gym, or at a bench-full of naked horny jocks awaiting their first time (even if it's with a raunchy hooker). Once you graduate high school you tend to move on to better comedy with less emphasis on t&a and all the trimmings.Set in late 50s Florida (total redneck country), our team of frustrated heroes set out to see first-hand what all the fuss is about regarding the notorious Porky's, a breeding ground for gambling, under-age drinking and of course prostitution. -- If you like those ideas, along with a long line of dirty (and practical) jokes, you will love this movie! As a middle-aged, experienced movie-goer, I would consider Porky's to be among my last choices (if given a variety to pick from). For kids of all ages (especially 12-15 year old boys), this comedy will always be a welcomed delight! "},{"Title":"Unspeakably Vulgar.  I Loved It!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some fifteen years ago, my then-teenage nephew coaxed my sister into renting this for him and after dinner we plunked it into the VCR. Ten minutes later my mother declared it UNSPEAKABLY VULGAR and stomped out of the room while uttering dire warnings about the fate of those who exposed themselves to such puerile material. Well, Mother was right it is puerile, maybe even to the point of being unspeakably vulgar! But it's also a lot of fun.The plot is lightweight a group of sex-crazed Florida high school boys desperate to lose their virginity try to do precisely that by visiting Porky's, a swamp-water red-neck brothel and general den of iniquity. When they get robbed and beaten up by Porky and his minions, they plot an elaborate revenge that is... well... sure to bring down the house!The plot is really just the string that holds together a series of elaborate practical jokes--the sort of jokes you always heard about when you were a kid and wondered if any one ever really could pull them off. The largely no-name cast, especially Dan Monahan (Pee Wee, so named for his, er, shortcomings), Kaki Hunter (Wendy, the high school floozie), and Nancy Parsons (Beulah Balbricker, the Godzilla of girls' gym teachers), play it with an engagingly light touch--and somehow manage to give it an aura of innocence that adds to the movie's charm.The film drags a bit due to the script's well-intentioned but ho-hum subplot concerning the racism a Jewish boy encounters at Angel Beach High School, but that aside the comic episodes are a laugh riot--and it's impossible to describe them without giving the fun away. There's Cherry Forever, the discovery of why Miss Honeywell is called Lassie, the truly hilarious and infamous girls' shower scene and its aftermath in the principal's office... just one after another, thick and fast. It will never make any critic's shortlist, but if you're looking for mindless lunacy done with a youthful innocence, PORKY'S may just be the film you're looking for. The DVD has near-zip in the way of extras, and although it is offered here in pan-and-scan there are widescreen prints available. Recommended for that rainy afternoon when you want to remember what you wished your teenage years were like!Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Porky's","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sex comedy set in the 1950's with a bunch of  horny male high schoolers out to score, any way  way they can. It's all sex humor, but the film works and has loads of fun along the way. A fun appearance from Catrall. Followed by a sequel in 1983.  "},{"Title":"yeeech","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the distant future, historians and archaeologists will scratch their heads about what started the collapse of Western civilization and culture. One day they will dig up a copy of Porky's and they will shout Ah ha! "}{"Title":"Accurate portrayal of the 50's South","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some people would like to forget the South in the 50s. but Porky's won't let us forget (At least the lighter side of it). Whites hated just about anyone that wasn't like them--even if they were white! They didn't like Jews, adolescents, Negros (preferred word deleted), and women were just objects of sexual desire. But--there were virtually no sexual outlets--even Playboy was considered pornography in many areas. This lead to a lot of sexual practical jokes by both peers and adults on adolescent males. People were not any hornier then now they just had no place for it to go.Porky's, although way over the top in the prankster area, really, more than any other movie, really capture the flavor of the fifties and was definitely an American comic classic. It's too bad they didn't show the fire hoses and the police dog's it could have been the next Gone with the Wind! "},{"Title":"Mindless sex comedy","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A year before directing the cult yuletide comedy A Christmas Story, Bob Clark wrote and directed this marginally seamy romp involving horny 1950's high school boys in Florida who are eager to score, running afoul of a nefarious roadhouse owner and his sheriff-brother. Clark shows lots of enthusiasm but no ingenuity, and the hammy, obnoxious cast continually chortles at their own unfunny antics. Clark's script, full of names like Pee Wee and Cherry Forever, curiously seems stuck in a nostalgic time-warp (it's like a dirty Happy Days). The picture is leering and lascivious, and yet harmless enough to attract youngsters. A big hit in its day (never underestimate the power of comedic sleaze), it was followed by sequels in 1983 and 1985. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The Original American Pie only Better.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's, the 1981 hit about hormone raging teenagers in 1950's Florida is a hillarious film from start to finish and is a rare gem in comedy history. Considered by many (including me) as the original American Pie this film has many hillarious moments ranging from the infamous shower scene to Pee-Wee and his desperate quest to lose his virginity and the equally hillarious outcomes. If I was to pick the best comedy about teenagers and sex it's a no brainer that I would pick Porky's over American Pie anyday. The reason I would pick Porky's is because it is just a hell of a lot funnier than American Pie and has a lot more substance. I recently was able to purchase this great film at Blockbuster for only $9.99 on DVD and I was happy I was able to find it. Overall this is a film you can watch repetedly and it still remains to be funny. OVERALL 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not that great.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Watch this then watch American Pie and see how far raunchy teen comedys have come in the last 20 years. AP was much more modern and seemed much more realistic than Porky's.This movie was not that great. They set it in the 50's. Why? What was wrong with the early 80's? Sure the shower scene and the school admin scenes were great, but other than that there wasn't much here. The scenes where they go to Porky's are dull. The one where they tear it down is pointless, it seemed like they just tried to add some kinda plot to this movie. All in all I think it deserved a 3. I'd like to see the gang from MST3K tear up this one. It's a mystery that this film is considered a classic. "},{"Title":"More crude than funny","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why all the hype?  Whoever made up the slogan, The funniest movie about growing up ever made, lied to you and me.  A group of high school students try to get into a brothel named Porky's to get laid, but run into problems with the proprietor (Chuck Mitchell).  Whenever these guys are not getting laid, they cook up some mean spirited pranks.  Not very much to laugh at. My evaluation *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Stomach-Churning.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just plain awful 1980s product that could make the case for worst film of the decade (of course it would have considerable competition from its two sequels). Definitely one of the most popular messes the cinema has ever experienced as Porky's oinked at the competition in 1981 and dominated the box office. High school hi-jinks at the most perverted and tasteless level. Need I say more? Turkey (0 stars out of 5) "},{"Title":"I couldn't put a grin on my face","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  because i found this film too unfunny to watch. As the film starts with a group of teens about sex, there are other conflicts on the way, such as bigotry between two students, parental abuse from one of the guys, and revenge on a fat owner name Porky who doesn't know that the kids are underage. I saw American Pie and i found it more with joy to watch because of the love of the characters and how funny the situations were. Plus, there was a parent in American Pie (Eugene Levy in a cool role), that actually was concerned about his son and his ways of sex.Porky's2/10It has some moments, but be more serious. "},{"Title":"Pitiful Movie","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the only one I've walked out on in over 20 years!  It's supposed to be a comedy, but it's not even funny.  I like lots of silly movies such as Animal House, Caddyshack, and the like.  This movie is just dumb!  "},{"Title":"a disgrace","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's is a comedy entirely based on humiliation.  Therefore, when the jokes occur, we cringe, rather than laugh.  There is no character development, or even any true sense of fun to speak of while watching Porky's.  But then again, if you have a cruel sense of humour, and find humiliation funny, you may enjoy this raunchy teen comedy.  If you're looking for any kind of originality or cleverness you certainly won't find it in Porky's, a raunchy, sexist 80s comedy disguised as 1950s nostalgia. Serious filmgoers avoid at all cost (unless you're interested in the kind of social criticism I so obviously relish.) "},{"Title":"Below average at best or Dull, misogynistic comedy for those the lowest common denominator.","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For years I've passed up the chance to rent Porky's although it had a reputation of being the mutha of all teen comedies (i.e.immature sex romps). However I'm truly surprised I didn't fall asleep watching this dud. The plot is dull and seemingly obligatory that just loosely ties a bunch of tired and unfunny gags and a few mean-spirited pranks together. And don't even start me on the shower scene by saying wow, nudity. Big deal. Just because someone is well-endowed that does not make him any good in the sack. If you catch my drift. I've seen nudity in several teen sex comedies. This all done in a very not-sexy, not-funny (or fun for that matter) generic way.There are other films of the same time that were not misogynistic, one dimensional and mean-spirited (see The Last American Virgin, Fast Times At Ridgemount High and The Party Animal). And even more so - those films are actually funny and have characters that you remember. Porky's main cast are pretty faceless, generic guys. There's no depth or real personality to any of the characters to speak of.They are a group of friends who don't even seem to like each other. Pee-wee is perhaps ill-suited with these guys and then there's a rather tacked-on sub-plot of anti-Semitism involving Tim who is abused by his Father. Are we supposed to not feel sorry for Tim for being abused because he's an anti-Semite? Very pedestrian film-making aspiring to be a bit more indeed. Perhaps the film-makers are trying to tell us that prejudice, abuse and misogyny apparently were very much a thing that only existed in the 1950's? Actually I don't think they gave it any thought.If you are emotionally-stunted to that of a 9 year-old you may like this (because you don't know any better) and for those who believe that everything made in Canada is funny (If SCTV is a 10 then this is -8). "}{"Title":"Popular College Comedy?!","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the more popular of a spate of these college-sex comedies was Porky's from director and screenwriter Bob Clark. Why? Who knows. About two scenes bring real hilarity. The rest are silly, crude or ineffective.No one from this film, in front of or behind the camera, went on to do anything big, except perhaps Kim Cattrall. Wasn't she in some of the Police Academy movies? And what else did she do again?**Post dated note that Kim Cattrall has now found much success in Sex and the City so I guess I have to eat my words**Saturday, November 27, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"Contains Full Frontal Male and Female Nudity.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every once in a while I like to watch something so silly I can forget my own problems.  I remember seeing Porky's in the theater twenty years ago at he age of 19.  I just saw it again now at the age of 39.  Porky's is still a hoot.  You will laugh so hard your tummy will hurt.  This film is NOT for children to see nor hear.  This film contains full frontal male nudity and full frontal female nudity and sexual content.  The second film is Porky's II The Next Day (1983), followed by Porky's Revenge (1985).  "},{"Title":"The Dullest Nudie Movie I've Seen (except for Showgirls)","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember Andy Kent Kern (this was his name) telling me about the scene in Porky's in which a guy pokes his penis through a wall in a woman's shower room while we were waiting in line to go ice skating at Ellenberger Park. We were in second grade. I had a sheltered childhood and hadn't seen `Porky's,' but the idea was nevertheless hilarious to me. Why would anyone stick his penis through a hole in a wall, I wondered. I guess I've carried the memory of that initial tantalizing curiosity with me, and this is why, after 18 years, I finally rented the movie and found out what Andy Kern was talking about. It really was not worth the wait.Porky's is pretty much a raunchy comedy for anyone who found Animal House too sophisticated. Filled with a cast made up of Summer of '42 rejects, Porky's goes along as if using the word rubber and the occasional appearance of boobs is enough to fill an hour and 40 minute movie. Sure, it strives for a little depth by sprinkling in anti-Semitism, abusive fathers, and a revenge subplot, but it really wasn't enough to keep me interested. I actually got up to get a snack during the shower scene.Here's the one thing that bothered me about the movie the most Why would Pee Wee hang out with those guys? They do nothing but ridicule him and don't make a single attempt to help him attain his, um, goal until the very end of the film. Aren't there some other guys in this school?I rented this on DVD, and, although I appreciated the widescreen format, the transfer was crap. The sequel also appears on the flip side of the disc, but I don't think I'll be watching it. "},{"Title":"American Pie Zero","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film reminded me a lot of American Pie, which is to say, if I had watched the films in the correct order of release, American Pie is a lot like this film. This film has a lot of gross out comedy, it goes on and on about sex, it is a bit stupid but it is pretty funny. There are only three thing that Porky's  misses. The first is a moral, which both American Pie and American Pie 2 have (true love) or a grand theme (like FREEDOM and FUN in Road Trip). The second is a real cool character, like Steve &#145;the Stiffmeister' Stifler in American Pie or E.L. in Road Trip (all three times beautifully performed by Sean William Scott). Third and least, Porky's misses a good script, which means, that there are times in which the film kind of falls flat and gets a bit boring, because people are trying to create a good story where there is no good story. The jokes are good though and not too gross enough (not going over that line, which Freddy got Fingered passed with terminal velocity).6,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A porker of a movie","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is loved by many who saw it as teenagers. I saw it somewhat later in life (last night), and, man, I hated it. This is one behemoth of a bad movie with no redeeming quality to it. Sorry, all you Porky-lovers.The story centers loosely around a group of high school juniors and seniors who are all played by actors who are roughly ten years older. In the case of the girls, fifteen years older. Some seem to be pushing menopause. Others have brought along their children and grandchildren. One of the gang, Pee Wee, is desperate to get laid, others are peeping into the girls' shower (allowing us, the audience, to finally cop some T&A) and end up getting busted by the aptly named coach Ballbricker (geddit?), two teachers have it off and she (played by Kim Cattrall of Sex And The City, who somehow, throughout her career, consistently managed to get the part of the cute sexpot) howls like Lassie, and another plot involves some of the gang getting thrown out of a strip joint by the evil Southron Porky (hence the name of the movie) and his Southern Sheriff brother, and then taking revenge so epic and disproportional that it makes the bible's seventh son of a seventh' son rule look conciliatory. Some depth is added by addressing the weighty issues of antisemitism (How do you know to fight so well? -- As a Jew, it's either that or having to eat sheet. I don't like sheet. -- How often did you have to fight before? -- First time. -- So what was that talk about the difficulty of prevailing as a Jew about? -- Never mind, let's get on with the movie.), violent rock'n'rolling fathers, and pig-ugly fat prude cock-blocking sports coaches with 'double-entendre' names.I found the plot arbitrary, ambling and pointless, and the humour puerile, scatological and boorish. I felt like Jesse Jackson at a clan rallye. I didn't like the fact that men share a woman and discuss her sexual eccentricities among each other, I don't think it's good, clean, harmless fun for boys to peep into the girls' shower and stick their private parts in, or to collectively lose their virginity at a brothel or by group-banging a prostitute, or for a girl to have it off with a boy she doesn't fancy but merely at the behest of a group. I wasn't offended or anything, I was just bored.Like I said, if you have fond memories of watching this movie in '82 in a packed house, good for you. But right now you'd need a time machine to enjoy it.PS I thought that the actor playing Pee-Wee, Dan Monahan, looks like the spitting image of Ally McBeal's Peter MacMillan. I had to look them up here at IMDb to find out they're not identical. PPS The movie has three redeeming features the Porky's neon sign, Porky's pink car, and the car's horn which makes the sound of a squealing pig. Cool! "},{"Title":"The best sex comedy ever made","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porkys was one of the very first sex comedies to hit the big screen. Many others followed it in a vain attempt to achieve the same level of originality, humour and success, but they all failed, most miserably ! More recently there has been a fairly successful revival of this genre, with the likes of American Pie (and it's sequel), and Road Trip. I still believe Porkys to be the best. The shower scene is an all time classic, preceeded by the famous Lassie scene, and followed by the hilarious Penis Line-up requested by Miss Ballbreaker ! Bob Clark is a tremendously talented writer/director, particularly when you consider his wide range of films, ranging from Horror to Comedy. Of his films that I have seen, I would particularly recommend Porkys, Turk 182, From the Hip, By Decree and Black Christmas. "},{"Title":"Redefines the lowest common denominator","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You grab your camcorder, sneak into a locker room full of naked girls, start filming them, and howl hilariously the entire time, maybe even putting down the camera so you can laugh some more. Next time you get together with your friends, you show it to them, and THEY laugh hilariously also. Sure...why not? Then you ask them each for money. Suddenly the laughter stops.Of course they're not going to pay you...you basically were just jacking around with a camera for laughs. Yet, that's exactly what Bob Clark did in 1982, and legions of high schoolers flocked to see Porky's. Some might call this good business...I call it a con job. I thought so when it came out, at age 17, and I think so now.Other than the film --- and I really hate to even call it that --- having virtually no character development, abysmal acting, onion-skin plot, and blatant hucksterism in spades, what's really offensive about it is how the characters react in the face of all this outright degradation...they think it's a scream. Hey, being a crass, insensitive moron is HYSTERICAL.The late Bob Clark, while being an OK director, had some talent buried deep within him --- it flashed briefly with A Christmas Story and Black Christmas --- but when he wasn't doing movies set in December, the guy's range was shockingly limited. He obviously would do anything for a fast buck, judging by his list of credits, and it looks like that integrity extends to his family in the wake of his untimely death a few years back...If this kind of juvenile crap turns your crank, fine. Go snap some nudie footage of your girlfriend, sister, or whoever. Just don't slap it on the retail market and try to make money off of it. "},{"Title":"Great if your IQ is lower than your shoe size...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't want to waste more time and energy than necessary on this atrocious and inexplicably popular trash, but I thought I should put my feelings on record, so that when the history of twentieth century film comedy is written, I can point to the chapter about Porky's being the highest-grossing Canadian film ever and say Not in my name. This is the kind of film your stupid older brother or slightly retarded cousin who you're ashamed to be seen with in public would drool over. I know several people who consider it to be a classic, and they're all the kind of people you'd run through traffic to avoid. This is just mean-spirited, woman-hating, offensive junk that revels in the humiliation and degradation of its instantly unlikeable characters, then expects you to really care when bad things happen to them. You know you're in for a bad time when the characters on screen laugh more than the people in the audience. Laughter can be infectious, but if I ever found myself tittering at a piece of gutter trash like this, I'd report for psychotherapy the very next day.  "},{"Title":"horrible, embarrassing piece of filth.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       I was completely embarrassed to watch this movie.  I remember how all the kids in my 7th grade class snuck into the theater to see this movie.  they would come back to school and talk about this movie endlessly.  I finally saw it on HBO and I wondered what I missed.  The humor wasn't even funny by mistake!!  The characters were physically, morally, and socially unattractive.      What was all the laughing about?  Every scene in the movie had the characters laughing like fat albert and the gang.  Did I miss something?  I guess this must have been the directors idea.  Putting the laughing inside the movie in lieu of laugh tracks must be more realistic.  Maybe the director knew that he was directing am awful movie with no humor so he has to remind the public that they paid money to laugh.       With all that said, I must admit to watching it subsequent times when I have nothing better to do.  I do this just to remind myself that if things ever get bad in my life, I can at least say that I had nothing to do with the making of this horrible movie. "},{"Title":"Only funny if you have had a lobotomy....","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A movie from the very uneven Bob Clark, the director who gave us the wonderful A Christmas Story and the horrid Baby Geniuses ...Porky's is a sexist, juvenile, lame excuse for a comedy. I found it so non-funny...mainly because of its mean-spirited approach to humor. Give me American Graffiti anyday over this nonsense. I give it a ONE (1), and I'm being generous.... "}{"Title":"Grossly overrated !","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love to laugh at movies. I go to a movie with the right attitude, open for anything. I had heard how hilarious this movie was when it came out, and went with friends to see it. I was terribly disappointed. I couldn't believe just how juvenile and ridiculous the humor was in this film.I use the word juvenile here, not to describe the type of comedy as much as the amount of intelligence it probably took to write the script. I mean, there's comedy that is raunchy, but funny (American Pie, There's Something About Mary, Kingpin), and then there's brainless, unclever, and predictable Porky's.In the theater I clearly remember watching the film and chuckling and laughing here and there...but not nearly as much as the characters on the screen were laughing. The same stood for everyone in the audience. The one scene that I always remember for this is the scene in the Principal's office with the two male gym teachers laughing in an uncontrollable frenzy. When the people who are laughing the most in the theater are on the screen, then something is wrong with the film.Oh yha, they have naked women in the showers - ooooh. "},{"Title":"Terrible, F***in terrible","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't believe how this even got funding to produce. Worst movie I have seen for a long time. And will have to be in my bottom 10. Pee Wee is such a stereotypical character. Porky is your typical redneck slob, and the teenagers were extremely disappointing. The only teen-sex movies made that deserve recognition are American Pie 1 & 2.The dialouge is tedious, not funny at all. It is a tedious 2 hour movie, and I struggled my way through it. Sat down and continued to wait for the funny part, which never came.It tries to tackle social issues of the 50's and currently (well, 1980's anyway), like gender, racism, anti-semitism & contraception, with very very very limited success. If it weren't for the woman who orgasms like a Lassie (another lame piece of dialouge and comparison), this would get a 0.However, she was hot. So it deserves a 2. "},{"Title":"An unfunny waste of time...","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I decided to watch this movie with much higher expectations. After all, it's routinely spoken of by so many as the prototype teen/college movie, so I figured it would be several times better than today's movies of the same persuasion.I was wrong. The movie seemed to get off to a good start, but quickly lost steam and became nearly unwatchable due to the low quality of the filming. Twenty minutes into the movie, I wanted to turn it off. The hallmark of a classic movie is that it still holds its appeal 20, 30, or 40 years after it was made. Porky's is not a classic. From a cinematic point of view, the character development is horrible by today's standards. Also, he movie is made like it's the first movie ever to contain female breasts, which is extremely irritating.The jokes are horribly outdated, even for 1982. They might be funny to the 50 and 60-somethings who appreciate crude misogyny, racism, and fart jokes, but to me, they were just pathetic and heavy-handed.For whatever reason, this movie seems to enjoy copious play on cable, bur I think it's best to just retire this over-rated suck-fest to the trash can. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am ashamed to even be writing about this movie.  But I feel a need to warn anyone considering watching this, DO NOT!!!  First of all, I first heard about this while I was in Junior High.  I remember the cool kids snuck into it, while paying for empire strikes back, or some other horrible early eighties movie.  when I finally saw it on HBO, i was quite disappointed to say the least.  I didn't find humor in constantly referring to sizes and rubbers being too big.  this movie wasn't even funny by mistake.  I am ashamed to have even watched it.  Every actor was horrible.  This movie is a big 0!!!!! I saw American Pie, and I did find some parts of it funny.  I laughed out loud.  Porkys wasn't even funny to me when I was 14 years old.  If I ever laughed it was because every one else did.  when I was young, I thought I must be naive and sheltered, now I realize that Porky's just wasn't funny. "},{"Title":"Repulsive and unfunny","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie back in 1981 and was appalled. I thought it was sick and found the constant emphasis on sexual humiliation kind of sad. Twenty years later I still hate it.It deals with the stupid, smutty adventures of a group of Florida teenagers in 1954. All the jokes deal with sex and are unfunny; all the teenagers are obviously in their 20s (one guy was almost 30!); the girls and guys are equally ugly; nobody can act (although Nancy Parsons has a few moments) and, by today's standards, this is kind of dull. This was considered extreme in 1981 but, for better or worse, we've gone beyond it. For some reason this was a HUGE hit and led to 2 sequels. I have nothing against sex humor, but people are constantly being humiliated in this movie--it gets uncomfortable to watch.I am giving the film a 2 because there are two very funny sequences in it--an encounter between Boyd Gaines and a very young Kim Cattrall who is very vocal and when the gym girls teacher wants a very--um--private exam of all the guys in the school. Those are funny and the film has extensive female AND male nudity! Still, that's hardly a recommendation.It's hard to believe director Bob Clark did this. He's made some great films (Murder by Decree, Black Christmas, A Christmas Story, Deathdream). Why did he do THIS? "},{"Title":"An unimpressive entry in a genre that is plagued by lack of quality","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The raunchy teen comedy... one of the few genres where good film-making is such a rarity, you would wonder if it exists within it at all. I've seen my share of these films, most of them when I was younger and the tone appealed to me... but once you get over the age of 18, it's hard to look back and not consider them juvenile and tacky. There are a few fairly good films in the genre... the first example that springs to mind is American Pie, or my personal favorite, Road Trip. This, however, is not one of the good films... it's actually not awfully good at all. The humor is crude and pretty poor. The plot is dull and progresses so slowly, it will lull almost anyone to sleep. Anyone who doesn't laugh like crazy at the constant utterances of obscenities and references to sex, of course. The acting is mostly overplayed, as is the humor; gags and jokes are poorly set up and forced. The characters are poorly written and barely developed at all; I honestly can't tell the group of friends that make up the main characters apart. There is little to no comedic value, all the humor is based on being crude and/or seeing someone in embarrassing situations. That's not humor, that's being provocative and serving the inner jerk in the audience(ever hear of schadenfreude?). This just isn't a good film, period. Lazily made, plot barely coherent and nothing memorable neither as far as scenes nor as dialog go. One to avoid, unless you are an avid(or should I say rabid?) fan of the genre and you simply *have* to see every film of this kind. How this has risen to be one of the most popular and well-known of the genre is beyond me. 5/10 "},{"Title":"too much of a bad thing","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Others have already expressed my thoughts on how this alleged comedy had no humor written into it.  Therefore I will simply assert that, back when it first came out (and I unfortunately took the word of a friend who said it was funny), I was insulted by how poorly it was made.  I was gypped out of my ticket price by jerks who dragged scenes on way too long.  Did they shoot even one foot of film that they didn't leave in here?  Sitting through this was like watching meat rot in the summer sun. "},{"Title":"Insipid and stupid.","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Giving this movie credit for all the brainless teen comedies that followed is something like giving credit for mold growing inside your toilet bowl. It's actually a pathetic imitation of the real innovator, Animal House, the movie that really got the genre started. Animal House had some of the same problems but did have good writing (Doug Kinney and Harold Ramis), good direction (John Landis), good acting and was, well, funny. Porky's makes Animal House look like The Brothers Karamazov. It's a vile pastiche, patched together from somebody's infantile memories of high school, a dumb practical joke gone bad. And boring? Isn't this the one where the kid wakes up in the morning and refers to his male member as you big husky and tries to encourage it to, uh, rise? How funny. It does have one redeeming value a sign of a significant generation gap between those raised on comedy which began (and in some ways ended) with the early greats (Lloyd, Keaton, Chaplin, Mac Sennett, Laurel and Hardy, W.C. Fields, Mae West, the Marx Bros. et al) and the Howard Stern generation. "},{"Title":"Indictment of humankind, worst piece of crap ever produced","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I did not know that the man that directed A Christmas Story had anything to do with Porkys. I am utterly dumbfounded and depressed right now as I ponder that fact. Porkys is straight out of the bowels of hell, and not worthy of the time I am wasting writing this comment. However, I do feel the need to warn everyone how horrible this degrading movie is. It is an indictment of human history. I think I found out why the terrorists hate us. I am actually starting to hate us too (at least those who encouraged meaningless, shallow people to produce movies like Porkys). I have resigned myself to the fact that I have to waddle through movies that are such simple minded nonsense because most movies goers want to be told what is funny and they would laugh at animal cruelty if there was sexual humiliation involved.One last story before I go When I was really depressed in my life once, I turned on the TV and this channel was showing these Porkys series back to back. I instantly felt better. I realized that no matter how bad things got in my life, at least I could say that I would neither subject another human to such mean spirited humiliation and juvenile hijinks nor lower myself to support such productions.Anyone involved in the making of this movie should be disemboweled, boiled, kicked in the face, and then spat upon. "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having thought about it, I really can't say it more elegantly than that and get my comments past the censors.Since I'm forced by the IMDb system to include at least 4 lines of commentary, and with due respect for all the fine teenage-sex-loving people who thought this was a wonderful film, let me add that when I was at K-Mart today combing the video shelves for a quality film to buy for my kids, I came real dang close to pulling a copy of Porky's off the shelf, toting it over to the checkout counter, shoving it in the checkout boy's face, and yelling, YOU CARRY FIVE COPIES OF THIS S*** AND YOU DON'T HAVE EVEN ONE SINGLE COPY OF 'DRIVING MISS DAISY'??!? WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH YOU PEOPLE??!?Out of 5 possible stars, this film earns a turd. "}{"Title":"A Low Point In Film History","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For a film comedy, this may be one of the all-time sleaziest movies ever made. They just made it under the wire, too, as, by the mid '80s the ultra-sleazy movies like this were history. They lasted from 1970 to about 1984.For 1982, this was pushing the envelope. There is hardly a sentence in this script that isn't dotted with a profane word and all anyone in the film - anyone - cares about is sex. Hey, who isn't in that it some for or another, but this is a mainline film and that's all that mattered in here. Even more ludicrous and insulting is that it's about high school-age kids (who all look about 25 years old in this film)!When you are young, stupid and devoid of morals, this is a cool movie. I thought it was 25 years ago when I first saw it, to be perfectly honest. Yes, even that classic scene in the shower room with the bulldog gym teaching pulling on this guy was funny...but not now. This film looks sophomoric to me now that it's embarrassing. I guess it depends on when in life you watch it. Anybody over 40 who still watches this needs counseling. This movie should be put in a time capsule to show how low Hollywood had plummeted by 1982. "}]