[{"Title":"Awesome Movie!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites!All of the characters are hilariously developed and the actors who play them do a wonderful job. I've loved this movie since I was a kid and every once in a while I quote from it or think of one of the characters (my favorite being Delores).It's a shame that more people haven't heard of this movie. It's somewhat hard to find but if you seek it out it is well worth it! "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews National Lampoon's Class Reunion (1982)","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Class of 1972 from Lizzie Borden High (nyuk, nyuk) is all gathering together for their ten-year reunion. All those guys you remember are back. The jock, ms. Popular, the cripple, the nobody, the class pump, the girl who sold her soul to the devil so she could get rid of leg braces and now breathes fire and has an Exorcist thing going on and let's not forget Howard Baylor. Baylor escaped from the loony bin just to get back at the poor slobs who pulled the senior prank on him (he made-out with his twin sister) and put him there to begin with. All that and a National Lampoon charter to boot&#133;Whoa Nelly! Certainly not the most popular National Lampoon film (it's got a serious reputation for being bad) but I actually had fun with it. It moved at a pretty fast pace with enough bad jokes and screwiness to keep me entertained. Give it a view. National Lampoon's Class Reunion may grow on you like that rash you got from gym. "},{"Title":"So dumb...yet enjoyable!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I had no idea what to expect from this movie. It was just being showed on HBO and I thought, what the heck! I won't say I regret I saw it, but I can't say I am delighted that I watched it. It wasn't a good movie, it was dumb, but...but...unlike Mistery Men, for example, it made me feel better.SPOILERSThe story is about the craziest people one might see who celebrate some kind of reunion. One of the ex-students though plans revenge on his former mates, who played a terrible prank on him at the end of school. So he goes on a killing spree and some people die, but of course, it's all a comedy, so it's not a big deal... The movie did remind me of Scary Movie though...I don't know why, but I felt it was kind of a parody to scary movies to come. The characters are all very predictable. The one who is least known gets to be the hero, the one who has the best reputation shows his own disgraced side, the good looking chick is kidnapped, etc. It was funny at times and what is most important it did not bore me. Probably will bore others...not me though. I doubt you can think deep on this movie because I doubt it was made for this purpose. It's not worth renting, but if you have a wasted day it might just cheer you up. 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"People Can Be So Cruel","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Personal taste rules when it comes to talking about movies such as this treasured little gem. Way back in the eighties, the early eighties, i discovered this movie, like so many released at the time, Night Patrol Bad Manners or even King Frat the artwork and blurbs on the back of the covers tempted and teased you.Of course being of an age, movies like that i have already mentioned as well as stuff like Screwballs and the many others, captured the imagination, and thankfully many years later i still remember some with fondness and some with disdain the many movies that help maintain my love of such genre as parodies or pastiches.Made many years after the huge success of Animal House and having seen how it had fared down through the years, I now know that there would be no way this movie would ever eclipse the box office bucks obtain aforementioned nor would it linger in the memory, much like that of National Lampoon's Vacation.To be honest, not everything that has carried the National Lampoon Logo has been a wild success, however to me Class Reunion remains one of my all time favourite movies, with instantly recognisable characters, such as the aloof Bob Spinnaker played to perfection by Gerrit Graham, so good in Charles Band's Terrorvision still lingering in the past glories of his youth. Or how about Stephen Furst's brash and ballsy turn as the high school lazy drunken sex crazed bum Hubert Downs.Sweet as. Which makes me ponder. As i already said, personal taste not withstanding. People can be so cruel, so it will never win any awards or be compared to the like of its's peers within the comedy world. It does have some merit. Being one of the earlier scripts penned by John Hughes, who would later go on to do one of my own favourites of his work Weird Science as well as having a wonderful theme title sung by the great Gary U.S Bonds.What more can i say, it's a movie just waiting to be rediscovered, time and time again. "},{"Title":"Parody slasher great idea...someone should do one","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This should be a classic--it was made during the height of both 80's slashers and sex-comedies. It had a great cast (Stephen Furst as well as two great underused, but always fascinating actresses--Zane Busby as a weirdly compassionate and helpful woman possessed by the devil, and chipmunk-voiced Mews Small as a blind nympho had a lot of potential) and the budget looked reasonable. And it's inoffensive enough--it's doesn't inspire one to seek out the director and hang him with his own celluloid strips like, say, Up The Academy did.It's just not that interesting. It's like a bad 80's sitcom pilot that you forget five minutes after the credits roll. It's something you watch with a hangover in a marathon of similarly themed movies on cable, falling asleep frequently without fear of having missed anything. It has a few chuckles here and there, and the attempt to simulate the slashers of the era is appreciated. It's probably no dumber than others of its kind. It's just bland and lifeless, like a bored jellyfish. I'm about to fall asleep writing about it. I suddenly can't even remember why I wanted to... "},{"Title":"What a great bunch of kids.","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A mostly unfunny, one-joke spoof on the high school / slasher sub-genre that got to me not because of the lack of laughs, but to just how tediously uninteresting the story felt. I found the two stoner buddies (Barry Diamond and Art Evans) amusing enough and so of Gerry Graham's mannered performance along with Anne Ramsey's grouchy cafeteria worker. However for most part I found it a hard task to sit through, trying not to fast-forward (yep I was watching it on a VHS tape). Deliberately goofball in tone --- it keeps its quips quite crude, where the running gags only get repetitively stale and even embarrassing. The material was penned by John Hughes, where he sets up the situation quite well enough but then does nothing then rely on its random, if witlessly lacklustre occurrences and disappointingly screwed-up conclusion. The silly plot sees the class of 72 returns to their old rundown high school Lizzie Borden High for a reunion, but they are soon terrorised by a former student that recently escaped the loony bin seeking revenge for the prank that put him there. Michael Miller's direction is gimmicky, but the low-scale execution holds up better than it should and there's a high-energy soundtrack to boot. The cast is made-up of colourful, over-the-top characters; Michael Lerner, Misty Rowe, Miriam Flynn, Stephen Furst and Mews Small. "},{"Title":"Nothing redeemable//Might be spoilers!","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If it wasn't for the performances of Barry Diamond and Art Evans as the clueless stoners, I would have no reason to recommend this to anyone.The plot centers around a 10 year high school reunion, which takes place in a supposed abandon high school(looks more like a prop from a 1950s low budget horror flick), and the deranged student the class pulled a very traumatizing prank on. This student desires to kill off the entire class for revenge.John Hughes falls in love with his characters too much, as only one student is killed as well as the lunch lady(Goonies' Anne Ramsey). We're led to believe that the horny coupled gets killed, but never see a blasted thing! This is a horrible movie that continued National Lampoon's downward spiral throughout the 80s and 90s. "},{"Title":"What a reunion this is!! (contains spoilers)","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Campy, silly but all out fun, the Lizzie Borden class of '72 will make you wish you were in on some of the fun they have!You have your snooty playboy and his equally as snooty girlfriend, your prissy class prude who just happened to be as popular as she was snotty, the class cretin, a devil worshipper and a vampire and they all make for a hilarious class.Gerrit Graham is great as Bob Spinnaker the class playboy who has his nose so far up in the air if it were to rain, he would drown.Stephen Furst is typical in his role, as only he can do and make it look convincing as the cretinous, perverted Hubert Downs who hasn't changed much since High School and Miriam Flynn is such a prude in her role as the snide Bunny Packard that you wish someone would slap her.Zane Buzby puts in one hilarious performance as Delores Salk, a cripple who sold her soul to the devil in order to not be crippled any longer.Enter Michael Lerner as Doctor Robert Young, a psychiatrist who tries to help solve all the mysterious murders that begin happening and you have side splitting twists, turns and action until the very end of the movie.Great fun and with a guest appearance by music legend Chuck Berry, great music too! "},{"Title":"'a leisurely evacuation'","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" You can't convince someone to like this movie. I found the image of a high school class singing The Supremes over the ornate corpse of a Krishna to be comically endearing. I also liked the image of Scatman Caruthers bicycling through flying sausages in Zapped! with Scott Baio; neither of these films can be called excellent, but each has a tepid silliness which is pleasant. Gerrit Graham and Michael Lerner make memorable characters, and the rest are painless. 'Painless' is a high rating for any as jaded as I.Never having read the original lampoon concept, and never having seen a 'John Hughes' film prior to this one (it is hard to recognize John Hughes in here - although the film takes place in a high school, the characters are all adults) I thought it was at least as funny as Animal House, which I never really found that funny. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is probably my favorite movie of all time.  Miriam Flynn is excellent as Bunny Packard.  Zane Buzby as Delores is comic genius.  The rest of the cast is amazing, and the film is really really funny.  A definite satire of horror films, with a zany twist.  If you enjoy a fun, comedy filled evening, then go and rent this classic.  You'll laugh all the way through! "}{"Title":"Where's the Beef","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Gerrit Graham is a great actor....but he can not star in a movie. Much like football, Gerrit has the talent to run the ball in for a touchdown but can't. However, he is a guarantee 3 points every game. Here, Gerrit is good but does nothing as the star of the movie. The entire cast has there moments, but nothing worth keeping your attention for an entire 90 minutes. The movie at times seems too low budget to be anything great like Animal House or Chritmas Vacation. The story is pure humor, nothing but quick and sometimes witty fart jokes that only make you laugh for a second or two. Nudity is added just for pure laughs, nothing terrific. All in all, it is a quick comedy with nothing to show for it. The movie starts out good with a potential story but ends quick and corny. "},{"Title":"not that funny and pales in comparison to Animal House","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's June 1972. Snooty Bob Spinnaker (Gerrit Graham) and the rest of the class prank Walter Baylor with his twin sister which ultimately sends him to a mental hospital. Ten years later, the class of Lizzie Borden High reunites. Gary Nash is the class nobody. Bunny Packard is the prudish bossy girl. Hubert Downs is disgusting. Iris Augen is the blind girl who has trouble hearing. Meredith Modess is the class stuck up beauty. Delores Salk is a cripple who is walking again with the devil's help. Jaws is the exchange student from Transylvania High. Chip Hendrix and Carl Clapton are the pot-smoking burnouts. Chuck Berry plays at the reunion. People start getting killed off one by one. Dr. Robert Young (Michael Lerner) arrives to tell them that Walter Baylor has escaped. They are locked in and have to search for an escape route.John Hughes writes a low level broad spoof of a horror movie. Basically he's written some outlandish characters and let them go. It has the same National Lampoon sense of humor but it doesn't have the same comic talents in the cast as Animal House. Stephen Furst is there for both and Gerrit Graham is pretty good. However if Gary Nash is suppose to be the protagonist, Fred McCarren is too much of a nobody to play the nobody role. This has limited humor, done in a flat way and underpowered by the performances. "},{"Title":"A strictly so-so send-up of early 80's slasher flicks","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I really wanted to enjoy this movie more than I did. I've heard for years from friends that it's one of the funniest unjustly overlooked and forgotten comedies from the early 80's. Well, I got a copy of this film on DVD, saw it and thought it was okay. Neither very good nor totally bad. Just okay. Please allow me to elaborate on this.The premise certainly has potential A wacky assortment of folks -- snobby preppie Gerrit (The Phantom of the Paradise, Used Cars) Graham, obnoxious fat slob Stephen Furst (Flounder in Animal House) and crazed psychic Satanist Zane Busby among 'em -- who make up the graduating class of Lizzie Borden High (A cut above the rest) gather together at a creepy remote old house for their 10th Anniversary High School Reunion. Alas, another unbalanced student named Walter Baylor who was horribly humiliated by the graduating class when they played a cruel prank on him also shows up to murder the people responsible for said prank.Director Micheal (Jackson County Jail) Miller, working from a suitably lowbrow script written by 80's teen comedy titan John (Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club) Hughes, barely manages to wring a handful of laughs from the regrettably mediocre material. The main problem with this picture is that it crucially lacks the necessary wit and vitality needed to be as uproarious as it keeps constantly threatening to be. Moreover, while the characters are appropriately zany (said nutty characters include a blundering blind woman, a hulking transvestite, a weird vampire guy and even a Cheech and Chong-style stoner dope humor duo), they unfortunately aren't remotely likable or appealing. Furthermore, despite the occasional inspired line of dialogue (My father didn't spend all that money to keep me out of Vienam so I can die in my own high school) or genuinely hilarious moment (the Diana Ross and the Supremes routine is positively sidesplitting), the bulk of the jokes tend to fall flat and the film runs out of steam at the halfway point, limping towards a pretty blah conclusion. On the plus side we've got a groovy theme song sung by Gary U.S. Bonds, a nifty guest appearance by Chuck Berry, and amusing supporting performances by Michael Lerner as a useless psychiatrist and late, great gnarled character actress Anne (The Goonies, Throw Mama From the Train) Ramsey as a grubby old battle axe of a cafeteria worker (she uses a chainsaw to cut lasagna!). Overall this feature sizes up as a strictly watchable, but altogether middling and thus forgettable diversion. "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow revisits Class Reunion","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Remember a film you seemed to enjoy in the past that doesn't quite meet those same feelings as an adult? That occurred to me when I went back to school..the National Lampoon's Class Reunion. The film has a perfect opportunity for laughs, but surprisingly wanders aimlessly as we see a bizarre collection of characters such a woman who sold her soul to the devil and can shoot out flames of fire from her mouth, a man who appears to be a vampire, and a lunatic killer dressed as a woman and wears sacks over his head. You have the class president who believes he's the best thing since sliced bread(but as we see in the film, he's a coward and joke), a couple of pot smokers who don't even know they are at their own class reunion, and a man named Gary for whom know one even knew existed(and no one can seem to remember his name..this is the one running joke I enjoyed). There is a plump pervert who likes to grab women in inappropriate places, a deaf and blind woman who has a screeching holler when calling for her dog, and the cook(you know her from goonies and Throw Mama From The Train)who loves to place food on people's plates with her hands! The film is essentially about a nutcase who is(or at least attempting to)taking revenge on his classmates for a gag they pulled on him(they arranged for him to sleep with his own twin sister!). The film follows the characters as they search for the killer canvasing darkened, trashed hallways of the old high school. They were told of the killer by his psychologist who seems a bit odd himself. The film has a few good gags that work(pretty much early on), but the film slowly gets worse each passing minute. The film's true problem is that it really doesn't know where to go. The film is pretty much a one-joke premise for it has unassured direction..if it really has any direction at all. The cast is enthusiastic enough, but the material they are to make funny just doesn't have the quality to hold any interest. It's a curio for fans of early 80's comedy relics that are forgotten(this one rightfully so). "},{"Title":"Under-rated?  More like under-achieved!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone who thinks this film has not been appreciated for its comic genius must have been smoking with the two stoners in the film.  This film is NOT under-rated...it is a bad movie.  There should be no comparisons between this film and The Naked Gun or Airplane since the latter two films are well written and funny.  Class Reunion is neither of those things.  The sad thing is it had such potential (good cast, good story lines) but the good jokes are few and far between.  The scenes that were supposed to be funny came off more annoying than amusing.  The stoner guys, the vampire, the blind girl...NOT FUNNY.  The only funny character were Delores (the one who sold her soul to the devil).National Lampoon has made some really good films (Animal House, Vacation) but this isn't one of them.  I certainly expected more from John Hughes. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable romp through spoof-land!","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The fourth of TV director Michael Miller's six movies is somewhat inconsistently funny, but he does keep the story moving, so it's wise to continue watching even though some of the gags fall flat. A few of them are ineptly staged and some of them had no promise to begin with. Some travel well-worn paths and some are reasonably fresh. The players too are a mixed lot, but the characters I'm rooting for may not necessarily be the characters that other viewers will identify with. In short National Lampoon's Class Reuniuon obviously aims to provide something for everyone -- and in this respect, it succeeds admirably. Many of the players are unknown to me and my DVD is most unhelpful in this regard as it doesn't bother to list any of the players at all. In fact the only characters it mentions are Bob Spinnaker and Meredith Modess. Both are admirably enacted. "},{"Title":"Can we see her naked before you kill her?","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This tediously unfunny slasher movie parody succeeds mostly in wasting a fair deal of comedic talent. It's something of a chore to get through, as it goes from scene to scene with one joke after another falling flat. It's not without its moments, of course - Zane Buzby, at least, is hilarious - but it's hard to care about a bunch of characters THIS insufferable. It wouldn't be so bad if they were actually funny, but they weren't, not to this viewer.Directed by Michael Miller (Jackson County Jail, Silent Rage) and written by John Hughes, it's an ensemble piece in which an obnoxious bunch of students at Lizzie Borden high school (ha, ha) play a cruel prank on loser Walter Baylor (Blackie Dammett). 10 years, ol' Walter is ready for revenge, attending their class reunion uninvited and aiming to kill.And that's another thing. If whoever watches this is a slasher fan they may well be disappointed with the very small body count. Class Reunion wastes an awful lot of time for an 85 minute long feature; it probably would have worked better as a short. Still, it's got a decent enough cast - they just can't make this uninspired material work. Gerrit Graham (Used Cars), Stephen Furst (Animal House), Miriam Flynn (the Vacation series), Fred McCarren (The Boogens), Mews Small (One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest), Misty Rowe (Meatballs Part II), and a seriously slumming Michael Lerner (Barton Fink) star. Art Evans (Die Hard 2) and Barry Diamond supply some mild chuckles as the stoner duo. Dammett, it's worth noting, was born John Kiedis, and is the dad of Red Hot Chili Peppers singer Anthony Kiedis. Look for Anne Ramsey (Throw Momma from the Train) as the cook. Rock 'n' roll legend Chuck Berry makes a musical appearance.Overall, a lame, boring movie that cannot really be recommended. The title song sung by Gary U.S. Bonds made me think that I might have a good time, but such was not the case.Four out of 10. "},{"Title":"A movie really low on laughs. Where's Up The Creek, when we want you","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is just too stupid to be funny. When watching it first when I was 14, not at my request, I laughed much more. It's another of these Can't Hardly Wait, Van Wilder's party, but the bizarre version. A nut is loose on campus, an old student with a grudge. Featuring a few stars from Animal House, who's presence adds a little spice, the jokes of this sinker keep misfiring left, right, and centre. It's a real sloppy movie, that you can't wait for it to be over. And to think this was the late great Hughes, writing debut, that's a bizarre fact in itself. I'm glad to see he so raised his level of performance. I guess though, the absurdity, or bizarre goings on of the film, and it's color, give it a style of it's own, but for laughs, you're better off attending your own class reunion. And judged by the film and it's instances, just be glad and prey you never have to attend a reunion such as this one. Shame on you, National Lampoons. "},{"Title":"My favourite Movie of all time","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" OK now this movie wont be for everyone but it happens to be my absolute favourite movie of all time. I remember first seeing this when I was about 7 years old and I haven't stopped watching it since. There is no master plot, a high school student is tricked into having it off with his twin sister and then choose to take revenge on them all at his ten year reunion. Trouble is his former class mates are all a bunch of weirdos so the job is easier said then done.The former class mates are all very weird from the woman who has sold her soul to the devil (Dolores Salk) to the former beauty Queen Meridith in her stylish silver dress. This film is very about the character interaction and the humour.Favourite scene - When Dolores first meets up with Bunny at the bar - weird but genius. Yes that is her thumb she uses to light a cigarette. "},{"Title":"It's no Animal House but certainly not bad","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Class Reunion is a largely unloved but &#x96; at least in my humble opinion &#x96; underrated horror spoof from they guys over at National Lampoon's magazine and this time targeting the overload of early 80's high-school slasher flicks. I really loved the original and creative yearbook- pictures opening credits, with little characteristics and genuinely funny elected most likely to &#x85; footnotes. The entire film takes place during the 10th anniversary reunion of the class of '72 at Lizzie Borden high school. Horror insiders simply got to love that name! The cast of characters is hilarious, as there's a perfect balance between the obligatory stereotypes (the cowardly class president, the snobby girl, the male chauvinist pig, the duo of stoner guys, the nerd nobody remembers&#x85;) and a handful of really imaginative individuals. There's the class witch (she used to be cripple but got fixed with some side effects), the world's ugliest transvestite, the blind girl and a battle ax of a lunch lady (I wonder if lunch lady Doris from The Simpsons was inspired by her). The reunion is brutally interrupted when a psychopathic killer shows up to settle an old score. A score that dates all the way back to a tasteless prank during on graduation night&#x85; Class Reunion is at times laugh-out-loud hilarious and fresh, but at times sadly also tedious and embarrassing. The film is somewhat overlong but the end twist is pretty great, when the tables turn and all the survivors stalk the killer instead of vice versa. I agree with the majority of people around here claiming that this can't hold a candle to Animal House, but it's definitely better than the vast majority of other National Lampoon movies, like for example the Chevy Chase Vacation movies. "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I lasted 20mins before turning it off. Is there anyone who made it to the end??Not a single laugh was had. It was just a poor, poor movie that in no way held my interest. "},{"Title":"This class had better class than my Class! (1977)","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have to admit it, I always liked this film too! I just got this film, and it was a full SP copy for only $3.00 brand new! I'm looking for a full SP copy of The Meateater No, it's not a porn tape! Gerrit Graham Used Cars was always one of my favorite actors. A topless Misty Rowe! who could ask for anything more! Miriam Flynn before becoming Cousin Eddie's better half. Is there any other kind? "},{"Title":"Fun, and unique.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you're looking for unique characters, a twisted plot, and low brow laughs,than this is your movie. It's entertainment, pure and simple, and if you are a haughty critic that is looking for substance, please go elsewhere. Not everything can be Jane Eyre(but than again, Jane Eyre could never make you laugh). FUN MOVIE. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is about as underrated as Police Acadmey Mission to Moscow. This movie is never funny. It's maybe the worst comedy spoof ever made. Very boring,and dumb beyond belief. For those people that think this movie is underrated god help you. I give this movie * out of **** "},{"Title":"A highly underrated film...","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  National Lampoon's Class Reunion is a classic comedy film from the early 80's which combines unique characters, lots of laughs, and some great music from Chuck Berry.  When Walter Bailor is absolutely humiliated by his classmates at their high school graduation he seizes the opportunity to get his revenge at his class reunion.  One by one he stalks his classmates who include an innocent blind girl, a horny fat guy, the high school beauty, the king of all preps and even the ugly old lunch lady who served up slops to all the kids during highschool.  This film has a sort of scary element in it and it has a few brief scenes of sexuality so I wouldn't recommend it for young children but it's a great movie for teens.  If you are looking for a movie with a beautiful score, complex characters or killer special effects you might not love Class Reunion.  If you want to sit down for 90 minutes and have some great laughs and a lot of fun (and who doesn't) then this movie should be on your movies to see list.  ++   "},{"Title":"Zane Buzby","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Dreadful spoof on '80's horror flicks isn't on the rock-bottom-level as Scary Movie 2 only because it's too dull.  I have no real idea why I'm writing about this movie but I do want to say that Zane Buzby's comic timing as Doloris -the crippled girl who sold her soul to the Devil- is perfect and made me laugh like crazy.  Her initial introduction at the bar, all her banter with Miriam Flynn's Bunny, and her final dance while the credits rolled are funnier than most of the teen cult movies and Saturday Night Live skits we have now!  I've never seen her since but she was great here!Also worth mentioning are the brief appearance of the late Anne Ramsey (Throw Mama from the Train) as the cigarette smoking lunch lady and a set piece involving a nervous young wife's confession to a priest about her extracurricular activities.This is one of those bad movies you see that contain some great honest laughs but you're too ashamed to tell anyone about it. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as the critics make it out to be.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this film around ten years ago and I thought it was very funny indeed.  It was not as bad as some critics were making it out to be.  The fact that it was written by the usually dependable John Hughes shows that you can at least expect some funny dialogue.  (By the way, I also think Weird Science is quite good which was also penned in lightning speed by Hughes).The film has a very garish look to it using all the primary colours - reds, yellows etc - which makes it look quite unique. The cast are also quite good.  The prudish Bunny Packard and the devil-possessed Delores Salk are a stand out.The film has certainly dated a little but I personally prefer it to all the other 'Lampoon' series.  "},{"Title":"National Lampoon - therein lies the problem....","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The biggest National Lampoon hit remains Animal House, and rightly so. It was funny, raucous and good-natured.The exact opposite of every other National Lampoon film.  Including Class Reunion.PLEASE do not be fooled by the inclusion of Stephen Furst (Flounder) from Animal House.  Or by the fact that John Hughes wrote this jumbled mess. This reunion is about as hilarious as root canal and twice as painful.One star, and that's being generous.  Then again, I always thought most of my old classmates were demons, vampires and serial killers, too. "},{"Title":"Great B-movie, funny if you don't expect too much, but worth a look (Red Hot Chili Pepper's Dad in it!!)","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Did you know, that Anthony Kiedis, (singer from the Red Hot Chili Peppers) father is in this movie. Blackie Dammit, is Anthony's father. I noticed this after reading Scar Tissue Anthony's autobiography, and saw a picture of his father. I thought, well, that guy kinda looks like that guy from that movie I saw in the eighties. Then I read more and it said his father was an actor that had a few small roles. After checking this site, and comparing with a search on the net, I realized it really is his father in the movie. It's funny, because nowhere in the book does it mention him being in this movie. Perhaps his son was ashamed of his father's acting job in this flick, but he need not be. I think his father, Blackie, did a great job in the show. "},{"Title":"It lasted one week in theaters!","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  NATIONAL LAMPOON'S CLASS REUNION was a flop when it was released. It didn't stay long in theaters in my big city. Why? Because it's BAD!!!!!Not bad in a good way but bad in a really painfully unfunny way. The entire cast of actors were mostly unknowns then and have remained unknowns after this turkey.The idea is actually great (a parody of slasher flicks) but the execution is sorely lacking in every aspect. Just avoid this comedy. Your time is more precious than spending a nanosecond watching this embarrassing misfire. "}{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Remember National Lampoon's 1964 High School Yearbook Parody?  It's a work of absolute genius, a laugh-out-loud example of the Lampoon in its glory days.  Well, back in the early '80s, I read somewhere that the Lampoon was going to produce a movie based on the yearbook parody.  With the hilarity of Animal House still fresh in my mind, I was beside myself with excitement--I couldn't wait for a movie based on the '64 yearbook.Unfortunately, the next Lampoon movie to be released was Class Reunion, a witless mess that looks as if it were edited with a dull hacksaw.  I remember seeing it and thinking They made THIS instead of a movie based on the yearbook parody?And after that I was afraid they thought Class Reunion WAS a movie based on the yearbook parody.  In any event, it's horrible. "},{"Title":"Another candidate for worst film ever","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The blurb on the DVD cover says that this is from the same lunatics who gave you National Lampoon's Animal House. Sorry, but it isn't. The director and writers had long gone by the time this effort was penned. Maybe the tag-line should have read, No class is more crass than this class. The acting looked to be amateur dramatics at best with the cast just going through the motions.As the title suggests, this film is about a school reunion ten years after a nasty trick was played on one of the students and now that student is out for revenge. Although this film is touted as a comedy slasher, it isn't particularly funny and very little slashing goes on. The mannerisms of the characters are exaggerated and one person has become a fire-breathing devil disciple - stupid rather than funny. This is not the National Lampoon of Animal House.This review is from the UK DVD release and there is a bit of confusion about the UK BBFC certification. The cinema release was given a 15 certificate but the subsequent video and DVD releases were given an 18. To confuse matters further, the DVD cover shows 18 but the disc label shows 15. To be brutally honest though, this film could probably get away with a 12 certificate, being so lame and tame. Most kids would probably switch off through sheer boredom anyway. This film fails on just about all levels so only 1 star. "},{"Title":"But...it's really good!","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" National Lampoon have a checkered history of film-making - for every Animal House, they produced a slew of Van Wilder level trash. But this one is definitely in the Animal House camp. I'm astonished that it's taken such a panning on IMDb! It's a stupid film, full of ridiculous characters, but I defy you to watch it without laughing. As well as some excellent performances, it has some absolutely brilliant lines (note that it was written by John Hughes), some beautiful comic vignettes, and Chuck Berry is in it! What's not to love?Another review referred to it as a slasher movie spoof; it is not. Nor is it trying to be. If you want to see a slasher spoof - go and see Scary Movie 12. If you want to sit giggling in front of your TV after you get back from the pub one night, give this a try. Ignore the haters. "},{"Title":"Two words.........not good....","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stereotypical send up of slasher flicks falls far short as supposed entertainment. Gerrit Graham, Michael Lerner, Zane Busby, and in fact the entire cast are totally wasted. Lame jokes abound, and every punch line is well telegraphed. The dumb one liners come at a fast pace, and almost every one falls flat as a squashed grape. The musical numbers only contribute to the boredom that sets in and lingers for the entire movie. Another negative is the claustrophobic setting entirely within the walls of an abandoned high school. Avoid this and seek out one of Lampoon's truly funny films like National Lampoon's Golddiggers - MERK "},{"Title":"funny!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  this is a funny one! it is one of those porky's kind of movies. the stoners,the bimbo,the dork,the cook,the jock, & the killer make up 2 hours of silly fun. zane buzby has to be the best part of this movie though. on scale of 1-10 & keeping in mind that its pure fun. (7) "},{"Title":"Under rated 80's Comedy","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Class Reunion is a very underated comedy gem. It's 1982 and the 1972 class of Lizzie Borden High return for there 10 year reunion, among them are the usual stereotypes, the hunk, babe, the fat guy & nerd etc, but the former students are in for a bumpy night, one of their classmates is Walter Baloer, the class wimp who was subject to a comedy prank by the rest of the class on graduation night and since then has been in a mental home, Walter escapes and now plans to avenge his humiliation,,,,Despite the dark premise, this is really just an excuse for lots of very funny gags & set pieces. To say too much more would spoil the film but if you enjoyed the Naked Gun & Airplane movies you'll love this, & what other film offers a music cameo by Chuck Berry?. A great comedy which deserves a wider audience. "}]