[{"Title":"In the genre, there is simply nothing better, and there never will be.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"130 out of 159 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wrath is based on one of the best episodes of The Original Series of Star Trek.  The episode, Space Seed, introduced Kahn Noonian Singh, a genetically engineered super-warrior from the 20th century who survived in cryogenic freeze until the crew of the Enterprise found his derelict space ship and revived him.  Alas, his instinct to conquer survived as well, and only after an epic struggle is Kirk able to deposit Kahn and his band of supermen in permanent exile on a garden planet.Fifteen years later, a cataclysm has left that planet barren, and Kahn bitter about his plight, when along comes the Enterprise, not knowing they have returned to Kahn's home planet.  Kahn escapes and the game is on.This is undoubtedly the best of the Star Trek movies, and in fact, the best of everything that was best about Star Trek TOS.  There is heroism, epic conflict, a fully satisfying story, and deliciously over the top acting by Shatner, Nimoy and, the main course, Ricardo Montalban, reprising his original role, with all the menace and drama of, say, Sir Anthony Hopkins' Oscar winning turn as Hannibal Lechter.The writing is great, and why not, it was by Harve Bennett, by way of Melville, and Roddenberry's unforgettable characters, as indelibly etched on our psyches as any fairy tale of our youth, were never brighter, more heroic, more magnificent.  In the genre, there is simply nothing better, and there never will be.  It took decades to hone and refine these characters, for us to come to love them, and for them to reach the point in their palpably real lives to reflect with self-doubt and angst on lives that we accept as being as real as our own.  This isn't a movie, it's a documentary, and a time capsule, and a worthy monument to the best cast in the best Sci-Fi Western ever made. "},{"Title":"The ultimate Science Fiction Film and  Star Trek's finest hour!","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"83 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This sequel to the Star Trek TV series and first Star Trek movies is the ultimate film for any Scifi fan and a rivetting drama for movie fans in general. More action packed and interesting than the original Star Trek movie, it brings the TV show cast onto the big screen by meeting a villain from the TV show (Khan), obsessively portrayed by Ricardo Montalban. Equally obsessive is William Shatner in his finest role playing Admiral Kirk, an ageing man reluctant to return to command of the USS Enterprise, but a man who finds his first, best destiny is at the helm of his ship. The battle scenes are the most engaging of any movie, and the action only lets up long enough for the audience to catch their breath and to advance the storyline. Witty characters, clever plot devices and ingenious writing and, by late 1990s standards, subdued use of special effects make this movie meet and often exceed the quality of the original show. Even 16 years later, the movie's technoligy does not seem dated because of the subdued use of Computer tricks! And NO cast of characters(sorry Next Generation fans!) ever had the chemistry or style the original Star trek cast after 16 years together, a comaraderie showcased  in this movie.  I saw this movie while I was in High School during the movie's original run and it gets better every single time I see it! The best!! "},{"Title":"The Best.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"73 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, the best of the Star Trek films. True, a lot of people have recently declared Star Trek Frist Contact the best. There are others who love whales and political correctness declare Star Trek The Voyage Home the best of the Trek films. Out of all the Star Trek films; only two deal with the human element of Star Trek as well as the original TV series did and that's Star Trek 2 and 3. This is the one Star Trek film that I would recommend to people who don't like or watch Star Trek. It's probably one of the best Science Fiction movies of all time.People will complain that it's too violent and dark. But that's a part of life. Anytime you deal with the darkest human emotions of hate and revenge; you will have starships being fired at and people dying. To say that in the future humans will be 100% peaceful is silly and naive. Themes of life and death are explored very well in this movie without getting preachy about it. Shatner and Nimoy are allowed to expand their characters and bring more life to them. Shatner turns in his best Trek performance since The City on the Edge of Forever.The special effects are good, but don't overshadow the story like they did in the first movie. Instead they service the story, as special effects should. The score is great; probably the best of all the Star Trek movies. The uniforms have been toned down and no longer look like pajama's from the first movie. I suppose if you really want to sum up this movie, it should be that this movie brings out the best from the TOS and makes a wonderful movie experience. Also it shows the potential that is in Star Trek that none of the other movies have been able to reach. "},{"Title":"Revenge is a dish that is best served cold!","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"59 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a classic action film.  It has heroic characters, a nasty villain and a sweeping adventure that is both engaging and entertaining.  This is top-notch filmmaking, which just happens to be told via Gene Roddenberry's sci-fi world of Star Trek.Acting Shatner and the Enterprise crew are all in top form.  It just so happens that this is the best material they have ever been given to perform and they execute it with class and style (a quality later incarnations of Star Trek lack).  Also, Ricardo Montablan is the ultimate Star Trek villain as Khan Noonian Singh.The special FX are also well-done.  In this age of CGI it is refreshing to see the ingenuity and creativity of old-style model effects being used so effectively.  And just to make this statement even more clear ST II has THE BEST space battle sequences in film history.  That's right, the best. It's not about the scope of a battle that makes it fun to watch, it's all about the pacing!  This film exhibits the best cat and mouse battle in my mind and its well worth your time.Go see this movie.   "},{"Title":"One of the better Treks....","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've always held a special place in my heart and mind for this second installment in the Star Trek movie series.  Mostly, because this is a movie that appeals to both places.Not only is this movie loaded with the original characters from the series, it also touches on such subjects as revenge, family, duty, age and, of course, sacrifice.  That was the best thing about the series - that it touched on topics that were (pardon the expression) universal, no matter the species.Everyone is uniformly fine right down the line, especially Montalban's Khan (returned from the Space Seed episode of the original series); all hatred, vengeance and single-minded of desire to see his enemy laid out before him.  Namely, Kirk.Alley is rather fetching as Saavik and it's a shame she wasn't carried over to the next film.  I can't help but, seeing her on TV anymore, to expect her to raise an eyebrow in contemplation.  Buttrick makes a complex character out of David, the son Kirk never knew he had.  Hurt feelings and resentment meld somewhat explosively with a new-found father/son relationship.And what can one say about Spock, Bones, Sulu, Chekov, Uhura and Scotty?  They are characters all of us grew up with and, pivotal to the plot at hand or not, it's always good to see them.  For anyone who hasn't seen the movie, I won't discuss it in great detail.  The story is simple enough (scientists find way to rejuvenate life on dead planets; Khan finds escape from prison planet, vows revenge on Kirk), but there is one plot point that will, if you are unfamiliar with it, blow you away.  Suffice it to say, never has friendship been elocuted so well in this or any movie before or since.Ten stars and a special Kobuyashi Maru simulation for Star Trek The Wrath of Khan.  Watch it it'll make you feel young again. "},{"Title":"Excellent well produced movie, great effects, directing, acting, One of The Best Sci-Fi's you'll ever see!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"51 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Wrath of Khan was a complete jump in quality, production and standard from first movie, The Motion Picture.  Ricardo Montauban,  a classic actor best known for his romantic films in his early years, 1950's.  One of the  best villains you will ever see in a science fiction movie.The music was good, however not as good as the predecessor movie's music, but still good.  The directing is also very good, great use of focusing techniques, close up's, action sequences well done, the usual high standard that comes from a proficient director like Nicholas Meyer.The lighting, exterior and interior shots, were well done.Its a pity that they haven't made a remastered tape, as the movie picture quality has degraded through the years.William Shatner's acting was extremely real, moving, believable. Among with the other main cast, and unlike the previous movie, this movie brought together that atmosphere that existed in the Original Star trek series.The dramatic plot that happens towards the end of the movie is indeed, one of the best scenes you will ever see in motion picture history.  Proving that Star Trek still has emotion.  I can not be more clearer than this unless by giving away the story.  Watch it yourself, and you'll be moved by the greatest acting, heart touching scene ever made.The special effects composed along with George Lucas were excellent, and in the year 2000, I feel they would come very close to our standard today.  The better warp entering sequences, battle sequences, and the formation of the new Genesis planet are very good effects.  The chase in the nebula, final explosion of the Genesis device are effects for you to watch for.If your like me, you will love the script for its Shakespeare context which Khan uses effectively throughout the film. I highly recommend you to see this movie if you haven't already, it's one of the best.Rating 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Still the best Star Trek Film after over 20 years!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There have been many Star Trek films but The Wrath of Khan is still the best. Second to none for thrills, action and adventure. With the best musical score by James Horner to keep us on the edge of our seats. If you haven't seen this at least 10 times go and put it on now!! The new special edition with previously unreleased footage brings the whole thing together in an even better way (no spoilers, sorry!). The regular cast are at their best but Ricardo Montalban steals the show as Khan. Done in true Star Trek tradition, unlike the disappointing special-effects-fest of the first Motion Picture, this film will go on to be one of the all time greats of sci-fi.  "},{"Title":"Plenty to enjoy here","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"49 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a Star Trek fan. I have watched the show a few times, and I don't dislike it; but it's not the sort of thing that I would find myself watching week after week. Basically what I'm saying is I'm not a Trekkie. I did, however, find lots to enjoy about this movie. The plot revolves around Captain Kirk, who has now been promoted to Admiral Kirk and is going through a mid-life crisis. However, his crisis couldn't have come at a worse time; as it has come on the eve of the testing for a new creation, known as 'Genesis', and not only that but a man named Khan has just been found on a planet that Kirk exiled him on, and he doesn't just want to give Kirk a friendly hug.The acting in the film isn't great, actually, it's about the standard that you would expect from a TV show (which is no coincidence, I'm sure). I'm not sure if all the cast of the shows is present, because I didn't watch it often, but most of the main ones seem to be here; Spock, Kirk, Scottie, Sulu etc. Also joining them is Kirstie Alley, in the role of a young Vulcan commander and Ricardo Montalban who camps it up and dons a silly costume for the title role of Kirk's opposite number; Khan. His performance was the standout of the film for me; he's deliciously over the top, but despite that he comes across as believable as his mannerisms fit the character profile that he is portraying. Unfortunately, non of the show's best known baddies, the Klingons make an appearance. In fact, aside from the Vulcans, there are no aliens in the movie.One thing that surprised me about the film is the meatiness of the characters. As it's a film of a TV show, I wasn't expecting any development or for the characters to step out of their character arks, but they are surprisingly well done. Some characters also go through a change during the movie (some more than others), which is nice to see. The pace is also a good thing about the movie, as it doesn't let up and manages to stay interesting all the way through. One thing that worried me before watching the movie is that I would get bored as I don't know the show, but that didn't become a problem at any point.I am proof that you don't have to be a Trekkie to enjoy this movie. There's more than enough for the casual movie fan to enjoy about it, it's an entertaining romp and overall I give this Star Trek film a 'G' for 'good' rating. "},{"Title":"Run Silent, Run Deep Space.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wrath of Khan owes a certain debt of thanks to Clark Gable's wartime thriller.  Although it's easy to criticize, WOK is full of suspense and tension.  The design of the costumes and sets is excellent, except for the cream and brown combinations.  But what the hey, it was made during the heady days of the early 1980s.  It is certainly more accessible to a mainstream audience than the first film was...but I liked that one too anyway.I'm no trekkie...I'm not obsessed by the tech specs of warp drive, and transporters or beams and such...I just like Sci-Fi movies that are well done and entertaining.  This is not the best movie ever made as another poster stated...but it is exciting and engrossing.Buy the DVD. "},{"Title":"Best Trek Film","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II is the best Trek film.  Why?  The cat and mouse game between Kirk and Khan.  The relationships of the Enterprise crew just keep getting better and better.  The battles between the Enterprise and Reliant are tense and spectacular.  The one thing that sets Star Trek II apart from all the others (which are good in their own way) is the death of Spock.  I can never make it through the end without shedding at least a few tears.  It starts to get you when Bones' voice comes back over the intercom instead of Scotty's, and when Kirk looks over to Spock's empty chair, you know something's wrong. The scene that follows is one of the best acted death scenes of all time, and it is also the saddest.  Spock's final line is the kicker, and with that scene you understand the entire relationship that Kirk and Spock had and you feel Kirk's loss.Of all the souls I have encountered in my travels, his was the most.......human.      "}{"Title":"Rousing!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the very best of this series, Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan gives you the battles and action for which you were so hungry.A veritable feast for Trekkies, and all other sci-fi fans, alike.Ricardo Montalban reprises his role as Khan; a genetically mutated humanoid who has powers and strengths beyond that of mankind. Longevity, apparently is one of those powers. Exiled on Seti Alpha 5, Khan and his crew were to have a chance at life in a place where they could no longer interfere with Star Fleet and the affairs of man. But Chekov inadvertently stumbles up on the shell of the Botany Bay, Khan's ship, and realizes immediately what a mistake he has made. He attempts to flee, but it is too late.Khan wants to avenge the death of his wife; an event for which he blames Admiral James Tiberius Kirk, and he will not rest until he can extract his revenge. It seems Kirk never checked on Khan and his crew, and sometime after they were deposited there, Seti Alpha 5 became a desolate wasteland with murderous creatures which burrow and move beneath the sands.Meanwhile, Kirk is going through what seems to be a mid-life crisis which is interrupted to deal with the travesties of space, and one of Kirk's many love interests, Dr. Carol Marcus, has developed the Genesis Project; a device which can create new planets from dead ones, asteroids, and the like. But were this device to be used where life already existed, it would destroy the present life in favor of the new matrix, thereby making it a very devastating and dangerous weapon in the wrong hands.Khan has learned of Genesis, and seeks to lay his hands on it, thus tying the plot to the sub-plot, and making for a very entertaining endeavor.The space battles are extremely well done. The effects are startlingly good, even by today's standards, and the effects of Genesis inside the Genesis Cave, are absolutely brilliant.The new characters; IE Savik, a Vulcan addition to the crew of the Enterprise creatively and beautifully portrayed by Kirstie Alley; Dr. Carol Marcus and her son; are very well developed without creating long, slow scenes in which to accomplish the task. There is one slow scene in the entire movie, and that comes just before we get to see the Genesis Effect inside the Cave.This is the infamous movie in which Spock gives up his life to save the ship and his friends. I remember picket lines outside Paramount Studios for weeks after this movie was released, protesting Leonard Nimoy's retirement from the series in such a manner.All in all, of the movies in which the original cast stars, I would have to say it is a toss up between 2, 4, & 6 for the title of Best of these movies. I do not believe I could choose a favorite among those three.It rates a 9.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"As Good As Star Trek Ever Gets","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"28 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadOK, Trekkies I will only review this one and leave the rest of your dreadful inventory unscathed. My philosophy professor called me the buzz-saw. I only had to go after TNG Insurrection because its ethical retardation was so profound. This is actually entertaining, believe it or not. Montalban was always a great actor. I also applaud Meyer for quoting Melville here is how you say Ahab Picard, use hatred, hello? He is a psycho. Picard quotes him in FIRST CONTACT like he was a knitting grandma in a rocking chair. Montalban quotes him with exactly the rage and hate that Melville wrote him with in Moby Dick. The film moves very quickly, it makes up for its very low budget by cannibalizing footage from Star Trek; The Motionless Model. The studio was almost burned to the ground by angry Trekkies after that horrible, over hyped piece of poo poo came out in 1979. They rushed this out, as fast as possible, you can see the many shots of the Enterprise that were lifted right out of Robert Wise's turkey.It is surprisingly intense for a Star Trek movie with those brain controlling slug things in the ear. Not terribly likely but hey anything after the frozen model of 1979. Winfield was always an underrated actor and he gives a great performance here. There are weak spots in the acting basically every time, then beautiful, Kirstie Alley speaks. Also, Merrit Butrick is just awful. He sounds like he is reading from a teleprompter. The hairpiece and the girdle are fully functional for Kirk; he is at his best in this film. Just one scene was cringe worthy, when he screams Khan like he is having an aneurysm. The movie is one of the most action packed of the entire set of both crews. It is refreshingly free of the usual humanistic boredom that the TNG films subject us to. There is a slight believability gap of Kirk allowing any ship that close to his ship. In the original series, that never would have happened. The death scene of Spock is the most moving of all the scenes in any Star Trek movie. That is probably why JJ thought he needed to rip it off in STAR CRAP INTO MORAL DARKNESS. The nobility of Spock is worth watching the movie for, yes his Vulcan axiom of the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few or the one is exactly the moral opposite of STAR TREK INSURRECTION. That is why this film endures while that one disappears. Narcissism is not a pretty picture. If you are going to buy the Star Trek films, which I would not, start with this one. It is like Everest compared to the other films of the series. Especially avoid Star Trek 4 We Need To Pick Up Whales, unless you have been drinking heavily, then it is one of the funniest movies you will ever see. The intensity, script, acting carry this film over the crummy low budget effects. Please, Regulus looks like a big cheese-ball. You can tell which scenes were taken from the comatose picture by, if they look good, they are not indigenous to the film. I did admire Meyer for always trying to educate those Trekkies. Here it is Herman Melville later in Star Trek 6 The Undiscovered Rest Home it is Shakespeare. I think it is noble; look, he is trying to help them. "},{"Title":"STAR TREK, Done Right!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  STAR TREK THE WRATH OF KHAN was another miracle moment in a franchise that has had more than it's share of such moments. Paramount never intended to make a sequel to STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE (a philosophy it would continue to embrace, after each film!), and, when, after intense lobbying by Gene Roddenberry, a few 'Trekkers' in the studio hierarchy, and a lot of fans, the studio finally caved in, they reduced the budget, dramatically, almost daring the production team to create a film of quality.In an inspired move, Harve Bennett, a television veteran, was brought in to executive produce, and his sensibilities, honed on the budgetary restraints of the small screen, helped to get the most out of the available funds. A director of the stature of Robert Wise was out of the question, but Bennett and Roddenberry were impressed by young Nicholas Meyer, and his one directorial effort, the cult SF favorite, TIME AFTER TIME, and the 37-year old leaped at the opportunity to tackle another SF film. Contrary to popular belief, Meyer was NOT familiar with the series, but he quickly immersed himself with the series' episodes, then looked at Harve Bennett's script outline, and the two of them then hammered out a shooting script. Gone would be the sterile, monochromatic future envisioned in the first film, replaced with warm colors, frequent references to classic literature, and the sense of camaraderie that had made the original series so popular.Both men had been impressed by Ricardo Montalban's charismatic Khan, in the episode, 'Space Seed', and agreed in bringing back the superhuman, yet sympathetic villain for the film. Leonard Nimoy provided the film's theme; with rumors of a possible new TV series still circulating, the actor, not wishing to be subjected to the weekly grind, suggested 'killing off' Spock, in some heroic fashion. Bennett loved the idea, although he wisely left a 'hook' in the script, in case Nimoy changed his mind, and he and Meyer could now address both the passage of time, and death, issues that were relevant, as the original cast were beginning to show their years!William Shatner, after the stinging reviews of his stilted performance in STTMP, needed a strong script to provide 'damage control', and he got it. In perhaps his finest performance, he dominates the screen, whether ruminating on his own mortality with McCoy, explaining how he 'beat' the Kobiyashi Maru scenario by cheating (I HATE to lose), discovering that after years as an interstellar lothario, he is a father (and by the one woman he truly 'loved'), playing 'cat and mouse' with Khan, or facing the death of his best friend, Spock. Both decisive and likable, Shatner's Kirk is the glue that holds STTWOK together, and he is brilliant.Leonard Nimoy, getting every actor's dream, a chance to 'die' onscreen, gives Spock a poignancy that is, ultimately, heartbreaking; DeForest Kelley, excellent as Dr. McCoy, not only offers righteous indignation over the implications of the Genesis Project, but projects such an obvious affection for both Kirk and his 'sparring partner', Spock, that, far more than in the first film, you can see the nearly symbiotic link between the three leads. The rest of the original cast, despite small roles, still have far more to do than in the first film, and are obviously enjoying themselves (except, understandably, Walter Koenig's 'Chekov', when the parasite is put into his ear!)Of the other leads, Ricardo Montalban lustily chews up the scenery as an 'Ahab'-influenced older Khan; a pre-'Cheers' Kirstie Alley gives Vulcan Lieutenant Saavik far more sex appeal than did her successor in the role, Robin Curtis; Paul Winfield makes the most of his brief role as Chekov's new boss, the doomed Captain Terrell; and Bibi Besch provides a combination of intellect, toughness, and affection playing Kirk's lost love, Carol Marcus. The only disappointment is Merritt Butrick, as Kirk's newly-revealed son, David; in a poorly-written role, he has little to do but gripe about Kirk, before and after he discovers their relationship.The film score was composed by 29-year old James Horner, who was told not to incorporate any of Jerry Goldsmith's themes from STTMP; he later admitted that he sneaked a bit of it in, anyway, along with Alexander Courage's original TV themes. While lacking Goldsmith's grandeur, the music is evocative and sweeping, and Horner would return to score STAR TREK THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK.Despite budget restraints, STTWOK had terrific FX (particularly during the Mutaran Nebula sequence), and was able to reuse the space dock and voyage sequences from STTMP quite effectively. The space battle scene between the Enterprise and Reliant is one of the best sequences in the entire 'Star Trek' film series.STTWOK was a HUGE success, both with critics and fans, vindicating Gene Roddenberry's faith in the franchise, and the decision to use Meyer as the director. And in a twist worthy of Scheherazade in 'The Arabian Nights', Spock's death created such an uproar that Paramount HAD to keep the series alive, just to resolve the issue.From a one-shot film deal, a THIRD film would be produced! "},{"Title":"Light Years Ahead of Star Trek The Motion Picture","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"25 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When Star Trek The Motion Picture was released, the masses flocked to it.  Unfortunately, the first film outing for the crew of the USS Enterprise was about as exciting as watching paint dry.Never underestimate Trekkies!  This Second Star Trek movie was even more greatly anticipated than the first.  Reluctantly, I went to see it.  I was pleasantly surprised.  Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, in my estimation, is everything the first one should have been, and then some!Captain Kirk, now an admiral, is experiencing some sort of mid life crisis.  And of course, he ends up back in the command chair when a routine inspection and review of the rookie crew on the Enterprise runs in to unexpected trouble.  The crew of the USS Enterprise is in fine form in this outing, and much of the camaraderie of the original TV series is recaptured.  And when and old adversary of Captain Kirk shows up with revenge in his heart, this movie gets rolling.   It has twists, turns and surprises aplenty.  The ending is truly a surprise.  Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a wonderful complement to the original TV series and stands on its own as a very good space adventure film.  I'd rate it a 89.5/100.  If you want to see what all the full about Star Trek is, Star Trek II is a great place to start. "},{"Title":"Captain Kirk Vs. Captain Ahab","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek The Wrath of Khan is everyone's favourite Trek film, even if they're not big fans of the show. Nicholas Meyer, the writer/director, is competent in an efficient, workmanlike way, and the movie zips along at a fine pace but with barely an original bone in its body.Khan, from the original series episode Space Seed, hijacks a starship with a plan to kill Captain Kirk. Kirk's having a midlife crisis, and has just met the son he never knew he had, who happens to be a scientist who's created a MacGuffin with limitless destructive potential. Kirk is full of angst, and talks a lot with Spock and McCoy, so some of the feel of the classic series is preserved. Everyone quotes liberally from Shakespeare and Moby Dick, with a little Dickens thrown in, to the point that they might have written the entire script by perusing Cliff's Notes and skimming Horatio Hornblower novels.The redesigned Starfleet uniforms signal a change in the way our heroes will be portrayed in future films. They are no longer exploring representatives of an idealistic utopia, but servants of a futuristic military. The space battles that make up the bulk of the film's action are dazzling, in a modest way, but the main characters spend most of their time on the bridges of their respective ships, pressing buttons and talking. You can plainly see that the budget was not very impressive.This movie might be noteworthy in that it's the only Star Trek film to have no aliens in it, besides Spock. It's got action and excitement, and those timeless themes of loyalty and honor or something equally wishy-washy, but there's nothing in here to really make you think, which is what the TV show always tried to do, even when it was being silly.EDIT I recently watched The Wrath of Khan again, and found that I was wrong on a couple points. First, the pacing is leaden. Only James Horner's music creates any sense of excitement while the story slogs along. Second, there is hardly any chemistry among the three leads. In fact, Kirk and Spock only share two or three important scenes, and are separated for the rest of the film. Spock's famous final sacrifice is rendered nearly meaningless. Most of the actors appear lifeless; Shatner's performance in particular is shockingly wooden, and he mumbles his dialog. Was anyone really asking for a subdued, realistic performance from William Shatner? "},{"Title":"20th Anniversary of One of the Greatest Sci-Fi Films of the last 20 years","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  (Caution  This review will discuss in detail themes, plot and characters that may be considered spoilers.  Do not read this review if you do not desire such information about this film.)Star Trek II  The Wrath of Khan is one of the best science fiction films of the past 20 years.  At its core, it is a story of vengeance, rebirth and sacrifice.  Even more admirable is the script's sophistication in combining literary themes found in Charles Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities and Melville's Moby Dick.The film opens with the administration of the Kobayashi Maru test at Starfleet Academy; the test is known to cadets and Starfleet officers as the no-win scenario.  In the test, an impossibly challenging situation is encountered, where the cadets tested must demonstrate their reaction to their own mortality.  As Admiral Kirk notes to Lt. Savik, after Savik questions the purpose of the test, Well, how we deal with death, is at least as important as how we deal with life, wouldn't you say.As part of the test, the instructors who are the former senior staff of the Starship Enterprise fake their own deaths.  This is the first hint in the film that symbolically Admiral Kirk and his crew are dead.  He and his crew accepted promotion to teach at Starfleet Academy, and stopped being the explorers in command of a starship facing the unknown.For his birthday, Spock gives Kirk Dicken's A Tale of Two Cities and Kirk reads the first line, It was the best of times; it was the worst of times. This begins Kirk's journey in the film that parallels the themes of the book.  In Dicken's story, Dr. Manette is imprisoned and symbolically dies until word arrives that his daughter, Lucy with brilliant gold hair, resurrects him into the outside world of France, which is disintegrating to social unrest under ruthlessness of the monarchy and royalty.At the same time that Kirk sits in the prison of his own promotion, Khan is buried alive on a barren windy desert planet where Kirk had placed him decades ago.  Khan is resurrected from his death by the chance landing of Genesis Project terra-formers who are working with Starfleet and the chance to revenge himself upon Kirk.  The Genesis Project is a missile that when detonated will take all matter in an area and recreates it into a planet livable for human life.Similarly to Dickens' story, Kirk is contacted by one of the terra-formers who is the mother of his son, because they face imminent attack from Khan who had taken control of a Starfleet research vessel.  Kirk is given permission to respond with the Enterprise and the trainee crew and to rescue his son.In addition to Kirk's rescue of his son, vengeance at this point becomes the catalytic event that resurrects Kirk and Khan from their symbolic deaths. Khan takes on the obsession of Melville's Captain Ahab in Moby Dick and relentlessly pursues Kirk for revenge, despite protestations that he could do so much more with his new found freedom.The price of vengeance is death.  After Khan's first devastating attack, a young engineering crewman dies.  Kirk stands at his bedside and as the crewman reaches out for Kirk's tunic, blood smears on Kirk's white bib just before the crewman dies.  In A Tale of Two Cities red wine or blood foreshadowed death for an aristocrat who killed a baby with his horse drawn coach.Kirk and Khan at the end of the film engage in a battle to the death. However, just prior to Khan's death, Khan engages the Genesis device that will devastate all life and matter in the area, in its effort to reformulate the matter to make it a planet fit for human life.  It appears that Kirk will die in the end as well.  Spock makes the supreme sacrifice and repairs the ship at the cost of his own life, which allows the ship and Kirk to escape the Genesis explosion.Spock's sacrifice mirrors Charles Darnay's and Sidney Carton's sacrifice at the end of A Tale of Two Cities where one person is hanged in place of the other.Just as the film began with the first line of A Tale of Two Cities, the film ends with the last line of A Tale of Two Cities.  It is a far better thing I do, than I have ever done before.  It is a better resting place, than I have ever known.To study Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is to delve into some of the most important human themes in English literature.  It is a Star Trek film that aspired to be more than the mindless action films that come out every year. It is a study of characters' death and rebirth that one rarely finds in any film.  Each of the characters are well acted and the direction and cinematography are outstanding.  If one studies Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, understands all that it attempted and succeeded in doing, I think without a doubt it will be considered one of the towering cinematic achievements in science fiction film history.  "},{"Title":"Khan!","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Middle aged Admiral James T. Kirk is suffering a mid life crisis while overseeing the trainee crew of the Enterprise who are under the watchful eye of everyone's favorite Vulcan, Spock. Then Khan (Ricardo Montalban), the villain of the episode Space Seed, escapes the planet turned wasteland where Kirk left him and his people, hijacks the USS Reliant and goes after Kirk with a death wish. But where does Project Genesis, created by an old flame of Kirk, Dr. CarolMarcus (Bib Besch) and her son David (the late Merritt Butrick), have to do with all this?A lot flashier and more adventurous than the first film, it none the less touches upon ethical topics such as taking control of the power of creation, good intentions turned into horrible weapons, the usefulness of our elders, and the self destructiveness of obsession followed by sacrifice. Ricardo Montalban is a memorable villain, full ham, fire, gusto and cold malice. Besch and Butrick are fine. Kirstie Alley makes her memorable debut as the lovely Vulcan babe Saavik and it's a part she plays well (too bad they couldn't hang on to her). The original cast of course, play their parts the way their fans expect them to play them and they play their parts fine. The late Paul Winfield is also good in his role as the ill fated Captain Terrell.Special effects are pretty good, with two well executed space shoot outs, the second and more memorable one taking place in the Mutaran Nebula. The death and funeral of Spock is very touching, and the film is also highlighted by some very beautiful music by James Horner. Shatner brings out a lot of sympathy from his Kirk in this entry. "},{"Title":"From hells heart","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm not a Trekki but I love Star Trek 2  The Wrath of Khan. A classic in my opinion. A movie I have grown up with yet still manages to thrill me whenever I occasionally dig it out of my DVD collection. William Shatner, however hammy, simply IS Captain Kirk, a leader of men, a decision maker and a fighter. Khan is a bitter vengeful man determined to kill the man who marooned him (kirk) and is a most worthy villain. Ricardo Montalaban is brilliant in his role as Khan eating up his lines and delivering them with a poetic madness. What is most impressive about this story is that it is simply not just a story about one mans obsession, hate and bid to avenge being marooned on a desolate planet. It allows characters to develop and grow (especially Kirk and Spocks bond) it builds the tension slowly and the showdown is exiting and very well executed by both the director and I also must say by James Horner for a terrific score to compliment the action. Overall Star Trek 2 has great characters, a good story, terrific action and best of all an exiting and ultimately tragic ending. Oh and Kirsty Alley is without doubt the hottest vulcan/romulan I ever saw! oo ah! "},{"Title":"From Out Of The Past","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've heard some Trekkies argue that The Wrath Of Khan is the best of the Star Trek big screen productions and I'm for one am inclined to accept that. Of all the Star Trek films it's the only one to have origins directly from the cult television series.And the origin is from the episode Space Seed where the Eneterprise finds a ship floating in space with cryogenically frozen people of all kinds on board. Their leader is Khan Nooriam Singh played by Ricardo Montalban. What they are is a group of genetically enhanced human beings who back in the day tried to take over. Earth justice at the time being what it was, they were not killed, but frozen and were out there in space for several hundred years.William Shatner as Captain James T. Kirk had a close run battle with this crowd again and they were sentenced to a different kind of exile, on a barren planet where they would have to struggle to maintain life itself. Fifteen years later Khan is down, but not out. He's out for blood now because the wife he took from the original Enterprise crew is dead and he blames Kirk. Khan's also after bigger game as well, something called the Genesis Project, a thing that scientists Bibi Besch and Paul Winfield have been working on. A method of generating life itself on a dead world.Khan's a genetically enhanced being both physically and mentally which makes him maybe the most dangerous foe Kirk faced on the three year run of the television series. He hasn't lost a step, but even a genius can't think of everything even if he's taken over a starship of his own. With both the television episode Space Seed and the film the Wrath of Khan it could well be argued that Ricardo Montalban got his career role, maybe he's known for playing Khan better because of Trek fans than for being the inscrutable Mr. Roarke on Fantasy Island. All the Star Trek regulars are in their accustomed and comfortable parts.I'll let you in on a secret, The Wrath of Khan is my favorite of the Star Trek films and it will be your's if you see it. "},{"Title":"Best Star Trek movie (and one of the best sci-fi movies) ever!","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I rented the first three of the six original Star Trek movies a couple of months ago. After trying to sit through The Motion Picture twice, and couldn't, This one I expected to be similar. Quite contrary. While The Motion Picture (TMP) had bleak and dull lighting, costumes (bad costumes even for Star Trek) This starts off with Spock's Iconic ear, and we see a well done scene (The reason I knew what was going on is because I read Leonard Nimoy's biography, where he talks about the movie) Then we have Khan, the best Star Trek villain ever! Ricardo Montalban gave the best performance of the movie with great lines, and he was threatening.This movie also broke new ground with one thing Chekov (Walter Koenig) actually did something that progressed the plot! after two seasons of just saying mother Russia and occasionally giving an input, he actually progressed plot! I suppose that you know the ending by now (I won't say, just in case you don't. But even if you do know what will happen, you still will love the scene (If you just want to watch it, I first found it on YouTube, result of lack of patience to sit through the movie for hours when I just want to watch that scene) After watching the whole movie, I still loved it very much and almost cried.Just watch this movie, It is the best Star Trek movie, with First Contact as a close second. The only advantage this movie has is it isn't actually a geeky movie like the other nine (or the five of which I have seen) "}{"Title":"Moby Dick in Space","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Wrath of Khan isn't a science fiction film as much as it's an old-fashioned adventure story dressed up in vintage science fiction tropes. The plot the crew of the Starship Enterprise, led by the now iconic Captain James T. Kirk, find themselves embroiled in a deadly cat and mouse game with Khan Noonian Singh, a genetically engineered superhuman. The story is pure pulp, but don't be put off. Director Nicholas Meyer's work here is fabulous, and his screenplay beautiful.Meyer, a great writer with a fondness for literary classics, bathes his film with references to everything from Moby Dick to The Sea Hawk. As a result, the film has a very nautical feel. Spaceships trade massive broadsides, our cast's uniforms, dialogue and behaviour are now informed by that of the 19th century British Navy, and the film's climactic battle feels like a cross between a U-boat suspense film and Herman Melville's famous whale hunt.Meyer has long had a special fondness for 19th century novelists. His first big splash came in 1974 with The Seven Percent Solution, a Sherlock Holmes novel that hit the #1 spot on the New York Times Bestseller list, stayed on the charts for 40 weeks and resurrected the Holmes pastiche craze the way Wrath of Khan jolted new life into Star Trek.He followed that up with two sequel novels, The West End Horror and The Canary Trainer. The former had Holmes and Watson brushing shoulders with Bernard Shaw, Gilbert and Sullivan, Bram Stoker, Oscar Wilde, and other Victorian theatre dudes. The latter gave a Holmesian spin to Gaston Leroux's Phantom of the Opera.So Meyer delights in weaving nods to great literature into modern narratives. His first directorial success was the time-travel escapade Time After Time, a fun romp which featured H.G. Wells pursuing Jack the Ripper across modern San Francisco. He takes a similar approach with Khan, retooling Melville's Moby Dick and placing Ahab's lines on the lips of Khan, the film's larger than life villain. A worn copy of the book even appears on Khan's shelf, alongside King Lear and the Bible. In the movie, a character called Spock also gives Kirk a copy of Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities for a birthday present.Several years later, when Meyer returned to direct Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country (the last featuring the original crew and arguably the second-best film in the franchise) he gave it an Agatha Christie-style cosy murder mystery, Shakespeare-quoting Klingons (and a Shakespeare influenced title), named a Klingon prison asteroid after the penal colony that held Captain Nemo in Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, and had Spock both quote Sherlock Holmes and refer to the coolly logical Great Detective as one of my ancestors. Meyers sure does love classical literature.But woven into Khan's cat-and-mouse plot are also meditations that humanise the larger-than-life James T. Kirk. Here, at last, our long-time galactic hero faces the fact that he's not the young space cowboy he used to be.Early in the film we're introduced to the Kobayashi Maru, a no win scenario in which every star ship captain must face death. Kirk, we learn, is the only person to have ever beat this no win scenario. How? He reprogrammed various computer simulators, thereby changing the rules of the game. As a result, the film has a beautiful tension. On one hand we have the Captain Kirk who repeatedly wins all scenarios, who knows only success, who can't deal with defeat, who always finds a way to break the rules and change the terms of engagement. And on the other hand, we have Kirk's confrontation with his own mortality, his need for glasses, his unscheduled reunion with an ex-lover and his estranged son. This tension, between life and death, immortality and mortality, success and failure, is epitomised by the Genesis device, a super weapon in the film which has to power to both create and destroy.Shortly after Khan's first attack on the Enterprise, which leaves a new crew-member dead, Kirk swallows the bitter pill that his own failures almost brought about their destruction. He goes on to find a brilliant way out of this particular no win scenario, of course, but the consequences of his escape nevertheless force him to confront the holes in his armour. Our ageing admiral and crew may descend to self-parodying plastic action figures in some later entries, but in this movie they're allowed to be vulnerably human, as themes of pursuit, age, death, and regeneration appear through the phaser fire.On the other side of the fence, we have Khan. Here's one mightily ticked-off arch villain, quoting 19th century literature and Klingon proverbs while slitting throats and placing space bugs in people's brains. Give him an eye-patch and it'd be Arrrr! Avast ye! all the way. Miraculously, though, Meyer keeps it all under control. Even that moody old bird Pauline Kael devoted extra column inches to praising the way these two classically trained actors chewed scenery and bounced off one another in Khan.If nothing else, Khan reminds us that sometimes, somehow, a Hollywood picture comes along and proves the creaky old notion that talent counts more than production dollars. There's got to be some moral in the fact that the Star Trek movie with the smallest budget (by far) and fewest resources is still the dominant favourite and the only one that doesn't feel, one way or another, like a factory-line franchise product designed solely to provide money for the stockholders.8.9/10 - Khan has everything you could ask for in a good adventure film sympathetic, well-drawn heroes, a terrific villain, exciting outer-space showdowns, wow factor, smart direction, a fine tuned script and a touch of reflective depth (the Enterprise crew finally faces up to age and mortality, and questions about the wisdom and consequences of playing God are hinted at). Oh, and the music is awesome as well. "},{"Title":"Give Star Trek its due","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Few would disagree that Wrath of Khan is the best Star Trek movie to date. There are some holdouts for IV & VI, but even their proponents only go so far as to rate those up there with II.  Besides, the fourth Trek gets more dated by the minute, and I think a lot of the good feeling about the sixth movie was just relief that they rebounded from V.  And advocates for the first movie or the Next Generation offerings are just in denial.So if Wrath of Khan is Star Trek's best contribution, the question has to be where Star Trek ranks in the annals of sci-fi.  And the answer has to be pretty high.  The Star Trek phenomenon is unparalleled in the science fiction genre, or pretty much any other genre for that matter.  When science fiction films suddenly became big business after 1977, this franchise was one of the first offerings made.I wouldn't put Wrath of Khan ahead of seminal works such as Metropolis, Star Wars, or T2, but it's not far behind.  Ironically, one of its strengths is that the story itself has little to do with science fiction.  You can lift out this story about live, death, and consequences and put it in any timeframe.  They just happened to blend it superbly into a 2283 AD setting and create a tale that holds up extremely well.This movie still contains some of the best work ever from ILM, James Horner, Nicholas Meyer, and the entire cast.  And for what it's worth, note that this movie contains a little Genesis short that could well claim to be THE BIRTH OF CGI. "},{"Title":"My favourite of all the Star Trek films","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Back where it belongs with this film, it has the right mix of science, character and action. I love the plot of the film and really enjoyed any scenes where it showed the cat and mouse game Kirk (William Shatner) and Khan (Ricardo Montalban) were playing with one another. It was really good to see the Khan's character reintroduced, as in the series, he was marooned on a planet and in the film, we get to see what life was like for him and his family and why he is out for revenge against Kirk.I like the dark and light elements to the story. I enjoy Spock's character in this as it is good that the audience get to see a new dimension to Spock's character, he is less stern and even cracks a joke. There is a really moving scene at the end of the movie when Spock is dying and says to Kirk that he will always be his friend. It is a real emotional scene that has me in tears every time I watch it. It is also good that it can switch between the light and dark shades of the story effortlessly and the special effects are amazing to watch. "},{"Title":"An excellent sci-fi / thriller which utilizes incredible special effects techniques that are on their way to becoming a lost art in our modern, computer driven world","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was an excellent masterpiece utilizing creative artistic talents which are rapidly becoming extinct in the emerging computer era. I found myself in awe when I watched the Starships fly around on screen and engage each other in heated combat. This is something which I do not feel when I look at computer generated effects of modern movies. When I observed the ships in this film, I actually felt like I was looking at what could have been a real ship in space; whereas when I observe more modern productions I think to myself yes, this is nice and although it looks pretty impressive, it just doesn't feel real to me. I think this because the ships in newer productions have that all too fluid and smooth movement which is indicative of computer generated models, so that artificial feeling is always there and pinging at me in the back of my mind. As such, it just doesn't convince me as a viewer that I am observing something that could actually exist; it feels like it is fabricated and fake to me. The ships in The wrath of Khan were actually huge models that were masterfully built and detailed by hand and then shot by a real life camera. Very little computer assistance was used in bringing them to life on the big screen. This is just something that is not done very often anymore and it is becoming a lost art. I think the older films, where this technique was implemented and perfected, were the better for it over their modern computer driven counterparts.The story in this movie was also well written. In particular I very much enjoyed the quoting of Moby Dick by Khan; both when he first sets out after Kirk and when he has lost the battle but still intends the win the war in the Nebula by destroying his ship with the super weapon the Genesis Torpedo. The character of Khan mirrored the very character he was quoting, Captain Ahab, in many ways; particularly in that his quest for vengeance against the white whale (Kirk) had totally consumed him.Furthermore, it can not be quarreled that Ricardo Montalban was a phenomenal actor, and he brought true passion and anger to his role as the revenge obsessed Khan Noonien Singh; a super-human genetically engineered to be superior to ordinary man in all ways possible. At least, this was how he perceived himself in his own mind.Throughout the movie, Khan was easily angered and provoked; particularly when Admiral Kirk insulted his superior intellect, injuring his enormous pride. This encounter, which he was so easily manipulated into, turned out to be fatal for the vengeful Khan and his crew. Also worth noting is that while the character has a warped sense of morality, he still yet had feelings for members of his crew. This was apparent when his helmsman was killed and he yet again vowed vengeance against Kirk. It seemed that the character's primary motivations were his intense desires and passions, thus making him a being in constant conflict with himself as his emotions overruled the better judgments of his vast intellect.This movie ended on a particularly sad note when one of the most beloved of the main characters (Spock) sacrificed himself for the good of all to save the Starship Enterprise and her crew from the final mad act of vengeance of the enraged Khan. While saddened by this, I greatly respected the lesson behind the ending of the movie in that putting the well being of others before your own is critical for the bettering (or in this case the survival) of all. To quote Spock the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, or the one. That was one of my favorite movie quotes of all time.In conclusion, Star Trek II The wrath of Khan was my favorite installment of this long running franchise. I loved the special effects, the acting was superb (particularly Ricardo Montalban's performance) and the story was enthralling and entertaining. If you are a fan of science fiction movies and thrillers, such as I, then this is a phenomenal movie for you. If nothing else, catch it on cable or satellite once and give it a go. Try watching the special effects and pay particular attention to how the space ships in this movie are portrayed. Compare the use of actual models to a newer movie or series that uses computer generated models and see which type is more convincing to you. Speaking for myself, there is no comparison. Real life models are by far and away my preferred method of creating convincing special effects. Perhaps one day computer technology will advance to the point where I will change my mind; but as of 2009 I feel the technique still has a long way to go before it can outperform movies such as this. A movie, I might add, which was made over two and a half decades ago at the time of writing this review. "},{"Title":"The TV edit was better","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There has been a lot of comment on this being the best of the Trek movies with the original cast and I'm not going to get involved with that discussion.The plot of the story is good but editing of the sub plots leave you wondering what the reaction shots of the characters were about. Who the heck was Peter Preston and why did Scotty seem so proud of him when he introduced him to the Captain during the Engine Room inspection? Think about it. The entire scene is meaningless unless the director wanted you to feel sympathy for the cadet when Scott shows up in sick bay later carrying him after Khan's attack.That's kind of like the series when you're introduced to a 'red shirted' guy at the beginning of an episode and you know he's going to wind up dead by the opening credits. You're meant to feel bad but not as much as if he were a recurring cast member. Most of the time they only had last names like Lt. Rodriguez or Ens. Palmer. Surely no one picked these guys up and tearfully carried them to sick bay.Well, unless you read the novelization of the movie, the only other way to know who Peter Preston was was to have seen the ABC version of the movie. As with their airing of Superman and Superman II, they were able to get their hands on deleted scenes and reinsert them, making some sub plots make sense. To my knowledge, that version hasn't surfaced anywhere, either on VHS or DVD. If so please let me know.To put this sub plot in a nutshell, Peter Preston is Scotty's nephew. His sister's kid to be exact. He is Scott's only family heir since he never had children and this was his sister's only kid. The continuation of his family's bloodline rested with Parker. Part of the scene in the engine room inspection had Scotty introduce him to Kirk and why he was so proud that he took up engineering like his uncle. He was spunky and you couldn't help but like him.That's why Scott's crying when he carries him to sick bay after the attack. In fact, he doesn't even understand what happened until Kirk tells him about Khan. Yep, that's all cut out.There are some other scenes that are expanded but none that changed the story as much as Scott's. My guess is that they may have thought that it distracted from the Kirk/David Marcus story line. Of course, it could have been cut because they didn't want to take away any of the gut wrenching good-bye at the end. That might also be why Scott doesn't seem as effected by Spock's death as much as everyone else. He has his own personal grief to contend with.Another footnote here about that story line; in ST III when Kirk is having Spock's wake, he makes a toast to 'absent friends'. He doesn't mean Spock, he means Scotty because he wasn't there. In fact, when the doorbell chimes, he believes that Mr. Scott has finally arrived when it turns out to be Sarek. Why was Scott missing? He was home in Scotland attending a memorial service for Preston at his sister's side. "},{"Title":"This Movie Rocks the House","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, let me start out by saying that this is the only Star Trek movie I have ever seen and that I am not a Trekkie at all. In fact, the only reason I decided to see this was because my dad went on about how good it was. And do ya know it, he's right??!! Even if you're not a fan of Star Trek or Sci-fi in general, I still think you'll like this movie, thanks to an excellent performance by Ricardo Montalban as Khan Noonian Singh. He is such a great villain, and my favorite of all movie villains ever! Forget Darth Vader, Khan rules, man! I also enjoyed this movie a lot more than any of the Star Wars movies. This film is really 80's, but, hey, every decade has its own style. I've heard that The Wrath of Khan is MUCH better than any of the other Star Trek movies, so I guess I won't be seeing them, or maybe I will, to see how bad they really are......anyway, if you like sci-fi, space, comedy, and a little bit of tragedy (actually, the saddest part was when Khan died--where is the Star Trek gang gonna get all their good villains now??) then you should definitely see this movie. Don't expect Casablanca or Citizen Kane, but this is a good movie that practically anyone can love.4 out of 4 stars for Khan.-2001Rulz "},{"Title":"As good as it gets?","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's easy to see why this movie succeeded after the failure of the first Star Trek film The Wrath of Khan aims very low, so it can't miss. The story is instantly familiar from classic Westerns and adventure stories, the drama is mundane and domestic, and there's lots of action. Don't look too closely, or pull too hard on any loose threads, or the whole thing will unravel.Nicholas Meyer took over the franchise with this movie and decided that the whole exploring space thing was too hard to get a handle on. Instead, he brought back a villain from the old TV show and had him chase Captain Kirk around in circles for the better part of two hours. Along the way there's a bit of melodrama Kirk's midlife crisis, an old flame, and an estranged offspring, as if his life weren't complicated enough already. The old gang comes along for the ride, even though few of them have any excuse for being there. (It's a delightful irony that Meyer, who never served in any military, also introduced the silly space-navy look to the franchise in this film, while Gene Roddenberry, the notorious peacenik, was a decorated bomber pilot in WWII.)I won't dwell on plot holes, because there are too many of them. If you like Wrath of Khan's blend of action and soap opera, those little inconsistencies and mistakes will hardly matter to you. Other mistakes are bigger and more bothersome the Genesis Device that Khan wants to get hold of is no more than a MacGuffin, whose duty it is to drive the plot and explode when necessary. (Khan's quest for revenge fulfills similar requirements). The terraforming angle pops up as an obligatory piece of science fiction paraphernalia, mostly so that Doctor McCoy can compare science to playing God, as if that hadn't been done a million times before. The dialogue is stilted and cluttered with shout-outs to Charles Dickens and Herman Melville, perhaps to lend an air of dignity, and the acting veers woozily back and forth between hammy and wooden.The music is superb, and does most of the film's hard work. Without James Horner's nautical score, there would hardly be any suspense or excitement during the many space battles in the final act. The special effects are quite decent, even the ones that aren't nicked from the previous movie. If it weren't for those two things The Wrath of Khan would feel too much like a TV film -- above average, but not nearly as good as the show it was based on. "},{"Title":"Scientists have always been pawns of the military.","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the best things about Star Trek is that it doesn't get so wrapped up in technology that it forgets to focus on the characters.The characters, Kirk, Scotty, Spock, McCoy, Sulu, and Uhura, are reliable and consistent. They have the same foibles as we do and go through the same stress.In this particular film, we ponder mortality, revenge, and sacrifice. Yes, we relish the excitement that comes with great battles in space, but we do it as humans, not machines.But, a movie is only as good as the villain, and Ricardo Montalban as Khan gives us a great one. You can see his hatred for Kirk oozing from every pore. "},{"Title":"They made it look deceptively easy","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watching Abrams' latest tepid outing on the big screen inspired me to re-watch the film from which he stole so much material. And it's better by an even vaster margin than I remembered.The thing about TWOK is that it's not without its minor plot-holes or inconsistencies, but it has the energy and compelling, driving core story to make them seem irrelevant. It's not the sumptuous visual feast modern CGI can turn out either... but again, that's to the good, as it also has none of the tacky, moronic excess that so characterizes the CGI era. Its effects are convincing and restrained, doing what they need to do and otherwise keeping out of the story's way.What brings TWOK to the apex of the Trek universe is that it embodies the basic premise Trek was original built around the premise of telling great stories that *just happened* to take place in an SF setting. One of the finest episodes of the original series was Balance of Terror, a tense destroyer-versus-sub duel that could have come out of the Pacific Theatre of WW2 but for its SF trappings. TWOK riffed on this and created probably the best starship duel ever put to film, adding the original series' best-ever bad guy to the mix and putting it all together with masterful pacing and momentum. This is the difference that writing makes between a mediocre film and a great one.It was something of a curse, ironically, on the film franchise that they made it all look so deceptively straightforward and simple in TWOK. The Trek films never recovered this magic, never climbed these heights again, because too many subsequent directors -- Abrams now among them -- just didn't get what made the franchise's greatest instalment work so well. If the Next Generation crew ultimately proved the best in the televised medium, the original cast still owns the silver screen on the strength of this film. "},{"Title":"Do you know the Klingon proverb that tells us revenge is a dish that is best served cold? It is very  cold...in space!","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Star Trek feature film debut had its fair share of ambition and spectacle, but was a lumbering beast of a film that proved bewildering and somewhat dull. It makes for a decent space opera, but in their wisdom, the filmmakers realized that they needed to spice things up for the inevitable sequel. Even at the expense of kicking Gene Roddenberry - the revered creator of the franchise - to the curb.Thus, Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan came into fruition. Coming after the classic Trek episode Space Seed, this film brings back Khan Noonien Singh as the story's nemesis, and the whole thing becomes a rocketing thrill ride from then on. Space battles are fairly simple and short, but they are still quite spectacular to watch, especially with the colorful backgrounds of the Mutara Nebula. The pacing is even throughout, and the film boasts some remarkable iconic moments that all audiences can recognize and relate to.The story is appealing; even though there is plenty of action and peril in the movie, it has enough breathing space for quality characterization and theme development. A good chunk of room is left for Kirk contemplating his old age and mortality, and thanks to the parallels of the Genesis torpedo and the film's ultimate solution, strong themes of death and rebirth emerge very subtly. Even without such elements, the characters come off as being well-rounded and enjoyable. The story covers some fascinating concepts, and is well-structured.This film is shot and edited with quality precision. Acting is phenomenal while it is always a joy to see William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, and the rest of the crew in action, Ricardo Montalbn steals the show as the villain, with a powerful and iconic performance. Writing is great, featuring plenty of great memorable lines. The production has a fine array of solid sets, props, costumes, and special effects (costumes in particular are much improved from the last Trek picture). Music, despite deviating from the classic Trek themes, has a catchy melodic charm of its own.Of this film, I can say this. Of all the Trek films I have known, this still the most...endearing.4.5/5 (Entertainment Very Good | Story Very Good | Film Very Good) "}{"Title":"Simply one of the best.","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II is simply one of the best sci-fi films of all time. If not the best. Star Trek IIThe Wrath of Khan takes lessons from the first one and improves on them . It touches on themes of Life and death and mortality and vengeance and Friendship and loyality.Khan presents a great case here to be considered as the greatest Villain in Any Sci fi genre. Admiral Kirk is getting older. He's given up the Enterprise. And he's full of regret. So when a routine training cruise becomes a mission of utmost importance. Kirk and Spock and McCoy rush in to where angels fear to tread. Not only does Kirk face the ghosts of his past and his mistakes. He knows now is the time to pay for them. Wonderfully written beautifully acted and memorable in every way Star Trek II the Wrath of Khan is the gold standard bearer for not just Star Trek but Sci-fi in general. "},{"Title":"To say this is better then the original is an understatement.","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" (Credit IMDb) Admiral James T. Kirk is still in charge of a space fleet, but from behind a desk. Dr. McCoy and Mr. Spock convince him to take on a mission which sounds simple, but with the appearance of the mysterious Khan, things get a little tricky.After the dreadfully boring original, the franchise decided to step it up, and give us a worthy Star Trek movie. While it's not a classic like fans claim, it's still very enjoyable and a memorable movie that holds up well. Ricardo Montalban gives a performance for the ages of Khan, and some of the scenes he had with Shatner are classical. Star Trek's main fault was that nothing of note ever happened really, here the filmmakers made sure to give us some entertaining things, and things we could pay attention too. The final showdown is great, and it was a fitting follow-up, considering the disappointment I felt with my Star Trek viewing. Performances. William Shatner is great as Kirk. He's focused, likable, and managed to inject charisma this time around. Ricardo Montalban is utterly spellbinding as Khan. His menacing attitude I could never forget, and his actions where we first see him appear on screen I will never forget. DeForest Kelley and Leonard Nimroy both give fine performances as Spock and Dr. McCoy. Kristie Alley is actually pretty good in an early role. Unfamiliar Trekkies might be amused to see her here. Bottom line. It's not the perfect follow-up many claim, but it's certainly great entertainment. For Star-Trek beginners, I would seriously recommend this film as your starting point. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Wrath of Khan","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is more like it! After a rocky start with an admirably cerebral but ultimately dull first big screen outing, the Star Trek series bounced back with this excellent, rip-roaring adventure classic, generally considered the best in the franchise.Filled with memorable moments, vivid performances, awe-inspiring spectacle and a much-improved score, it's more-or-less a perfect entertainment. And all this for a staggering one-third of the cost of its predecessor.The jury's still out on the legitimacy of Ricardo Montalban's chest but his wonderfully hammy performance as Khan gives us one of the great modern sci-fi villains, countered by William Shatner's heroic, sly Kirk who - along with everyone else on the crew - seems to have been upping their Personality Plus supplements since the last film.It's this twinkle in the eyes of the entire cast and a strong sense of wry humour that makes the film such terrific, old-fashioned fun. It's the kind of film Errol Flynn and Basil Rathbone might have made forty years earlier, with galleons instead of spaceships. "},{"Title":"It's not just a great adventure film, but one with exceptional writing for the characters and an emotional poignancy which still surprises me no matter how many times I see it","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There are many, many films, especially genre films which have great reputations but fail to live up to them on repeat viewings or, sometimes, on first viewings. However, as today's viewing marked the twentieth time I have seen Star Trek The Wrath of Khan, viewings spread over twenty years from childhood to adulthood, I find myself able to say with an unprecedented level of assurance that Star Trek The Wrath of Khan is a film I believe to be truly 'great', not only a personal favorite but one which achieves excellence in so many ways that I find it genuinely hard to believe there are so many people out there who don't love this film. The film gave me goosebumps on this viewing, much like it does every single time I see it, without fail.The film boasts a brilliantly-written genre screenplay by Jack Sowards and director Nicholas Meyer (the original outline was written by executive producer Harve Bennett, developed into a full script by Sowards, then re-written once more by Meyer, who refused to accept a writing credit), perhaps its greatest strength. While there are 'plot holes' which fans have debated endlessly which I don't even want to mention for fear of them coming up again and a couple of contrivances, overall I find the screenplay to be consistently one of the tightest and most poignant pieces ever written for Star Trek in any of its incarnations in film or on TV. The Genesis subplot doesn't seem extraneous to me at all as some people feel, in fact I find much of the emotional poignancy of the film comes from Kirk's relationship with Carol Marcus and from the metaphorical significance of the Genesis project. It's also an important plot point, so I really have to say that considering it a flaw seems more like nitpicking to me than anything.The script covers a great deal of ground in under two hours. The opening stages are not merely a series of lame excuses to get the original crew back on the Enterprise, but actually contain great character development and insights into their behavior. The introduction of Khan and the principal story of the film is very effectively done, and very efficiently as well. This is a sequel to the famous Space Seed episode from the original series, but very quickly yet completely explains the origin of Khan's conflict with Kirk without laborious exposition or a slowing down of the film's extraordinary pace. Once the battle of wits gets going the film is pretty much unstoppable, greatly aided by Meyer's vision of the film as a nautical adventure, resulting in some terrific design and atmosphere (especially remarkable considering many of the sets were cannibalized from sets for the aborted Star Trek Phase II series from the 70's. Yet with all the action and the military nature of the film (which, at this point, Roddenberry opposed, despite his original pitch for Star Trek containing phrases such as 'Wagon Train to the stars' and despite Kirk being based on Horatio Hornblower) it never loses sight of the core of Star Trek the camaraderie and terrific character interactions. The actors don't betray the script's greatness in that regard either Shatner gives a phenomenal, understated, dignified performance as Kirk, and is just devastatingly good in some scenes, with a few bits of overacting here and there but generally he's great. Do I even need to comment on Nimoy's Spock or Kelley's McCoy or any of the rest of the original cast? Nimoy's performance here barely manages to eclipse Shatner's as the film's best. It's just so wonderfully understated and beautiful. Oh, and Montalban as Khan is the epitome of a great scenery-chewing villain, but with an almost unexpected level of emotional gravity. The Melville quotes don't hurt either. Star Trek The Wrath of Khan seems to me a perfect film. It contains everything which made Star Trek work in my estimation, except for the sexiness of the original series, but that omission is suitable considering the story and considering the aged crew. The film is just so exceptionally well-written, well-directed, and flawlessly paced. Fanboyish or not I simply have to say it Spock's sacrifice is among the greatest cinematic moments of all time, and I always find myself tearing up at the end of this movie. It's not just a great adventure film, but one with truly, truly exceptional writing for the characters and an emotional poignancy and sense of melancholy which still surprises me no matter how many times I see it. "},{"Title":"the film that saved Star Trek","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Star Trek films got off to a pretty lame start with 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' and it was obvious from watching that stiff, silly film that everyone involved had not gotten back into the Trek groove. So for the next film, they slashed the budget and went for a stripped-down, violent and sometimes even gory (by ST standards, anyway) installment that managed to hit almost all the right notes. 'Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan' is also unashamedly sentimental at the end, and even non-Trekkers were known to tear up watching Spock die. None of the Trek films are really like the old TV episodes; this and the next ('Search for Spock') come closest in approach and storytelling. The plot this time out concerns the Genesis device, a sort of bomb that creates life instead of destroying it. It's shot at a lifeless moon or asteroid and soon there are forests, rivers, sky, etc. Khan (played with great flamboyance by the one and only Ricardo Montalban) enters the picture when Chekov and his new commander stumble across the planet where he and his party have been marooned for all these years, making this a sequel to the TV episode 'Space Seed.' Kahn and his people haven't had an easy time of it on the dry, barren planet and now he is thirsting for revenge against Kirk. And to throw in the kitchen sink, the film also features an old flame of Kirk's, Dr. Carol Marcus, inventor of Genesis, and Kirk's son by her, David. There are a number of exciting scenes, and a running verbal duel between Khan and Kirk that is quite entertaining. Providing shock value are brain-eating, mind-controlling worms, native to Ceti Alpha VI where Khan and his party lived in exile, which are quite creepy in an 'Alien' sort of way. The ending, which finds Spock exposing himself to lethal radiation in order to repair the Enterprise, is very touching and would form the bridge of a story arc leading to the next two films. Unfairly or not, Gene Roddenberry was largely blamed for the first Star Trek film's excesses and plodding pace, so he was 'kicked upstairs' for 'Wrath of Khan' and had less and less to do with each succeeding movie. An interesting bit of trivia often cited by Trek fanatics about 'Wrath of Khan' is that Chekov is the first of the old crew that Khan encounters and remembers, yet the character of Chekov had not joined the crew of Star Trek when 'Space Seed' was made and so is not even in the original episode! "},{"Title":"Better","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is based on the Director's Edition. After the first being essentially a long(no... really) establishing piece, this takes charge, and does so right away. The pacing is improved, and this is more enjoyable. This uses an episode as a start-off point, and in general presumes the viewer is familiar with the franchise. I'm not sure this was the most interesting way to go from that particular one, but what they get out of it is good. I'm sure I will take a lot of flack for this, but it does seem a little like Gene having less control proved a positive, at least in this case. The plot is well-written. The themes are another positive. This is, as Star Trek is when at its best, about the characters, and they're consistently and credibly written, and they have something to do this time, if not equal amounts. The acting is great. Notable that they got the same performer. The effects are nice, convincing and well-done, and they never take over. The action isn't bad, ditto the tension and the humor. Not all situations are satisfyingly resolved, going by their potential and/or set-up. There is genuine violence in this, and children should not see this, to a greater degree than earlier. The language is pervasive again, though almost invariably still not overly harsh. Props to this for depicting actual space phenomena. This isn't as exquisite visually as its predecessor, but it is well-shot, and editing and cinematography are well-done. I recommend this to fans of Star Trek and thinking man's science fiction, and would suggest that, if nothing else, Space Seed be watched first. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best films of all time!","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is more than just a great Star Trek film. It's a great film full stop, and one of the best films ever made (in my opinion). Maybe it's because it was made by people who weren't really fans of the show giving it a new edge. Whatever the reason, this is hands down the best Star Trek film, and a sequel to one of the series' best episodes 'Space Seed.' It features a larger-than-life merry villain, a not overacting Shatner, and Nimoy and Kelley doing their best acting since the series.The plot of the film involves Khan who has escaped planet exile and stolen a Starship to gain revenge on a now desk bound and bored Admiral Kirk. Along the way, Khan learns of a revolutionary gadget that can transform dead moons into new planets called Genesis, and steals it in his quest to kill Kirk. With the Enterprise heavily damaged and Kirk in battle, it's down to Spock to save the day by making the ultimate sacrifice.The plot is edge-of-your-seat stuff and the film can be watched loads of times without someone getting bored. Add to that some great music, good acting and special effects that still look great after 21 years and you have a classic.Not for kids below 8 because of some gory stuff but anyone over that age will love it. I'm 21, so this film is as old as me. It's my favourite film of all. "},{"Title":"Still the greatest of them all","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It was 1982 and on Friday, June 4 two friends of mine and I cut out of our senior class picnic early to hit the first showing that afternoon of Star Trek II The Wrath of Kahn.  In 1984 I was one of the few owners of an RCA video disk system.  My first disk purchase was Star Trek II The Wrath of Kahn.  When I came to my senses and bought a VCR, and when I eventually upgraded to DVD, well you can guess the rest.  I watched the Director's Edition DVD just before writing this comment to refresh my memory.  This movie still does not fail to disappoint and still holds up after 21 years. This movie felt like Star Trek in a way that none of the others has ever been able to duplicate.  It had all the elements that made The Motion Picture feel less like Star Trek and more like just another Sci Fi movie McCoy and Spock bantering back and forth as they echoed what was going on in Kirk's head, action and plenty of it, and most of all a conflict that was more than a space-happy robot.  Although you knew Kahn had to be defeated, you could feel the pain of loss and abandonment that he felt.  The interplay between William Shatner and Ricardo Montalban is absolutely electric, despite the fact that they never meet in person.  Kirstie Alley is magnificent as Saavik in her first movie role, and the source of a young adult crush.  The only shame was that she never played the role again. The late DeForest Kelley became Bones with ease this time, not showing any of the forced character elements that most of the cast displayed in the first movie.  His best moment comes in a deleted scene, restored in the Director's Edition in sickbay tending to a dying crewman.  All of the principle cast fell into their roles as if they were still doing the series and the newcomers complemented them beautifully.  This is definitely a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Director's Edition of 'Khan' exceed warp 10!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Although there have been thousands of science fiction films released over the past 100 years, only a handful are required viewing for film buffs. In addition to Fritz Lang's 1927 classic `Metropolis,' Stanley Kubrick's `2001 A Space Odyssey' and the original `Planet of the Apes' epic released in 1968, `Star Trek II The Wrath of Kahn' is a standout in the genre. The 23rd century-set adventures of the Federation Starship U.S.S. Enterprise - while often entertaining and insightful - rarely were displayed with the kind of cinematic greatness in 1982 under the capable direction of Nicholas Meyer. `The Wrath of Kahn' revisits a storyline that was started in the original 1960s television series (in the first season episode `Space Seed'), where the leader of a genetic super race of humans led by Khan (Ricardo Montalban) escapes from the dying world where he was left by James T. Kirk (William Shatner) and takes control of another Federation starship. Rather then flee, Khan decides to pursue a course of vengeance against Kirk and the Enterprise while also stealing a top-secret scientific project known as Project Genesis. The movie never falters, nor does this impressive Director's Edition of the classic first released in 1982. The print and sound featured on the 2003-issued Director's Edition DVD are wonderful, and the many insights into the production prove to be icing on the cake. Extras include commentary by director Nicholas Meyer; text commentary by Michael Okuda (co-author of `The Star Trek Encyclopedia'); `The Captain's Log' featuring new cast & crew interviews with Meyer, Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, Ricardo Montalban and writer Harve Bennett; trailer; original interviews with Deforrest Kelley, Shatner, Nimoy and Montalban; storyboard archives; `Designing Khan' featurette; and much more.  "},{"Title":"The best sci-fi movie ever","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've watched this film about 150 times (no lie! -- and I'm only 25!) and I appreciate it more with each viewing.  The interaction between the characters is perfect (particularly the scene between Kirk and Spock in Spock's quarters about handing over command).  Ricardo Montalban's obsessed Khan is one of the greatest villains to ever come to the screen.  The literary references to Moby Dick are blended into the dialogue without being obvious (Khan and Ahab are blood-brothers in their mental state).  And Spock's death scene?  The most heart-wrenching one I've seen -- after 150 times, I still cry.  THAT is emotional acting and writing!  I would give this a 20 out of 10 if I could! "}{"Title":"the great space revenge story","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II certainly ranks as one of the greatest science fiction films of all time.  The problem with the first Trek film was that the story was sacrificed for the effects.  Wrath of Khan suffers from no such problem.  In fact, the story is the strongest, with only First Contact being comparable, and namely because it shares the same theme (revenge). For any film student who wishes to learn about editing and the application of music in a film watch the four minute (filmed in real time) Genesis countdown.  Watch the way the camera finds each individual character contemplating what will happen.  This is William Shatner's finest moment on film, the first real glimpse that he is, indeed, an actor. The only drawback from the movie is not a drawback, because it isn't in the movie.  In the novellezation of the film, at the conclusion, Saavik asks Kirk what course.  Kirk replies second star to the right and straight on till morning. (a quote which turns up in Undiscovered Country).  The important thing is that Saavik does *not* question the command, and simply executes it, something she never would have done at the beginning of the film.  The film is a journey - one into hope and then tragedy for Kirk, one into death for Spock and one into humanity for Saavik.  It is the most human of all the films, and certainly must rank with Star Wars, Empire Strikes Back and Aliens as one of the all time great space action films. "},{"Title":"Star Trek's big pinnacle...","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When Gene Roddenberry still had creative control of Star Trek, some say it contained a great deal of human drama and intrigue. Other say it was just Roddenberry's vision of what he wished the armed forces were really like. There's merit to both schools of thought, but all kidding aside, the second Star Trek film is where everyone involved is really at their best.Part of this can be attributed to creativity, rather than money, being used to solve creative problems. Many of the props not only had to be recycled from the previous film, a lot of them had to be reused throughout the film. That they were able to make the interiors of two starships look so very different when they were the exact same set is a credit to the crew. The other reason why Star Trek The Wrath Of Khan is so effective is the human drama aspect.Star Trek is most associated with the neat, clean, pristine look of space props, but this is where the characters got really down and dirty. With fleets of warships traveling the cosmos, one really has to wonder how long it is before humans start hunting each other down in such ships as part of a personal vendetta. This is the scenario that Star Trek II is based around. Khan, having been left on a planet during an episode of the original series, has found fate not quite smiling upon him. Given that it was Kirk who left him on the planet, he figures that it's Kirk's fault, and therefore Kirk must suffer. This creates enough dramatic moments between the main two actors that unlike a lot of Star Trek episodes, it keeps the viewer bolted to the screen, waiting to see what happens next.Star Trek II is also the first, and so far only, Star Trek that can be solidly labeled as aimed at adults. Characters do excruciating things to one another, characters die unpleasantly, and characters are forced to face up to some very unpleasant shortcomings. Granted, the heroes still live in a bit of a microverse where the ramifications of their actions never really seem to affect anyone else, but the ramifications within said microverse are so powerful that it makes up for this. Other science fiction films based around a ruthless antagonist trying to taunt the protagonist with something truly horrible have been made, Virtuosity being a recent example, but there is something about this one that just hits a nerve.If there is one criticism I have of the film, it is that sometimes the cost-cutting measures show up. Recycling the footage of the Klingon warships from the original film wasn't such a good idea, for example. Surely there must have been some unused shots that could have worked just as well? Still, this is a minor moment in what is overall a very pleasant visual experience.In all, I gave Star Trek The Wrath Of Khan a ten out of ten. This is the only time you'll see me give anything Star Trek-related a ten out of ten. Even if you despise Star Trek, this version contains enough substantive material that you'll at least enjoy parts of it. This was the franchise's peak, the high that they could never reach again, and boy what a high it was. "},{"Title":"Defining in Ways Both Good and bad","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek had been a long-running TV-series before the first motion picture was made, and while that confused entry has its moments, it hardly set people's imaginations ablaze. Paramount revised the formula and found a recipe for part II that would define Star Trek feature films for decades to follow.The Wrath of Khan, commonly thought of as the best of the feature Treks, focuses on what made the series work strong interpersonal dynamics between the 3 leads and a spirit of adventure. It also adheres more strongly to Hollywood formula with a strong antagonist, this time one bent on vengeance, something the reboots have unimaginatively avoided to stray one iota from.What makes this a great film rather than just a cool treat to Trekkies is the ways in which it turns its would-be flaws into assets got an aging star too old for action-schlock? Built that into the plot and make it pay off. Got alien technology at play? Limit it through plot choices and make things relatable the climactic space battle inside a nebula is a submarine duel transposed into space, a brilliant creative choice elevated by its clever execution. The added budget and pretty much undated special effects help this rise above its TV series origin but the screenplay and direction help in a way no effects wizardry could. One very welcome plot twist also helps break the sense of invincibility that undermined the confrontations in the series. Even for casual viewers only passingly familiar with Trek lore, this is compelling stuff and a great entry point into the huge phenomenon that is Star Trek! "},{"Title":"Here We Have People","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The interesting thing about this film is that it's actually about humans and what aspects of them make them them. Something that was clearly lacking in Part I. If you're new to Trek and you started with the first movie don't be dismayed this has all the action, emotions, and characters of the original series.One thing I will say about the original series is that I always felt the characters were never used to their full potential. They fell victim to some bad writing and to the cheesiness of the 60's and quite get their full stories told. See 60's lacked that ongoing story arcs that we've come to be fond of, which made it slightly weak. This time we get to hear about Kirk and Spock's characters and how they actually relate to each other. The character Khan is a very sophisticated one. Kirk marooned him on a desolate planet a good fifteen years ago and now, after years of being stuck with nothing but classic literature, he gives his damn best to defeat Kirk's over the top acting.Now, with a machine that can create planets, we actually get a film that deals with the morals of a story. The morals of revenge, love, space, hammy acting, and action that are the ways of people. People have flaws and are not always so calm and reserved as Part I depicted them as. "},{"Title":"Ah, much, much better than the last!","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ah this is much, much better than the last film! It manages to fix every problem the first one had! It felt like the filmmakers sat down after watching the last movie and said that last one is awful, now lets make this next one have a strong plot, interesting characters, and just be awesome overall!. And I think they did just that. The plot is stronger and more interesting, the characters are much more engaging, and it's an overall more enjoyable movie. Combine that with Ricardo Montalban's awesome portrayal of the villain Khan and you got yourself a pretty good Star Trek film. Hopefully the series will retain the greatness of this film. "},{"Title":"Much better than the first dreading Star Trek picture, The Wrath of Khan takes notes of its faults and improves on everything.","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When sequels come to life, your mind shuts down. Will it be good? Will it be better? Question after question, the answers finally arrive. With Star Trek, one can hope it would prosper. In this case, The Wrath of Khan succeeds on everything the franchise set out to be in the first place.We have an interesting story this time round. That's all thanks to returning villain, Khan, played by Ricardo Montalban. He beats the crap out of the previous film's alien, V'Ger, and leaves it in the dust. So if you thought 1979's, The Motion Picture, threw away your Star Trek spirit, it's okay to keep watching.Captain Kirk and the enterprise's mission is simple, yet dangerous (of course) Stop Khan in the hopes he doesn't use the genesis a device capable of generating a living planet able to hold life. Thus, the group face a life threatening assignment. What happens is entertaining and bold - something unexplored in the first motion picture.By all means, whatever you felt about William Shatner's previous performance of Captain Kirk, it's assured you'll be surprised in The Wrath of Khan. Broken from his chains, Shatner is superb. He's backed up by Kirstie Alley in her first movie role as female Vulcan, Saavik. Yet surely, there's a few less memorable acting but all is forgotten with an improvement in costume and special effects. Assuming that Star Trek The Motion Picture left you dry, prepare to live long and prosper with Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan. Alongside a dramatic amount of enhancement in story, acting and mostly everything, it seemingly kisses the franchise on the cheek while ignoring 1979's setback. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie of the saga","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Like The Empire Strikes Back,The Godfather Part II,Spiderman 2 and X-men 2 this is one of the best sequels of all time...After a regular beginning this movie captures the essence of STAR TREK again...let's make clear that the movie belongs to RICARDO MONTALBAN in the part of Khan...He simply are Awesome (The producers think's in the same way and that why he's name is in the name of the movie)so prepare to see a different kind of villain very poetic very deep.The movie have the best starship fight's in all ST saga and the ending is simply unexpected and sentimental.The Chemistry of the cast like always is great and the addition of Kirstie alley and Paul Winfield adds more support to the history.See why fans and critics considers this movie not simply the best ST movie of all but also one of the best sequels of all time!!!. "},{"Title":"Just downright phenomenal","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After the mediocre first film outing of the crew of the Enterprise, Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a major breath of fresh air. Unlike the first film, it has everything that made Star Trek special, and everything that goes into a great action movie, that even non-Trekkies can enjoy. The first movie lacked excitement, wit, wonder, thrills, a great conflict, likable heroes, humanity, and thrilling action. Star Trek is about characters and abstract science fiction (as a friend of mine once said). The first film was all about an idea about man and technology, with little to no humanity, and no deeper themes. The Wrath of Khan has everything one would want from Star Trek. The first film focused very little on the Star Trek we know and love. The first shot of this movie is of Spock, and you know we're back to Star Trek. The movie is about the characters we love, and their battle with Khan (Ricardo Montlban), an old enemy out for revenge on Kirk. Everybody feels like they did in the original series, and everybody feels human, rather than the dialogue deliverers from the first film. While this film is darker than previous outings of the franchise, it still has the wit and sense of wonder that is Star Trek. Rather than focusing on a single idea, the movie focuses on the characters we love. Khan is one of the best villains ever put on film. He's so brutal and evil, and yet he is sympathetic. Montlban's performance is amazing. He gets over-the-top at time, but he works with the script. As soon as you see him on screen, you know that he is a force to be reckoned with. He is also given a lot of great dialogue, such as revenge is a dish best served cold and of course, I have done far worse than kill you. I have hurt you, and I wish to go on hurting you. I shall leave you as you left me, as you left her, marooned for all eternity in the center of a dead planet&#x85; buried alive, buried alive. With a single look, Montalban can say a lot. I don't think I'm spoiling anything when I mention Khan's death. Most action movies kill off their villains. With his last breath, Khan vows that he will continue to hate Kirk after death. We don't actually see him die, but the look on his face right before he dies stays in your head. The cinematography is much better here as well. The first movie had very standard cinematography, which is disappointing coming from director Robert Wise (The Sound of Music). Every shot was plain (sometimes repeating similar shots for 5 minutes), and the colors were usually white and tan. Here everything is very colorful- the amazing effects, the lighting, and the new uniforms. This movie was the first to have a scene completely rendered with computers, and while it looks poor compared to today, it is amazing for 30 years ago. The score is also much stronger than the first film. Jerry Goldsmith is one of Hollywood's finest composers, and has composed great scores for movies such as Patton and Planet of the Apes. And in the first film, he composed one of the greatest movie themes of all time (it was later used as the theme for Star Trek The Next Generation). But other than that, the score was very weak. James Horner replaced him in this film, and brought with him a dramatic score that fits the mood for every scene. Very few films have drawn me in like this. Khan is possibly the greatest aspect of this great film. This isn't quite my favorite movie, but it's in my top 5. A+ "},{"Title":"An epic continuation and an improvement over the original","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I may not be a Star Trek fan, but I usually enjoy watching the movies. Most of them are pretty good while others are very disappointing, so that's why I'm going to continue reviewing them since Star Trek Into Darkness was released starting with this second installment, The Krath of Khan. I gotta say, out of all the entries of the franchise, this is easily the best Star Trek film I've seen in almost all my life. Seeing as how it's being known for it's memorable quote KHAN!!!!!!!, there is absolutely no flaws at all and I'm gonna praise this epic film.The story is very compelling and is a lot closer to the spirit of Star Trek than the original film should've been. It also has a sad moment where Spock dies which is an example of tear-jerking. The script is smart and very inventive and the pacing is very good. The cast from the original film delivers a lot of solid performances especially William Shatner, Leonard Nemoy and Ricardo Montalban as Khan, who is downright creepy and frightening for a Star Trek villain. The scenery and visuals are wonderful to see, but the best part is the music score from James Horner, one of my favorite music composers. He has done some great work (including Apollo 13, Braveheart, Avatar, etc.) and his score for this film is no exception.Overall, Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a masterpiece and an epic continuation that saved the franchise back at the early 1980s. Recommended to Star Trek fans who grew up and a thumbs up from me! "},{"Title":"Much better than the last one","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Firstly, we have to take the release year of this movie into consider, 1982, the year before Star War v released. Although the scenes of star war seems more magnificent than ours here, we can't expect more when we make it compete with one of the Top 10 movies in IMDb. The scenes of this film here are well connected with its plots. Not as tediously long as the debut of Star Trek series, not seem like as crude as which is without editing, and they accurately match the background musics, which make the whole movie more real seen.Furthermore, the story this time is more interesting and logical than the first one of this series. The villain is reasonable being, the story line is clear to follow and the conversation is much more meaningful. The most of the scenes are acted in the Enterprise and other two ships, but it doesn't make the film fail to attract audiences with the intense fights.Finally, the death of Spock really made me mist my eyes, the sacrifice is moving, it is overwhelming when the coffin was sent out to the space. However, the journey of Enterprise is not finished yet, we will look forward. "}{"Title":"Huge Improvement From The First Movie,","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek 2 The Wrath Of Khan is a great movie with a really well thought out storyline that improves immensely on the first Star Trek movie,Star Trek The Motion Picture,and you can even tell from the acting that the cast was more positive about this script than they were for the first movie.The thing I liked best about this was that it felt more cinematic,like something they couldn't do on the television series,thats the only reason films for TV shows should be made,to have a much larger situation,the first movie just feels like a long episode of Star Trek,but this movie is really what a movie based on a television series needs to be.Fans of the original Star Trek series will not be let down by the second installment.The Enterprise must work together to stop a nemesis of Captain Kirk from using his sons device,the Genesis,which is able to destroy any planet in the galaxy. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining Sequel","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan (1982) *** (out of 4) This sequel is certainly a major step up in terms of quality. This time out Kirk (William Shatner) and Spock (Leonard Nimoy) must lead an inexperienced crew to do battle against Khan (Ricardo Montalban), a man who was forced to exile for fifteen-years but now is seeking revenge. It's easy to see why Robert Wise wasn't invited back and it's also easy to see why they decided to take this one into a new direction. Compared to the original movie I'd go as far as to call this a masterpiece because it's a vast improvement in any stretch of the imagination. The acting, directing, pacing and overall entertaining is so much better here that it really comes across as an entirely new series and it really makes you look back and wonder why the first one went so wrong. I think what I enjoyed most here were the performances by Shatner and Montalban. It really does appear that both actors are really having a blast and I liked how neither one was taking this so serious as if they were appearing in some Stanley Kubrick film. Both actors really appear to just be kicking back and trying to entertain the hell out of the viewer. Nimoy is also extremely good as Spock and we get nice work from Paul Winfield and even Kirstie Alley. Another major plus here is that director Nicholas Meyer manages to keep the story engaging from the opening scene to the last. The characters are so much better here that they too keep you entertained as well as keep you interested in what's going on. The pacing is another major plus as there's really no slow spots to be found anywhere. With that said, I do think there's some flaws to be found here including some of the special effects and I'd also say that the action scenes aren't as dramatic as they should be. Still, STAR TREK II manages to be a highly entertaining film even if you're not a major fan of the series. "},{"Title":"The Star Trek film for people who don't like Star Trek","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this in the navy alongside a guy who very vocally proclaimed his dislike of all sci-fi. But by the end of it he was cheering along with the rest of us. Star Trek; The Motion Picture suffered from a distinct lack of action, Star Trek 2 has it in SPADES! The Motion Picture was trying a little too hard to be 2001, Wrath of Khan took a good ep from the original series and turned it into genius, creating in Khan one of the most memorable villains of the Star Trek universe. The pace and tension just never lets up, Kirk's use of the prefix code 'Here it comes!'(surely James T's finest hour?) only bettered by the protracted and magnificent space battle within the nebula, Enterprise and Reliant slogging it out like battleships at Jutland.Yet at its' heart this is also an very human story about people and emotions, about the love between the characters, a love so great that they sacrifice themselves without hesitation. Spock's death is a bit of a cheat when you've seen the later sequels, it loses some of its' impact but is great when you view it first time around. One thing that always strikes me when watching it is how incredibly violent it is for a PG rated film, it's quite amazing what they were able to get away with Quite frankly this is the Star Trek film all others should aspire to. "},{"Title":"A much improved effort from the Star Trek team - 78%","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The world is split into three groups fans of Star Trek, fans of Star Wars and people who don't 'do' sci-fi. Traditionally, I consider myself a Star Wars man because whatever you see in Star Trek, it will never be as cool as a light-sabre. However, I do enjoy some of the Star Trek movies and this is one of the best. Realising that the best episodes of the show involved action scenes instead of moral philosophy and characters talking sci-fi gobbledygook, this gives us a truly titanic clash between Kirk and one of the show's most memorable villains.After muted celebrations for his birthday, the recently promoted Admiral Kirk (William Shatner) begins feeling his age when he is given a tour of the Enterprise with its new crew comprising most of the old gang alongside Starfleet graduates like the by-the-book Vulcan Lt. Saavik (Kirstie Alley). But when he receives a confusing message from an old flame, Dr Carol Marcus (Bibi Besch), concerning the top secret Genesis project, Kirk suspects that something may be wrong and quickly orders the Enterprise to investigate. And something is indeed wrong - while searching for a dead planet for test the Genesis project on, Commander Chekhov (Walter Koenig) and his new captain, Terrell (Paul Winfield), accidentally stumble across the genetically-enhanced Khan (Ricardo Montalban) and his marooned crew. And Khan has had a long time to wait to get his revenge and he is determined to get it - at any cost...Like most sci-fi films, one of the main aspects is how memorable a baddie you get - think of Darth Vader or the creature from Alien. Montalban is deliciously brilliant as Khan, almost vibrating with rage as Kirk and him duel amid the stars. Shatner, whilst never the best actor, is entertaining enough and even manages to convince during a surprisingly emotive climax. The rest of the gang (Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, Nichelle Nichols, etc) can pretty much sleepwalk their way through the film and fans wouldn't mind. Alley, playing a debuting character, fits in well with the existing crew although she is a little too Spock-like. Where the film really excels are the special effects with the two ships blasting each other to smithereens amid a lurid nebulae. It certainly looks OK (by the standards of the day, at least) and the story is also a winner, kept simple and easy to follow which might have been a problem if you had missed the original episode of the TV show.It may lack the coolness of Star Wars but Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan remains a strong film in its own right and certainly one of the best Star Trek films in the series. It's exciting and thrilling in a way that you wouldn't expect (or certainly I didn't expect) from Star Trek. It was always too soap-opera for me - too much emotionally-heavy dialogue between characters (not to mention weird alien love conquests for Shatner) and not enough phasers firing for my tastes. And besides, I always more into Next Gen than the original series... Oh, yes - Wrath Of Khan. This is a great outing for the crew, full of all things Trek alongside that cheeky sense of humour that became increasingly prevalent as the films wore on. It's no Empire Strikes Back but this is a marked improvement over the first film and certainly the strongest film until the series reached its conclusion with Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country (I reckoned Star Trek Generations was more of an epilogue than anything else) when the effects were brought up to date. But this is worth a punt, even if it looks somewhat dated to fans of more modern sci-fi shows. "},{"Title":"Emotionally satisfying, and a fun character piece to boot.","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After the special effects extravaganza that was Star Trek The Motion Picture, Paramount decided to make a smaller, less costly sequel, and this definitely works to the film's advantage. Unlike the first film, this one is not about the special effects. There's no five minute scenes of cool looking model ships moving through layer of matte paintings, but instead is some wonderful character scenes, and an ending that is surprisingly emotional.The USS Enterprise has to rebound when formerly exiled villain Khan (Ricardo Montalban) attempts to get hold of a device that creates life, belonging to the Genesis Project. It's up to a depressed and aging Captain Kirk, and his crew to save the day.First and foremost, this is an entertaining film. It still has all the nerdy, faux-scientific Trekkie talk, but it also has an easy to follow plot, and a good amount of action. At the same time, the film is told on a relatively small scale, focused mainly on the USS Enterprise, and on Khan's ship, showing that the giant scale and huge models aren't needed to make a film entertaining. Here, more than anything else, it's the little character moments that makes this such a fun watch. The interplay between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy shows why Star Trek became a popular series to begin with. Get rid of the last twenty minutes or so, and this is still a good film. With the addition of Spock sacrificing himself to save everyone else, this becomes a near-great film. The ending is handled perfectly. William Shatner, who is known for hamming it up on screen, gives a subdued performance, and Spock's funeral scene is really quite beautiful. James Horner's score hits the right notes perfectly, and accentuates the bittersweet hopefulness that ends the film. Wrath of Khan is an improvement over the first film, mainly because of the character work. While the spectacle may not be as grandiose, the entertainment level is higher, and the end of the film is wonderfully realized and executed. Despite being a space adventure film, it's the human elements that make this movie what it is. My rating *** 1/2 out of ****. 113 mins. PG for sci fi violence. "},{"Title":"Merits its sterling reputation","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Just in terms of following The Motion Picture as a sequel, on that basis alone, The Wrath of Khan is a complete success. They got the characters right, the movie's infused with a nice energy, and it's a great thematic story (aging, loss, reckoning). This was one of my first forays into Star Trek, and it's always been high on my list (and higher still after I learned the history, watched the show, etc.). These characters spring to life and there's familiarity with this crew. And Ricardo Montalban is one of the great movie bad guys; seething rage beneath Shakespearean eloquence. The man just sinks his teeth into the role.But the movie's winning asset is that you're so caught up in the grand space adventure that you almost -almost- forget about what's coming. And then comes that shot of Spock's empty chair, followed by Scotty's, He's dead already on seconds later. It's gut-wrenching. And that relationship between Kirk and Spock, that kevlar friendship is so credible within the running time of this very movie that their scene maintains such narrative impact. It's not because of their 15-year history, but just the preceding ninety minutes. That is beyond impressive and why this movie will always be a high watermark for Star Trek.9/10 "},{"Title":"Everything a TV to movie movie should be and more","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I would rank this up with Star Wars The Empire Strikes Back and Blade Runner as the finest science fiction film ever made. Terrific that it plays as a sequel to star trek the original series episode the space seed. Everyone is terrific, this film is actually 100 times better than the first movie also much like the empire strikes back (better than the original star wars), its a pity the series didn't take a note and end with cliffhanger serials and keep the terrific james horner scoring. I cant say enough about the score which is equally wonderous as james horners take on goldsmith's star trek the movie score sores above, usually movies degrade if they replace scorers or scores. This is what should have happened in the next generation movies and reboot (hated the reboot 2009 score, the tng movies sucked for removing goldsmith/horners music while having the star trek II music in the series, except for first contact the only alternative scored star trek movie i liked).star trek II's music should have been the staple for all the star trek movies which is one of the reasons why star trek has been downgraded with the reboot into made for Micheal bay reboot fanboys. The film keeps firm with gene roddenbery's humanistic storytelling unlike the reboot and films after 4, II and III need to be watched together as III is almost a part II of II. I recommend Highly Star treks 1-4 and First Contact, the reboot if you want to remove your brain. This is the best and flagship of the 11 star trek films. A must watch, id actually recommend starting with this if your breaking into star trek movies. "},{"Title":"One of the best Trek films","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Second Star Trek feature film is really the first movie.(Say what you will the first film was just an attempt to make money and not tell a story). The film has Kirk running into Khan and whats left of his crew (last seen in the Space Seed episode) and finding a whole world of hurt as a result.One of the better Trek films from a purely story stand point. It is on many levels little more than a well made TV episode, but thats okay since the story is so good that you really don't care about anything else. Its also helped by the performance of Ricardo Montalban who chews scenery like there is no tomorrow and makes it clear why he was a decades long force in the film industry. The film also shows the emotion that Trek was capable with the death of one of the major characters (And that really isn't a spoiler at this point because the next two films concern him).Very much worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A definite step up from the first Star Trek movie.","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first Star Trek film was for the most part a total snoozefest, a movie that would spend a good ten minutes showing us and the crew of the Enterprise looking at the Enterprise. Where a promising new enemy turns out to be a satellite gone bad, and where a bald girl and some new captain wannabe had way to much screen time for my liking. This one though basically throws that out the window and has great dialog, a couple of good spaceship clashes and a very good villain in Kahn. Yes, Kahn is played by Ricardo Montaban and while he did some rather good work here and there, this is the best role I have ever seen him in. His ruthlessness displayed as he puts parasites in the ears of two people to use them in his plan of revenge. However, it is a ruthlessness born out of the death of his beloved wife, a death he places solely on the head of James T. Kirk. Shattner and Nimoy are in top form too as they have many memorable scenes together and the special effects battle sequences are very good and memorable as well. This is just one of those movies where everything came together, the first movie was overdone, others would seem more like television episodes, this one though felt like a very epic, science fiction action movie. "},{"Title":"Easily the best Star Trek movie!","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" STAR TREK THE WRATH OF KHAN is the second in a series of 11 Star Trek movies to date. It's the first Star Trek movie I saw and I have to say it's still the best one in my eyes even after the first time I saw it 14 years ago. I love it!Unlike most of the other Star Trek movies, which depend upon prior knowledge of the franchise before viewing, this one can be seen by anyone new to it. Even those who dislike the Star Trek franchise still love this movie as a sci-fi action movie in its own right as I found out when I was reading through the comments.Without giving away spoilers, I can tell everyone that this is one of the few movies I've ever seen where almost every scene is riveting and has some significance. Scenes of literal edge-of-your-seat suspense are offset by emotionally-moving and thought-provoking moments. The viewer is made to feel a variety of emotions including fear, love, laughter, sadness, regret, grief and for some even unbearable levels of tension. It is also perhaps the only sci-fi movie to directly question science in a very wide context and make us all wonder about the dangers of science evolving too far and possibly leading to too much power being placed in the wrong hands.Unsurprisingly, this movie was a box office hit unlike its predecessor, STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE, which was a massive flop.In an unusual turn of events for a sequel, this one disregards its predecessor to bring to the audience a very different story.I will sum up the plot of the movie, with those unfamiliar with the Star Trek franchise in mind - a space ship (the USS Reliant) carrying out a scientific investigation accidentally arrive on a planet inhabited by a genetically-engineered madman named Khan and his followers who were marooned there 15 years ago by the then Captain James T. Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Khan is obsessed with getting revenge on the newly promoted Admiral Kirk and decides to hi-jack the Reliant to hunt him down in what culminates in a terrific cat-and-mouse chase in space.The acting is top-notch across the board. The actors give performances that truly invite us in to their character's feelings.For those familiar with the Star Trek franchise, I can confirm that the familiar faces from the original series are all here - Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scotty, Chekov, Sulu and Uhura. They are put into situations that not only capture the heart and soul of the TV series, but also show you how their lives have evolved in the 15 years or so difference with the timeline.A new character, Saavik, a naive vulcan lieutenant, played perfectly by Kirstie Alley, adds enjoyment to the experience. She has plenty of screen time, looks and acts incredibly sexy, takes part in some terrific scenes and has an important purpose to the emotional elements of the movie. Why she has never had the opportunity to appear in anything as good as this again is totally beyond me. And in my opinion her character should have been made a permanent addition to the original crew for the remainder of their movies in the series.Khan, who featured in an episode of the original series, is once again played by Ricardo Montalban. Unlike most villains in the science fiction or action genres, Khan is genuinely menacing through his combination of sheer cunningness, quick mind and unpredictable anger. He's easily the greatest villain ever established by the Star Trek franchise. Every scene he's in is a true joy to watch and the movie is worth seeing just to witness Ricardo Montalban's captivating performance.William Shatner deserves special recognition because he gives what is easily his finest performance as Kirk. He portrays Kirk as someone well into middle-age, sitting behind a desk in a boring job when he'd rather be back flying around the galaxy. His performance was one of the most emotionally touching I've ever seen in a movie and is certainly enough to silence those who unjustly claim his acting is hammy.The action scenes in the movie are truly suspenseful in the edge-of-your-seat sense. Unlike the series, some boundaries are removed in this movie. There are no crewmen wearing red sweaters who fans of the series would reasonably expect to see killed. No one is safe from death. Khan's thirst for revenge is truly merciless and the producers of the movie really brought this to life as anyone seeing the final half hour of the movie will find out.The movie demonstrates clear evidence of meticulous planning in regard to scripting. Some truly great one-liners are delivered here that will stay forever in the memories of fans.The producers do an excellent job of re-using some of the best aspects of the first movie, including the sets for the starships, some costumes and footage of the Enterprise leaving spacedock. This enabled this movie to be produced on a more efficient budget without making the $10 million or so budget seem anywhere near as low as it was.To summarise, STAR TREK THE WRATH OF KHAN is a flawless piece of science fiction entertainment that can be enjoyed whether you're a fan of the franchise or not. I recommend this for anyone who enjoys sci-fi action movies. "}{"Title":"Khan-tastic!!!","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My Take Considered the best of the STAR TREK movies, and for most of its parts, it's hard to argue with that. I was simply blown away by J.J. Abrams' new STAR TREK reboot that my inner admiration for the 10-film big screen STAR TREK series is somehow reawakened. I'm not exactly a an avid fan of Gene Roddenberry's 43 year-old franchise, which began as a TV series and proceeded into a movie series and continued with more TV shows. But to be honest, I have grown a sort of affection for the big-screen series, which I find interesting and enduring as stand-alone films. But after seeing the new reboot (and loving it), I guess it's time to pay a visit to those classic original crew movies. And what better place to start than one of the best in the series STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN? While I loved the new STAR TREK for the typical summer-movie dosage of action, humor and thrills, I also liked how it had time to introduce (or is that reintroduce?) the characters and work on some intriguing plot lines. STAR TREK THE WRATH OF KHAN may not be big on spectacular explosions and more elaborate space battles, but its an absolutely rousing space opera with an interesting plot, some intriguing ideas and strong character development. STAR TREK wasn't really about space dogfights and Death Stars, and I guess it's probably for the best. The last thing people expect back then was another sci-fi sensation trying to be as big as STAR WARS was. Instead, WRATH OF KHAN geared itself with much more interesting ideas, including a far more intriguing villain. Ricardo Montalban's performance as Khan, probably the most popular villain ever in the STAR TREK universe (though there wouldn't much of a competition), is truly unforgettable, especially with much deeper motives. He has ceased control of a Federation Starship and has also stolen the Genesis missile, possibly one of the most lethal doomsday device in the universe (ironically, it was supposed to be used as means to create life on a barren planet!), and yet, his real motive is vengeance. Vengeance has poisoned his mind, and has driven him completely mad. Guess they just don't make villains this good anymore! Captain (now Admiral) Kirk (William Shatner) has his own issues. He was captain of the USS Enterprise for many a year and age has surely caught up with him. Being Admiral puts those gung-ho days behind him, but he still longs to boldly go where no one has gone before. Can't science fiction movies be this thoughtful with their characters? Add to that, there's the familiarity and camaraderie between the popular crew that I have grown to love about these movies. They may just beat STAR WARS when it comes with the power of the team! But perhaps one of the best things about WRATH OF KHAN is that, despite a few minor details, is a purely stand-alone movie. Sure one of its prime directives is to reunite its fans after the alienation the much-maligned STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE did. But whether or not you know who Khan or anyone else is, WRATH OF KHAN is not grounded in its fanbase. There's about something for everyone here, just as long as you know what to expect. Anyone expecting a special effects overdrive are missing the point. Since STAR TREK was more of a thinking person sci-fi movie, WRATH OF KHAN is more space opera than it is a sci-fi action movie. Still, there are some dazzling special effects and thrills here and there. The tightly-staged space battles are not exactly on par with STAR WARS', but they're just as enjoyable thanks to some well-crafted special effects and a rousing score by James Horner. The performances aren't exactly Oscar-worthy, but this familiar cast portraying these familiar characters? Could it be done any other way? I think not! Overall, STAR TREK WRATH OF KHAN is still one of the best, if not the very best to everyone else, in the successful big-screen series. Still a must-see! Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Experience the not-so-dorky side of vintage Star Trek","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Star Trek franchise has generally and maybe unfairly developed a reputation for being the threshold between socially acceptable science-fiction and nerd-dom. Basically, many people aren't prepared to boldly go where Star Trek does -- strange planets, a handful of make-up-covered new species and red laser beam special effects. Where Star Trek fans see alien nations, Trek skeptics see alienation. At the hands of the latter group, the second film installment of the franchise, The Wrath of Khan, will unfortunately suffer from these same prejudices. That is a shame, because its heartfelt tale of leadership is actually universal -- and not only in the interplanetary sense.Those who test the classic Star Trek waters with Wrath of Khan will be pleasantly surprised. For starters, intergalactic diplomacy is not the focus of this film -- the alien species count is kept low. Instead, Wrath of Khan is about the return of a middle-aged James T. Kirk (Shatner) to the U.S.S Enterprise as an admiral, taking Starfleet cadets out on a brief training exercise. But when former TV show villain Khan (Ricardo Montalban), a highly intelligent genetically engineered being, comes looking for swift revenge for being exiled by Kirk on a remote planet, the trip becomes more than training and Kirk must hop into the captain's chair once more. Khan is a coming-of-middle-age story, if you will. Kirk wrestles with getting older, competency and his appearance as role model to the cadets as the only cadet to ever beat the Kobayashi Maru test, a no-win simulation that tries a wannabe captain's character. He even comes face to face with an old lover who of course has a rebellious son. As he battles Khan, it becomes a test of who's smarter -- or who has the qualities a leader ought to have.That's not to say Khan doesn't live up to Trekkie standards. There are phaser battles between starships, parasites that control human will by wrapping around the cerebral cortex and plenty of seemingly inescapable scenarios. It's not Star Trek's most imaginative story, but one of its strongest. At times, the logic of all the solutions can be hard to follow, but the general idea of what's going on is all that's necessary to enjoy the film. A true character story, Khan is one of the old Star Trek films that fans (Trekkies aside) of the future will test out and discover that the vintage stuff wasn't so weird after all. "},{"Title":"Sequel Far Outshines Predecessor","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A now uncomfortably middle-aged and desk bound Admiral James T Kirk (William Shatner) is aboard the USS Enterprise for a training cruise when an ominous message from an important research scientist and the Admirals ex-lover alerts the crew to a crisis. In the meantime we discover that the Admirals former nemesis Khan (Ricardo Montalban) has captured a star ship and engineered this crisis for revenge.Unlike it predecessor Star Trek The Motion Picture this film had exciting action as well as both humor and effective human drama. It also had continuity with the original television series in that Khan (played by Montalban) and his crew had appeared in the episode Space Seed.Also unlike it predecessor this film introduced an interesting and well developed new character in Lt Saavik (Kirstie Alley). Unfortunately for the series Alley did not return in the subsequent film and the part was recast less successfully.We also have the rest of the crew/cast returning and they are also all noticeably more effective than in the previous film. Although somewhat limited at times by his character Leonard Nimoy has one very powerful scene.The film was directed (and co-written although uncredited) by Nicholas Meyer whose success here would prompt his return as a co-writer for Star Trek IV The Voyage Home and as both co-writer and director for Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country.The commentary track by Nicholas Meyer is good if not outstanding. According to him William Shatner's performance was somewhat more subdued and effective because he would require him to do the scenes over and over again until he got bored and lost his affectation.With the release of this the second film in the series we would see the first example of the even numbered movies in the sequence of Star Trek movies being superior to the odd numbered movies in the series. Coincidentally or not Nicholas Meyer would return for the 4th & 6th films in the series. "},{"Title":"Terrific Trek!","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The perfect companion piece to Star Trek The Motion Picture. Here we get into the core of Star Trek...characters, humanity. Trek is so character based as that is what defines it as adult drama. Nicholas Meyer takes the helm this time around and keeps things moving at just the right pace. The story has two plot lines; the Genesis Project which involves technology to create an organic, livable planet out of a non-inhabitable one and a sequel to the TV series' Space Seed' episode which ended with Khan (Ricardo Motalban), a genetically perfect human being and villain being banished by Kirk to a miserable, deserted planet called Ceti Alpha V. Kirk's lady friend, Dr. Carol Marcus (Bebe Besch), and the mother of his son, Dr. David Marcus (Merritt Butrick), have created Genesis and are experimenting with it on a barren planet. Meanwhile Khan and his cohorts escape from their planet prison, with the forced help of Mr. Chekhov (Walter Koenig) and Captain Terrell (Paul Winfield), vowing to get revenge on Kirk. Chaos ensues as Khan runs into Kirk's lady and son. The effects are as always a treat, the action intense and a good time is had by all (viewers). Montalban and Shatner get to show the veins in their heads and necks in some anger scenes. Nimoy says goodbye; temporarily. And we can't wait for the next Star Trek installment. "},{"Title":"Balance of Terror redux...","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A mere two days ago, I witnessed the death of a franchise- STAR TREK ZERO. It was, I suppose, inevitable. Nothing lasts Forever. But there was a time... I praised THE WRATH OF KHAN at the time of its release, in print, because it seemed that the potential of the series had at last been fully realized. The death of Spock gave this one an emotional impact that had to have been experienced at that time, by lovers of the original series, to be fully appreciated. I wept. Really. It was, without a doubt, one of the most moving experiences I've ever had. Had the series ended then and there, all would've been as it should've been. But money talks, and logic walks. Though I've continued to patronize the STAR TREK films over the years, there was never again the emotionally satisfying feeling engendered by THE WRATH OF KHAN (not even close). STAR TREK-THE NEXT GENERATION, while it got off to a shaky start, ended up being a series worthy of the original (I never got on board for any of the other offshoots). Seeing the slovenly, stupid STAR TREK ZERO brought back memories of THE WRATH OF KHAN; movies in every way at opposite ends of the spectrum that nonetheless both suggest that the end is near (or should be). The series wasn't allowed to die a quiet, dignified death in 1982 instead, it's dying a sad, pointless, money-grubbing howling-monkey death in 2009. STAR TREK ZERO-THE DEGENERATION is a woeful epitaph, indeed, for a series that deserved so much better in the end. "},{"Title":"Better than the original!!!!","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" During the late 70's and early 80's a special group of sci-fi and fantasy movies came out of Hollywood that are still memorable even today. Like Superman I and II, Star Wars and Empire Strikes Back, and Raiders of the Lost Ark, Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is one of these movies.Everything just seemed to click. The acting, the story, the action and special effects. Even now as I am writing this the movie is 27 years old and still looks spectacular. It is amazing to think that Director Nicholas Meyer re-wrote this story in only 12 days and didn't get a writing credit.Also, who could forget Ricardo Montalban as the stand out villain Khan Noonian Singh. This wasn't just any cutout cardboard bad guy. This was a man with depth. Someone, although evil, we could sympathise with. He is a great character study of someone dealing with his grief and despair in absolutely the wrong way that it effects (and literally kills) all those around him.Shatner and co also bring tremendous strength to their characters especially surrounding the concepts of life and death. A tremendous credit must be given to Nicholas Meyer who helmed this project. Although, not a Star Trek fan his legacy still effects Star Trek to this day.The Special effects still hold up to todays standards as well plus one of the first uses of computer graphics on film. Finally, the kickbutt cliffhanger ending rounds it all off as a great movie.The only beef I have with it is the dodgy costumes on Khan's goons. They all look like they came out a really bad Mad Max movie and that's the only thing that looks dated.Apart from that the movies is simply fantastic!!!! Go watch!!! "},{"Title":"The Many Needs To See The Wrath","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I can see why the majority (that I've spoken with, that is) of Trekkies name Star Trek II The Wrath of Kahn as their favorite Trek film, although I don't agree. Still, I thoroughly enjoyed the movie. 100x better than the first feature length voyage, 'II' showed true adventure, heart, comedy, better Starfleet uniforms and finally depth of characters in far less the time it took the first movie's Enterprise to leave space dock. Thank goodness, they (meaning the original cast and new director, Nicholas Meyer) kept with this franchise. I knew, even if part one was the first experience for somebody, there was great potential. And from minute one of 'II,' the explored the possibilities, with the only downfall (like the 'Lethal Weapon' series with Danny Glover's Murtaugh's always pending retirement) being the similar (but reversed) storyline of semi-retired Kirk who always wants back on the bridge of the Enterprise. Here, as he wiggles his way back on, his usual crew member, Chekov, and a captain stumble upon an original series' nemesis, Khan, who has a blind, unstoppable desire for revenge against Kirk, who apparently, inadvertently, imprisoned Khan. All the while, Kirk's former love and a mystery crew member try and start up the Genesis project that brings life to the lifeless. Again, this film shows true depth to the characters some have grown up on, and in addition, especially to the late Ricardo Montalban as Khan, who sincerely broadcasted the basic emotion of blind revenge, always failing to see the big picture while trying to take down what they mistakenly thought would make them whole. 'Scream 2' spoke about some sequels that lessened the originals (while naming some that improved.) This absolutely improved the junior (at the time) series. A must-see for Sci-fi and trekkie buffs. "},{"Title":"Star Trek found its saviors in Nick Meyer and Harve Bennett","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture was admirable in many ways. It is still the only Star Trek movie that feels like an epic. It had an ending that really made you think, like the best episodes in the series. But it lacked the character moments that made the original series so endearing. Harve Bennett and Nick Meyer set out to fix that in Star Trek The Wrath of Khan. Originally it was going to be called the Revenge or Vengeance of Khan, but since George Lucas was making Revenge of the Jedi Paramount changed the title. Meyer must have wanted to punch somebody when Revenge of the Jedi became Return of the Jedi! Wrath of Khan is one of only two Star Trek movies that has a direct connection to an episode. In the episode Space Seed, the genetically engineered Khan Noonien Singh was exiled to a planet called Seti Alpha Five, where he could start his own civilization with his followers. Little did Captain Kirk know that Seti Alpha Six would explode and shift the orbit of SA 5, leaving it a barren wasteland. Khan swears he will have his revenge on Kirk, but he would have to wait fifteen years.Pavel Chekov (now serving on U.S.S. Reliant) and Captain Terrell are scouting for dead planets for the Genesis project, an experimental process that can literally create life. The Federation apparently didn't notice that an entire planet was missing from the Seti Alpha system! They walk right into Khan's trap, and Khan uses mind control devices to keep Chekov and Terrell in line.Ricardo Montalban is one of the reasons (perhaps THE reason) Wrath of Khan is commonly called the best Star Trek movie. He gives one of the best villainous performances I have ever seen. He is the kind of character we love to hate. It's a shame this man did not have a more successful career, as he was truly a superb actor. It has been noted that Khan is a one-dimensional character, but what makes him more than that to me is the fact that for fifteen years this man has been thinking about one thing killing James T. Kirk. Can you imagine what that would actually do to a man? A psychiatrist could make a career out of him!In the meantime, Captain Kirk has been promoted to Admiral, and he is starting to feel his age catching up to him. The Enterprise is used for training cadets under Admiral Kirk's supervision. One of the new hotshots is Lt. Saavik, Kirstie Alley's first film role. Dr. McCoy and Spock try to convince Kirk to get his command back, and the opportunity rises when Kirk receives a distress call from the Genesis space station where Dr. Carroll Marcus (his ex-flame) and their son are working. For Khan has stolen the Genesis project, and from there the fun really begins. The level of tension between Montalban and Shatner was enormous, which is amazing considering the two actors never met during filming. The two men tear each other's ships apart, and the whole film is mostly a one-on-one battle.Star Trek II is a winner for its humanity, but revenge is just one of its themes. Failure is an important element, as Kirk experiences failure for the first time in the death of Spock. It is one of the few scenes that makes me tear up repeatedly. Kirk is reunited with his son, although I must say this aspect of the film is overshadowed by Khan and Spock's stories. The Genesis project is an interesting idea and sparks debate about whether humanity should play God. This film also marked a change in the look of the series. Enterprise was given a more nautical look as opposed to the futuristic look in the previous film. The uniforms were updated for the better, so they no longer looked like pajamas. Adding to the experience is an overly bombastic and very fun score from James Horner. Wrath of Khan is one entertaining flick, and I would recommend it as a starting point for anyone unfamiliar with Star Trek. "},{"Title":"The greatest Trek film out there","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't describe myself as a Trekkie. I've seen all of TOS/TNG and DS9, and about half of VOY, but I never really connected with the franchise as a rabid fan. However, I connected to this movie on a level that transcends fandom, because it genuinely is one of the best movies of its time and one of the best science fiction films I've ever seen.The plot picks up a few decades after TOS, still in the 23rd century, and you still have the same main characters, but they're all much older and they're going through their 'midlife crisis', to put it mildly. Kirk has been promoted to Admiral and is no longer doing what he likes best - captaining a starship and going where no man has gone before. McCoy is a teacher, and Spock has been promoted to the captain of the U.S.S. Enterprise. Kirk literally loves the Enterprise as he would love a friend, and you can see his attachment to it and his utter disdain for having been promoted and been required to leave what he loves to do. Bones McCoy is there to hammer the point home to his face, telling him that he's not doing what he should be doing very early in the film. It's brutal, but very much the truth.So he goes out for a romp of sorts. He takes the opportunity to oversee the new crew on a mission. Meanwhile though, Khan Noonien Singh, a genetically modified tyrant whom Kirk left stranded on a planet, has grown bitter and angry at the death of his wife and for the nasty circumstances he's been left in, and takes the opportunity to hijack a ship and steal a device capable of creating a new world - the Genesis project. He confronts Kirk, and they play a game of space chicken that would leave even the most disconnected viewer cringing with fear and anticipation.The small things about this film are what really make it so great. Khan, played by Ricardo Montalban, is one of the best villains of his time. He's not just a megalomaniac, he's genuinely evil, sadistic, and intelligent, and has a desire for revenge transcending any rationality. He throws around his worshipful subordinates, and quotes Ahab wherever he gets the chance, because he really, truly *is* deranged. And yet, instead of being cheesy, he's a true screen presence. The old saying that any film is as good as its villain applies here, very strongly and very true. Montalban MAKES this film what it is.The biggest element of the story, Spock's sacrifice, also goes a long way to making this one of the most poignant stories about ST out there. It's by far a recommended viewing for anyone, Trekkie or not, and appeals to emotion and to reason, whichever suits your fancy. "},{"Title":"Great special effects as well as great lessons on birth and death in Trek sequel","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ricardo Montalban's portraying of Khan was scary enough. He was almost like Jesus Christ reborn after being trained by Satan to create evil...and wreak havoc on the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise.The scenes from Regula 1 Space Lab and Seti Alpha 5 were shocking enough but 50 percent of the movie focuses on the Genesis project.The flesh-eating eels introduced by Khan is definitely reminiscent of some of the horror movies I had watched in the past...perhaps Gremlins, to be specific.There were great special effects when the presentation of the Genesis project was delivered....all the way to the making a dead moon alive....so much alive that it seems like that dead moon would be like our Planet earth.Well, when the Genesis Device was beamed to Reliant by Khan and David and Kirk realized that they could not stop it, this was perhaps the turning point of the movie. Too bad that Carol, who engineered the Genesis Project, was going to be the temporary sore loser.Khan's final weapon when Reliant got hit by phaser fire and torpedoes from the Enterprise during the Mutara Nebula battle rendering Reliant totally unable to fire, was something that Kirk did not know and even Spock and Bones didn't know...but only David, who knew plenty about the Genesis project, knows. This was what I call the denouement of the movie Khan activated a special self-destruct device inside the Reliant bridge that would destroy Reliant...killing himself but in return for the explosion of Reliant and the death of Khan....the Genesis planet would form and create. The special self-destruct device arms the Genesis device to set off a large explosion after T-minus 4 minutes....with a burst radius of about 8000-9000 square miles, to create what Carol explained in the Genesis device for Stage 3.....when Carol said that this stage would involve more of an interplanetary scale. And the result was big....the Genesis planet being almost the same like Planet Earth. But regrettably, in the sequel called Star Trek 3 The Search of Spock, this created planet ages rapidly....and just like life....dies in explosions of ashes and fire. Which is pretty sad. "}{"Title":"The Best of the Trek...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yes, many will disagree with me, but this is my review, not theirs.If this film set any kind of standard, it was that it's OK to go back into the show's history and use it. This idea is what sets the better Trek from the standard Trek (see Trek II, IV, VI & IIX)... OK, I guess it also told us that even numbered sequels would be the better films.Khan, a one shot character from TOS is back with a vengeance, as so few characters ever have been in the Trek time-line, and wants actual, factual revenge. It was a dark passage for Kirk and crew, almost Trek Noir. Following the light bright '2001'-esque Motion Picture, this film worked.The teaser Spock death in the beginning, only makes you want it more. Noble or not, you know it's gonna' happen and you want to see it.An early effort by Nicholas Meyer (who helms the two best in my book; II & VI), the film holds onto it's dark future and brooding tones. Sure, Kirk is feeling old, but in the end he's still James T. Kirk.An epic Trek film, a popcorn movie... more adventure than just Sci-Fi, it works. "},{"Title":"not only the best sequel of all time but arguably one of the best genre films ever","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If I've said it once, I've said it a million times. Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is not only the best sequel of all time but arguably one of the best genre films ever. Any one who has seen the first film in the series will know why its the best sequel ever. A good sequel need only please fans of the original while respecting that it cant replace it. This film stomps on its predecessor and mops up the remains. This film neither acknowledges its predecessor nor its franchise. I know what you're thinking...Aliens, Godfather 2, Terminator 2 yada yada. Yes these are all good films and good sequels no doubt. Though they all have the distinction of following rather good films. The Empire Strikes Back probably the only other sequel to come close to Star Trek II also followed a great film. So TWOK is good only because the original is such a stinker? No...its great because by the time the credits roll you not only have forgotten the original but you've forgotten that you've just participated in the one of the geekiest things you could do...you just watched a Star Trek movie. "},{"Title":"Great star trek movie","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I did not think to much about this movie when I saw it the first time. I thought it was good, but it was in the time after I truly began to understand how good it was.It's a classic story. The Hero feel his time is gone. He feels old and useless, and do nothing except missing the old days. Then an old nemesis comes for revenge, and he will not give up before he gets it. It's a fight between the Hero and the Nemesis, but it's the people around them who have to pay the price.If you haven't seen this movie, you should really go and rent it or buy it. This is the kind of movie you don't have to be a Star trek fan to enjoy. It's simply great! "},{"Title":"What Star Trek truly is all about!","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is truly a masterpiece in every way whether it be plot, acting, suspense, special effects, or action. I thought it was an excellent idea to continue the story of Space Seed. Who would have thought that Chekov and Terrell would land on Ceti Alpha V instead of VI. I love the look on Chekov's face when he realizes that they are in the cargo carrier that Khan is staying in. Ricardo Montablan does a terrific job as a man seeking revenge.If you liked this movie as much as I did, I highly recommend that you read the Star Trek book To Reign in Hell, which tells the story of Khan and his people living on Ceti Alpha V. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Star Trek Film","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was the best of all of the star trek films thus far. I want to describe this movie by giving a summary of it and commenting on it. It starts out with the Kirstie Allie doing the kobiashi maro simulation, although it was interesting i don't like this part of the movie it gives it a slow start. Kirk then goes home and feels bad for himself not having a command because he is an admiral. THen it shows chekov doing research on the reliant with space station regula one the help find a test site for the genisis project. They find Khan and he controls them. Ricardo Moltabon may give the best performance of any actor in a star trek movie. He then takes the ship and finds kirk who is on the enterprise for a training mission with spock as captain. They intercept a signal from regula one. They set an intercept course, on their way they are attacked by khan and narrowly manage to escape. They then go onto the station and find all the bodies of the scientists but his son and former lover have transported to an underground test site. Chekov and the captain of the ship reliant are their posing to be good but when they find the genisis torpedo on at the station they beam it up onto khans ship then the captain dies and Chekov is injured they then wait for the enterprise to get ready to rescue them. They get aboard the enterprise and are chased into a nebula by Khan and fight a battle which Khan loses and before he dies he turns the genisis device on and blows it up, but the enterprise escapes just in time and they head home but in order for them to escape spock had to give his life. He dies and they shoot his body in a torpedo onto the new planet created by the genisis device. This has a well written script with the best lines going to Khan in my opinion. This is a very good film and by far my favorite star trek movie. "},{"Title":"The best star trek movie of them all!","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you like any of the Star Trek movies this is a must see. The acting is great. Ricardo Monteban is awesome as Kahn. Kristie Alley as Savik when she was young and hot not old and fat. The battle scenes and special effects still hold up today even though they are over 20 years old. The only exception is the scene with the creatures they put into Chekovs ear are very dated. There are so many great lines in this film. When Kirk yells Kahn! and Spock says  The needs of the few out way the needs of the many It gives me chills. This is by far the best out of all the Star Trek films. If you have never seen any of the films this is the one to watch. "},{"Title":"The real Star Trek Movie!","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II the Wrath of Kahn is everything Star Trek the Motion Picture should be. It takes place several years after the original (some say producers disregarded the first movie). Admiral Kirk is celebrating his birthday with Dr. McCoy as they inspect the Enterprise and oversee the training of a new potential Captain Saviik. A Vulcan, she has the benefit of the tutelage of Captain Spock. In any case, Enterprise is out and receives a distress signal from Regula 1. Dr. Carol Marcus (an old flame of Kirk) is upset that her project Genesis has been ordered to be seized by the USS Reliant. What Kirk does not know is that Reliant has been taken over by Kahn, the same Kahn who was sent to Ceti Alpha Five instead of being executed for his attempted takeover of the Enterprise in the classic episode, Space Seed. Kahn was accidentally discovered by Science Officer Pavel Chekov when trying to find a planet suitable for the Genesis project. This has everything the first movie needed. Action, a good antagonist, exploration, suspense, space-battles, self-discovery, philosophy, and a reference to classical literature. The best part is that the characters, Spock, McCoy, Scotty, Chekov, Sulu and Kirk are characters. In the first movie, they spent so many time pushing buttons amidst cheesy dialog, they were not believable. They seemed like props to the new Enterprise set. Here, they have their personalities (is that really good for Shatner, though?). For any Star Trek fan, this is the must-have in the movie collection. "},{"Title":"One of the classic sci-fi's","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of the most classic sci-fi greats! From the story line arc which is very similar to moby dick and it's quote-worthy script and fabulous (pre-aliens) soundtrack from James Horner. It is a classic story of one man's obsession with vengeance and all around him will die in order to achieve his objectives! The supporting cast and the leads play with equal relish and this is the film that truly launched the Movie Franchise that is now Star Trek. There is also great space battles and a very touching ending with that fab bagpipe scene at the end with the beautiful sun shot. All in all a great sci-fi film and one of the best Star trek movies... Khan!!!!! "},{"Title":"Khaaaaannnnnn!!!!!","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This still remains the best of the Star Trek films.What makes this film great? First, it got the characterizations absolutely right. Kirk, the inspiring leader who can get his crew out of any situation. Spock, logical and reasoning, McCoy, compassionate and grounded.Second- a great villain. I would say that of the subsequent films, most of them tried to match Ricardo Montalban's performance as Khan, and only got a lot of actors chewing the scenery. The fact that Khan had been a villain in an episode of the original series makes it even better.Third- Awesome space battles. Again, I would say that many of the subsequent films tried to copy this and failed.Fourth- the pathos of the characters. Kirk dealing with concerns about his age and the path he followed and regrets that he didn't go the family route when confronted with his long-lost son. Spock making the ultimate sacrifice for his shipmates. Khan being so obsessed on revenge he leads his followers to their deaths.Hands down, this was the best Trek film, and the thing was that it was made on the cheap. Only about a quarter of the budget of the previous one, sets and footage were recycled, tricks were used to save money, and they still came up with an awesome result. Lessons to be learned here for the producers of the new Trek Film, if they care to learn it. "},{"Title":"Star Trek II, a great sequel to a sci-fi classic","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The classic 60's TV series Star Trek is a highly popular show and I can see why, I like Star Trek and Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a great sequel to a sci-fi classic TV series and movie. The acting is great and the special effects are pretty good, the plot has a connection to a Star Trek episode which featured Khan. In Star Trek II Kirk is bored of being Admiral and misses the days as Captain of the Starship Enterprise. Kirk is sent to the Enterprise for an inspection, meanwhile Khan and his fellow people hijack a Starship and forces the two to call the Scientists working on the Genesis project that they need it. Kirk gets a message from his old wife and goes to the Genesis to find that mostly everyone is dead, he meets his son, wife and a few other scientist in the underground where they discover that Pavel Chekov and the Capatin of the hijacked Starship have them at gun point because of the worms they put in their ears, the Capatin kills himself and the worm comes out of Chekov's ear. Khan then beams up the Genesis device and Kirk is trapped on the underground. While waiting underground they see that the Genesis has created life in the underground cave, soon they're beamed up to they're Starship where they then must defeat Khan in a Starship battle.Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a great sequel that should be seen. 10/10 "}{"Title":"He's Baaaaack!","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" And so is the Star Trek franchise. I loved The Motion Picture, but it's still not as good as this, one of *the* best science fiction movies of all time.Everything rode on the outcome of this sequel. If it had been terrible, it would have flopped. And if it would have flopped, it would have meant the end of the Star Trek universe. Fortunately, what it became was a great action film with spectacular space battles, mind-boggling special effects, and a less cerebral story than its predecessor. The plot revolves around the return of Khan (Ricardo Montalban), a genetically engineered psychopath who once tormented Kirk in the original series episode Space Seed and is now back for one purpose revenge. And he is presented with opportunities to get this revenge everywhere in meeting an old crew-mate of Kirk's, in dealing with his family, in an attempt to trap the Admiral, etc.As is most unusual, Kirk can actually count on the crew (admit it-- they really didn't have much to do in the series) to help him, which is a nice bonus. This time around, we get the added bonus of great emotional scenes (I never thought I'd say that) and a look at a nebula that is visually one of the most interesting environments in the entire franchise.You still remember? I cannot help but be touched. I, of course, remember you. "},{"Title":"Should old   aquaintence be forgot","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" in this ,the best of all the Star Trek films,Kirk meets an old foe. Many years before ,in the series, Kirk had put Khan,a prince from the past, on a planet after Khan had tried to take over the Enterprise. In the movie Khan is found and sets out on a personal mission of revenge.He blames Kirk for the death of his wife and will do anything to achieve his goal.He even steals the Genesis machine which can create life from lifelessness Richardo Montalban plays Khan like he had never been away and the tussle between him and Kirk is truly inspiring. Leonard Nimoy ,as Spock, has never portrayed his character better and this film shows the strength of Spocks friendship with Kirk. The ending of the film has one of the most moving moments ever portrayed on film and ranks alongside ET saying goodbye to Elliot. The ending still brings tears to my eyes. Kirk's final speech is better than any thing penned by Shakespeare. This film deservedly gets 10 out of 10The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few .....or the needs of the one "},{"Title":"Star Trek II, my favorite all time movie!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie has it all! Action, adventure, love, excitement, fantasy, reality, revenge, sex appeal, friendship, loyalty, and a great script! Even if one has not seen the original Star Trek series, it should be a crowd pleaser. The audience is allowed to think, plot, and plan along with the writers. What would you have done if you were in that situation? What would you do next if given the same view of freedom? A must see sometime in your life! This will always be my all time favorite movie! The friendship among the crew and the quips that they spark are catchy enough for man or woman. When Kirk hears that his old nemesis, Khan, is still alive, he's shocked. But, when Khan learns that Kirk is still alive, he's livid. Ready to avenge the very one who tried to attempt mutiny on the Enterprise, Khan attempts a dastardly deed. Again, a must see! The camera work, the writing, the acting, is all superb! "},{"Title":"The best Trek movie.....Ever.","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the peak of the Star Trek movie series..they haven't done it better since & i don't think that they ever will... Every thing just melts into place on this one.....The script,the music,the direction & most important...The acting. For all those who complain the William Shatner cannot act...just watch the end scene between Kirk & Spock..a real touching moment...This to me sums up the difference between the original crew & all the other pretenders to the throne...would any other Captain be so hurt when the first officer dies..would any other captain show the emotion that Shatner does in the death scene...I can't see it. Watch this film..It is the best Star Trek there ever will be... "},{"Title":"Khhaaan!","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Following the rather dull Star Trek The Motion Picture, Paramount Studios instituted a shakeup of the production staff, all but removing Gene Roddenberry from the picture, with Harve Bennett and Nicholas Meyer becoming the lead creative voices. They decided to create a film sequel to a worthy episode of the TV series, selecting season one's 'Space Seed' as the most worthy. One of the great advantages of that episode was it's chief villain, Khan, played by Ricardo Montalban (who, at that time, was starring in the TV series Fantasy Island). The TOS cast was assembled (although George Takei almost didn't participate, and Nimoy only did so on the condition that his character would die), and production began. The budget of TWOK was greatly reduced from that of TMP, but director Nicholas Meyer and the production designers made extensive reuse of old sets and FX shots, thus allowing the film to stretch beyond its means. In the 23rd Century, archvillain Khan escapes from the planet that Kirk had deposited him on decades before, and vows to wreak his Wrath upon the Captain (now Admiral). He also stumbles upon information regarding Project Genesis, a revolutionary scientific experiment with the potential for awesome destructive power. Admiral Kirk and his crew race to stop him; Kirk is particularly motivated by his desire to protect old flame Dr. Carol Marcus (Bibi Besch), and his son David (Merrit Buttrick). There is much more to say, but I will keep my comments brief. I don't think that TWOK is the best Trek film (First Contact gets that honour), but it comes damn close, and features perhaps Trek's finest villain in Khan. The death of Spock at the close of the film is somewhat lacking in emotional impact when his resurrection in Star Trek III is taken into account, but it is still a shining moment in the history of Star Trek.  "},{"Title":"Probably the best in the series&#133;.","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well certainly the best of the original crew films anyway.  This is what they should have done with the first film as we return to the plot of one of the more popular of the original series episodes and see the return of the man Kirk banished, bent on revenge.Throw in the plot about the Genesis device (which managed to rumble on or another two films) and you have a good heady mix of action and drama.This really works because of two key features  1) They managed to get Ricardo Montablan to reprise the role of Khan and 2) the chemistry between the two adversaries is electric.  Montablans acting is superb, assisted by a well written, directed and acted script and lots of special effects with real explosions &#150; none of your CGI rubbish here!Of the original crew films, only Star Trek VI comes close to this beauty&#133;&#133; "},{"Title":"Superior sequel and possibly the finest of the series","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" SPOILERSTwo years after Captain Kirk and his crew got their first outing on the big screen, Nicolas Meyer directed the vastly superior The Wrath Of Khan. Released in 1982, The Wrath Of Khan has come to be regarded as one of the finest films of the series. Even compared with 2003's Star Trek Nemesis, Khan is still the superior film featuring a better plot, better action scenes, and some brilliant moments of personal confrontation.Star Trek The Wrath Of Khan begins with the USS Enterprise under attack from some Klingons. With young Lieutenant Saavik (Kirstie Alley) in command, the ship takes large amounts of damage before she is rescued by Admiral Kirk ending this simulation. As fast becomes apparent, Kirk, Uhura (Michelle Nichols) and the majority of the crew of the Starship Enterprise have been pushed to one side. Put in charge of training new recruits, Spock (Leonard Nimoy) remains about the Enterprise as Captain. This crew will eventually be once more put to the test however as Khan, an old enemy of Kirk, has escaped his exile and is in control of the Starship Relliant. Kirk must travel to see an old love and his grown up son as he fights with Khan over an awesome power known as the Genesis Device.Unlike the first major Star Trek film, the beauty of this second outing is that the crew appear to be aware of their age. Whilst the first film was a superficial, shallow affair where special effects took precedence over plot, this second film demonstrates a greater maturity. In line with this, we are shown a cast of ageing heroes who are lead by a man who is beginning to become aware of his age and the mistakes of his life. Whilst in Star Trek The Motion Picture, William Shatner's Kirk appeared to have degraded to some old man who still thought he was twenty-five, in this second piece, from the moment he has his birthday present and Dr McCoy (the late, great DeForest Kelley) gives him some reading glasses, we are shown a Kirk who is aware that time is catching up with him and who is beginning to feel alone in the world. All those years of chasing women and flying around in his spaceship have left Kirk unable to settle with a woman and have left him increasingly isolated in his older age.The second wonderful aspect of this sequel is that it abandons certain fashion trends. In the first film, Uhura had a distinctive seventies hairstyle and the uniforms reflected the time period. By Khan however, the irritating pale uniforms had given way to a much more appealing red number which remained dignified and simple. Whilst younger crewmen would run around in red and white jumpsuits and work hard, the elder, more senior members of the crew were able to wear red, spacious uniforms which hid any growing stomachs and which could make them look fashionable in a timeless sort of way.All Star Trek fans or Trekkies have their favourite films in this ever expanding series, but the one point which personally seems to suit is that the better films in the series tend to be those with enigmatic, intelligent enemies. In Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country (1991), Christopher Plummer is absolutely wonderful as the Shakespeare quoting General Chang, whilst in this film Ricardo Montalban is equally as good as the revenge obsessed Khan. In comparison, the weak, most recent instalment, the awkwardly named Star Trek Nemesis (2003) features a young child as the enemy who lacks any sort of decent malice and who could do with a few lessons in evil off either Khan or Chang.Perhaps, the final and most crucial thing about The Wrath Of Khan is that the ending is spot on. Unlike the ending of Nemesis, when a main character is killed off in this film, it feels like he is given a proper eulogy and is properly finished with. It's always a brave risk to kill off a main part of the Star Trek universe and whilst the recent attempt didn't quite get it right, this version in 1982 was superb and managed to hit the right note.To summarise therefore, the beauty of The Wrath Of Khan is not the excellent script and the superb special effects, but the facts that it has a superb enemy and that the old crew act their age. If the worlds obsession with celebrities proves one thing, it is often that the famous are scared to act their age. In the first film, the entire crew of the Starship Enterprise looked almost pathetic in their attempts to look young and fresh. By comparison however, in this encounter, Kirk is facing up to his own mortality and the film is considerably better for it. The Wrath Of Khan is a superb addition to this fictional universe simply for that one fact that the crew finally grows up and demonstrates that it's possible to be old whilst still saving the universe. For once Live long and Prosper takes on a whole new meaning. "},{"Title":"Near perfect","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This one got it right.  After the rather boring first attempt, a film emerged that took elements of the tv show and expanded them to epic proportions.  This had everything  drama, humor, action, pathos, terror, character development, and atmosphere.  We saw the return of one of the stronger guest characters from the show and an epic battle between a hero and an anti-hero.Much talk has been given to the whole even-numbered movies are better.  Personally, I don't think that is quite true.  To me, it's the ones with Nicholas Meyer involved that are better.  Meyer brings a much needed outsider's viewpoint to the project; but, one that has a reverence for the source material.  Meyer had shown that he could expand upon a great concept with his novel the Seven Per Cent Solution, an updating of Sherlock Holmes.  Here, he tackles the world of Star Trek.Meyer dives right in by showing that these characters are aging and getting closer to retirement.  He presents a crew that is a step slower, but far more experienced.  They are surrounded by younger crew members who look at them with respect and awe, and, in some cases, bewilderment.SpoilersKhan was the perfect antagonist.  Here we have an epic character, more anti-hero than villain.  He is a genetically engineered superman, but with an arrogance to match.  His people were exiled in the original series, but given a chance to form their own world by Kirk.  Unfortunately, tragedy has struck them and only a few have survived.  When the USS Reliant stumbles upon them, Khan seizes his chance at revenge, for what he perceives Kirk has done to him.Meanwhile, we discover that Kirk has a son, a brilliant scientist who has helped develop a device which can engineer planets.  This becomes Khan's weapon to strike at Kirk.Kirk must face a son who hates him, and come to terms with the fact that the feelings are justified, as Kirk wasn't there as he grew.The film climaxes in a spectacular battle between Kirk and Khan, via their spaceships.  This was the first time that large scale ship-to-ship combat had been portrayed with great creativity.  The ships play cat and mouse through a nebula, taking their shots when the moment is right.  The Reliant is mortally wounded, but Khan launches one final blow, by activating Genesis.  The Enterprise has been crippled and cannot escape.  The Kobayashi Maru scenario has become reality for the crew.  Spock finds a way out, sacrificing himself in the bargain.The performances are great, with some tendencies towards ham.  Montalban recaptures the fire of Khan and exudes charisma.  Shatner is at his subdued best when directed by Meyer.  In commentary, Meyer has stated he would shoot take after take to get Shatner to settle into a performance that was right.  It works quite well, as it serves to keep him in check. Nimoy presents a Spock who has come to terms with his mixed heritage and has become a mentor.  Kirstie Allie was a tremendous addition.  She captures the personna of a Vulcan and brings a new mix to the Kirk/Spock relationship.  Merritt Butrick gives a fine performance as David Marcus, Kirk's estranged son.  The rest of the cast are given their moments to shine.The effects were top notched, thanks to the addition of ILM to the production.  The costumes were a welcome change, giving a military flavor to the crew, something that an agency named Starfleet would suggest.  The nautical elements also provide a nice connection to the past.All in all, there is little to fault in this film.  The script is excellent, the performances good, the story is gripping, and the effects are dazzling, while advancing the story.  If you only ever see one Star Trek movie, watch this one.    "},{"Title":"Easily the best of the Star Trek movies","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Easily the best of the Star Trek movies. A total masterpiece in special effects and the plotline. Ricardo Montalban(aka Mr. Rork of *Fantasy Island* fame) really takes his acting to another level in the reprisal of his role as Kahn Noonian Singh from the original Star Trek tv series. 22 years since Star Trek II has come out...wow, where has the time gone!! Yet whenever it comes on cable I will watch it in its entirety every time. Its that gripping of a movie. If you are just a Sci-Fi fan in general or just looking for a great suspense thriller and have never been much of a Trekkie, then this is the movie to start with if you are looking for somthing to watch in the Star Trek genre.  "},{"Title":"The Best Star Trek Movie.","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*   Star Trek II is the best Star Trek movie of them all. It has a lot of action and great acting by the Original Series cast and Ricardo Montalban as Khan.    The story is very creative and exciting. Khan steals the starship Reliant and challanges Kirk to a duel in starships while trying to steal a top secret science project being conducted by the Federation. There's a big battle going on between two men who don't like to lose.   This is a great Star Trek Movie, the Director's Edition of the DVD is even better than the original even though there's not much difference in between the two versions. "}{"Title":"What makes the movie great","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It is not special effects that makes this movie great.  It is a tactical battles between two old enemies.  The plot could have been taken right out of some old World War II submarine movie.  The formula and acting were right on the money.  Here we see the vunerable side of Captian Kirk making his character more human unlike the other movies and TV series. This movie was derived from the series episode titled Space Seed which also starred a younger Ricardo Montalban.  At the end of that episode Spock questioned the Captians decision to abandon Kahn and wondered what would find should they return 20 years later.  I believe this is by far the best of the 6 movies made by the original cast. "},{"Title":"A thrilling action/adventure!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II The Wrath of Kahn revisits the planet Ceti Alpha V where Kahn (Ricardo Montalban) had been exiled fifteen years earlier (TOS episode Space Seed) Kahn hijacks the starship Reliant which had been on an exploration mission to find a site for the Genesis device. A torpedo which would allow the instant terraforming of any dead planet. Kahn hellbent on revenge hunts down Captain Kirk (William Shatner) and the crew of the Enterprise. The first battle does not go well for the Enterprise and its only by a stroke of luck that they escape death. The second battle takes the slow majesty and tactical maneouvres of a submarine battle and puts them into space. Eventually the Enterprise crew gains the upperhand in the battle but Kahn refusing to give up activates the Genesis device and so the Enterprise has only a few minutes to escape before the blast. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) sacrifices himself to save the ship, surviving the lethal radiation long enough to bring the engines back online. A tearful goodbye is said between Kirk and Spock. Possibly the greatest movie in the franchise, awesome acting, awesome special effects and the battles between the Enterprise and Reliant is submarine combat at its best.10/10 "},{"Title":"The Old Grey Mare Ain't Dead Yet","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After seeing Star Trek The Motion Picture, I was sure we had seen the last of Enterprise and it's gallant crew.  Sure am glad I was wrong!  Where Star Trek The Motion Picture (hereafter to be referred to as TMP) failed on so many levels, Wrath of Khan succeeds in every department.  Where TMP was a scenic post card of spectacular special effects, the effects in II are just a backdrop for a good old fashioned story.  Where TMP had no memorable dialogue, no interaction between the crew, II has all of that.  Where the villain in TMP was basically no more than space junk, in II we get a truly evil villain played wonderfully over the top by Ricardo Montalban.  As if that weren't enough, there is a really big surprise in the middle of all this, as we find out something about Kirk that we didn't know before.Thanks to a great script, the scenes between the crew, the dialogue seems real, as if these people really care about each other.  This helps greatly when there is no action on the scene, unlike TMP.  It is William Shatner who carries this film, and he is more than up to the task.  The final scenes show a range of emotions that I'm sure most people didn't think possible.I'm not a Trekky, and I'm not hung up on Star Trek.  I couldn't tell you the difference between one Ceti Alpha or another, between a Romulan or a Klingon, between space warp drive or trans warp drive.  I'll leave all that quibbling to people with a lot of time on their hands, and just tell you that I do no a good entertaining movie, and this is it. "},{"Title":"Quality picture.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I go back in time to when I was about eight years old.  Having always watched Star Trek TV episode re-runs with my father, and then this movie came out, I remember it as being one of the best movies I had ever seen, and still to this day, having seen it about 25+ times since, I still think it is the best Star Trek film of them all.  It has all the elements going for it to be a great movie, a perfect villian, human relationships you can relate to, and excellent space dog-fight battles (three of them in one movie!). The comedy in this Trek is still very dry compared to other Treks, by way of comparison, but it is a rather serious and dark movie.  The comedy really lies underneath Khan and Kirk's script lines, but both Ricardo and Bill manage to refine them to a better quality.  The cinematography is spectacular (but limited to technology of the era), Nick does an excellent job as director.  The choice of back-story contributes perfectly to the film, while Trekkers can relate to the original story, anyone who has not seen the series can easily follow the movie with the information given in the film.  Another good element is that there is is three seperate stories that eventually combine into one, you have Kirk and crew back at HQ with the trainees, then there is Terrell and Checkov on there mission, followed by the scientists on Regula.  What really makes this one shine, is that Meyer and Bennett give you three, yes three space battles!  You get a small one first off when the movie starts (just enough to peek your interest), followed by another obe half-way through the movie, and finally at the end with a climatic battle.  The visual exterior/interior damage is really adds a key element to the movie showing that the ships can be damaged.  For me, the use of federation ship (Reliant) against federation ship (Enterprise) really draws the dramatic tension of the battle up a notch.  I could go on and on, and at this point probably could transcript the whole movie and character lines from memory, but let's not.  Worthy to see, if you are trying to get a friend or opposite into Star Trek this would be the movie to start with.  Watching the episode Space Seed before the movie really makes the whole experience better.  Buy the Special Edition DVD, lots of extras and added scenes!  "},{"Title":"Back to what made Star Trek great","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw Star Trek The Motion Picture when it came out in 1979, and although technically it was a beautiful film, the plot was quite inconsistant.  I approached STTWOK with a little apprehension, but I was pleasantly surprised.  By taking an already excellent source of material (the classic TV episode Space Seed) and extrapolating what could have happened, Jack Sowards and Nicholas Meyer recreated the quintessential space opera, where character development didn't take a back seat to the state-of-the-art (in 1982 standards) visual effects.What was the most exciting about the movie was the cat and mouse game played out between Kirk and Khan.  Ricardo Montalban was able to infuse the character of Khan with the madness that only comes from his genetically superior mind being forced to survive in a world that he could not conquer. William Shatner probably turned in his finest performance as Kirk in this film, without the over-the-top histrionics that were seen in Star Trek III. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Trek Films","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Seeing as the first movie was as stiff as a board and as flat as a open bottle of soda that had been left out in the summer sun for a week I was not expecting too much from #2 when I saw it, but boy what a surprise it turned out to be!Frankly if not for this movie Star Trek most likely would have died right there on the spot, which would have meant that we would never have seen any of the TV shows that came later or even any more movies for that matter!I mean everything worked in this movie, from the Villain (Khan Rules) to the Script (which looked like they spent more than the usual $.99 on) to the acting (which in the case of Shatner was most likely due to huge doses of Prozac,which kept the overacting to a minimum).In fact I feel that the only sour note in the whole movie was the ending, in which you could just tell that they were doing it only as a set up for the Search for Spock, otherwise they would have shot his body into the sun or blown it up or something like it.     "},{"Title":"A Lean Piece of Entertainment","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is among the best of the lucrative and prolific franchise.  Taut, well-crafted, effectively directed and able to emphasize the all-important nature of the characters and their relationships, this film by far exceeds its predecessor in every way.  Not a moment is wasted throughout the running time, with visual effects serving as a consequence of the storytelling rather than dominating as in the first film.  Star Trek II also benefits from a strong and compelling villain, found in Ricardo Montalban's portrayal of Khan.  The character's motivation for revenge makes for some wonderful moments of flare, and Montalban squeezes every scene for all it is worth.  He is without a doubt the strongest villain in the entire series, and is largely responsible for the success of this movie.The performances of the major cast members all shine in this adventure, reestablishing the importance of the Kirk, Spock and McCoy triangle.  These characters genuinely seem like old friends, and are able to address the material with a sense of familiarity that makes their performances seem natural.  This belief in the people and personalities of the Enterprise's crew is essential for the drama and devastation of the movie's climax, which is both powerful and moving.There is not a moment of excess in Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, which, after twenty years, has yet to be surpassed in quality by any of the Star Trek films that have followed it.  It bridges the gap between the campiness and joy of the original television series and the universe depicted in the films.  As it stands, it is one of the finest films of the science fiction genre, not for its visual effects, but for its depiction of character and its overall success as a piece of cinematic entertainment.      "},{"Title":"The perfect example of a good Star Trek movie.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the Star Trek movie, that set the example of what a good Star Trek movie should be. A great villain, wonderful special effects, exciting action scenes, with heart & feeling. Ever since it was released, all other Trek movies have been judged on how they compare with Wrath of Khan. This is not only a movie for Star Trek fans, it is a movie for ANYONE. If you like sci-fi, action, drama, or adventure, then you'll enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"It took a while, but I finally came around...this IS a good movie","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Since its release in 1982, STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN has emerged as perhaps the most controversial film in the STAR TREK series, eclipsing even the much-debated first film. To some vocal fans, KHAN is a total violation of what STAR TREK is about, what with its paramilitary atmosphere, its use of revenge as a plot point, and the horrific violence caused by said revenge. Gene Roddenberry's rejection of the film on those same grounds has only intensified the debate between those who hold the film as a desecration of the mythos  and those who regard it as the definitive entry in the saga. Up until a few years ago, I probably would have sided with the naysayers, simply because the violence in the film upset me as a kid. I was 4 when the film came out, and I thought it was the goriest movie ever made. But then I grew up, realized that there've been far bloodier films, and gave KHAN another chance. When I finally saw it again when I was a teenager, I realized that I actually liked the film a lot&#133;and that its violence was actually pretty mild compared to most movies.As written and directed by Nicholas Meyer (the screenplay by Jack Sowards credit is a misnomer), the film goes like this Jim Kirk is now a desk-bound admiral suffering a mid-life crisis while the Enterprise is now being turned over to a team of cadets. Unfortunately for him, Khan Noonien Singh, a genetically-enhanced maniac he marooned 15 years ago, has hijacked a Federation starship and is about to (a) steal a terraforming project called Genesis that could be used as a weapon and (b) go after Kirk in a suicidal revenge campaign. (The garden planet Kirk marooned Khan on was ravaged by a cosmic disaster that turned it into a barren desert, and Khan's wife and many of his followers were killed as a result of the devastation.) Once the scientists working on the terraforming project-among them Kirk's son and his mother-are threatened by Khan, Kirk takes command of the Enterprise and proceeds to investigate the matter. Much to Kirk's surprise, Khan is waiting for him, and a series of harrowing encounters ensues, resulting in the controversial death of Spock.The plot is pretty simple, but this works to the film's advantage. Meyer's script (from a story by Sowards and producer Harve Bennett) is tightly constructed, moving at a swift pace and not wasting a moment on useless details. Even though the film deals with such heady matters as old age and death (an unwinnable test scenario called the Kobeyashi Maru becomes a motif that brackets the film), it still finds time for gentle verbal humor and wordplay. Unlike the first film, which felt uncertain at times, KHAN is confident and relaxed with the characters. The core cast is much more at ease this time out, and their performances are all the better for it. William Shatner especially is at his best in this film; this talented actor finally drops the hammy shtick that has become the target for mockery (or self-mockery, as is the case with Shatner's  recent work) and delivers a subtle, easy performance that hints at what might have been had he not given in to camping it up. Bibi Besch and Merritt Butrick (both of whom have passed on) are engaging as Kirk's estranged family (the death of Kirk's son in the third film is all the more regrettable for this), and Paul Winfield, as the brainwashed captain whose ship is swiped by Khan, is suitably tragic. There's also Kirstie Alley making her debut as Saavik, Spock's protge. But let's not kid ourselves; this is Ricardo Montalban's movie all the way. Cool yet insane, murderous yet elegantly charming, Montalban makes Khan one of the most intriguing villains in film history. And despite Khan's limited screen time, Montalban makes the character an imposing presence that dominates the film. Aided by James Horner's bombastic pirate movie-esque score and some of ILM's most dynamic FX work ever (barring one stiff matte painting in the Genesis cave), the film generates an energized feel and mood that refuses to let up until the story has run its course.Which brings me to the accusations made by those who claim this film trashes Roddenberry's vision. Too paramilitary? Sorry, Roddenberry had always said that STAR TREK was a high-tech Horatio Hornblower saga, and the original series had military underpinnings. Violence has no place in TREK? Then please explain why the original series was saturated in deaths and near-deaths, why everyone in a red tunic got iced in almost every episode, and why every last one of the crew members was constantly getting into brawls. Revenge is not a theme that fits what TREK is all about? Excuse me, but I thought STAR TREK was essentially about the human condition, and the nastier, darker aspects of humanity are a part of that condition. To ignore them would be to whitewash humanity and do TREK a disservice. This film is no grimmer than the classic episode Wolf in the Fold, about Jack the Ripper's soul possessing people in order to carry on his killing spree. Really, KHAN doesn't do anything that wasn't already done on the series. As for Roddenberry's gripes about the film&#133;well, it's been established that he became a control freak whose grip on STAR TREK nearly paralyzed it creatively. His complaints had more to do with Meyer and Bennett being allowed to bring a fresh voice to the series than anything that was actually in the film.It took a while for me to wake up, but now I can see STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN for what it really is a well-crafted adventure story and a worthy entry in the STAR TREK mythos. "},{"Title":"Exhilarating, Great Classic Trek","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"     I was a teenager when this movie debuted and it was an exhilarating movie to see in the theater. There were two reasons I loved it. One, because it was a very good movie (especially for its time) and two, the anticipation Trek fans had for a new, quality Trek adventure (after the uninspired first film, but long before TNG and the rest) was nearly palpable. I believe this movie resonates much more with the long-time Trekkers, who waited throughout the 70's for Star Trek to be revived. Twenty years later, the film has aged fairly well and it presents the classic characters as larger-than-life icons, which they really are. I watched this again on the recently released DVD director's cut. This is a still a very taut film.  There's a purpose for each scene, and this is a tribute to director Nicholas Meyer and also to Harve Bennett, the producer. The film is hindered by a lack of CGI technology, which could have made the Genesis Cave (among other things) much more impressive.     Those who are thinking of watching this should rent Space Seed, an episode of the original TV series, before watching this film. The story here, particularly Khan's obsession with destroying Kirk, will then seem like a natural progression. Montalban does great work, but I wish there were one or 2 more scenes with him. Nimoy is excellent as Spock and really has wonderful dialogue written for him. The themes of aging, mortality, obsession, sacrifice and rebirth are all present so this filmhas a very meaningful subtext beyond the Khan-Kirk rivalry. A Tale of Two Cities is used as a literary reference and Khan quotes Shakespeare. Meyerbrings all these threads together beautifully.  As an aside, I should mention TNG (especially the first 2 seasons) borrowed many plots and styles of presentation (including lots of Shakespeare) from the Classic Trek TV show and these early Trek movies.     I loved Kirstie Alley as Lt. Saavik. Some of Kirk's best scenes are with her and the first meeting with Khan allows Saavik to show her poise.  Saavik was intended to be a major new character in Trek, but when Alley declined to appear in the third film, Saavik was recast and given much less to do in The Search For Spock. I still wish Kirstie had stayed with Trek.     I have to mention the James Horner score is positively brilliant. All of his music underscores the dramatic moments perfectly. He did a great job. All in all, this is still a fine film which, if made today, would have benefited from CGI technology. There is one computer graphic showing how the Genesis project works, but advanced CGI was not available.  Hard-core Trek fans must own the new DVD version of Khan. It  has excellent interviews (past and present) with the cast and 2 commentaries, along with other features.  I give the movie 9 stars out of 10.   "}{"Title":"A near perfect sci fi/combat movie","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan combines warfare and science fiction in a thrilling, spine-tingling combination.  The plot is basic.  Khan, a character from one episode of the TV show, is mistakingly found on his planet of exile and escapes with his family.  He uses the starship that he hijacks to go after his old nemesis, James T. Kirk.  Not much else happens in the movie and the simplistic idea leaves plenty of time for solid character development in between battle scenes.  The battle scenes are as exciting and gripping as any I've ever seen on film.  Incredible tension builds as Khan stalks Kirk, with several memorable moments mixed with dramatic and thrilling music.  Ricardo Montalban gives an incredible performance as Khan.  He exudes vindictiveness, passion and obsession.  Many of his lines are remembered to this day.  William Shatner gives a more then respectable performance as Kirk as he plays a man pushed to his limits as he copes with a return engagement with his family while being pursued by a crazed nemesis.  The movie also contrasts the life and death struggle between Kirk and Khan with moments of awe and wonder over the creative power of the Genesis effect.  There's humor in all the right places as well and a thundering and shocking conclusion.  Incredibly exciting and entertaining, Star Trek II is one of the greatest sci-fi movies ever made.7.9/10 "},{"Title":"The widescreen version is a must see!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Previously I have commented on The Wrath of Khan solely watching it from the editted to TV versions, ie letterboxed versions which I feel is a sad yet necessary compromise to watching a widescreen movie on normal TV aspect ratios.  However I'd prefer watching a widescreen presentation on normal TV even if it has the black bars.  Just recently I have had the fortune to tape the Wrath of Khan in its widescreen version, it happened to be a very clean, high quality(in sound and picture) broadcast as oppose to the faded and badly letterboxed broadcasts I have viewed before.  The Wrath of Khan, as I have previously commented is a fantastic space adventure, but the widescreen version is very much so better as it has better framed shots and you can obviously see more action.  As I have just learned if you have only watched the TV version you have missed out on about 1/3 of the action.  If you are lucky enough to fin a widescreen version with good quality sound and picture, I implore you to watch The Wrath of Khan it, even if it means having black bars on your TV to accomodate the picture, it is worth it.  And this goes for all movies y'all watch, watch the widescreen version first! "},{"Title":"Kahn, I'm Laughing at your Superior Intelligence.","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Kirk, my old friend! With these words 62 year old Ricardo Montalban, as Kahn Noonien Singh, makes his presence known to the 51 year old James Tiberius Kirk, now an Admiral, in a dramatic performance all will remember for years to come.  This is probably the best of the Star Trek movies because it follows most closely the original concept of the television series.  No fancy or tricky themes like saving whales or resurrecting Spock (If Spock can be resurrected then why does any Vulcan ever die?) Simply, just like Star Wars is in reality a Western story set in space, so is Star Trek.  A bad guy wants to kill a good guy for money, greed, power, fame, or revenge.  The good guy is always moral like Marshall Dillon and saves the day.But, William Shatner needs an emotional counterpart as his adversary.  Klingons are too shallow to meet this requirement.  They only want to kill and capture.  But the veteran actor Mr. Montalban is a favorite and well known to all from his Planet of the Apes and Fantasy Island performances.  He is the most intense and challenging opponent for the always emotional James T. Kirk.  For Kahn, revenge is a dish best served up cold!  Even when the end is obvious, you come away remembering Kahn's final lines as the Genesis Wave builds up for total destruction of the Star Ship Reliant, No Kirk, the game's not over.  To the last I will grapple with thee.  No, no...you can not get away.  From Hell's heart I stab at thee.  For hate's sake, I spat my last breath at thee.  Outstanding Mr. Montalban, outstanding acting and dying!If the 51 year old Leonard Nimoy can be remembered in this film for one word, it would be Remember when he implanted his mantra into the brain of Doctor Leonard McCoy (the 71 year old doctor of the USS Enterprise).  Jackson DeForest Kelley died in 1999 at the age of 79 years.  As Dr. Bones, DeForest Kelley plays the alter ego of James Kirk and advises him as his friend and physician to stop growing old and try to revert from being an Admiral back to a star ship Captain, Kirk's best destiny. Both born in 1931, William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy are soul-brothers given that the Star Trek television series and movies cannot take place without them both.  They story concept equally requires both these actors because it is through their collective stories that Star Trek takes place.  Upon dying, we remember Spock's last words, Ship? Out of danger? Don't grieve, Admiral.  The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, or, the one!  I have been and always shall be -- your friend!  Live long and prosper!James Montgomery Doohan was a 62 year old Montomery Scottie Scott.  Nichelle Nichols was a 49 year old Cmdr. Nyota Uhura.  Walter Koenig was a 46 year old Cmdr. Pavel Andreievich Chekov.  George Takei was a 41 year old Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu. They all play their familiar roles.  Paul Winfield was a 41 year old Capt. Terrell.  Bibi Besch (Carol Marcus) and Capt. Kirk's old flame and mother is his son was 40 years old. Ms. Besch died in 1996. The young (23 year old) Merritt Butrick played Kirk's son, David Marcus. Mr. Butrick died in 1989.  As the Vulcan, Lt. Saavik, Kirstie Alley was one of the youngest major stars at 31 years old.  Her long hair was most becoming!So, if you are a trekkie (and many secretly are) then you will watch this film time and time again as it keeps getting aired on cable TV. Star Trek bridges the qualities of all living beings in the universe regardless of their race, gender, religion, national origin.  This is an integrated show and serves as a role model for decent living with all life forms.We would all do well to remember the eulogy for Spock given by James T. Kirk -- Of my friend, I can only say that of all the life forms I have encountered in this universe, his was the most -- human!    Space, the final frontier.  "},{"Title":"A testosterone epic in every way","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Some movies are different, intriguing, shocking, subtle, message driven, etc.  And these movies have there place.  Then there is the The Wrath of Khan, which I would term a testosterone epic. Other films that fall into this category are The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly, Dirty Harry, Star Wars, and The Godfather, to name just a few.  All of these types of films also have there place.  So what does testosterone epic and these types of films mean?  It means if your an Ebert, arthouse, freak who only appreciates le cinema only, in all of its subtle, poetic, controversial, and symbol-driven glory, you hate The Wrath of Khan and its stylistic peers.  It means that these man's man films, specifically this one, have classic lines and classic moments that get you pumped up, make you laugh, cry (in a manly way of course), occasionally think (but not too much thank you), induce goose bumps, and generally rouse you to give high-fives and go kick some ass.  Are these films cliched at times?  Of course.  Do these films have flaws?  Of course.  Glaring flaws?  Sometimes.  BUT SO WHAT. WHO CARES.  The bottom line is that they have timeless dialogue and action sequences that make the hairs on any meat and potatoes guy (or gal) stand on end every time you watch them.  And The Wrath of Khan is one of the best.  Period.  One final thought to remember, From hell's heart, I stab at thee. For hate's sake, I spit my last breath at thee.  Ya gotta love it!!!  "},{"Title":"hands down, my favorite Star Trek movie","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I totally loved this film the first time I saw it and have seen it over and over.  Bringing in a character from an old Star Trek episode was inspired and Ricardo Montalban doesn't disappoint.  Wrath of Khan is exciting, compelling, poignant and sad.  Kirk's dealing with the aging process, his family and, ultimately, his brotherhood with Spock makes this film a very special entry in the Star Trek series. "},{"Title":"Sexy, Real, Compelling.. The Greatest!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Caution DOES contain Spoilers.I have loved this film since I was 7 years old. It is famously the best Star Trek movie and arguably one of the best movies ever made. It's a classic story of vengeance and old enemies, told impeccably by Khan (Montalban) and his passionate hatred for Captain Kirk. Even non-trekkers will be pulled into Khan's very personal, candid quest for revenge, and touched by Spock's sacrifice. Most remarkable about this film is that Khan and Kirk never meet face to face - the meaning and motive here are strong enough to transcend their being in scenes together. The subplot of Kirk's midlife woes (Admiralty, farsightedness, estranged son, etc.) gets sidelined by Montalban's incredible performance The only truly lovable and sympathetic Star Trek villain ever created. After seeing this so many times, I mourn Khan's death even more than Spock's. This is a worthy shrine to Montalban's talent and immortal sex appeal. Khan is villain personified bad but charming, cruel but sexy, so very evil, but you secretly want him to win! Earnest motivations and a down-to-earth plot make Star Trek II the most human of all. It ties together and is laden with sentiment, sure to arouse every viewer's primal emotions. It has been parodied up and down from Seinfeld to Simpsons, but it's so powerful that none of the impact is lost. One for the ages. "},{"Title":"THE MOVIE STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE SHOULD HAVE BEEN","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is the film the first one should have been. It's exciting, funny, smart and emotionally gripping. What a relief it was to see that Star Trek was able to pull itself out of the death grip of the original.William Shatner said that the first film became such a big hit because of the intense marketing. He is probably right because the first film is such a big bore that I can't believe non-Trekkies would even see it. However, Star Trek II is a film everyone can enjoy.Part of the reason for the film's success is that Gene Roddenberry did not control the production, like he did with the first one. Roddenberry was a brilliant TV producer, but when it came to films, he was over his head.But then again, the producer of this film (and the next three), Harve Bennett, also had extensive TV experience. But in Bennett's favor, he entered Star Trek as an outsider and his point of view was a shot in the arm after the first film. Bennett's decision to hire Nick Meyer as writer and director was inspired. Meyer and Bennett remember what made the Star Trek TV series so good the human relationships take top priority over the special effects. The film is a follow up to Space Seed, one of the best episodes in the original series. That episode starred Ricardo Montalban as Khan, a man who tries to conquer space. Montalban returns in the movie and creates one of the most memorable villains in screen history. It is a great performance and he remembers the old line A film is only as good as its villain. The original cast is back again and Shatner particularly stands out here. This is some of his best work ever and it shows the world that he is an excellent actor. Leonard Nimoy is also excellent as always in the Spock role, and this time, he manages to allow Spock's character to grow.Star Trek II is not overwhelmed by its special effects. Instead, Meyer allows the story to take its time. The pace is fairly fast, considering the agony of the first film. The result is a very special film that will live on for years. Next year will be the 20th anniversary and I predict it will last for 20 more years.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"KHAAAAAAAAAN!!!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  By far the best of the Star Trek series of movies. Ricardo Montalban steals the show.  Decent acting from the Star Trek crew, a great story-line, excellent special effects (especially during the space battles), and an impacting ending.  You can't ask for much more than that. Perhaps the most quotable movie of all time, and 90% of those great lines are delivered by Khan (Montalban). Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Still my favorite trek movie.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The second installment in the movie series based on the popular TV show is one of the most timeless and action-packed of the Trek movies.  After the financially successful but otherwise total disaster of a film Star Trek The Motion Picture, it was a fairly refreshing change of pace to see the filmmakers go back to their old TV show roots with the crew on a fairly typical mission of fighting a standard space terrorist.  The big kicker here is that this terrorist happens to be Khan, who was Kirk's enemy in the classic first season episode Space Seed.  The filmmakers even were fortunately able to use the same actor for Khan, a much older but still quite lively Riccardo Montalban.  Montalban's performance is probably the best in the film, upstaging all the Trek regulars as well as the late Bibi Besch (who plays Kirk's wife).   Blaxploitation regular Paul Winfield is also quite good as a starship pilot who gets possessed by Khan's brain-eating sand bugs.Technically, Star Trek 2 has to be one of the most impressive looking yet with a massive explosion near the end to signify the birth of the Genesis planet.  A few shots of the planet that the Regula-1 station was orbiting looked a little cheesy, but by and large the effects were done quite well as was the stunt work during the battle scenes.  Thankfully, the star fleet uniforms were updated to look a little more colorful and military and a little less 70's.  Also, most of the crew's haircuts were toned down to look a little less contemporary.  Hence, the film doesn't have the dated look of the first and most of the special effects still hold up very well.  Even the animated Tron-type CGI educational sequence about the uses of Genesis can be considered quite impressive.By and large, this has to be the most violent of the Star Trek series (with the exception of the new First Contact) with ample bloodletting, a couple nasty phaser-disintegrations, and the aforementioned brain-eater bugs.  On top of that, it is one of the darkest of the Trek series, with the Enterprise taking a good deal of damage and losing a large sum of its personnel to Khan's frequent attacks.  There's even a scene where Kirk and his men find that Khan tortured and skinned-alive most of the Regula-1 scientific team.  What helps to liven some of the grim proceedings is the humor played between Kirk and his men, most notably the arguments between Spock and McCoy.  McCoy is a passionate and moral man while Spock judges only by logic and pragmatism.  Their frequent culture clashes on issues like planetary extermination are quite lively and whimsical, and it is similarly interesting to see how Kirk and Spock frequently outsmart an overly proud Khan. As it is, Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan is still considered one of the best of the long running 9-part Star Trek series, only closely followed by 4 and 6.  Star Trek 6 in many ways borrowed ideas from this film, with its Shakespeare-quoting villain in a superior spaceship still somehow outsmarted by Kirk and the gang.  It's especially nice to see the same old gang sticking together after more than 20 years. "},{"Title":"Why is this movie even better than they say?","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Because it's a thematically unified story about its characters' responses to the plot's challenges, that's why.And that's the hallmark for which Star Trek was always famous  The themes and characters were often complex and thought-provoking.  The other user comments here focus mainly on the action-oriented aspects of the movie, but to me, as to the Smithsonian Institution, Harlan Ellison, and posterity, Star Trek was interesting ultimately because it was about people and ideas more than it was about phasers, cute female yeomen in miniskirts and the alien of the week.In this film, we're presented with several ideas  the needs of one person vs many, tests of moral strength in the face of failure and death, the contrasts of age and youth, the motivation of revenge and the stumbling-block of hubris.  It's a lively action picture, to be sure, but there's some tremendous acting and storytelling going on here too.I recommend you see this film twice  First, enjoy a well-paced action movie, then observe a thoughtfully written, directed and acted story about people.  That's why, of all the Star Trek movies to date, this one remains my favorite. "}{"Title":"Classic Trek, well done and fun","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As a life-long Star Trek and general sci-fi fan I've seen many sci-fi movies. Typically, I favor the darker films, such as Blade Runner and Alien. But ST The Wrath of Kahn has always held a special place in my movie rankings. To me, it is the best ST film (even now, after the fairly recent STTNG movies) and one that captures the essence of a franchise that holds up all that is good about humanity as a group and as individuals.Oh sure, there is overacting here. Wiliam Shatner and Ricardo Montalban engage in a can you top THIS? acting contest that is topped by Kirk's often imitated (in jest), KKKKKKKKHHHHHHHHAAAAAAAAANNNNNNNNNNNNN! scream. If you want to enjoy ST you have to accept at least a little cheese.But there is no scene more touching in ST than the Spock/Kirk goodbye in the Enterprise's radiation-filled chamber (I have and always shall be, your friend). The same scene also expresses wisdom (The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few ... or the one), which, BTW, is turned on its ear in STIII as Kirk shows his deep love and respect for Spock (something else the series is about ... close, meaningful friendships).There are also few ST battle scenes more exciting than the deadly hide-and-seek game played by Kirk and Khan in the Motari Nebula (spelling). It is a submarine/destroyer clash played out in space. Also, the musical score for the entire movie is terrific, and stands on its own merits for listening apart from the movie.Downside? Well, Kirk's son and his goofy sweater-around-the-neck look is a bit odd. And the sound effects for the transporter, phasers and ship's weapons are really kind of grating (why did they abandon the smoother sounds from the original series?). And maybe Khan is a bit too hotheaded for someone who is supposed to be so smart (or maybe he is simply related to Bobby Knight ... rimshot).But those factors are easily overlooked in what is one grand space adventure. I bought STTWOK on DVD and the quality is much improved over VHS. I could make out detail (such as screen images on the Enterprise's bridge) that I never could before. Unfortunately, Paramount really added nothing in the way of extras and essentially blew a shot at having one of the all-time great DVDs (how could they not include an alternate commentary track, or deleted scenes, or anything ST related?).I admit I'm a bit biased, but I gave this film a 9 ... even 18 years after its first release. "},{"Title":"The Human Adventure At Its Best","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  At the conclusion of the slow-paced (but underrated) Star Trek The Motion Picture, a title card declared The Human Adventure Is Just Beginning. The Wrath of Khan delivered on that promise in spades.This is where you'll see William Shatner at his finest. He proves here that with the right director, Shatner can indeed act. I was utterly convinced that Shatner's Kirk was a man on the edge of despair, searching for his proper place in the universe.Richardo Montalban as Khan was perfect, too - his scenery-chewing was entirely appropriate, given the character's history and simmering obsession.An excellent story, tight pacing, a gripping climax, thrilling music, and a powerful theme make this Star Trek's finest moment.  "},{"Title":"Pure greatness.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILERS INCLUDED*Excellent!! The way a Star Trek movie should be. Story, action, cool characters. It is the total opposite of Star Trek The Motion Picture. The first installment of the series was dull, slow, and utterly boring, using loads of fake special effects just to keep the audience awake. But this movie is very much an improvement over its predecessor.Ricardo Montalban is a great villain, a nice change from the typical Klingon and Borg bad guys (don't get me wrong; I like the Klingons and the Borg, but it's nice to have a more variety of villains). As usual, William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, and all the crew turn in good performances. My personal favorite is Kirstie Alley as the Vulan Lieutenant, Saavik (it's a pity she couldn't be in Trek III or IV). The only character I didn't really like was David, Kirk's son. He was too much of a sissy (thank God he dies in the next movie). But I liked Carol Marcus, and the scenes with her and Kirk are very good.This movie also has some of the most memorable--and disturbing scenes--in the entire series. The scenes with the little bugs crawling into Chekov's and Terrel's ears is still excruciating to watch and makes me flinch every time I see it. I LOVED the first battle between the Enterprise and Reliant. Neither side really won that battle. They both ended up getting beaten up by each other, and the casualties on both sides were well-balanced. The Reliant exploding was spectacular. But the scene that chokes me up the most was when Spock dies. I was very sad to see him bite it, much like when Han Solo was frozen in carbonite in TESB (another excellent movie). The funeral scene with the Enterprise launching the torpedo holding Spock's body was indeed dazzling and touching. And, of course, the whole simulated battle at the beginning was very fun to watch, and it was funny seeing the crew members killed off (ostensibly, of course) one by one. Saavik is a lot of things, but being a captain of the ship is not one of them!!!The only negative aspect of this movie is that it seemed dull at times (particularly the scenes involving the Genesis project). But that's not enough to make this film bad. Far from it. I very much like this movie. The cat-and-mouse chase with the Enterprise and Khan's ship, Montalban chewing the scenery, Spock's sacrifice all add up to this movie being the second best of the series, right after Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country. This is indeed a classic.Final Grade 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greats","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I say this with honesty that Star Trek 2 is one of the great films, up with Casablanca, Godfather, et al.  I am not an entirely huge Sci-Fi fan, so I don't believe that this opinion can be explained away as geeking (though I do geek over Star wars--never trust my opinions there).  What warrants Star Trek 2's inclusion into the pantheon?  Themes.  The themes (life/death, age and usefulness, friendship and sacrifice, destiny, revenge) in the film are so richly developed and the character development so strong (somehow showing new sides of characters that had already been well-developed over the course of 15 or so years).  And Star Trek 2 is one of the only films I have ever seen that uses other works (Tale of Two Cities and Moby Dick) to the benefit of the film and not as a crutch.  And the symbolism!!!  Don't get me wrong--I'm not saying that the metaphors were very complex but they certainly were rich.  Genesis being the ultimate force of both creation and destruction at the same time.  The journey of details like the glasses, which are silly but add reality to the story.  Acting from William Shatner that truly is subtle!  And a true weight of friendship expressed.  I don't believe that I have ever seen friendship that was as believable as that shown between Spock and Jim, Bones and Jim.  A sacrifice felt.  I love that. I love that Spock's sacrifice is felt as a sacrifice--actually FELT as a sacrifice and not just reported.  And yet he makes this sacrifice willingly. I think about this often, placing myself in spock's shoes.  If I were with a group of 300 people and one of us could die to save the rest and no one were to volunteer, could I do it?  Knowing that I would die anyways but that my death would save the rest--the logical decision is to volunteer--I'm dead either way, but I could never do it.  Could you? And the ingenuity!  This was a cat and mouse game that all viewers get behind because the stakes are real always and the deft manipulations in the chase seem plausible yet brilliant.  For example, the access codes.  I buy the idea of an access code.  The access codes are not a classic star Trek introduction of some new experimental and untested technology to save the day.  And the nebula--I buy that, too.  But these tricks just serve to even out sany advantage, constantly bringing the playing field back to level, so that, in the end, it's one crew against the other, trying to out-think each other and only the most cunning will be the victor. And lastly, this film set the thematic arc for the rest of the series.  Can one outlive his usefulness?  How do adventurers go to be grandparents?  What does one do when a life's purpose fades into the recesses?A beautiful film.  That can be experienced infinitely and always gain flavor. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Great film with great performances...","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ricardo Montalban made this movie for me. He played Khan, a revenge minded individual hellbent on destroying his enemy/nemesis James T. Kirk. Almost literally playing the part of Captain Ahab who is obsessed with destroying the white whale(Kirk). Montalban's great performance, I felt, helped push the other lead actors to perform to their fullest potential. Shatner did a wonderful job. His best of all the Star Trek films. The dialogue between all the characters was written and performed beautifully. The film had a great story line and non stop action between two bitter rivals. I recommend this film to all, Trekkies or not. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"... Still brings a tear to my eye","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the best of the best of the Star Trek Movies .. all nine of them. Spock's death scene can (and does) still bring tears to my eyes, even though I've seen this movie over 10 times.  The scene was just beautifully acted... even Shatner did a great job in it.  Leonard Nimoy will recall that this was one of the most difficult and emotional scenes he's ever had to play. He was all set to finish making Star Trek films, but after this scene/movie, he found a way to come back and continue his role as everyone's favorite Vulcan. "},{"Title":"Scotty, we need more power!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After the mixed critical returns of Star Trek  The Motion Picture, the fledgling franchise was in desperate need of a boost.  Star Trek  The Wrath of Khan provided that boost, and more.Fifteen years (movie time) after Admiral Kirk's encounter with V'Ger, the Enterprise is a decomissioned training vessel under the command of Captain Spock.  Uhura, McCoy, and Captain Scott still serve as active crewmembers. Chekov, the young ensign, is a commander now, and first officer of the science vessel Reliant.  Sulu, newly promoted to Captain, is being primed to assume command of the experimental Excelsior.Enter Savvik, a by-the-book, no-nonsense command cadet.  She is half Vulcan, half Romulan, and the protege of her Captain.  While none of Savvik's actions directly affect the outcome (this is and always will be Shatner's command performance), Savvik is our own interest in this film; the outsider among the familiars, and it is greatly through her eyes that we view the action.  She asks the questions we would, reacts to the developments as we would.The tone of this film, directed by Nick Meyer, is decidedly darker than that of its predecessor, with some heavy-handed violence, tounge-in-cheek humor, philosophical insight, supurb effects, and almost relentless action.  This is what Star Trek was always intended to be.  Gone is the hokey campiness, the ultra-fantastic uniforms, and cardboard computer consoles.  The Enterprise and her sister ship are presented with the look of real Naval vessels; not clean, well-oiled machines, but dirty, somewhat beaten, in every respect more believable that earlier models.  The new uniforms are crisp, functional, and realistic.  Khan's overwhelming drive for vengeance is instantly understood, with help from Herman Melville (STTWOK is actually consided by some to be directly based upon Moby Dick; Savvik being Ismael, both Kirk and Khan playing a split Ahab/white whale, each with their obsessions).  The plot is nicely constructed, with Khan's plans of revenge crossing paths with the scientific advancement of a missle capable of re-generating new, programmable life upon its target, and Kirk's reluctance to fall back into his old role.  Once he does so, however, it comes back on a grand scale.As mentioned before, this is William Shatner's command performance.  He has never before nor since been better.  Montalban's over-the-top, wild-eyed performance of Khan is classic, one of the most memorable villians in cinema history, and one gets the impression he might have slept in his wig and costume at night.  James Horner's (Oscar winner for Titanic) score is magnificent, setting the mood for the action precisely; never so brassy as to become gaudy, never so dark as to transcend the picture.The bottom line is that the best of the Star Trek films is also a good enough to stand up against the best of Hollywood.***1/2 (excellent) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Science Fiction Adventure","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForrest Kelley. and the rest are back with a rather exciting installment to the Star Trek franchise. The writing is inspired, so the plot twists and turns are credible and the viewer doesn't get lost. The use of the Kobayashi Maru test exercise as a part of the situations encountered by the characters throughout the movie was well-thought and complemented the action well. Spock and Kirk make a classic heroic team in this movie, and use guile more than brute force to engage their enemy, the Khan of this movie. Ricardo Montalban is delectable in his role as the villain, and is a perfect counterpoint to Kirk as an adversary.This movie, more than any other Star Trek movie, inspired a multitude of parodies, which ranged from making fun of Montalban's accent to Shatner's over-the-top scream when Kirk is trapped inside of a planet KKKHHHAAANNN! To be fair, it's not as over-the-top as Daniel Day-Lewis screaming DRAINAGE! in There Will Be Blood, but watching Mr. Shatner's face scrunch in mock-anger is still a classic scene of cinematic melodrama.Fans of science fiction will enjoy The Wrath of Khan. It's more intelligent than the Star Wars movies, and the action is more subdued, but the cast's acting and the plot are still engaging and entertaining. "},{"Title":"The Movie That Saved Star Trek","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't think that I'm exaggerating with that title. Star Trek The Motion Picture made a lot of money from people who were happy to see the gang re-united, but that turned out to be a pathetically weak movie. Another sub-par effort would surely have killed the franchise, but this instalment was anything but sub-par, and led to two directly related sequels.The idea was great. Take a popular episode of the TV series (Space Seed) and update it. Use the main guest star from the TV series (Ricardo Montalban) and have him reprise his role as Khan Noonian Singh, the late 20th century warlord who was cryogenically frozen and then rescued by Captain Kirk and ultimately stranded on Ceti Alpha V after trying to seize control of the Enterprise. Here we see Khan taking his revenge on Kirk for the events of 15 years before.The cast in general is excellent in this one, although - and I find this typical of the movies - both DeForest Kelley (Dr. McCoy) and James Doohan (Scotty) seem to have some trouble reprising their roles. There are some interesting new characters (Saavik, played by a very young Kirstie Alley) and the Drs. Marcus (Bibi Besch as Carol and Merritt Butrick as David - adding some new context to Kirk's life as his ex-lover and son, respectively.) It's a tense movie filled with all the fun stuff that we expect from Star Trek, and a very good climax with the appropriate open-endedness setting us up for the inevitable sequel.It isn't without its problems, mind you. How do Khan and Chekhov know each other? Chekhov wasn't part of the crew in Season 1 when Space Seed aired (or at least Walter Koenig wasn't part of the cast.) William Shatner (as expected) goes a bit over the top at times (his anguished cry of KHAAAAANNNNNNNN! while shaking with fury comes to mind.) It seems strange to me that no one would have checked on Khan after his stranding on Ceti Alpha V, that no one seemed to know that Ceti Alpha IV had exploded (when the Reliant came within scanning distance of the system shouldn't someone have said uh, Captain Terrell, there's one less planet here than there should be) and that it didn't even seem to have occurred to Chekhov (who apparently and inexplicably knew Khan so well) that this was the system where Khan had been stranded.Still, it's a fun movie that made Star Trek worth watching again.7/10 "},{"Title":"Not a perfect film by a country mile but very easy to enjoy and fans of the series rightly love it (spoilers)","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A Federation star ship is sent to a deserted planetoid earmarked for the third stage of the life-giving Genesis project, to investigate a detection of life. Chekov and his Captain find out too late that the life detected is none other than Khan and his crew of genetically engineered men. With a way off this barren rock, Khan takes control of the star ship and uses the Genesis project as his way of luring the man he blames for his years of isolation &#150; one James T. Kirk.After the first film, it was a very smart move to step back to what actually made the TV series successful. After watching this my girlfriend moaned that it was just like an extended version of the show, which of course is correct (although she didn't mean it as a good thing). The connection to the series is most obviously in the narrative but it is also is the humour that is more evident in this film as well as the improved action and characters. The plot is strong by being about the characters rather than anything mystical or heavily sci-fi; it is a revenge story in space and it works well. Of course it isn't the most amazing story ever but it is to the level of the series and fans will enjoy it for that. Additionally the plot allows for more of the warmth and humour in the characters to be drawn out, as well as some of the other aspects. On one hand this can be seen in the banter involving Bones, but in another way is seen in Kirk's touch of midlife crisis which does provide interest and drama (albeit on a TV show level).Meyer's direction is very good and he mixes the humour and drama of the TV show with good action throughout. The cast respond well to this approach and turn in good performances across the board. Shatner is hardly a great actor but he easily holds the screen here. Totally at home within his character he gives very good Kirk although of course some of his performance is unintentionally funny (you of course know the moment I refer to). Montalban was a good choice to bring back as a ham was needed to conflict with Shatner's ham and that is just what the former delivers. His Khan is a wonderfully cheesy villain and befits the material. Nimoy is engaging and is given the chance for a painfully effective final scene while Kelley, Doohan, Takei, Nichols and Koenig all do what is required of them. Alley is so-so but the weakest link is Butrick, who has little to do and with it delivers little.Overall then, easily one of the best films in the Star Trek franchise. Not a fantastic film in its own right but it does what the series did well and produces human stories, humour, warmth, action and drama all to the level required by the fans and most casual viewers. The cast do what they are capable of and while none of them are brilliant, they all do what is expected and do it pretty well. The effects department and sets all make the film look much better than the budget would suggest. "}{"Title":"Aside from some overacting, this was a HUGE improvement over the first movie","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have two favorite Star Trek movies--this one and FIRST CONTACT. This one is so wonderful because it is absolutely nothing like STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE (known to many of the fans as Star Trek I). While the movie is based on a TV episode, it manages to carry on from where the episode left off instead of rehashing the same old material.Although I loved so many movies by Robert Wise, he was no sci-fi director. Sure, he was wonderful with THE SOUND OF MUSIC, but under his control the first Star Trek movie could have been entitled THE SOUND OF BOREDOM! But, in this film, Nicholas Meyer very ably directs and seemed to have a real flare for drama and the characters. Plus, it really seems to have helped having the crew shed their prior monochrome polyester uniforms from the prior film and replace them with cool red uniforms. So, the uniforms AND the characters all were very colorful.The film concerns the only Hollywood actor who is a big enough ham to match Shatner's beloved histrionics--Ricardo Montalban. He and Shatner both emoted and fought and entertained the audience. Sure, it was a whole lot more low-brow than the earlier film, but that is why the original series was so beloved! People didn't expect John Gielgud or Laurence Olivier--they wanted to see Shatner scream KHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAN!!!!!!!!!!! and they wanted explosions! And, while not necessary for the script, most people appreciated the evil buggers they shoved in Paul Winfield's and Walter Koenig's ears! The film was bigger than life, emotionally involving, entertaining, heart-stopping and a great improvement in the series. Thanks to the success of this film (and an ending that left room for the sequel), there were many more Trek Movies to come (though the less said about STAR TREK V, the better). "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sequel to original film with an exceptional villain , magnificently played by Ricardo Montalban","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The picture narrates how the veteran crew of the starship Enterprise NC1701 leaves their retirement in contemplation for facing off a nefarious enemy and they equally must battle the Klingon . It appears Ricardo Montalban as Khan , he is a renegade villain looking for vengeance for his casting away on an abandoned desert planet . Montalban as a megalomaniac evil nasty gives an excellent characterization and he's the fundamental reason for seeing the movie . Admiral Kirk -William Shatner- will confront an old foe , out for revenge.The movie is essentially a follow-up to television episode Space seed featured by the same protagonists . It's presented James T. Kirk's former sweetheart (Bibi Besch) and his unknown son to the saga , leading to the second part the search of Spock , starred and directed by Leonard Nimoy (Spock) . The screenplay is concentrated about characters more than action-packed and special effects , though there're a lot , too . Kirk and Khan never meet face to face during the movie , all of their interaction is through viewscreens or communicators . This was because Ricardo Montalban filmed his scenes separately from the main production in order to accommodate his schedule of filming Fantasy Island (1977). The highlights movie are some creepy and sadist scenes when bugs torture to Zulu (Walter Koenig) , including a little bit of blood and gore . Besides , it has an exciting and climatic ending , taking on the USS Reliant machine war and Enterprise NCC 1701 , similarly to the cold war that will originate a Glasnot theme in Star Trek 6  the Undiscovery country. Others usual saga characters appear making brief appearances are  Uhura (Michelle Nichols) , Zulu (George Takei) , Scott (James Doohan). The motion picture will appeal to trekkers as well as the neophites . "},{"Title":"Where's the wrath??","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  CAUTION POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT (movie does not have much wrath) I watched this movie expecting some serious anger, bad deeds, and above all else wrath.  Instead I got a couple hours of boring dumb threats made by the evil Khan.  I don't care about the genesis device, this movie did not live up to the hype of its name.  Khan could have at least killed half the universe(thats what i call wrath)  or even punched someone!  Although star trek fans seem to like this one, I don't.  I would much rather suggest watching the movie Mary Poppins if you have to escape reality. "},{"Title":"Mad Banished Mercenary Wreaks Revenge In Superior Star Trek Flick","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Whilst scouting for a deserted planet, Chekov runs into Khan, an old adversary of the crew of the Starship Enterprise. Khan brainwashes Chekov, steals his ship and uncovers a top-secret project called Genesis, which has the power to destroy all life. He will be revenged upon his hated nemesis, Admiral James T. Kirk ...Although I'm not much of a fan of the TV-series, I like all of the Star Trek movies and this one is a lot of fun, as long as you don't take it too seriously. Unlike the others, it's a direct sequel to one of the TV shows (Space Seed, from 1967), with Montalban reprising his role as a shaggy-haired, bare-chested, Herman Melville-quoting nutter, and he's pretty cool. Also good are the other guest-stars; Alley (her first movie), Besch and Winfield, all of whom acquit themselves well, and director Meyer has enough sense to keep the plot jogging along as quickly as possible. The visual effects by Ken Ralston and Jim Veilleux are wonderful, particularly the dogfights between the two starships, and there is a terrific score by James Horner. I also like the fact that the movie is not afraid of going for big dramatic scenes - Kirk's fear of being grounded, the family life he threw away and the big finale when Spock sacrifices himself in the radioactive core of the ship. It's more soap-opera than science-fiction but they play it for all its worth. Shatner's voice-cracking eulogy for the alien Spock - Of all the souls I have encountered in my travels, his was the most human. - is either the most moving or the most laughable piece of acting ever, depending on your point of view (personally, I'm not sure). It's all good family fun though, with brain-eating leeches, the universe at stake, and all the usual Star Trek cod-naval banging-on about impulse power, photon torpedoes and the like. A crowd-pleaser if ever there was one. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the best Star Trek movies in the series","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As promised yesterday I watched Star Trek The Wrath of Khan. The film is about promoted Admiral James T Kirk who no longer is captain over the Enterprise. Kirk is forced into duty once again when his old enemy Khan shows up and seeks revenge. We have William Shatner as James T Kirk, Leonard Nimoy as Spock and Ricardo Montalban as Khan.The film unfolds in its own pace and sometimes reminds me of 2001 A Space Odyssey, where spacecraft also dances to music in space. The story fells intimate and very personal, and the main focus is almost entirely on James T Kirk. Khan is his old enemy, it is he who is forced to act and it is he who must take matters into his own hands. This makes other characters around him a little distant, but on the other hand it is very clear from the beginning that this is Kirk's film.Star Trek The Wrath of Khan is a very well made film with very good looking scenes inside the spacecraft and outside in space. To only follow the Enterprise as she glides out into space to the music of James Horner, is magical in itself. Ironically I mentioned in an earlier post that I looked forward to watching the film because it wouldn't have any computer effects, CGI. Well, it turns out it contains a very early computer generated sequence of a planet.In many ways Star Trek is the feelings between the crew as they navigate the Enterprise like marines in the navy. Director Nicholas Meyer wanted the crew to act even more like navy military so he took it even further in this film compared to the first Star Trek film or the original series.All in all I really liked the film. It had a great personal story and developed itself nicely as things went along. I did however thought the film was too short. I felt it needed to be longer to really make me be able to go deeper and understand the different characters. I also have to mention that you probably need some pre-understanding of Star Trek to watch this film, and if you haven't, you should probably start with the original Star Trek series or watch the first film Star Trek The Motion Picture. But, in any case Star Trek The Wrath of Khan is a good film and definitely worth your time.David Lindahl - www.filmografen.se "},{"Title":"Live Long and Prosper","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sequels are supposed to take what was great about the first outing and expand on it while also improving upon the mishaps as well. Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is better than the first film in almost every aspect. I took issue with the pacing, overuse of special effects, length, and the lack of a present villain in Star Trek The Motion Picture. This film wipes away silly and unnecessary special effects and gives us an intriguing story with characters who we understand and care about. It's also a solid 30 minutes shorter without cutting out anything that would hurt the story. I was thoroughly impressed by this sequel even 30 years after its release.We open the film as the enterprise seemingly has a new captain in Kirstie Alley's Saavik, only to find out its a training exercise put together by Spock and Admiral Kirk. I was worried they may rehash the same story line as the first film as Kirk seemed to hint that he may be done with the Enterprise, only to run into an old foe in Khan. Even though I have seen bits and pieces of the original series and had been somewhat familiar with Khan as a villain, I didn't know to the extent to which him and Kirk were linked. I was glad to see viewing of his appearance in the TV series wasn't entirely necessary as they explained enough in the 103 minute run- time.Khan has become somewhat of a pop culture icon over the years, so I had my fair share of expectations going in. Ricardo Montalban's performance and the writing didn't let me down. So much so that you understand where Khan is coming from when he wants Project Genesis from the crew and wants revenge for what Kirk did. In many ways, he was Kirk's arch nemesis and proved to come through with a lot of what he swore to do to Kirk. My only gripe with him as a villain was that I feel like we were missing an in person interaction with Kirk himself. Speaking through a video screen inside the Enterprise isn't enough, you need that human interaction.With that said, The Wrath of Khan has the emotional layers and character depths that the first film was lacking. All of the original dynamics of the ship are there, plus some new and enjoyable ones as well. Plus, it doesn't take 45 minutes for things to get going, the pacing is much improved. James Horner's haunting score also sets the tone immediately from the opening scene, all the way through the bittersweet ending. Overall, everything feels bigger and better with The Wrath of Khan. Having seen the new Trek films, I think this can rank up there with them as some of the best outings the Enterprise crew has ever had.+Fantastic score+Emotionally layered+Special effects & pacing much improved+Very good villain-Although Khan was missing the human interaction with Kirk8.3/10 "},{"Title":"Galloping around the cosmos is a game for the young, Doctor.","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Whereas Star Trek The Motion Picture revisited a theme from the original TV series (Captain Kirk defeats a threat to the Enterprise by using circular logic), this sequel revisits perhaps Kirk's most outstanding and ferocious antagonist, the villain Khan (Ricardo Montalban). I actually had a problem with the resolution of the TV episode 'Space Seed', in as much as Kirk exiled Khan to a far flung planet instead of dealing with him far more definitively. Having already seen how diabolical and clever Khan was, it wouldn't have been a stretch for Kirk to foresee a day when Khan would come back to haunt him.Come back he does, on a personal mission of revenge against present Admiral Kirk (William Shatner), in addition to his quest to acquire a Genesis device, capable of reorganizing lifeless matter into life generating results. You have to give Ricardo Montalban credit here for his portrayal. Khan was a truly vicious outlaw, though it was an insane desire for personal vengeance that eventually led to his downfall at the hands of the pragmatic, calculating Kirk.Interestingly, the story is framed in a literary context, beginning with an early conversation between Kirk and Spock (Leonard Nimoy). Spock quotes Charles Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities when he comments on Kirk's unwillingness to confront the matter of growing older - It was the best of times. It was the worst of times. The historical novel was a tale of dualities, one about two men living in two cities, London and Paris. The literary device of doubles is used throughout the movie repeatedly, with Kirk vs Khan, the Enterprise vs The Reliant, rival sons Joachim (Judson Scott) and David (Merritt Butrick), and one could go on listing other such dualities in the story.The film closes out the Dickensian theme when Kirk laments the loss of his beloved friend Spock, who sacrificed his life for a greater cause - It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done; it is a far, far better rest that I go to than I have ever known. If ever one considered Shatner a mediocre actor, he might have redeemed himself with that one riveting scene. And similarly, before he dies, Spock hints at a Genesis-like revival when he proclaims to Kirk - I am and always shall be, your friend. "},{"Title":"Revenge Seeking and Learning to deal with it.","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" We're all with you, says Joachim, but consider this&#x85;. You have defeated the plans of Admiral Kirk. You do not need to defeat him again. To which Khan replies, He tasks me. He tasks me and I shall have him! I'll chase him 'round the moons of Nibia and 'round the Antares Maelstrom and 'round perdition's flames before I give him up.Khan's mission throughout the entire film is to make Admiral Kirk feel the pain that Kirk had caused Khan previously. He spends every ounce of energy that he has after escaping from his desert planet, seeking after this aim. Even though being a human with superior intelligence, Khan is portrayed as evil and cruel to those around him.In order to make Kirk pay for the suffering he's caused him, Khan goes to ridiculous extremes. He kills everyone aboard an entire space station, sacrifices everyone aboard his ship after putting them in immediate danger, even places dessert eels into the brains (which they feed on) of 2 Starfleet officers and puts them under his control. As well using a suicide technique at the end, hoping to kill those aboard the USS Enterprise, like the kamikaze pilots during World War 2.Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan does an excellent job in showing that trying to get revenge on someone for something they've done is detrimental to the one seeking revenge, rather than the one who offended them. This is not something that should be done in society. The Wrath of Khan presents this to the audience really well.Another interesting argument the film makes, is that dealing with revenge with a level head brings success. Admiral Kirk knows how dangerous Khan is. Khan already had tried to kill him, which is why Khan marooned in the first place. Kirk, rather than running away from the situation, ignoring it hoping it will go away, or complaining to someone else about it and sending them to deal with it, deals with the problem himself. He even says to Khan that the battle is strictly between himself and Khan, and asks him to, keep his crew out of it. This is a large contrast to Khan's cruelness towards human life.Multiple times throughout the film Kirk says, I don't like to lose. He tells a learning officer how he got through a training simulation that he had designed to test to see how a Captain can deal with defeat. Instead of finding a way to deal emotionally with the defeat, Kirk reprogrammed the simulation to make success possible. This isn't the only time he manipulates something to make the outcome a victory for himself.An example of this. After the Enterprise is repaired to the point that Kirk is comfortable taking it into battle, they travel into a nearby nebula, and Kirk sends the following message to Khan, This is Admiral Kirk. We tried it once your way, Khan, are you game for a rematch? Khan, I'm laughing at the superior intellect. The last sentence Kirk states, triggers a deep anger inside of Khan. He irrationally charges towards the nebula, into a fair battle between Kirk and Khan.It amazes me how this film can teach things to our society even though it was make over fifty years ago. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek film","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There's a whole lot to like about The Wrath of Khan. Plenty of action, memorable quotes, and an excellent storyline. The villain is quite excellent, and very memorable. The characters are true to those that we saw in the show, and we even get to delve into them a bit deeper. The plot is very interesting, and it adds a lot to the Trek universe. The ending is so perfect and unforgettable that I don't even want to add any details here. It's truly something that you should see for yourself.This is a film that is about choices, and how much of an impact they truly have. Khan, if you are unaware, is a villain from the original series, and Kirk's choice about what to do with him is the reason that all the trouble is happening in the first place. It always highlights the fact that Kirk is not a perfect man, which any great epic film does with their heroes.Though this film is probably best enjoyed by Trekkies who watched the original, there is plenty here for a non-Trekkie to enjoy. Check it out for yourself, it has enough to convert a non fan over. "},{"Title":"Feel the Wrath !","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As I remember, many fans were deceived with the first movie (some did change of heart over the years...), so Star Trek creators came with a sequel of an Original Series episode, Space Seed...The result brought many fans back and gave confidence on the Franchise. The late Ricardo Montalban gives quite a great performance, as the rest of the Enterprise.Admiral Kirk must face a vengeful enemy who swears revenge at all cost, for all the years stranded in an inhospitable planet. With half of the crew staffed with cadets, Kirk and his crew must face daring situations and surprises along the way, and not without an inevitable sacrifice...At least a movie which restored the true Star Trek essence ! "}{"Title":"Best of the Best","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't really know what to say about this movie that hasn't been said before. It's my favourite of the trek films, and it's a bench mark for all trek movies to this day.There is so much I love about this movie. The first time I watched it I was a little kid, and it was on a 12 inch black and white TV. I was blown away buy it. When we got a VCR I would rent this movie at least once a year. It would easily be in my top ten movies of all time.This movie has a broad scope of appeal, and is a movie I think even non trek fans will enjoy. It was listed as one of the 101 Sci-Fi movies you must see before you die.The movie has themes of old age, revenge, and dealing with death. As Captain Kirk is now turning 50 in the film. He is given an antique book, and eye glasses for his birthday.The Enterprise at this point is being used as a training vessel for star fleet cadets. With Spock as the Captain, and Kirk evaluating the cadets performance.Meanwhile another star fleet vessel the U.S.S. Reliant is evaluating a seemingly lifeless planet for the terraforming device known as genesis. Created by Kirks old love Dr Carol Marcus.When the Captain of the Reliant, and Chekov (who is now serving on board the Reliant) Beam down to the planet to investigate what may have been a life form reading. Only to fine KAHN!!! Kahn then puts parasites in there ears as a means of mind control. He then takes control of the Reliant. Then he puts his plan into motion to take the genesis device for himself, and destroy Kirk.The best part of this movie for me is the death of Spock. It was, and to this day one of the best on screen deaths. It is the perfect example of how a great heroic character should die.There are so many good parts to this film I love, but I'll stop with Spocks death.The worst part of this film for me has nothing to do with the film itself. The worst part is I never got to see this movie in theatres as a kid. I wish I had seen it for the first time on the big screen with the wonder only a child can have.Only a few years ago I finally got to see it on the big screen for the first time.So if your a star trek fan most likely you have already seen this movie, and if your a fan of sci-fi movies you have most like already seen this movie.If you haven't and you are a fan of sci-fi. I highly recommend you watch this movie, or your a movie buff in general.You will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Closed Film to the Original Series","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Wrath is Khan is widely considered to be the closed of the films to the original series, further it links in with one of the original series episodes Space Seed in which we are introduced to the character Kahn Noonian Singh. Kahn is from the 20th century an advanced Warrior who was in stasis until the Enterprise crew found his ship and revived him. After a fight Kirk deposits Khan and the other survivors from his ship on an uninhabited planet.Many years later the Enterprise return unknowing that it is Khan's planets (it wasn't documented where the left him) and also unknowing that in the years since he was left on the planet a natural disaster has hit and the planet is now barren of vegetation. Khan escapes and so the film begins in earnest. "},{"Title":"Back Into That Final Fronteer","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Whenever Kirk, Spock, Scotty and the original 'Bones' got together, it was going to be an adventure. I like all the movies with original cast, although 'Star Trek, The Motion Picture' had some draggy parts. Not only did this movie have adventure but it had one of the memorable battle sequences between two starships. The sequences of these two space monstrosities swooping close to one another, in order to get off that kill one shot - the coup d'gras were tense and exciting. The acting was all prime Star Fleet quality, very memorable of the earlY TV show. With all the brilliance that Ricardo Maltabah carried into this production while playing the outstanding as Khan, the most memorable scene has to be Spock's farewell in engineering. Even my tears had tears. I am so glad the crew continued boldly going where no one else had gone before - live long and prosper. "},{"Title":"A Planet made of SEGA Genesis?","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When it comes to the feud between the Trek of Stars and the War of Stars, my dad supports the latter. So one day he decided to show me the second Star Trek movie. We were going to watch the first, but turns out it wasn't on the Star Trek box set he bought. So keep in mind that I haven't seen the first movie and I only have a vague memory of watching the TV show. However, I did see the remake, so...there's something. Anyway, from a non-Trekkie perspective, I enjoyed the movie. Granted I was confused when they referenced things from the show like when Kirk mentions his simulation test thing, and my dad informed me that the first few episodes were said tests. And that's the best way to watch this movie if your a newcomer to the Star Trek universe, watch it with a Trekkie, and ask questions. As for the special effects, they were great! Especially for something as low budget as Star Trek! I love the detail on Spock when he's dying, which did tug on my heart strings a bit. If you're a newcomer to Star Trek, as I mentioned before, watch it with a Trekkie. If you are a fan of Star Trek...well, you've probably already seen this movie. "},{"Title":"Simply One of the Best Trek Movies Ever","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The reputation of this movie proceeds it and for good reason. Everything lacking in The Motion Picture is made up for ten fold here. The pace is faster, the plot intriguing with nail biting action and great character pieces. This is what Star Trek is at its very best.The FX work looks fantastic even for today. While the visuals aren't as mind blowing as The Motion Picture they are easily overtaken by the great job done by the cast. All the regulars are on fine form but the highlights come from Shatner and Ricardo Montalban as his nemesis Khan. The duelling relationship between the two characters is what holds the movie together. Kirk is forced to address his ageing self leading to some funny and heartfelt character moments while Khan is simply magnetic to watch. Consumed with vengeance but also pride, Montalban steals every scene while endless quotable lines.The direction by Nicholas Meyer really makes the film come to life. This is no more evident than in the battle sequences. Rather than the Star Wars style large scale battles this is a more like submarine warfare. The conflicts hinge on whits as well as fire power. The first engagement is so tension filled it could be cut with a knife. Add to this a great musical score by James Horner and you have the complete package. There's a reason this is regarded as the best - it has great action, acting, writing, directing and a thrilling ride from beginning to end.Great fun, great movie. "},{"Title":"Ultimate Trek","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While many will hail the 2009 Star Trek reboot as the best ever outing of the franchise, it may have the special effects and the adrenaline rush to even rival Star Wars, but, somehow, it doesn't have the sheer dark moodiness of The Wrath of Khan.The second Trek film is helped by the fact that it follows a not particularly well-received first movie, therefore many considered that anything was a step up. However, the franchise seemed to step too far (where no man has gone before, perhaps?) and created a movie that has yet to be topped. Here we see Kirk up against an old foe from the TV series, genetically-engineers super psycho, Khan. It's a homicidal game of cat and mouse as they constantly chase and elude each other until they come to the ultimate climax - the death of one of the regular cast members (I'm sure you know which one!).Whereas one of the Star Wars franchises main strengths is its sheer 'mass appeal.' It's hard to find anyone who hasn't at least watched (and most likely enjoyed) one of the films. However, Star Trek will always carry more of a stigma about it and there are connotations of nerdy geeks wearing tight-fitting costumes at science-fiction conventions. That's the reason that, no matter how good a Trek film is, it's unlikely to win over many new fans.The Wrath of Khan will always live as the fans' favourite, until you come to the next generation (of us fanboys, not the cast from the eighties) who may well choose the 2009 reboot.If you like your sci-fi a little more moody and intense than simply a little pointy-eared green man talking backwards and then whacking a bloke in a cloak with a glowing stick, then you may just enjoy this, too. "},{"Title":"A True Masterpiece","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What can be said about Star Trek 2 The Wrath Of Khan that hasn't been said before?The film is rated among one of the best motion pictures in cinema history and many fans of Star Trek consider it the greatest film in the Star Trek Series. And with Good Reason.The Story was inspired by the original series episode Space Seed thanks to Director Nicholas Meyer who personally screen all 79 episodes of the Original Series of Star Trek when he found Space Seed It was the perfect way to form a sequel.It worked out perfectly in my opinion.The film feature the crew of the U.S.S.Enterprise with James T.Kirk (William Shanter) Mr.Spock (Leonard Nimoy) Dr.Leonard McCoy (DeForest Kelley) Scotty (James Doohan) Chekov (Walter Koenig) Sulu (George Takei) and Uhura (Nichelle Nichols).Plus reprising his role as Khan from Space Seed Ricardo Montalban whose performance in this film is far none he stole the show each time he was on screen. After taking control of the U.S.S. Reliant when he took control of the minds of Chekov and Captain Terrell (Paul Winfield) Khan begins his quest for revenge against Kirk.After getting a distress call from Dr.Carol Marcus (Bibi Besch) and her son David (Merritt Butrick). The Enterprise races to investigate. The Wrath of Khan shines as a great Drama, Action, Sci/fi film even non Star Trek fan can appreciate the film.The film cast and crew went all out to make this film the masterpiece it is and it gives you the feel of what makes Star Trek so much a hit.It features superb writing, the cast also deliver some of their best performances in their careers. William gave a strong performance in this film, Leonard also shows why he was made to be Mr.Spock we also got to see a rare take of Mr.Spock. Ricardo as Khan is just flawless perhaps the greatest Star Trek Villain ever and when you watch his performance it is a commanding role.The music is also the key to the film as each piece of music in the film helps tell the story and each scene gets it own special score.The special effects are some of the best ever in a film and it's all thanks to ILM who can be counted all for amazing work and this film is nothing less of their fine arts.Star Trek 2 The Wrath Of Khan is is a superb masterpiece and every fan of Star Trek can tell you how much the film is loved.Overall I give Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan an 10 out of 10 KHAN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"As good as Star Trek gets","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was not an overly big fan of Star Trek as a child. Growing up in Australia, I fell under the spell of Doctor Who and could not quite find a cool looking space ship quite as exciting as a magic blue box. I did end up enjoying the Next Generation, though it was never must see TV for me. Star Trek 2 Wrath of Khan did however make me a fan of the film franchise after an underwhelming opening in The Motion Picture.The Wrath of Khan is a grown up story, it fleshes out the character of Khan, brought to life by a well calculated performance from Ricardo Montalban including moments of quiet menace, calm intelligence, sadistic evil and never far from bat sh-t crazy, and his motives far better than any other villain in the series.While the Klingons and Borg are good enemies, Khan works because he is just one man being driven by motives you can believe a man can be driven by, and the power he has at his disposal, combined with his intelligence and lack of restraint, makes him a very dangerous and believable threat indeed.The film continues to develop the dynamic between Kirk, Spock and Bones that is the real driving force behind the film series. Shatner, Nimoy and Kelly are all on form, apart from one infamous moment of unrestrained silliness from Shatner, shouting out KHAAAAN! like he is passing a kidney stone that's inspired many a youtube montage and was even referenced in the later reboot Star Trek into Darkness.Montalban stars as Khan, a super intelligent, super strong humanoid looking war criminal who was left on the moon years earlier by Kirk to give him and the rest of his equally strong and intelligent crew a second chance at life. However, there was no life on the planet and so Khan and his buddies have been living a decidedly second rate existence, with Khan blaming Kirk and becoming increasingly off his rocker over the decades that pass. When Chekov stumbles upon Khan's ship, the evil Mexican hatches a plan to both escape this desolate hell hole and take his revenge on Kirk.Once the script gets Kirk and Khan where it wants them, a chase ensues, and eventually a tactical battle to the death between the two men eventuates with Spock forced to make ultimate sacrifice, the ship's crew blasting his body into space in memoriam at film's end. Kirk and Spock's final goodbye is a scene that can make a grown man weep.Before this though we are introduced to the Kobayashi Maru simulation for the first time (apologies to Trekkies if it was first mentioned in the original television series), a no-win scenario that becomes such a key part of Star Trek lore. We are also introduced to the Genesis project which drives the third film, which is overseen by Kirk's former lover and their son. This is the one that really sets up the rest of the film series. We are also introduced to Lt Saavik, a female Vulcan (Kirstie Alley in her first film role). Moreso than any of the other movies this is so much more than a movie length Star Trek episode. While the first film delivered the box office receipts to show there was a big screen audience for Star Trek, this one delivered the story, the sets and the script to indicate that Star Trek films could actually be not just accessible to a wider audience but could actually be good in their own right. If you only ever watch one of the original Star Trek films, make sure it's this one. "},{"Title":"Simply put - this is classic Trek","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wrath Of Khan is arguably the best Star Trek movie of them all (perhaps matched for me only by the totally different Voyage Home). Everything about this film just works - from Kirk's coming to terms with his advancing age to the return of Khan, from the Genesis project to the death of Spock - this is great story-telling and fine movie-making. How we could do with more sci-fi movies of this calibre instead of the empty, soulless, and illogical (sorry!) blockbusters littering our screens in the 21st Century.I really like William Shatner in this movie; his Kirk here is no longer the brash Captain of the original series but thoughtful, mature and even slightly depressed as the story opens a world away from the hammy overacting he's well known for. Except of course, for one glorious moment - Khhhhaaaaaaan! He's ably supported by Leonard Nimoy as a contented Spock and De Forest Kelly's acerbic Bones. And of course the return of Ricardo Montalban as Khan is just the icing on the cake. One of Star Trek's best ever villains. Montalban is just wonderful.Nick Meyer keeps a perfect tempo with his direction, and I believe he performed an uncredited re-write on the script after some early drafts were deemed to be not working, Meyer may well be The Man Who Saved Star Trek. There's drama, excitement, a great space battle, a terrific sci-fi premise, plenty of humour, and a genuinely sorrowful yet hopeful ending. Spock's death is still hard to watch without being deeply moved (I was cut up in 1982 when I first saw the movie, and I still get cut up now.) What more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"Captain Kirk Involved In A Khan Game","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Despite a lot of criticisms about its extreme slowness and length, in marked contrast to the original TV series, STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE nevertheless was a huge box office hit, and spawned an ultimate Hollywood franchise the only known one to come off of a TV series that, in its original network run, never did any better than number 35 in the Nielsen ratings. The first of the franchise's sequels was 1982's STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN.The crew of the Enterprise, led by the indefatigable Captain Kirk (William Shatner) and Spock (Leonard Nimoy), having survived the encounter with V'ger in the first film, are back, and there are some new and old twists. The new one is in establishing the fact that Shatner's Kirk has a son (Merritt Buttrick) and an ex-wife (Bibi Besch), both of whom have come up with an experiment in creating life on what would otherwise be dead worlds, an experiment called, for better or for worse, Genesis. But the old one is a menace from Shatner's own past. Khan Singh, the character from the original series episode Space Seed (air date February 16, 1967), portrayed once again by Ricardo Montalban (well removed from TV's Fantasy Island or hocking Chrysler automobiles with their rich, Corinthian leather) has been found alive on the dead planet Alpha Ceti V; and with a crew that has stayed with him for the fifteen years since Kirk abandoned him there, he has now come back for a most brutal revenge. And it eventually comes to involve Buttrick's and Besch's well-meant Genesis Experiment. The end result is a hugely entertaining space opera, though somewhat violent&#x85;and, of course, with a climax that will eventually lead to the third film in the series that came in 1984.In contrast to the stateliness of the original film, which was directed in almost Kubrickian fashion by Robert Wise, STAR TREK II finds veteran TV director Nicholas Meyer, whose credits include 1979's TIME AFTER TIME, and the later, ultra-controversial 1983 made-for-TV World War III drama THE DAY AFTER, at the helm, giving the screenplay by Jack B. Sowards (from a story co-authored by Sowards and Harve Bennett) a tremendous amount of energy, especially in the spectacular and decidedly tragic finale. As always, Shatner and Nimoy are aided in the enterprise (no pun intended) by the Usual Suspects Nichelle Nichols; DeForest Kelley; Walter Koenig; James Doohan; and George Takei. Kirstie Alley made her feature acting debut here as Saavik; and Montalban, though he is about as over-the-top as is possible for a villain to be, is also exceptionally good in his savagery.The special effects work, which I think still holds up almost a third of a century later, is great, as is the majestic score by James Horner, his first for the series, and one that helped establish him as a force in the business of movie music (he later went on to score BRAINSTORM, AN American TAIL, and APOLLO 13, among others). The Trekkie set will definitely like STAR TREK II, but so too will any self-respecting sci-fi or special effects maven. "}{"Title":"Star Trek finds on screen success","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***After the long winter following the flat reception of Star Trek The Motion Picture (1979) , they go back to the drawing board. A weary studio green lights a television Mini-Series which would after great writing and visionary direction by Nicholas Meyer(The Day After) would become Star Trek The Wrath of Khan.Following up on the original series episode Space Seed(1967) , The Starship Reliant (NCC-1864), Discovers the stranded crew of the S.S. Botany Bay many years after it is left there by Admiral Kirk (William Shatner). Needless to say being marooned on a hostile world for many years has not improved Khan's (Ricardo Montalban) mood. The death of his wife(Lt. Marla McGivers) during this time, had a negative impact as well. Khan it seems is bent on vengeance.After stealing the Reliant from it's Captain , Khan sets of for the final showdown with Kirk in space. Star Trek  The Wrath of Khan is in my opinion the best of the franchise movies. The script (edited several times) was paired down to a sharp direct instrument , which kept the movies flow steady and interesting. The acting may have been Shatner's best in the series and then of course the rest fell into place.The resulting climax , ever controversial, spawned strong interest , indirectly and unintentionally fueling two more films. The films power was only further enhanced by its strong support specifically that of Capt. Terrell (Paul Winfield) and the half Romulan Lt.Saavik (Kristie Alley in her first movie role).A staple of trekkies. A must view for those unfamiliar with the franchise. Overall , one of its finest works.Four Stars.(of 5) "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek film","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'll admit to being more of a fan of Star Wars than Star Trek, but this doesn't mean I don't like Star Trek by any means. That being said, this is probably the best of the Star Trek movies I have seen, especially the two recent ones by J.J. Abrams. Where those were more about entertainment and action, this one (and presumably the others as well) are about ideas. In WRATH OF KHAN, this is specifically about Kirk grappling with his age and coming to terms with death. The way in which this is portrayed on screen is both inspired and poignant, resulting in one of the most touching scenes I've seen in a sci-fi movie. Pretty much everything about this movie is excellent, from the performances, the production design, the special effects (by 80's standards) to the score. In particular, Ricardo Montalban was very menacing and memorable as the villain, Khan. Every word that came out of his mouth oozed evil. William Shatner also did an admirable job, although he occasionally slipped back into some of the mannerisms he used on the original series, which have been made fun of and parodied many times. Overall, I really liked this movie and would recommend to anyone who enjoys a great sci-fi movie with plenty of action, tension, heart and brains. "},{"Title":"Khaaaaaaan!!!","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few...and the needs of the one. New favourite Trek film tied with First Contact. Right from the get-go the old crew of the Enterprise bounce off one another like old friends do, wisecracking and reminiscing about the old days, only Kirk is now an admiral, Spock a captain, and the rest of them surprisingly not the least bit irritated at having received no promotion while being surrounded by newcomers aboard the Enterprise. Except Chekhov who is apparently second officer on a small science vessel. Chekhov and his captain are checking out a planet for possible use in the Genesis project, something that reshapes and creates life out of death, when they are captured by Kahn, an old enemy of Kirk's whom Kirk marooned on the planet just before it's orbit unfortunately shifted and it became an inhospitable rock. So Khan commandeers the ship and relentlessly makes after Kirk and the Genesis project. As soon as Khan (venomous Ricardo Montalban) appears, the tension and excitement never lets up as it becomes a deadly game of cat and mouse. There are some new faces along with the old crew, like Merrit Butrick, who played the drug addict T'Jon in the hilarious anti-drug episode of TNG, here playing Kirk's son who comes to admire and respect his father after calling him an overgrown boy-scout at first. Each crew member gets a moment of glory, but it's Spock that really steals the show; his final scenes and words have great emotional pull. Overall it's a fantastic sci-fi adventure, great fun throughout. Next up, The Search For Spock. Looking forward to it. "},{"Title":"An excellent sequel and return of popular villain","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After the lukewarm reception the motion picture received regarding its storyline and pacing, however the sequel goes back to basics by bringing back a returning villain khan noonien Singh who has been banished on Celti alpha 5 for nearly twenty years and his years of isolation have turned him into a bitter man who wants revenge on James Kirk feeling that the admiral abandoned him. The story has captain Spock commanding the enterprise as a training vessel used for cadets. Kirk starts to feel like he has lost purpose and worries about aging and the passage of time. The film feels closer in pacing to the original series and doing a great job portraying the friendship between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy. While the ending is rather sad, but the events of the film continue on in search for Spock. "},{"Title":"Flawed but a fun, charming and an emotional adventure","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After the box office receipts of Star Trek The Motion Picture, while very large, were below studio expectations, Star Trek II was all about the studio deciding to go in a direction that was about making a fan-based, TV series inspired sequel that was a lot cheaper to make - $13 million against the first film's $35-$40 million &#x96; and would have low enough overheads to at least get some profit. While at a commercial level it more than succeeded, and certainly is a classic among the fan base &#x96; it is a rather over-rated movie. It is a fun adventure &#x96; but is in my view not up with the best science fiction and in many ways is inferior to the first film, which was a great deal more thoughtful and daring. This film, while having some great moments, is without doubt something of a cop-out to conventional Hollywood summer entertainment. While the plot is actually fairly clever, it does gloss over a great deal of holes &#x96; while I won't go into them all by far and away the worst is the huge incompetence shown by the McCoy character's inability, with supposed 23rd century technology to do a basic medical on two previously kidnapped Starfleet officers &#x96; which would potentially have saved several people's lives, not to mention would have wrapped the story up much more quickly. It is the frequency of ignoring these quite key plot points that is the main failing of the film.Also, director Nicholas Meyer approach to shoot the film very quickly leads to a somewhat weird visual look. When not shooting scenes in semi-darkness as a fast way to create a 'look' the film looks rather sterile and TV like. The director massively overuses close ups and gives it a decidedly television rather than cinematic look (something the previous film excelled in). Some of the sets (clearly reused from the previous film) now look cheap, and the blocking of actors and the camera with some of Khan's scenes in the climax of the film look and feel like filming of a stage play rather than a film. Costume design does feel overtly theatrical in places, certainly compared with the functional attire from the first film. However despite the rather obvious flaws, the film succeeds on a number of other levels. The films editing is first rate. Relative unknown editor Bill Dornish (who would go onto work with Meyer on the excellent The Day After) edits the film will a real pace and style, which allows the film to zip along so quickly is that you tend to initially overlook most of the flaws. It is a bit of a surprise that Dornish did not edit more pictures as his work on this movie is great. The performances by the key players also succeed in involving the audience in the journey. In fact director Meyer seems a great deal more comfortable with directing performances than the technical aspects of film-making. Shatner, Nimoy and DeForest Kelley all give subtle, warm and genuinely human performances, and really convince you invest emotionally in this story &#x96; it is how these three characters relate to each other, and the journey each of them goes on in this film which is the movie's biggest success and is something that the first film, for understandable reasons, didn't go into at anything more than at a superficial, rather than a deep emotional level that is present in this outing. Ricardo Montalban has a great deal of fun and exudes huge charisma as the scenery chewing villain Khan, although I felt his psychotic need for revenge was slightly overdone. Other performances are solid, including good turns by both Bibi Besch and Paul Winfield in small supporting roles.George Lucas's and Peter Kuran's visual effects companies ILM and VCE offered very impressive new visual effect shots, which complement nicely the effective and clearly cost conscious re-cutting of visual effects footage from the first film. However, the biggest and most successful factor contributing to the film's success after the performances is the truly fabulous score by what was then a relative newcomer called James Horner. He really focused on telling the character's story with his music. The score is epic, fun and romantic and is a contrast for of the Avant-Garde style of Jerry Goldsmith of the first film. As a comparison, it is like comparing Stravinsky to Tchaikovsky. Both different but equally great.Overall and flawed adventure that is redeemed by winning performances from the key characters, and a truly terrific score. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Films Of The 1980s","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Old enemy Kahn wants revenge on Admiral Kirk.One of the best films of the 1980s and perhaps the most re-watched film of the 1980s. I have made an estimated 200 viewings of this over the years! William Shatner as Kirk is outstanding, and he looks a lot more happy and comfortable than he did in Star Trek The Motion Picture (1979). Leonard Nimoy as Spock is just as pleasing.Ricardo Montalban seems to of improved with age as he makes a much better performer in this than he did in the original TV episode - Space Seed - all those years ago.And just as important as these three stars is the musical score by James Horner. Music was a vital element to the original series and the 1979 film...so it is nice to see the tradition is maintained.However, this tradition would take a bit of a nose dive in Star Trek 111 The Search For Spock (1984) as that film has a less pleasing score.Star Trek 11 is close to perfect but the simple fact that it is another revenge movie more than a sci-fi movie puts is down the ladder just a tiny bit. But I will always love it and re-watch it. "},{"Title":"Khannnn!!!!!","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the first high point of the Star Trek franchise. After the Luke warm critical reception of the first movie, this brought together all that is best about Star Trek. In the end, it is all about the friendships of these beloved characters.This opens with Saavik (Kirstie Alley) in the Captain's chair facing the no-win situation of Kobayashi Maru. Kirk (William Shatner) is now an admiral leaving the space exploration to the younger people. Khan (Ricardo Montalban) returns from the TV series as one of Kirk's greatest nemesis.Khan has commandeered the USS Reliant, and is now seeking revenge on Kirk. The Reliant was on a mission for a ground breaking device called Genesis. Khan wants the device. Meanwhile, Kirk receives a message from the designer of the device, an old flame Dr Carol Marcus (Bibi Besch). Kirk races to save Carol, and face the unknown danger once again.The friendship of these characters is the meat of the story. The sizzle however is the fascinating Ricardo Montalban. He has the most delicious lines in villainy. It's the poetry of cool lines that he lustfully delivers. The action is solid put over the top by the soaring musical cues. All told, this is a superior product than the first Star Trek movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable flick, a must watch for everyone","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I really think that this is a good film, and though i had heard a lot about this installment of the Trek series a very long time ago, i've never thought in watching it before i started to like the reboots of the Treks films, which i found to be excellent of course. So yeah, the 'reboots' brought me to watch this so called and acclaimed one of the best Star Trek films ever. Well, i can't say that I am disappointed i expected exactly what it showed to be an entertaining and good film.I can see there is really a lot of things that Into the Darkness used as an main source material to base it's new story. Kahn in this film is a very hot-head guy, who just wants to prove that he is 'better' than Kirk, and he really does everything he can trying to destroy Kirk. I really liked that impulsive characteristic in Kahn, something that isn't explored in the reboot. It turns him in a completely new character, and his existence seems divided by the great irony of having at the same time an irrational and a completely brilliant mind. A good depth added about this character, for sure. But Kahn is far from being a 100% convincing villain what i really disliked about this Kahn was his visual he is just too weird and is too androgenic to be taken serious. Sometimes i couldn't help but laugh at him and his Thundercat visual.But yeah, the plot is indeed interesting, it treats about Kahn craziness and his insane acts only done to reach an apparently absurd objective, and also treats about delicate subjects such as death and the age of the characters, something that have never been taught before in a Trek film. Though, these subjects are not told in such a superb way as in Into the Darkness, with exception of the talk about 'growing old', which is not taught in the reboot due to obvious reasons.I also liked the score/music theme of this version. The cinematography is pretty simple, despite some interesting outside space visuals. The FX is too outdated, and this fact inevitably prejudices any film. Still, there is some semi-convincing moments that may be worth...or not. It just depends on how you analyzes the CGI in films.Recommended, after all. 7.6/10 "},{"Title":"Khan!!!!!","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II Wrath of Khan is often considered to be the best of all the Star Trek films, sometimes the best of all Star Trek media. Made as a sequel to the episode Space Seed Wrath of Khan was a film that could easily appeal to non-fans like me whilst still pleasing the many fans of the series. Wrath of Khan works is the story of Kirk being called into action and Khan's desire for revenge against Kirk despite it defying logic. It is a film about the interplay and duel of minds between the adversaries as well their relationship with their crews, particular between Kirk, Spock, Bones and newcomer Saavik. Adding to the experience is some decent model works, including a scene with a mind control insect and an excellent score by James Horner, the film that made his name as a composer. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the only great Trek film","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is, as everybody else already said, the best trek film. But I have proved it by watching all ten trek films, from the first to the last reboot film over a single week and this one topped it all it was the only truly great trek film and the only one who deserves a place at my top 100 favorite films. It is indeed far above any other trek film and the rest of the films are only recommended for hard core science fiction fans, regular people shouldn't watch those films. But this is different the film is truly a great tale of revenge that is constructed near flawlessly.Also it has, interestingly, the lowest budget a trek film ever had and it still is the best and even innovative since it was one of the first films to feature a CGI sequence. "}{"Title":"Moving, touching, and entertaining.","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is a bit dated, but it still holds up dramatically. The effects are decent, the small CGI vignette still has a certain charm to it, but some of the other predictions of future technology don't quite hold up. Even so, it's a good film unto itself.One of the amazing things about this movie is that it's formulaic, skimps on production values, is essentially a made for TV movie, but holds its own in a theatrical exhibition. It is, classic Trek at its best in a then contemporary setting.Our favorites are back, as well as some long lost familiar names. We have a Herman Melville like theme undulating here, and some challenges of life itself as our characters face transitions.Even though there's a kind of relativism operating here, Trek maintains a traditional white-hate/black-hat zeitgeist to keep our allegiances to the characters we know and love.There's action, there's resurrection of old wounds, there's vendettas, there's anger, there's passion, and, of course, the U.S.S. Enterprise and her outstanding crew.Kirk's character was rewritten for this particular production. His values and sense of worth are not translated from the TV series, but Shatner is in the role, so we buy into the bravado of a Captain Kirk that never was. Fortunately the triumvirate of his logical and emotional sides with him as the head of the pyramid, still resound with audiences. We again witness reason from Spock clash with feelings from Bones in this installment, and are reassured that the three are friends regardless of their differences. In fact, they have to be.On that note there's a deeper lesson operating here. Just as Kirk must let go of his gamesmanship to embrace his inner adult as he lets go of his inner child, so it is that that one character who helped him and crew through so much turmoil and challenges in the past, and fought with logic and a good heart behind that reason, so it is that a human being is not a computer, and that the binary decision making process that characterizes Vulcans (or Vulcanians) is not normal for human beings. Kirk, in this installment of Trek, is still a little boy, albeit aged and feeling old, he is a gamer at heart, and used his superior intellect to meet and conquer all challenges with the help of his best friend. But even best friends, no matter how tough, strong, resilient and seemingly indestructible and powerful, are, after all, only mortal. And so it is with Spock.All men eventually grab a mate and shed the trappings that entertained them as boys. All men realize that they must live life. It is so with Kirk and the rest of the crew of the Enterprise, as it is with all beings everywhere, from the depths of oceans, to frigid, arid, and plush elevations, to high altitudes and beyond. We only live once, and so we must live that life as best as possible. It may be that Kirk read Marcus Aurelius, but needed his friends to help give him a kick forward to see his path as man, and not just as a starship captain.Again, so it is with Kirk and crew.For me, this was the final episode of original Trek. All the stuff that came afterwards was essentially filler for a void that needed creating. You can only rely on old staples from your youth for so long. That's kind of the message here as Kirk grapples with an old nemesis whose hatred blinds him so much that he misses a golden opportunity. Kirk, in a sense, puts down another man's anger by letting go that which has been with him for so long.We lose something here, but then again, it is space; the final frontier.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The greatest science fiction film ever made","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film deserves better than the 7.7 it's currently getting on this site. How can it possibly get a lower rating than much of the dreck which is produced nowadays? This film is a miracle. Master director Nick Meyer wrote the story from scratch over a period of around two weeks.TECHNICAL The film looks great. The bland colors from the preceding film have been replaced with intense red uniforms, ion trails, and nebulae. The film looks like the cover of a 1980's sci-fi paperback. (which I love!) The effects still look good today. This film boasts the first 3D CGI sequence of any major film, which is still impressive.ACTING Shatner and Montalbahn give the best performances of their careers. There's really not a bad performance in the film. Shatner is intense and heroic, a bit unusual for a 50 year old protagonist.My favorite scene is when Khan removes his mask on Seti. It's simple, yet so very dramatic.STORY The story is very good. The film moves at a brisk pace in real time over the course of two hours. This movie is really about the war of nerves between Kirk and Khan. We experience the death of a beloved character, and new life in the Genesis planet. It is a true story arc which leaves nothing left to be said, and is very moving. Meyer demonstrates his mastery of storytelling and directing.This a serious film, with the usual sprinkling of Star Trek humor, which adds to the experience. There isn't a single alien in the movie, except for Saavik, who is played very well by Kirstie Allie.This is really the only film during which we get to see Kirk and Spock calling the shots together, a true dream team whom anyone would be happy to have commanding a space battle! Khan is terrifying, yet we can't help but feel some sympathy for him after what he has gone though. His grievances are surprisingly easy to relate to, throwing some extra emotions into the soup.The Seti Eels which infect peoples' ears has to be one of the most unsettling scenes in history. Very graphic and disturbing for a PG movie.The soundtrack by James Horner set a new standard, and launched his career in Hollywood. It's a powerful composition which brings the film to life and is very enjoyable on its own.Nick Meyer never intended for Spock to be brought back to life, nor to show the torpedo on Genesis at the end. Paramount insisted on that for obvious reasons. It's a pity that the sequel was so poor, but it was redeemed by The Voyage Home, which is also a good film, thanks in part to Meyer's involvement.There would not have been any more Star Trek movies or TV series were it not for the popularity of this film. Abrams' recent reboot was largely a milking of The Wrath of Khan. But that's another review...Final noteBe sure to watch the original release version, and not the extended version which has extra scenes for television, and which ultimately interfere with the pace, detrimentally. "},{"Title":"Excellent portrayal of characters by all actors and extremely good plot.","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Excellent acting by Shatner, Montalban, Nimoy, and Kelly, Doohan and Koenig were fairly inspiring as well, as for The Search For Spock was needed for the adventure to continue. Lame is the only way to describe the plot for Voyage home. You would think that a race of space faring Cetaceans would be able to tell if an incognizant creature was ever going to become sentient. As for the creators of the probe that looked like a magnified hair follicle if that is not what is was, unless you read the Star Trek novel Probe you would not know anything about them either. The probe builders were whale-like creatures with great technical skills who did battle with and lost in a war against the Borg. Nimoy his co-director, or was it directors?, and the entire screen writing staff should have waited for the novel to come out and made plans for another sequel to clear up the mystery. "},{"Title":"Talk about improvement","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sometimes change is necessary to keep something alive. If there is no change, how can their be growth? This is something important when it comes to a franchise. Sometimes there are kinks that need working out. The first 'Star Trek' film was a financial success, but reviews were mixed. A sequel was in the cards, but fans would have to wait three years. A new director and writer, the return of the whole original cast, plus a favorite villain from the show made this sequel look promising. The good news is that it delivered, and then some.Pros Good acting all around. Excellent direction. Quite well written. Nicely scored. Solid effects. Flows at a good pace. Great production design. A few really memorable sequences. Beautifully photographed.Cons Some dated visuals. Too many endings.Final thoughts 'The Wrath of Khan' is how good the first film should have been. It's everything a sequel should be. Now 30 years old, it holds up incredibly well. Whereas the first was more about spectacle, this one has a lot more heart.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Where no man has gone before","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star trek II The Wrath of Khan. What can I say about this movie? This movie's story is grand, epic, and really to me it's far superior to other science fiction movies like Star Wars. The pacing is perfect, slowing or speeding up when needed, every scene feels completely necessary to the story, while at the same time they manage to squeeze every drop of character out of the people they have. The rivalry between Khan and Kirk is so perfect you'd think it came directly out of a Shakespearian play. But what's the story? Well there's a little bit of backstory; in the original series episode 'Space Seed Kirk and the crew of the Enterprise find the SS Botany Bay floating in space, with Khan and eighty-four others frozen inside, superhuman relics from the Eugenics war of the 1990s (how did I miss that again?). After thawing him out, Khan quickly takes control of the star ship, only to have it regained by Kirk later on in the episode. Kirk maroons Khan and his people on a lush jungle planet called Ceti Alpha V. When the movie starts Khan has been on the Ceti Alpha V for fifthteen years, not really doing much besides reading books like Moby Dick (Which he quotes throughout the movie) and struggling to survive, the planet having been knocked out of orbit days after they were sent there, radically changing the climate from lush paradise to desert wasteland. Long story short Khan escapes and starts hunting down Kirk and this new weapon called Genesis that can wipe out all life on any planet, while simultaneously creating a planet capable of supporting life. He gets the device, but Kirk is hot on his tail. Kirk defeats Khan, but Khan sets off the device in the middle of a nebula, setting it on a countdown to activation, hoping to take Kirk with him. I won't ruin it but . . . let's just say he's unsuccessful . . . but&#x85;.well he's not entirely unsuccessful in his attempt to kill the crew. In destroying himself though Khan creates a new star system with a single planet in it, which the crew name Genesis (original), holding a funeral there on the brig and shooting their fallen comrade out the torpedo hatch for a burial at sea of sorts. The director and the writer try to integrate as many themes as possible in the narrative of the film, but oddly enough, none of them feel shoe horned in. Every theme feels organic to the story. Whether you're looking at Spock's story arc about duty and the good of the many, Kirk's fear of the future and coming to grips with his own mortality, or how Khan's obsession ultimately drives him to self-destruction, all of them flow freely from the situation. Each character's story all mixed together, while at the same time sprinkling in some biblical themes and the moral and ethical dilemmas with a device such as Genesis, one of the greatest scenes in the movie is Spock and McCoy's argument over whether or the pros of Genesis device outweigh the Cons, which in and of itself is a key theme of the movie. Is Genesis a weapon or a gardening tool? Personally I think it's like a lawnmower; if you're just trimming the grass with it, it's a gardening tool, but if you turn around and try to run over your neighbor with it becomes a weapon, it's all in the practice, not the device itself. But honestly I can't really tell you to watch this movie . . . well I could but I can't force you to watch it. It's all about personal preference. Personally the reason I love this movie so much is because of the story. It's a great mystery, you can predict only about a scene or two into the future (and then only if you heard of the movie beforehand), and even the villain Khan I find myself feeling oddly sympathetic towards. I mean the guy's been on a planet for a decade and a half, humiliated, his wife killed, and nothing to do besides complain about the heat, dig sand out from under his fingernails, and read Herman Melville. If I were him I'd probably have wanted to kill the man who put me there too, after a shower first, but still I'd have wanted Kirk dead as well. Overall the story is great, great characters, wonderful narrative, some goofy moments at times (one such moment being the thing people remember most about the film) but impressively put together with decent effects(for the time) and more than decent actors to portray a little bit more epic feeling story than the first film in the Star Trek series. I give this movie 5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Signs of life...","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This Star Trek sequel has a lot more life about it than the turgid Motion Picture with a decent protagonist for Kirk and his crew, a touch of danger in the air and even something of a twist in the tale at the end. What the producers remembered here was that it was the great stories that got us watching the original series in the first place and not the characters, although we later got to know and love them. The first was more or less a love-fest as we were expected to just be happy they were all still alive on board the Enterprise after all these years.The threat here is Riccardo Montalban's Khan on the revenge trail after Kirk marooned him on a planet in the original series. Montalban gives a suitably over-the-top pantomime villain of a performance and as you could have predicted comes this-close to achieving his aim before an unexpected act of heroism and sacrifice saves the day, but at a heavy cost.One of the problems for me with the Star Trek movies is an unwillingness to fully embrace the familiar objects from the original, so that gone are the iconic costumery, bridge lay-out and even shape of the Enterprise herself. Everyone goes on about how great it is to be back on board the old ship when it looks nothing like it. they even take the famous Space-the final frontier prologue and make it an epilogue.Still the old familiar characters certainly are there, particularly the triple axis of blustery Captain Kirk, crusty Doctor McCoy and ice-cool Mr Spock. The rest of the old gang are fairly peripheral while a very young and slim Kirstie Allie gets a prominent part for no apparent reason. On the whole, a watchable, half-decent yarn to further re-introduce the characters to a new audience, it was a big commercial hit and engendered a slew of sequels of varying quality. "},{"Title":"The Crew of the Enterprise Return for a Real Adventure","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first film in the STAR TREK franchise was successful enough to warrant a sequel, but the studio was smart enough to realize it was far too different from the original series to keep fans satisfied. Their second film, THE WRATH OF KHAN, is one of the most successful and is widely considered by the fan community to be the best in the series. As the film opens, Admiral Kirk (Shatner) has begrudgingly accepted his new administrative role in Starfleet while Spock (Nimoy) has been given command of the Enterprise. Meanwhile, the USS Reliant searches for a suitable uninhabited planet for testing of the Genesis Project and inadvertently crosses paths with an old adversary of Kirk's, Khan Noonien Singh (Montalban). Khan soon gains control of the Reliant and uses it to pursue the Genesis device while at the same time seeking vengeance on the man he blames for the death of his wife...James Kirk. Now, with Khan on the hunt, Kirk must confront his old enemy as well as the potential life he left behind. I'll won't go into detail about that on the off chance anyone reading this hasn't yet seen the movie.The first film was incredibly somber and moody, shooting for an epic feel with it's slow pacing and it's focus on the expensive visual effects. Sure it was an interesting film, but II brings the series a little closer back to it's roots. There's much more action and the adventurous tone has returned. I'm glad it did, because this film is light years more entertaining. I never got into the original series much (I was raised on NEXT GENERATION onward) but this film is definitely one of my favorites. One reason is the film's villain Ricardo Montalban as Khan. I've never seen the first season episode Space Seed where he made his original appearance, but I'm tempted to search it out if he's anywhere as good as he is here. Montalban does insanity well, balancing tense moments of apparent control with violent outbursts. Sure, he has his campy moments but so does the rest of the film. I realize it was meant to be a serious moment for Kirk but his Khaaaaaan! as he and his away team are left trapped in the underground caverns of Regula was just too funny. I almost felt bad for laughing because I know it's supposed to be a big moment. Shatner does ham it up a bit in this film, but he's also got some real great bits. DeForest Kelley has always been my favorite original crew member as Dr. Bones McCoy and has probably got the best laughs in the film and I'm glad he was a pretty large supporting role here. On the subject of supporting characters, I'd forgotten Kirstie Alley has a rather large role as Lieutenant Saavik. She did a surprisingly good job as the Enterprise's new Vulcan first officer and I have to admit she looked great back then.The film was released in 1982, three years before I was born, but I wish I could've seen it in theaters when it was still new. I can't imagine how it must've felt watching the climactic final battle and the sacrifice made to survive (again, no details for those fresh to the series and haven't yet watched it). By now, we all knew it was merely temporary but back then fans must've been blown away at how the film ended. I imagine it had to have been on par with the I am your father moment in THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK for Star Wars fans, with jaws hitting the floor. All in all, there is a lot to love about this film and very little to hate (though I got tired of seeing recycled footage from THE MOTION PICTURE, but whatever...money saved for the production, I suppose). The second film was wildly successful, much more than the first, and solidified STAR TREK's ongoing presence on the big screen. And for that, I am thankful. "},{"Title":"Powerful. Compelling. Awesome.","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This, ladies and gentlemen, is what Star Trek is all about! Great sci-fi action, fun characters, and an exciting story with a deep undertone. Wrath of Khan is the sequel to the lackluster Star Trek The Motion Picture. It takes place an unknown amount of time after the first film when Admiral James T. Kirk is pulled from his desk job to once again go into space with the USS Enterprise. What begins as a seemingly simple mission to investigate a program called Genesis becomes complicated when a ruthless villain named Khan shows up to enact his revenge on Admiral Kirk, the man who marooned him on a remote desert world years ago. This movie is everything you could want out of a feature length Star Trek picture. It is one of the highest points Star Trek would ever see in its long history.Wrath of Khan possesses everything that makes Star Trek so enjoyable. It is undeniably melodramatic at moments, and it can definitely be cheesy but, unlike its predecessor, the film contains some great sci-fi elements, but also hones in on all the unique aspects that make Star Trek what it is. For a sci-fi film the movie is much slower than what we are use to today, but it uses this to its dramatic and emotional advantage. The film moves at the pace of a grand space epic and has all the glorious set pieces and soap opera drama that are needed to pull off the unconventional. It is a beautiful film to look at, especially now that all the visual aspects such as costumes and scenery have a much bigger budget behind them to eliminate any of the laughable cheesiness we became so familiar with in the original series. The whole film is very well designed, especially in some of the contrasts between characters and costumes. Kirk and his Enterprise crew are all very prominently dressed in their very sophisticated and official looking Starfleet uniforms, while Khan and his followers wear fur skin clothing, giving them all a much more sinister and tribal look. The film contains much more visual prowess than ever really seen before in Star Trek.But just because the visuals were improved doesn't mean the filmmakers felt it necessary to slack off on the storyline. The plot of Wrath of Khan is everything we love about Star Trek. It is very deep and it deals with a lot of things relevant to modern society, just in the context of a futuristic one. The project Genesis is a device that has the ability to create worlds out of nothing and create its own life. There is obviously a lot of controversy behind a God playing machine like this, and this plays into some of the undertones in this film. But one of the most interesting ethical aspects of the film is its portrayal of Kirk. We have come to know Kirk as the knight in shining armor character, he is the valiant hero who will never leave a man behind and will go down with his ship if he has to. Yet in Wrath of Khan we see a darker side of Kirk. He is still loyal to his crew and his ship, but his moral ground is shaken with Khan's appearance. Khan brings to light Kirk's darker side by telling the story of how Kirk was, in Khan's eyes, responsible for the death of Khan's wife and the reason that Khan is now in the position he is in. Of course in the end Kirk could never be anything less than the ultimate hero, but some of the things that come to light in this film give it a much more human feel.The acting ability in Wrath of Khan is what Star Trek is. It is a science fiction melodrama and the acting plays it up just right. I will say that I thought Shatner's acting ability peaked in this film, and the rest of the cast felt more real to me than normal. Then of course we have the intimidating presence of Ricardo Montalban as Khan himself, who brings the greatest acting of the film to fruition. Montalban's performance is powerful and riveting, and the utter presence of the ruthless Khan can shake you to your core. If Khan was on screen, so were my eyes. Not to say my eyes weren't on the screen when Khan wasn't tearing up his role, but even more so when he was. He makes the film a lot of fun, but also a much deeper and more compelling ride.Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a fantastic Star Trek adventure that has everything that makes Star Trek what it is. It is some of the finest and most fascinating sci-fi you will ever see. This film can be enjoyed by fans and non fans alike, but it definitely helps if you're a fan knowing what to expect. It isn't your typical sci-fi shoot em up exploding roller coaster ride, but it is something much more gripping and enjoyable to watch if you can appreciate the beauty of sci-fi as an art form, and less as escapist entertainment. This is a must see for science fiction fans. "},{"Title":"Really Has a Spark","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A much more sophisticated entry than its predecessor, this deals with elements of good science fiction, exploration and extrapolation. This has two strains going. The Genesis project which is an attempt to do the work of God by creating life on a formerly dead planet and simple revenge by Khan, a man who was exiled by James Kirk in one of the TV episodes. Ricardo Montelban is wonderful as the obsessed intergalactic Ahab (he read the book). The pacing and plot are nicely are much superior to the plodding of the first effort. Obviously, a great deal more funding was put forth here. The planetary scenes and the gamesmanship of the two leads make this work. Also, there is the issue of Spock and his involvement in all of this. Of course, thematically, it does have a bit of pomposity but that always occurs when William Shatner is around. Still, I felt a real sense of adventure in this episode and as a minor Trekkie, looked forward to the next effort. "},{"Title":"Kahhhhhhhhn!!!","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the best of the bunch of the Star Trek movies.You don't have to be a fan of the original series to get a kick out of this one. Of course, having a basic understanding, of who the characters already are, helps.Shatner is way cool in this one.Nimoy is wonderful Ricardo M. is ruthless and scary. You don't see any Mr. Rourke from Fantasy Island in his performance.There is also a very poignant and revealing moment between 2 beloved characters. "}{"Title":"The Second-Best Original Series Movie","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Out of the seven Original Series movies (as of this writing, including the reboot one), I have to say that this is second only to Star Trek VI.All the performances are above and beyond what I expect. The plot is good, and the special effects service the story well.While this is one of the more violent Star Trek movies, what do you expect from a movie about a man out for revenge? For everyone to sit around a table having a tea party? Well, I sure don't. I expect there to be at least a little bit of violence somewhere in the movie, whether it's a hit across the face, or in this case, a couple of starship battles.But, it is still a very human story. It shows the characters caught up in a situation where the odds are against them heavily. And it shows a display of self-sacrifice that only a close friend would be willing to do. At the end of the movie, I was crying when I saw that scene. "},{"Title":"This film is the reason Star Trek went on to become what it has","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The original series was considered a mixed failure, with a small, loyal following.The first film was considered more or less an odd-ball flop.Even most of the actors were hesitant to pursue this idea any further.BOTTOM LINE THIS IS THE FILM THAT GAVE BIRTH THE NEXT 5 SEQUELS, 4 SPIN-OFF TV SHOWS, AND MULTIPLE OTHER FILMS.Star Trek would have died off alongside Lost In Space if not for this film.Virtually all Trek films that followed were trying to recapture the spirit spawned by this one.Highly entertaining and fun. By far the most rewatchable off all the series films.Ricardo Montalban and Shattner are two of the greatest over-actors of all time and they were given the perfect script to dIsplay themselves. "},{"Title":"New hope for TOS!","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture was too long with the plot just dragging on. The Wrath of Khan is blessedly shorter by twenty five minutes, the acting and special effects are much improved and the story is actually more interesting with plenty of exciting action sequences.The basic story is that Kirk's ultimate nemesis Khan returns played well by Richard Montalban and gets hold of a device called Genesis. This movie is competently directed by Nicholas Meyer who keeps the film pacing nicely.Humor on the side gives the film an extra edge.Though this wasn't brilliant. It was thoroughly enjoyable and much improved on the first. "},{"Title":"A no-win situation is a possibility every commander may face.","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Admiral James T. Kirk is starting to feel his age. With his old ship The Enterprise now being used as a Starfleet Academy training ship, his birthday is greeted by the news he's to travel aboard it on a two week cadet improvement course. Something that isn't making the Admiral any happier about his middle age blues. But what starts out as routine becomes far more deadlier when an old foe turns up with the power of creation in his grasp.Released three years after the lukewarm and soulless Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan reignited the fans fire and proved that Star Trek had a place on the big screen. Directed knowingly by Nicholas Meyer, Wrath Of Khan is a sequel to the TV Episode Space Speed that first aired back in Febuary 1967. Where tyrannical villain Khan Noonien Singh first made an appearance. Meyer, perhaps knowing that his take on things could either make or break the fledgling movie franchise, got the two main components right. Firstly the character dynamic was back, interplay on the Enterprise, be it camp, comic or serious, is crucial to making Star Trek work, and Meyer, along with Jack B. Sowards fill the screenplay with magical Trek exchanges. Secondly was perhaps the most important thing, to bring piratical villainy back into the fold. Khan a superb Ricardo Montalban reprising the role is back from his exile, with a newly commandeered ship, a band of followers and fuelled by an uncontrollable need for vengeance against all on the Enterprise. Especially Kirk. Thus this shakes not only the franchise from its stupor, but also Kirk from his, forcing him one might say, to boldly go once more.Having got Trek substance right, Meyer then added the other ingredients to make it an appealing blockbuster to those outside of fandom. Funny and tender moments are many and add heart to proceedings, and of course there's explosions and light shows to bring entertainment value to those in need of such with their sci-fi intake. Then there is the finale, a truly bold move in itself. Something that actually now gains more emotional impact if one has viewed J.J. Abrams excellent 2009 prequel reboot, Star Trek. Those after clever sci-fi shenanigans are catered for with the plot instrument that is The Genesis Device. Something our charismatic tyrant is all very keen to utilise of course. While logical Trekkie musings are inserted with care and consideration, none more so than with the brave ending that is as astutely poignant as it is shocking.There's lots of hair and even allowing for it being outer space, the fashion items remain colourfully dubious. But this is a fans favourite for many reasons, and all of them are viable arguments for this being one of the best films of the 11 big screen Star Trek entries thus far. It's nearly two hours long and not a minute is wasted for the discerning observer. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Of The  Star Trek Films","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" (Note Based on the Director's Edition version.)If Star Trek The Motion Picture was the Star Trek film based more on the original TV series philosophical side, then the second would, perhaps, be considered the Star Trek film more in line with the action oriented side of the series. Yet while seeming to be action based, Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan would also have some of the series most dramatic moments as well. The result of this, in the hands of director Nicholas Meyer would be the best of the Star Trek films.To begin with the acting is pretty solid. The performances from the original series cast members are all well done especially int he cases of William Shatner, Loenard Nimoy and DeForest Kelly. In particular Shatner and Nimor get some fantastic scenes together including one of the best staged and moving farewell death scenes in film history (even if it is only temporary). Also of special mention is the performance of James Doohan whose performance gets some additional (and excellent) material in the director's edition DVD version. Plus there are also good performances from other cast members including Kirstie Alley in her film debut and Bibi Besch amongst others. Then there is the villain...Ricardo Montalban's performance as Khan, in my opinion anyway, is one of the all time great film villain performances. While Montalban had made quite an impact with the character int he original 1967 TV episode that performance was just the tip of what this film would reveal to the character. It's a layered performance with echoes, both in writing and in performance, to characters like King Lear and Capatin Ahab as Khan is revealed to be more then a genetically engineered superman in exile but a man driven to vengeance at any cost (hence the title). Khan's face-off's with Kirk are pieces of acting that focus your attention onto him which is even more incredible considering that the two characters (and presumably the actors as well) never come face to face int he film but spend the entire film facing off against each other via screens and communicators. It speaks to the power of a performance when despite that fact, the villain comes across as a real and imposing threat to the film's other characters.The film's special effects also remain top notch. This film remains a prime example of the power of pre-CGI visual effects not only with ships in flight but with the still visually striking battle sequences and things like the Mutara Nebula sequence and the formation of the Genesis Planet. The film also makes nice reuses of some of the effects footage from the first Star Trek film as well which, for once in a case of footage reuse, doesn't make the film look cheap at all. All in all it's rather impressive material coming out of a film that is fast approaching its third decade of existence.If the success of this film can really be credited to any single person it would be Nicholas Meyer. Despite Jack B. Sowards and executive producer Harve Bennett being credited as the writers of Star Trek II it was Meyer who did the (uncredited) massive re-write that brought together the film as it is. Whiel the script is firm in placing the film into being a science fiction action film, the film also a philosophical side as well. yet unlike its predecessor, the second Star Trek film is philosophical not about what's out there but about the human condition as it covers (without hopefully sounding clich) the full range of the human condition including the emotional need for revenge, youth, knowledge vs experience, aging, morality, regrets and, most famously, death. Perhpaos the greatest example of this is the films use of the opening and closing liens from Dickens A Tale Of Two Cities as effective bookends to the film. Meyer also makes use of the film's rather limited budget to effectively create a vision of life in the 23rd century and the result is that this film, perhaps more then any other of the Star Trek film, seems to occupy a real world thanks to Meyer's direction of people ranging from cinematographer Gayne Rescher to costume designer Robert Fletcher and the set designs of Joseph R. Jennings. Meyer proves that it is story, not just good effects, that makes good science fiction work.There is also the film's score. Then newcomer James Horner faced quite a challenge in trying to create a score that followed on from Jerry Goldsmith's masterpiece for Star Trek The Motion Picture. Yet Horner proved up to the task with pieces such as his main title music, the theme of the Enterprising leaving space dock (which reused the same footage that Goldsmith had scored to in Star Trek The Motion Picture), the battle in the Mutara Nebula and the film's emotional finale. Whiel ti may lack the sound of the size of orchestra that Goldsmtih had Horner's score still has the power to add great emotional nd tension to any scene it accompany. Indoing so, Horner kicked off a career that continues to this very day.Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan is the best of the Star Trek films. Why you may ask? Well with fine performances, a great villain, impressive special effects, a nice script, the direction of Nicholas Meyer and a score by James Horner it what every Trek film has had to live up to. It is a film that is as much about the human condition as it is about action and is all the better for it. That's why it is. "},{"Title":"Now where talking","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'll admit it, I'm a Trekkie. And I will say that this movie is in my top 3 when it comes to Trek movies. This is a movie where everything came to together, the acting, directing, writing, the music, everything is just amazing. And, unlike The Motion Picture, it feels like classic Star Trek. The story is essentially a sequel to an episode from the original TV show called, Space Seed, which shows the return of Ricardo Montalbon as KHAN and he wants revenge on Captain Kirk, or in this movie, Admiral Kirk for he did to him. Simple plot, easy to understand. But there is a very important sub-plot, involving a former love interest of Kirk and her son, who created a device simply called, Genisis, which will be used to turn a dead planet into a habitable one. One of the best parts of the movie is the space battles between The Enterprise and Khan's stolen Starship the Reliant. There are two really cool battles, which is not only a battle of firepower, but a true cat and mouse, battle of wits. And of course what adds to the battles is the great music, written by James Horner. Now if you never seen this movie and don't know the ending, STOP READING. However, the ending of this movie, much like Darth Vader turning out to be Luke Skywalkers father, might not be as surprising. And I'm sure most you know what happened in the end. But I think I have too many spoilers anywayOverall, this movie is just plain awesome. Of course, this movie is not the end of the story as the ending of this movie will spawn another sequel... "},{"Title":"The best of the ST movies . . .","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" . . . though that isn't much of a compliment. Wrath of Khan hints at what might have been. It's clever and entertaining, and even kind-of touching at the end. It featured a nice plot with some unexpected turns, funny and memorable dialogue, cool sets and uniforms, and good ILM special effects. And James Horner's music is terrific! It's interesting that after all of Ricardo Montalban's years in the movies and on TV, it seems that this is the role he will be remembered best for. And with good reason, because he's magnificent. And Kirstie Alley was beautiful and witty; they should have paid her whatever she asked to be in all the rest of the sequels. The main cast, Shatner and Nimoy and the gang . . . well, they were their usual wooden selves, but we love them for that. Hey, they're no worse than Carrie Fisher or Harrison Ford, and they are considerably better than Natalie Portman and Hayden Christensen.If only Paramount had not been quite so determined to use Star Trek and its fans as a cash cow. They could have made a 40-year-long science fantasy; instead they made a franchise. "},{"Title":"Far superior to its extremely dull predecessor!","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After the demise of the original Star Trek TV series, it took ten years for the first movie to come out. This movie was entitled Star Trek The Motion Picture, and unfortunately, it turned out to be a disappointment for many fans. Due to its extreme slowness, many have called it Star Trek The Motionless Picture. However, three years after that disappointment, the second movie in the series, Star Trek The Wrath of Khan, made it into theatres, and fortunately, it proved to be much better! Cmdr. Chekov and Capt. Clark Terrell beam down to the surface of a planet, which is intended to be used for the Genesis project, and search for signs of life. They soon discover that this is the planet where the evil Khan Noonien Singh and his following have been dwelling for the past fifteen years, since they were marooned by Captain (now Admiral) Kirk! Chekov and Terrell soon find themselves captured, and Khan inserts the young of a Ceti eel into their heads, which will take control of them! Khan now also has plans to have his revenge on Kirk, who is currently on a training mission! The former captain of the Starship Enterprise soon finds his life in jeopardy, and must once again fight his old enemy! Not only is this movie's predecessor from 1979 extremely slow-paced, not much really happens in it (or at least not much that interesting) during it's long running time, which is over two hours! However, although this 1982 follow-up may be a bit slow at times, and not all great from start to finish, there's definitely more to enjoy. This second installment in the Star Trek movie franchise has enough moments of suspense to make it watchable, and some parts of the film are actually set in some interesting places other than the ship, two things which cannot be said about The Motion Picture if you ask me. Not much positive really can be said about that film.It was unfortunate that the long-anticipated Star Trek The Motion Picture, released so long after the demise of the TV series, had to be so disappointing. However, with the release of The Wrath of Khan, it was clear that the Star Trek franchise hadn't lost it. For Trekkies, this film is obviously a must-see. For casual sci-fi viewers, as long as you don't despise Star Trek in general, and don't need non-stop action in order a movie to keep you satisfied, this successful second installment in the Star Trek movie franchise could be a treat for you as well. "},{"Title":"Out of all the entries in the saga,this was the best out of the series","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Based on a 1967 Star Trek television episode titled Space Seed,and was the first of the Star Trek movies to use one of the episodes specifically for that purpose from a television series.After the colossal,big-budgeted almost over-the-top-bore that was Star TrekThe Motion Picture,here comes a sequel that was not only worth its salt,but the best and probably greatest installment of the Star Trek sequels of all time. The second Star Trek movie is swift,droll,and adventurous,not to mention appealingly gadget-happy and outstanding special effects. It was everything the first one should have been,and wasn't. As the title suggests,Star Trek IIThe Wrath of Khan,has a much stronger plot than its predecessor with really helps and its an overall improvement. The film also has the gamesmanship that the first installment lacked,a quality that helped win the Star Trek television series its amazingly devoted following. Maybe its just that there are more special features aboard the Starship Enterprise this time,or that the costumes are so clever,or that the special effects are so eyepopping beyond belief that they don't call undue attention to themselves. Perhaps,its the directorial switch from Robert Wise(of The Andromeda Strain,The Hindenburg,and The Sound of Music)to Nicholas Meyer(Time after Time)that has brought the material more into view and into more pep with the original television series. In any case,this was in fact was the best and the most better installment of the series and perhaps way more better in plot and action than in all of the ten theatrical features that Star Trek has been based on. And Star Trek IIThe Wrath of Khan is the stylish out of them all.In addition to the unexpected twists and turn and not to mention feats of derring-do the film also has the quality of a sentimental journey. This time around by bringing back the original cast of the television series;William Shatner(Admiral Kirk),Leonard Nimoy(Mister Spock),DeForest Kelley(Dr. McCoy),Nichelle Nichols(Lt. Uhara),George Takei(Capt. Sulu),James Doohan(Scotty),Walter Koenig(Chekov),and the rest of the crew for another breathtaking adventure into the unknown. This time around Mr. Shatner's Captain Kirk is an admiral now,given to ribbing the young trainees and wistfully saying awkward things,as usual. Mr. Spock now has a pointy-eared protegee named Saavik(Kristie Alley) with whom he converses in their native tongue. This sequel may not make a new Trek devotee out of anyone,but will surely delight the older ones that have grown up with the original television series. Even the mambo-jumbo of this is not only fun,but absolutely hilarious especially with Shatner doing what he does best--over the top acting.But what makes this movie more intriguing and fun not to mention exciting to watch is Kirk's old nemesis-Khan as played by the classiest of comic strip villains by Ricardo Montalban(who was also played the same character in the television version Space Seed from the Star Trek series)who makes this movie jumped to life. With his fierce profile,long white hair,manful decolletage,and space age jewelry,Mr. Montalban looks like the world's oldest rock star or space Indian chief,but what makes his character some diabolically evil is something that really brings the film to life and its worth seeing why. Even so after 25 years of its release,the film still holds status as one of the greatest Trek sequels not to mention the greatest science-fiction films of the 1980's. Released in the summer of 1982,Star Trek IIThe Wrath of Khan came out right around the time Steven Spielburg's sci-fi fantasy ET,and Tobe Hooper's Poltergeist dominated the summer box office. Getting back to Star Trek II,it may lasts of long time(at a running length of 114 minutes),its worth seeing especially for the great space battle sequences and Kirk finally getting even with his long time evil nemesis. It may have been corny,but what can you expect for those who never have seen the original TV show or for matter veterans fans of the series. Its not like the other Trek movies that had worn out its welcome(like Treks III through X),but its pure escapism and certainly succeeds in that manner. The best of the bunch. "},{"Title":"Trek's best movie by far....","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Although I am one of the few Trekkies who love The Motion Picture, this film moves the pace and the direction of the storytelling up a gear. Ricardo Montalban gives the performance of a lifetime and is by far the number one Trek baddie of all time. This story, a continuation of Star Trek's 'Space Seed' was an amazing concept. Brilliantly orchestrated and acted and with plenty of back story told within the duration of the film. All guest parts were brilliant and a good kick off to Kirstie Alley's film career. Got The Director's Edition of this recently and it did the impossible and improved on what I thought could not be improved upon!! Scenes in this explain an awful lot. This version is not to be missed if you like this film!! Here's hoping to seeing all the movies in this superbly improved format. "}{"Title":"The Wrath of Khan","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Wrath of Khan is without a doubt an absolute knockout of a movie. From the beginning to the end Captain Kirk and company have you on the edge of your seat. Never before have you seen a company like the Federation's Enterprise take on an opponent like Mr. Singh. The special effects to this day are without compare in quality and imagination. Montalban is an excellent villain. It is widely regarded by fans as the best film of the series, and has been described as enjoyable by both fans and non-fans of Star Trek. However, this movie is not without its tear jerk. Spock's scene when he is facing death with Kirk right there is a lesson on adversity. His sacrifice and his commitment to his friends and ship are well remembered and serve as a tribute to this movie. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Star Trek Episode","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am going to grouse for a moment before getting into the meat of this comment. Each of the Star Trek films has had something to commend it, and while like many people I liked some more than others, I do not subscribe to the even numbers great, odd numbers suck school. One of the things which put such stress on all of the Star Trek films was the pressure of George Lucas' space fantasy Star Wars which despite all the big bucks spent on it had its ups and downs also. Having said that, this story was well done, and for those who wanted more action in their Trek, it was certainly here. I admit that William Shatner's performance here was certainly one of his finest, but that just goes to show what a good script will do. It was nice to see most of the original cast back (where did Dr. Chapel go, after being established in STTMP?)I did get the feeling that Paul Winfield's character was cheated a bit. He is a starship captain, after all and very few men achieve that, and yet he is easily taken and used by Khan. I had a little problem with that. And I admit, after the Spock death scene, I like many others were ready to string up the nearest Paramount film executive. My one biggest complaint was with the sound score. I have come to appreciate the music of Jammes Horner, but it would have been better to have kept the Goldsmith main theme as a link to all of the films. Nick Meyers did a credible job of directing this film, and all in all it was a good Star Trek feature. "},{"Title":"ST FILM TWO So Very Cold in Space, Kirk, my old friend","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I can't really call this a sequel to the first Star Trek film of '79, more like a restart, with this forming the 1st part of an informal trilogy culminating with the 4th film. This is actually a sequel to the original series episode Space Seed, featuring the return of Khan, Kirk's best villain. Contrary to the previous film, where the filmmakers did everything they could to distance themselves from the original show, here they did a complete turnabout picking a specific episode to base the new film on. They also followed the excellent pacing and action aspects of the best episodes; this film moves, the equivalent of a great page-turner of a novel. It's about a dozen years after the end of the 1st film and 15 years after Kirk had marooned Khan and his 70 followers on a primitive planet. Kirk has many regrets by the time this film is over. He and all his usual top officers (except Chekov) accompany a bunch of young cadets on a routine training mission aboard the aging Enterprise. Chekov, meanwhile, is now 1st officer aboard the starship Reliant; he and his captain make the mistake of beaming down, unknowingly, to Khan's home planet. Only about 20 of these genetically-enhanced supermen are left, but it's enough for them to take over the Reliant. And that's how a rip-roaring space epic of revenge and rebirth takes off.Credit must go to director Meyer and Producer Bennett for taking the best elements of the original series, grafting on some potent themes to reflect the passage of a decade or two, and fusing these into a thoroughly exciting adventure. It's adventure on the high seas, transplanted to outer space. Kirk begins to feel old age creeping up on him here and his lack of active field duty shows when he gets caught off-guard by Khan, resulting in some dreadful damage to our beloved starship. But, like two old warhorses who don't know when to quit, he and the Enterprise soldier on. Meyer lent a decidedly militaristic flavor to Starfleet here, a reversal on the laid back atmosphere of the 1st film (maybe, after the threat of V'Ger, Starfleet went all military). It's appropriate, as we have some lengthy battles in outer space in this one, more so than most episodes or the other films. Shatner does a terrific job of capturing some of Kirk's finest moments here, a middle-aged but still formidable captain (well, technically, he's an admiral now). Spock appears to have embraced the human half of his template, almost mocking the logical side of his character at times. Kelley as McCoy gets some of the best lines, as usual, and delivers them with old-style panache.And then we have Montalban as Khan. If you plug in a fantastic villain such as this into a movie and then have the actor exceed expectations, the job's pretty much half done already - you've got the makings of a great story. Khan seethes with mania and superhuman determination, and Montalban electrifies the screen, much as he did in the original episode. Meyer was fond of having him quote passages from Melville's Moby Dick and here it works beautifully, right to the bitter end. Some of the scenes, as a result of all this, make a very strong impression - a grandly tragic epic feel; check out the one where Khan orders Kirk's death and the immediate aftermath. It's an instant classic and simply unforgettable. This also benefited from the screen debut of actress Alley, who brings an exotic flavor to her part. This isn't perfect the other regulars, except Koenig, are given short shrift, due to so many new characters. Beside the ones mentioned, there's also Kirk's old flame and his son, as well as another captain. On a larger scale, this kind of plot regrettably established a pattern that removed any possibility of returning to the theme of exploration, the key to the original series. Instead, it's caught up with the more mundane human trademarks of intrigue, chases & battles, and some politics, a trend to continue in most of the films. Although, there is the introduction of an incredible new technology, the Genesis effect, and a rather shocking climax for the Trek fans. They got pretty much everything right here; this one would be hard to beat. Followed directly by The Search For Spock. "},{"Title":"Khan You Rock","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Without a doubt the best of the Original Casts Star Trek Films. It was pure genius to take an episode of the original series, bring back the original bad guy, and develop a tight revenge plot around him. Ricardo Montoban is no doubt a great performer in this movie.Kirstie Alley is brought in to this film & is effective early, but it is very obvious later in the film she is given little script & you can see her black hair sticking out the back of her bald dome wig on some of the shots. Luckily the film does not totally rely on her as she really doesn't get a chance to add much to this.The battle sequences are very well shot. The plot is more complex than the first movie. The pace is much better. This is overall a much better film than the first one. "},{"Title":"Beam me up Scotty !!!","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek at its finest.Will make you laugh, cry and wish for more.Ricardo Montalban brings much more life to his character , Khan , than in the original series episode Space Seed.All of the main characters seem to Lighten Up on trying to look younger than they are,which brings more life to this movie.Special effects receive a thumbs up!To bring the book adaption of the classic Moby Dick to the big screen in THIS classic was a brilliant idea.One definite Goof in this was when Khan recognized Checkov.The character Checkov was not in the episode Space Seed and never came into the series until well after this episode was made.Otherwise this is one for all die hard science/Star Trek fans to gather around the family room and watch together.Good story line.Not a whole lot of violence.Best of ALL the Star Trek movies ever made! "},{"Title":"word","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" yeah...so this movie pretty much stands by itself in the motion picture arena of star trek movies. first of all, Nicholas Meyer had little or no experience in directing and evidently his minimal existence proved that the star trek genre in itself needed a fresh perspective. he made a classic adventure movie with a classic battle scene no one had ever attempted to produce a dogfight in space before. The cinematography is Superb. The models of the ships were huge were created at Industrial Light And Magic... as Return Of The Jedi and E.T. were being produced next door. The over-sized models allowed for some particular gritty shots of exterior shots of the ships. I can only compare it to the feeling i get when i'm watching Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey. Because I'm particularly effected by ADD, i'm much more prone to watching Star Trek II rather than 2001. So I guess I'm admitting that i like this movie more than....wow, that's amazing. Kirstie Alley is this movie as well, and i'm curious about her performance. i've never seen her in a movie and been impressed with her, but in this movie i might go as far as to say that she is the best actor in the movie...which is a lot being i'm giving this movie a 9 out of 10. Kirstie Alley plays a vulcan in this movie. Her comic talent shines as she gives a brilliant deadpan performance that further evolves the stereotype that leonard nimoy invented. she's perfect. i hate star trek 3 because she's not in it. you'll hit yourself in the face as you watch this and think about the fact that this woman later went on to star in a movie with the olsen twins and steve guttenberg. "},{"Title":"The Best Trek film","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" STII quite simply is the best Trek film out there. Going back to the original series episode 'Space Seed' it gives a whole new dimension to the franchise. Gone are the campy uniforms replaced with military style jackets while the characters undergo profound changes.The film was made on a fairly low budget (compared to the rest of the Trek films) and was clearly influenced by a Ridley Scott film made three years earlier (I'll give you three guesses...)which means that you get a darker film that concentrates on the characters, including the familiar and newcomers such as Merritt Butrick and Kirstie Alley as the galaxy's best looking Vulcan.Kirk is in the midst of mid life crisis when he is reunited with old flame Carol Marcus and his estranged son David (Buttrick), a storyline that would carry through the rest of the TOS films. Meanwhile Enterprise is now under the command of Spock as a training ship crewed mainly be cadets which means when the inevitable happens we actually feel for the red shirted guys and for once Kirk feels guilty about their deaths.However this is overshadowed by Ricardo Montalban's brilliantly over the top performance as Khan, prepared to sacrifice anything for his revenge. Definitely one of the most underrated film villains, Khan manages to destroy everything around him in his search for vengeance.STII works as well because it's a story that translates well out of the trek world. The problems that the characters face could still be faced in today's world while the final battle between Kirks USS Enterprise and Khan's USS Reliant is more akin to Master and Commander or Das Boot, the only difference being the use of starships and phasers. And if you can make it to the end credits without your lip quivering then you have the heart of a Borg "},{"Title":"Unsurpassed","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the years since I started to watch Star Trek, I have come to love this movie. There is the rich characterisation involved, Kirk confronting old age, restlessness at being stuck in a desk job...Kirk & McCoy's conversation early on is excellent as is where he talks to Carol Marcus... Moments that still provoke some tension and excitement are the Reliant's opening shot and when Enterprise returns fire. That build-up of when Reliant continues head-on and the dialogue cutting between Reliant and Enterprise. Raise shields They're raising shields... And so on. That moment as the Enterprise heels over, the red alert lights on...no doubt if it had been done in 2002 (when Nemesis was done) we would've had three-way angles of the attack. The dialogue is some of the best in the series of movies. The effects such as Genesis, the Mutara Nebula are excellent considering this is a time when CGI was very early on. Reading Shatner's Movie Memories I got the feeling and do feel this in fact that if it had not been for Wrath of Khan, Trek would've sunk there and then. No TNG, DS9 etc. I feel, perhaps some do as well, that between them Harve Bennett and Nicolas Meyer saved Trek. Maybe I'm being melodramatic but compare this film to Motion Picture (Which I do not watch and have watched so little do actually consider TWOK to be the 'first' Trek film) and you see how Bennett, Meyer and others changed it for the better.James Horner's music as in Trek III is sublime, the top highlights being the Genesis Countdown theme and Battle in the Mutara Nebula. The scene with Spock's death (even if you know what happens next, ST3 etc) still provokes emotion and I would never ever deem a Trek movie other than this as the best. "},{"Title":"A Far, Far Better Thing...","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film marks the comeback of the series from the near-brink; life from lifelessness, if you will. And it's the best one overall because it so breezily avoids the morality play treatment that tends to squash the other Trek films.Whereas the first film dawdled on the central joke of 'the return of the series', while unsuccessfully aspiring to the gravity of '2001', this film carves out its own identity. 25 years ago, this was visually on the cutting edge. Now, its quite dated, but that's not so important.What is important the metaphor is structured in very clever way it's all about the triumph of the cinematic Trek over the 'two-dimensional thinking' of the TV based Trek -- referenced directly in the narrative.And the allusions to 'antiquities' are well done. Moby Dick figures prominently. But also note how A Tale of Two Cities is built into this story...and thus, a nice symmetry between beginning and end. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Revenge High-Sea Adventure Sci-fi Thriller!!!!!!!","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 1-7-07Okay, you may not be a Star Trek Fan. You may be the kind of person that when you see it on television you speed past it at Warp 5. Guess what&#133;IT DOESN'T MATTER!!! U WILL LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!!!As is the case with all even-numbered Trek films this movie is for the general audience and not the die-hard trek fan which more of the odd-numbered films are for. (Besides Trek 5&#133;that was just plain awful. Especially with such a promising beginning) THE WRATH OF KHAN is based on an episode in the original series called Space Seed where the crew of the Enterprise discovers a sleeper ship from our time today. To be short, Khan tries to take over the ship, with the help of a knock-out redhead, and kill Kirk in the process. The ending was that he, the red-headed Lt. and the other genetic supermen where put on a planet to tame and live out their lives.Well in Trek II, you find out that things didn't go as Kirk hoped and by the title you can guess that Khan has his fangs out for Kirk. However, what makes this such a good film is not just the ease of all to enjoy the film without the help of a Star Trek encyclopedia, or the basic raw and savage sense of revenge at all cost. It is the way the story and how it is acted that gives this piece of art it's strength. How many Americans get to a point in life where you begin to question your actions in life? Did you make right decision to major in your field? Have you been happy? What if you had chosen to do something else? Would your life have been as rich if not more so? These are the kind of questions that Kirk finds himself in while at the same time watching old friends and young people around him do what he wants to do or was never able to do. I'm sure all of us have felt like that. What this movie so boldly does is that one of those decisions comes back to bite Kirk where it hurts when least expected. Has that happened to you? How did you deal with it? Well I bet you didn't have to worry about the fate of the cosmos at the same time did you? With probably THE BEST PERFORMANCE OF RICARDO MONTALBAN EVER you will enjoy this movie for all it's twist and turns. Plus for revenge movies, its damn good watching. Enjoy!! "}{"Title":"Star Trek's Best Movie and one of the best SF Films of all time","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is one of the few science fiction films that has a real theme and not in the musical sense. The film is not just about action, adventure, and intrigue, although contains those elements. It is about how people deal with life and death situations and the choices they make. The film introduces a young female Vulcan captain, played by Kirstie Alley in one of her first large roles, who appears to be at the helm of a Federation Starship which is engaged in a life and death situation. It turns out that the situation was a simulation and the young captain is not yet quite a captain but a cadet in training, and her instructor is none other than James T. Kirk, now an admiral in the Federation. The scenario, it is learned, is called the Kobayashi Maru Test, a no-win situation which tests the character rather than problem-solving ability of a young officer.The rest of the film becomes a kind of Kobayashi Maru Test for Kirk, where at every turn he must face the un-faceable at the hands of a former foe, Khan, reprised brilliantly by Ricardo Monteblan who used to play villains before granting people's fantasies on Fantasy Island. Eventually a life and death choice is made at the climax of the movie becoming one of the best endings to a science fiction film ever shot. The script is near perfect, and combines the best of science fiction, action, adventure, and plot with surprising emotion and heart. A brilliant film all around and one of the best performances by the Star Trek cast, especially William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy. For those who were let down by Star Trek The Motion Picture, this movie makes up for it in spades. Maybe the only stipulation is that new viewers may need to see a few of the original Star Trek episodes before seeing this movie especially because so much of the story is dependent upon the empathy that the audience will feel for the characters. An absolute triumph. "},{"Title":"SFX , to be or not to be?","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Of course I agree with a lot of you in that Star Trek II is a superb film on so many levels.However I have a nagging technical question that bothers me to this day...In regard to the SFX shots I could swear that in the first cinema screenings I saw a shot of the Reliant coming towards the camera, yet in the DVD and video versions it plainly isn't there. The shot i'm talking about is the one on the LP sleeve. (not the one with the Enterprise firing its phasers - i realise that was a promo shot) Am I dreaming this one? Or did I really see it in the print. "},{"Title":"My second favorite of the series","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Let's face it. The first movie was pretty bad. We had all wanted to see the chemistry of the original series and it just wasn't there in the first movie, they all looked so wooden. Drawing a character out of the original series really helped and I have to agree with others this has some of the best action of any of the movies. And the familiar characters reappeared after being gone so long.There are mistakes, like when Kan's son shuts his eyes after he is 'dead' when Kan squeezes him tight. And one really has to wonder how a Science vessel can come into solar system and not realize that there is one less planet present (the idea in the movie being one has shifted its orbit after an explosion). But OK, its Sci Fi But the movie has its feel good moments (by the book). I'm glad that they got their act together and finally produced a movie that allowed the legacy of the original Star Trek to continue. "},{"Title":"The Best Star Trek movie bar none. My opinion.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The best Star Trek movie bar none. My opinion. After the very well-meaning effort of Mr. Douglas Trumbull, Star Trek The Motion Picture, which plays much more thought provoking today and maybe spawned Star Trek Voyager, the series. No criticism of Mr. Trumbull whose movie may be the most important of the entire movie series and the different TV series' that have followed but on that day and in anticipation Trekkies a word which I do not snarl at were waiting and looking for rip-roaring shoot 'em up Captain Kirk and the crew. This came in next with Star Trek The Wrath Of Khan and mighty well it did Ricardo Montalban never to be forgotten for it. I find fault only in one line in the film or portion of a line where God is referred to as a proved myth because the line is spoken in past tense. I know I gasped at such a statement and it is my honest belief that like everything we have like Manna fell from Heaven the Manna that Star Trek is in entertainment is provided by and allowed by God maybe inspite of a thought that He myth-wise is, ever was, or will be unreal. Nicholas Meyer did in my opinion a tremendous job directing this film and I am not sure what much other he has done since with his direction talents but given such an opportunity and not myself a direction or film school student I would have to guess that his aim was making a good and entertaining film not propaganda with such a devoted and large audience its' mind wide open for such by a franchise it loved and loves. Now that is a director who can entertain or thought provoke without forcing you to end up with his/ her opinion. Director's of today improve tremendously with super efforts but little things slip by I cannot detect in Star Trek The Wrath Of Khan and excellent film well known but escapist.A new Star Trek movie after all that have come is said in production. Let's hope for the best. I do. "},{"Title":"Great Epic Battle","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is the main Star Trek film to watch, it has every thing, adventure, discovery, and action lots and lots of action. This is the fastest paced film in the entire Star Trek saga and it never lets up. This film also had to have this pace or the series would have been in the coffin after the crap fest that was Star Trek The Motion Picture, a 43 million dollar bomb. Who ever at Paramount green lit this follow up had some go nads because after that I would have doubted if any one would be up for another dose of Trek. But to the contrary, this second film opened up and turned the saga around. No longer would Star Trek be just about flying through space, it would now include violence. Ricardo Moltaban does a triumphant job to perfection as the villain Kahn, returning for the original series episode Space Seed. He rocks in this. The death of Spock is very sad, but by watching the sequels that sadness is removed from this film. This is one film that would be better if the execs had left it alone, but then we would never have gotten The Next Generation. I love this film and every one should watch this especially because you see the outcome of all of Kirk's sexual exploits on this one. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"The best of the TREK film series","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Even though the first STAR TREK motion picture made a lot of money at the box office, it was a rather bloated and tedious affair that disappointed fans of the original late-sixties television program. When the time came for a sequel, Paramount Pictures made the right decision to ditch series' creator Gene Roddenberry as producer (as much as I respect the late Roddenberry, he was simply not an competent film producer) and bring in Harve Bennett as executive producer. Bennett understood that it was the endearing character-driven aspects of the series that had been missing from the franchise's first theatrical outing, and the wise decision was made to simply update the central premise of the television series for the big screen. In other words, Bennett and director Nicholas Meyer returned the STAR TREK series back to its basic roots, which is why the film works as well as it does.The film's rather straightforward plot moves quickly and satisfyingly gives plenty of screen time to the characters we know and love as they face their own personal struggles in addition to the usual life-or-death space combat phenomena. Sadly a regular object of considerable ridicule, the then-middle aged William Shatner actually gets a chance to poke fun at his own reportedly vain image as he is now forced to confront the challenges of aging. Leonard Nimoy has arguably never been better as the Vulcan Spock (arguably the franchise's most enduringly popular character), and his character finally gets the chance to both reach his full assimilated potential as well as put his own philosophies into action. The chemistry between Nimoy and Shatner has never been stronger, which lends their usual rapport even more warmth and leaves the surprisingly moving finale with one heck of a wallop.First seen in the 1967 episode Space Seed, Ricardo Montalban's superhuman Kahn is one of the series' most dangerous and charismatic villains, and his reasons for wanting Kirk dead are certainly understandable (if not justifiable). In the supporting cast, TREK regulars Dr. Bones McCoy (DeForest Kelley), Cmdr. Scott (James Doohan), Chekov (Walter Koenig), Sulu (George Takei), and Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) all make their expected appearances, and the subplot introducing Kirk's former love (Bibi Besch) and her son (Merritt Butrick) is expertly handled and fits perfectly within the contours of the film. However, the very best of the supporting players, without question, is Kristie Alley (in her film debut) who is terrific as a surprisingly sexy Vulcan Lieutenant. Alley's performance is such great fun it remains a true shame that she did not return for any future installments.The film manages to successful walk that thin line between playing to their core audience and catering to TREK neophytes. In other words, the film can be vastly enjoyed by both longtime Trekkies and viewers who have never watched an episode of the series in their lives (in fact, the film is routinely cited as the favorite film in the Trek canon by both polar opposite groups of viewers). The film works in virtually all major areas, and builds to a surprising moving climax that may have even the most cynical of viewers reaching for their Kleenex. THE WRATH OF KAHN is easily the place to start if you ever wanted to find out what all of that STAR TREK fuss was about, as it presents the Enterprise crew at their very best. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any better than this","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This isn't my favorite Star Trek movie (that will always be First Contact), but without this film, there likely is no Star Trek The Next Generation. I was fifteen years old when this movie came out, and like many New Yorkers, had begun watching Star Trek reruns on Channel 11 (WPIX) at midnight before going to bed. The series was enjoying a renaissance in those reruns, but a lackluster first effort at a major motion picture yielded what would have been a fine episode, but which was sorely lacking as a movie. This movie delivered on the promise shown by the series by adapting it in such a way that hardcore fans would be thrilled, while the mainstream audience would finally understand the appeal to the trekkies as they were called back then.If you have not yet seen this movie, see if you can catch the episode that serves as the prequel for this movie Space Seed. In that episode, Kahn (Ricardo Montleban), a product of genetic engineering in the late 20th century with superior intellect and strength, commandeers the Enterprise, is caught, and left to rule a new planet, Ceti-Alpha 5. The planet is harsh, however, and only Kahn's crew and a few plot-driving native life forms survive. When the Enterprise returns to this planet, it does so to check on the Genesis project, which can bring life to a lifeless planet. Needless to say, fifteen years after being left in this galactic wasteland, Kahn wants revenge, and the Enterprise crew that has beamed down to his planet fits the bill.The usual cast suspects return (I won't even bother naming them all, as most will know), along with Paul Winfield as Capt. Terrell, and, for those who want to feel really old, let's not forget the INTRODUCING KIRSTIE ALLEY text that flew across the screen looking as good as she ever has while playing Lt. Saavik, a Vulcan protege of Mr. Spock's who has already managed to work her way onto the captain's deck.Director Nicholas Meyer paid incredible attention to detail and took full advantage of the new-era (for the time) special effects that showed how far that technology had progressed since the series. Unlike the first movie, where even the Trekkies couldn't follow the plot easily or stay interested, this film is absolutely gripping. One need not be a Trekkie to appreciate the plot, as the history of Kahn and Kirk is sprinkled just enough to catch the public up to speed.The other notable new character are Dr. Carol Marcus (Bibi Beach), an ex-flame of Kirk's who is every bit his equal, only different, and the son Kirk left behind with her, David Marcus (Merritt Butrick), not knowing of his father only because Carol did not want him to become like Admiral Kirk. Kirk fights his mid-life crisis simultaneously with Kahn, who proves himself a worthy opponent capable of going the distance and leaving a few permanent scars on Kirk and the federation. The supporting cast plays true to form, seemingly unaffected by time and a bit unevolved by the writes. McCoy hints at his own aging process, and Chekov has moved on to his own ship, but the movie focuses mostly on Kirk, Spock, Saavik, and the Drs. Marcus. Genesis is a typical focal point reminiscent of the series' best episodes, and the writers take full advantage of the lack of a 52-minute time constraint of the series, fleshing out everything from the characters to the special effects in ways that would not or could not be done in a prime time hour.The moral plots are enormous, but not overplayed life, death, marriage, children, ex-lovers, revenge, and a host of other emotions and moral dilemmas, such as following regulations and deceiving one's superiors all come into play in a way that humanizes these futuristic, brilliant space pioneers, making them just human enough that we trust they are like us, but not so much that we fear that they are just like us when it's time to do their incredible work.My older eyes see through some of the simplicity of this film, but for a wide-eyed teenager with a strong math/geek streak in his personality, this was as good as it's ever going to get in terms of film experiences, and this is from a year in which the other movies I saw in theaters included Poltergeist, E.T., Rocky III, and Fast Times at Ridgemont High.This film is like having the entire original series and everything that followed, along with the permanent hype at its genesis point, all neatly ensconced in a single film that belongs in a time capsule for anyone in the future who ever wants to see the quintessential science-fiction film of the late 20th century. "},{"Title":"The most dramatic and most gripping of all the Treks","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Personally, as a Trekkie myself, I found this second Star Trek movie to have the most riveting plot and the most dramatically done character interaction of all the films...although Star Trek IV The Voyage Home has, of course, the humor.In this picture, Admiral Kirk (now a Starfleet Academy instructor) is persuaded by Spock (a cadet training officer) and Dr. McCoy to again command the Enterprise, now a Star Fleet training vessel, on a supposedly harmless mission. However, this leads to a dramatic confrontation with Kirk's old nemesis, Khan, who has been exiled for many years on the barren planet Alpha Ceti V. Khan is bent upon revenge and also getting his hands on the Genesis device, a potentially dangerous weapon. This poses a threat to scientists working on this Genesis project, including Kirk's long lost love, Dr. Carol Marcus. (This is all Star Trek, by the way. Don't get your theology from it. In fact, it teaches a lesson about the dangers of trying to fool around with creation!) Ricaro Montalban makes Khan a formidable, vengeful, and memorable villain. Kristie Alley portrays quite convincingly a new Trek character, a Vulcan commander called Lieutenant Saavik. Wonderful acting and interactions as usual for Kirk, Spock, and McCoy, and all the other now aging Enterprise crew members (Scotty, Chekov, Sulu, and Uhura) have much their typically great characters.The whole concept of having Khan resurface is clever, although his TOS episode Space Seed wasn't particularly one of my favorites. Of course there are the typical engrossing space battles as well as great special effects, which is practically all the first Star Trek movie, The Motion Picture had going for it. Unfortunately, no interesting aliens here, only the villainous Khan. However, the portrayal of Kirk's somewhat disillusioned aging process is well captured. Also, needless to say, the entire plot line regarding his old love and his discovery that he has a grown son, David, certainly make for a dramatic tale.Of course the ending is a legend in Trek circles. Spock's tremendous sacrifice to save the Enterprise and her crew from certain disaster must be one of the most immortal death scenes in all cinema...his unforgettable speech about the needs of the many outweighing that of the one, and Kirk's grief at losing his longtime friend. My tears were falling long before Spock's torpedo casket was fired off into space!It's a Star Trek masterpiece, and a highly entertaining, gripping, and dramatic work of science fiction in general that can be enjoyed even by those who are not normally Trek fans. "},{"Title":"By far, the best","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" From the original series episode, Space Seed, the Wrath of Khan delivers the best Star Trek movie of all time.After being marooned on Ceti Alpha 5 for 15 years, Khan Noonien Singh seeks vengeance against Admiral James T. Kirk, and to complicate things further, seeking a machine that can essentially give one the power of life itself, or take it away.Piecing together Moby Dick and submarines in space, this movie is NOT just for trekkies, but for all. Incredibly suspenseful, intense action, great acting, music and art perfect for this movie. Even with a limited budget, it still brought forth visuals and effects that truly delivers.Triuphs and tragedies leads the way to other sequels that delivers just as much and Khan.Wrongfully not considered for academy awards, Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan is one of the best movies, not just in Star Trek, but all time. "},{"Title":"Best Si-Fic EVER!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" People may say the Star Wars movies are the best of the science fiction genre, but they are 1 on the emotional appeal that this master piece brings with the world's best villain portrayed by Ricardo MOntaboln, it is truly magnificent with Nimoy and Shatner giving their best performances with no faults. A true must see. The villainous Khan is truly the best villain, for his wish of destroying the universe just to kill and/or damage Kirk. WIth the extremely touching death of Mr. Spock, nothing is truly more memorable. This movie contains the line that shall live down in Trek history, KHAN! Khan!P.s. if you are a cheers fan, watch out for Kristie Alley as Saavik "}{"Title":"The Greatest Star Trek Movie","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" TWOK is the best movie of Star Trek saga drama, action, and excellent battle between two battle starship, probably, in my opinion, the ultimate scene of combat in the space... enjoy this movie, the best Sci Fi ever. I saw this movie for first time almost 20 year ago in open TV and I Loved it immediately. Great characters, intelligent topic, a great direction by Nick Meyer, excellent music (Horner great job!!!), uniforms looks like naval force, no like pajamas of TMP or TNG. This picture can be enjoy for Trekkie's's and no Trekkie's's, because is a excellent sci fiction motion picture and a great Star Trek classical adventure, Director's, Nicolas Meyer did and excellent movie, also, thanks this movie, I'm now a fan of Star Trek "},{"Title":"fantastic film","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" the idea of kirk having a mid life crisis on the brink of an invention called genesis which creates 'life from lifelessness' is fantastic. what better way to sum up the regaining of youth? also, coming at a crucial time for star trek and its cast was excellently put and star trek would not have continued to be successful without a re-birth. the uniforms have changed, the characters have changed. this film fins Spock being more in touch with his vulcan side then in latter films (except maybe the voyage home) and his death allows him to act on his beliefs and in further films he doesn't seem to be as in touch with his beliefs. in this film we see captain kirk meet not only his son but a man he hasn't seen for fifteen years - is it any wonder he feels old? frankly he has every right to, but luckily he doesn't feel too old to take the ship out for a training mission for his new crew - though this doesn't leave to another of those tedious lets-look-at-the-enterprise-as-it-goes-past scenes which are frankly worth fast forwarding past and they soon scrapped. the film feature's some sensational acting from all the characters - kirk and khan in particular. khan is acted over the top but it works so well you don't really notice. and for those who cry at the end - think about where they just sent him - he comes back!!!! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan - Stardate 8130.4An absolute classic! Vastly different than Star Trek The Motion Picture (which was good in its own way). This time, the main focus isn't on special effects but on character interaction (the Kirk-Spock-Bones triangle is absolutely perfect). This is due to literate Nicholas Meyer, an auteur who would again reinvigorate the series with Star Trek VI. He is so well versed in Shakespeare and classic films, he makes this Star Trek a very sophisticated experience above dumb action films. And the score by then 29 year old James Horner is so well done, his score for this film will come to be recognized not only to Trekkies but to everyone else. The climax in the nebula is a classic battle between good and evil, with Ricardo Montablan stealing the show with his vengeful performance as Khan. Watch this film and feel his wrath! A solid 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Memorable overacting!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Y'know, Alan Rickman once won an award for his blatant overacting as the Sheriff of Nottingham, an award which he was actually embarrassed and bemused to accept. So it is a surprise that Ricardo Montalban never got a nod for his delightfully over-the-top performance as Khan in this movie. Not that he was the only one in this film to ham things up - Shatner also did so with his now infamous Khan! scream.Odd then, that despite this level of scenery-chewing and camera-mugging the film is still (in my opinion) the best Star Trek movie of them all. Others come close, such as Voyage Home, for different reasons, but I've yet to see a Star Trek movie that matches this one for intensity.Perhaps it is the re-introduction of an old nemesis from the series, or the death of a favourite character, or simply the Enterprise crew doing what they do best - outsmarting an opponent. Whatever it is, Wrath of Khan has it in exactly the right quantities and at just the right times.And, though it might sound a little self-indulgent, whenever I see THAT scene (with a certain Star Trek stalwart dying) it brings to mind the fact that many of the original crews' actors are no longer with us. In many ways it is a poignant reminder that nothing lasts forever, no matter how good it is. "},{"Title":"It is and always shall be the best Star Trek film.","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a brilliant film that has everything; action, suspense, great characters, good story and best of all Kirk and Kahn! Ricardo Montalban is excellent as the vengeful Kahn who want's nothing more in the universe to kill his old friend Kirk who he blames for ruining his life and indirectly killing his wife.William Shatner plays a less confident, reflective, vulnerable Kirk who must not only deal with his arch Nemesis baying for his blood but a son who would be Happy to help Kahn kill him.The rest of the Star-Trek crew is solid and give excellent support, especially Leonard Nimoy as Spock.Most impressive here is the film - great pacing, music, classic lines and brilliant and imaginative special effects considering that this film had one of the smallest ever budgets for Star-Trek motion picture.Much credit goes to the director Nicholas Meyer who balances everything just right and racks up the suspense and tension brilliantly when needed. This guy may be one of the few people who can actually save the current Star Trek franchise - they should give him complete control over the next film - I'm sure he'd even be able to make a great film out of Enterprise and resurrect the franchise as he did with Wrath of Kahn in 1982.Great film for Treekies and Non-Trekkies, in fact it's simply the best! "},{"Title":"If You Only Ever See One Trek Movie See This One","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First off i'm not a Trek Fan, I barely remember the original series and I've never watched the next gen version.However that doesn't really matter as this stands alone as a fine Sci-Fi picture in its own right. It has all the ingredients you need in this type of film, strong characters, action, adventure, technology and most importantly a sense of wonder.I think the main reason why I love this film but am not into Star Trek as a whole is that in this episode Kirk and the others become real people with real struggles rather than the archetypes they were in the series. Kirk has to deal not only with Arch Nemesis Khan but an old flame and an estranged son, McCoy and Scotty have to deal with the grim outcomes of a battle and Spock makes the ultimate decision of logic.There are some outstanding space battles and a real sense of being out there in the final frontier and thats what makes this movie so enjoyable. I'd recommend it to anyone weather a Trek fan or not.8/10 - Top quality sci-fi. "},{"Title":"the wrath of khan","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" there is a Klingon proverb that tells us revenge is a dish best served cold - its very cold in space I have watched this film so many times since i was a kid and for me its simply - the best film made from by original crew of the enterprise.So we find the 3 nacelles USS reliant( and it even looks like a reliant robin - British joke but successful 3 wheeler car ) searching for a barren planet to test genesis, Pavel Chekhov discovers its not barren so sets in motion a chain of events that ends in the countless deaths of the hands of the enterprise, reliant and of course Regulus high points of this film - the amazing soundtrack by James horner i can listen to this and III's again and again, when ever James horner does a soundtrack i always listen for his star trek II&III overtones - its always there somewhere in all his films u just have to listen for it the asking of kirk if he wants Prozac by McCoy during departure from space-dockThe meeting via screen of khan and kirk the Battles and surprise attacks which even now stand the test of time - well they don't make films like this anymore do they !!! last film to use real models was ID4 i believe OH they still use the Tardis don't they !!!bear in mind even the genesis material was stretching the computer Genius of ILM and even admit this the relationships between both crews - khans crew will die for him, the enterprise crew will do the same the final death of Spock which is a clever ruse by nick Meyer and takes some balls to do what it needed ??a full meeting of khan and Kirk - what this film missed was the punch throwing hit now think later Jim kirk going hammer and tongs at Khan.what would have a big difference - what if KIRK had died instead of Spock ?? this film is an achievement - it nearly never got made - the fact that it did allowed the spawn of good and bad sequels, this film also gave us Picard & Riker, Ben sisko and DS9, Voyager and Janeway and of course Jonathon Archer.This film gave Roddenberry total credibility and allowed star trek to carry on as it does now - its resting at the moment - but wouldn't a film that mixed up the current franchises be nice - set near DS9 using the enterprise crew, Voyagers crew in a battle Royal its just a thought and I'm sure many others have thought about it anyway the film that saved the Franchise - star trek II the wrath of Khan !! "},{"Title":"Best Ever Hands Down","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For any true fan of Star Trek, let alone Science Fi, this movie is a can't miss. From the opening credits through the epilogue this movie is pure magic. I can only liken it to the way I felt when I first saw Star Wars. There was an intimacy that you rarely see in movies, let alone Sci-Fi. You know the crew, but you are not used to seeing them face Death where Kirk cannot cheat or trick his way out of it. The banter of the old crew is great as they face not just a deadly enemy, but their own human frailties as they are getting older. Galloping around the cosmos is a game for the young, we are reminded. The soundtrack is superb as James Horner (yes the same from Titanic) draws you in with his melodic cords. 10 out of 10, I recommend this for all who love Sci-Fi "},{"Title":"What Defines Film Immortality...","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watching part of this for the billionth time on cable today, it hit me. Nearly half of the principal cast members of this movie are now no longer with us. DeForest Kelley. Bibi Besch. Merritt Butrick. Paul Winfield. And now Jimmy Doohan. And yet, everything that was so horrifically wrong about the first ST movie was not only corrected, but amplified in the second. The script, music, editing, direction, acting...everything we loved about STTOS was somehow given new life with the second sequel in the series. And to the credit of everyone involved, those who are still with us and those who've passed on, that outstanding quality remains. For now, over twenty years after its original release, and hopefully for many decades to come.Paramount could do worse than hire director Nicholas Meyer back to re-energize this now flagging franchise.Because ever since it first came out, the few people I encounter who have NEVER seen a STAR TREK movie? I recommend this one over the first every single time. And have never heard a complaint. Except for having to field the question about why the first one wasn't as good as this. "},{"Title":"THE Classic Trek Film","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have been a Trekkie since 1979. I have very fond memories of seeing this film during the original run (actually, I saw all six Trek films with the original crew on opening day, dating back to STTMP in 1979) and one thing I remember very clearly is hearing people blow their noses because they were crying during Spock's death scene.For you Trekkies not old enough to know, Spock's death was a big deal way back in 1982. Trekkies felt many different emotions (ironic, Spock would say) about his death. However, I think we were all glad they brought him back for The Search For Spock (an excellent Trek film).Everything about this film is A+. Most of all is the great Ricardo Montalban's CLASSIC performance. I don't have to tell you what my favorite Khan scene is do I? I'll give you a hint You see, their young enter through the ears....Anyway, this is THE classic trek film (yes, I am a fan of ST The Next Generation, with my favorite of those being First Contact) of the six from the original crew. "}{"Title":"The Best Of The Star Trek Movies.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The cast of the original series join with Space Seed survivor Khan(Ricardo Montalban), Paul Winfield(The Terminator), Bibi Besch, and newcomer Kirstie Alley in the most well rounded of the Star Trek films. The battle scenes, supported by an exciting James Horner score, come alive through good visuals and top notch editing. Ricardo Montalban flexes his mighty pecks, quotes Moby Dick, and utters a certain old Klingon proverb. Nicholas Meyer, writer of Star Trek 2, 4, and 6, leaves behind the carcass of the first film and starts a trilogy arc that is the most human of the series. The themes of life from death and an old enemy reviving a tired hero mirrors the production of the film. The scene where Spock is shot onto the Genesis planet as Amazing Grace plays in the background gets me every time. This is the apex of the original series of movies and probably in the entire series.Khan Kirk, I wonder if you are familiar with the old Klingon proverb that revenge is a dish best served cold. (leans forward) It is very cold, in space! (music swells) "},{"Title":"It was the best of times...","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I know this is science fiction for the masses, but I can't help liking it -- a lot...Once again I enjoyed seeing the passionate, quick-tempered, Dr McCoy lock horns with the cool and logical Mr Spock, with Jim Kirk listening to their divergent views and coming up with his own novel solutions to problems at hand.Again I enjoyed watching the Enterprise stretch out across the galaxies, to do combat with adversaries, and leave peace and harmony in its wake.And the theme of the movie? The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, or the one, as Captain Spock was to find out!I think The Wrath of Khan is quite simply the best of the Star Trek (original cast) movies. In fact, the only science fiction movie I like more is 2001.Trivia I've heard that the most common question asked about The Wrath of Khan, after initial release, was Is Khan's (Ricardo Montablan's) chest real? Apparently, yes! "},{"Title":"The great space duel","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When Star Trek was originally created as a pilot it was meant to be a space western. But the actual story created by Gene Roddenberry was very different and more military. It would never have made it except for one thing, it created the feeling for one the TV execs of what it would really be like on a space ship.For me, no other movie has ever really created the same feel of space combat as this movie. Taking up a plot from the TV series, a genetic super warrior Khan and his follows capture a spaceship (and put a ugly little bug in Chekov's ear) and set out to find Captain (now Admiral) Kirk for a bit of revenge.Kirk is currently cruising around the galaxy with a young training crew and most of the good old boys and girls from the TV series.What unfolds is a battle between these two ships, a great duel. I love these sort of war stories, where 2 evenly matched enemies must try and outwit each other, but it is rarely seen on film.The result is a tense action drama which reflects more closely the reality of space combat than Starwars of later Star trek movies. Of course Kirk wins in the end, but the ending is bitter sweet.It also works on many other different levels. For example Kirk used to travel around the galaxy defeating all sorts of enemies and aliens, but also getting the girls. In this movie you see the consequences of this when he meets the son he never knew he had.There is the military side of things, as well as Kirk's famous approach to breaking the rules which makes impossible something that is something he has never dealt with (one of the best parts of the movie for me as I teach creativity). Kirk's greatest weapon is his mind.There is the enemy you can respect. Khan is a cruel warrior, he is motivated by revenge, but he also has a fierce love of his people.There is also the balance of life versus death. Genesis can destroy all life on a planet or create new life (or both if you choose).See it, love it, and see it because it was the first movie to use fractal computer graphics (during the genesis sequence). "},{"Title":"Best Trek Ever?","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Many people have been saying Star Trek First Contact is the Best Trek Film. Obviously, they have not Seen the Wrath of Kahn. ST 2 was the first Trek I ever saw, even before the Television show. This was what got me into Star Trek in the first place. This is a masterful work dealing with revenge and death. If you remember in the episode Space Seed, Kahn was put on a planet by Kirk and left for dead. 15 years later, Kahn is back, and he wants revenge. Although this movie is dark and violent, it is still a masterpiece and the best Trek film. I could go on and on about how good it is. To all people who are interested in Sci-Fi or Star Trek, see the Wrath of Kahn. "},{"Title":"Human Nature","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I think this movie shows the lengths that some characters will go to to seek revenge. It is a classic tale of friendships that had unspoken words that only those in the realm could ever understand. The downfall of Kahn was not that he didn't have the ability to fire at the enterprise, but that he wanted to toy with it in vengeful manor. This movie is one of my all time favorites because I think that it represents what the Trek series was all about. Throughout time and space, there are always those that go to great lengths to bring down a crew on what they perceive to be just.To sum up Wrath Of Kahn, Kirk would have easily let by gones be by gones, had Kahn not spent so much time planning revenge....... however, Kahn wanted a surrender..........and the best line in the movie will always beHey Kahn, you know that info you wanted..........Here it comes  "},{"Title":"A Good Adventure Story, OK Scifi, and 1/3rd of a trilogy","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Another comment posted here says ...the best scifi story ever.... Hardly. There is not a lot of scifi element in STTWOK. It is however a rip-roaring Adventure tale set to the Trek backdrop and there is nothing wrong with that. Original Trek had plenty of adventure tales, speculative fiction tales, and the like. The contributions by the principle original series members here are glowing, even when the great William Shatner steps fleetingly into his infamous moments of over-acting. People like to claim this as the first real Trek movie- usually citing so many problems with ST The Motion Picture. I say to them that STTMP IS a Scifi story and the Directors cut version repairs, completes and makes a truly wonderful FIRST Trek film. Wrath of Khan takes us where the original cast (vice any of the following ST series casts) alone can take us- to a story of loyalty, introspection, disgust with convention and reminders of why tradition is important and why innovation in all situations can be both a marvel- and terror. Love of family, and all intelligence is an underlying theme here and respect for the universe (including leaving things be!). STTWOK coupled with ST The Search for Spock and ST The Voyage Home make for a complete tale that expand on these themes and show us all why caring and striving to achieve are the ultimate themes- human and perhaps other as yet undiscovered species themes for life, that drive us, please us and define us. "},{"Title":"Mr. Roarke Gone Mad!","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's been 22 years since I've seen this film (My GOD, I'm OLD!!!!), and it STILL holds up. Kirk and Crew are fighting for their lives after Khan escapes exile from Ceti Alpha 5. Khan (Wicked Ricardo Montalban)has a score to settle with Kirk and won't let anything stand in his way. Khan is also after a device known as Genesis. Genesis can create a new world in the right hands. In the wrong hands, it can destroy life before a new world is created. I love the film and think that it's the best of the series with the original cast. Never mind the plot holes (Khan's crew being younger than he was!), the film is ACTION PACKED!!!Oh, and the Spock thing. It still tears me up inside. I feel a lump in my throat right now, watching it on AMC. Oh my God, Kirk just screamed KHAN!!!!! How cool is THAT!Other than one glaring continuity error (How could Khan know who Chekov was? His character hadn't appeared on the series yet!), it is a classic film in the series. "},{"Title":"a solid basis for a great series","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've seen The Wrath of Khan on about 20 different occasions, and dammit, Kirk NEVER gets those shields up in time!Kirk's blunder typifies The Wrath of Khan's realistic, gritty and almost wholly unique approach to Star Trek; the near-perfect Captain Picard never makes such a colossal mistake in the later films.  Khan is all about mistakes, and aging, and the dangers of becoming obsolete; Kirk feels as though he's had his day, and at the start of the film he's actually eager to pass the baton to a young trainee crew.  And yet the series continued for four more films' worth of aging!Often cited as the best film in the series, Khan is undeniably exciting, but because it's so distinct, I have to say that it doesn't quite feel like Star Trek to me.  There's an emphasis on military tactics and action that doesn't blend well with the pacifism and allegory of Trek as a whole.  Montalban, though delightful, is undeniably hammy, and the studio-bound sets look, frankly, pretty ugly.  The much-maligned Star Trek V is actually closer in tone and look to the original series - and it's interesting to note that my two roommates, relative newcomers to the world of sci-fi, saw no appreciable difference in quality between that film and Khan.Don't misunderstand me - I'm not trying to bury Khan here - but I do think it's worth challenging the notion that it's the best one in the series.  Yes, the film does introduce an interesting moral debate centered around the Genesis device; however, that debate has virtually nothing to do with the plot, which concerns the Enterprise limping to safety after a surprise attack.  Khan's plans for the Genesis device are never really explained.  In fact, the otherwise talkative villain never even expresses an opinion about the device!Despite these criticisms, Khan is still a standout movie, thanks to a beautiful music score and one of the most moving death scenes ever filmed (the mere presence of a partition between Kirk and Spock is heartbreaking).  Shatner gives an emotionally charged, powerful performance, exploding the claim that his overacting ruined his credibility.  The space battles are interesting and easy to follow; I appreciate that Star Trek always takes pains to define the rules of its ship-to-ship contests, whereas Star Wars merely throws a bunch of whiz-bangy effects at its audience and never explains anything (except that every Imperial ship has an easy-to-destroy reactor at its core). I still maintain that later films improved on Khan.  I'm glad that this movie dispelled the boredom and listlessness of the first entry in the series, but The Undiscovered Country is undeniably more of a Star Trek movie because it deals with political and moral issues in a more sophisticated matter.  Maybe Khan is the best-made of the Trek movies, but it is not the most representative of the strengths that typically make Star Trek so great. "},{"Title":"Somehow Superior to the First One.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Impressive followup to the otherwise overlooked film adapted from the classic TV series has the members of the Starship Enterprise facing a familiar foe from their past who plans to get rid of Kirk (Shatner) and the rest of the starship crew out of revenge.  Stellar performances, especially a powerful one from first-timer Kirstie Alley, along with excellent pacing and good special effects make this entry the most exciting of the series.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"The best motion picture of all time.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hyperbole?  Not for me!  What more could you ask?  Life, death, special effects that have stood the test of time, and the best starship battle ever! Not to mention a conclusion that'll bring the strongest man to tears, if he's a true Trekkie!  There are other movies with perhaps grander scopes and perhaps better stories, but this does it for me every time.  It's perfect. Simply perfect. "}{"Title":"Terrific entertainment. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  These days, it is clear to any producer of a successful television show to try and transpose that series to the big-screen with a BIG story and BIG ideas. Sometimes, the elements can get lost, but happily in the case of STAR TREK II - THE WRATH OF KHAN, this was not the case.As we all know now, WRATH was a semi-sequel for the big screen to an old episode, SPACE SEED, which also co-starred the late Ricardo Montalban as an Earth Prince discovered years later by Kirk whilst on the latest weekly voyage.The universal philosophies touched on in THE MOTION PICTURE were discarded in favour of a more action-adventure based story and thanks to some excellently staged fx laser battles between the Enterprise and the Reliant (one of the best variations of the USS fleet ever produced. The more advanced Excelsior looks like the ugly younger brother of the Enterprise!!!),the film is a real treat. My favourite sequence is when the Reliant shoots a torrent of lasers from it's left bridge cannon at the Enterprise hull during the opening meeting between Kirk and Khan.The shock climax is not really as effective now these days, although it is the raison d'etre for the third film and I have to admit that the revelation that Kirk has a son in the film is another of the film's weaknesses, which should have been deleted from the script to concentrate on the conflict between the two old foes.That said, THE WRATH OF KHAN is a superb sequel and also has another classic score by James Horner in it's favour. "},{"Title":"Priceless Star Trek Moments...truely the Best Star Trek film ever!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie!!!! It was a perfect blend of action, cleverness and drama than I've ever  seen in a Star Trek film. With a lesser budget than the first one and with ILM at the helm  for the special effects, Wrath of Khan doesn't leave you disappointed. The script has  enough dialog that captures the magic of classic Star Trek. A must see for any new  fan of the series or non-fan alike! "},{"Title":"The most thrilling Star Trek movie...","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The most thrilling Star Trek movie with exellent cast of William Shatner (Admiral Kirk), Leonard Nimoy(Captian Spock) and Ricardo Montalban (Kahn) and a remarkable Co-starring Kirstie Alley (Saavik; Alley s motion picture debut). This is the first, and only Star Trek ovie in which a Classic-Star Trek Character from the TV-Series appears. Star Trek II is a perfect blend of action, drama, humor and SF.This ST movie is maybe the only movie that is not only for Trekkies. The story is well composed and balanced, with a unexpected ending. This movie is also maybe the darkest of all ST-movies. The main theme is based on the revenge of an old enemy (Kahn) but we also find that this movie sets some philosopkical questions about life and Men, like- Can we play God ?. The special effects are not so intensed as on the first movie, but are very fine adopted. The classic ST-Theme (written by Alexander Courage) is mixed with additional themes composed by R. Horner. "},{"Title":"A big step from the first, it pays off.","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II, without a doubt is the best of all the motion pictures. The film has a story line that doesn't bore, it keeps you watching, it is full of unexpected, on the edge of your seat, action-filled plot twists.This film delt with every aspect of human life and emotion, power, greed and loss.  The film has a start which re-introduces us to all the characters, it sets the scene, unlike First Contact where the main plot begins within 30 seconds of the credits.The actors in the film undoubtably give the best performances of their careers, Shatner acts very well, as do Nimoy and Montalban.The film has an action filled yet emotional ending, it works very well altogether and sets the scene for the next two films.NOTE This is the only Star Trek film not to feature a Klingon.10/10  "},{"Title":"Excellent, except for the fake Vulcan","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is by far the best Star Trek movie.  However, as I'm sure most will agree, Kirstie Alley was the wrong choice for Saavik.  When I first saw Search for Spock, I didn't like Robin Curtis (I), their new choice for Saavik (I was young & resisted the change), but after watching both movies again recently, I've come to realize that Curtis did an excellent job and would have been a far superior choice for the part in Wrath of Khan.Aside from the whiny and emotional human-in-Vulcan's-clothing, Wrath is excellent.  Still very entertaining and watchable, even after 20 years!  Got to love the space battles, especially the quiet, graceful way that smoke from the ships trails off into the nebula.  And what a great villain!  Khan was the best.G-  "},{"Title":"KHHHHHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAANNNN!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, so I wrote the review just for that header!But anyway, this is unquestionably the best of the ST movies in every regard. The script, acting, storyline, effects (even for 1982....much better than the high-budget Dune which came out two years later), everything was near-flawless. Ricardo Montalban makes an excellent villain, it's a shame the original series got cancelled so early on, otherwise him as a recurring villain would've been very intriguing....but then we wouldn't have this movie! I highly recommend this film, along with the following two in the ST series. Excellent entertainment. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love The Wrath of Khan! This was a very well made movie, with a good plot, good dialogue and an excellent villian! It also has one of the best battles I've ever seen. William Shatner and Ricardo Montalban have classic hero-villian chemistry. I'd recommend this to any sci-fi fan. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the best of all Star Trek movies Very emotional near the end. highly recommended to everyone. even if you don't like sci fi. "},{"Title":"The second best Star Trek movie","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In my humble opinion, the Wrath of Khan is the second best Star Trek movie after First Contact. The film is enjoyable because of the nostalgia, the action scenes and most importantly the various characters' interactions with Kirk. Kirk is the key whether jousting with Khan, reconciling with Carole, bonding with his son, sniping with Bones, or grieving for Spock. A truly memorable film which is accessible to a broad audience and perfectly sets up the two later films in the trilogy. Note I'll never forget the scene where Khan inserts the parasites into the ear canals of Chekov and Terrell. Scary! Recommended, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great! Along with Star Trek First Contact this is the best Star Trek movie. The storyline is awesome, it sort of continues on from the The Original Series episode Space Seed. It is years later a and Kahn wants revenge on Kirk. The acting is top notch, and I think the original actors were at their best in this film. The effects are out-dated but they are still alright. The ending is maybe of the most intense in a Star Trek movie, it works so well! 10/10 from me! "}{"Title":"The Best of The Series","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the best one of the series, Ricardo Montalban is the best. The special effects in this movie are awesome, and has the story to match. This is the first time that fans of the series, like myself, can watch a battle between two starships that look real unlike in the original series. There is more warmth and friendship, between the characters, in this movie than in the first, which is my second favorite of the original cast movies. I highly recommend this movie to any Star Trek fan.  A 10 out of 10 )). "},{"Title":"This put the (movie) series back on track","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first Star Trek movie, was weird. I cannot say it was bad because there were great elements in it. But it just wasn't good enough for sci-fi.The 'Wrath of Khan' on the other hand was great. Fast pace, a classic villain and faithful adaptation of the original series.Nicolas Meyer did a great job and so did the cast (as expected).To me Star Trek II, III & IV as a trilogy, is the greatest one in sci-fi movies.Fantastic.10/10 "},{"Title":"The best Trek film so far.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film reminds me of 'Das Boot'.  Very gritty.  Very simple.  Very good. A Direct plot.The play between Shatner, Nimoy, and Ricardo Montalban is tight and compelling.  The action is great. One of only a few Trek flicks with real crossover appeal.I give it 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"The Real Beginning To Trek Movies","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This may be the best sequel to a TV episode ever. What a bold move to single out one episode out of 79; and continue it on a grand scale in feature film format. It's generally conceded that the even number Trek movies are the best. It ain't worth nit-picking which one is better than the other, they're all equally fine.And so are all the performances. There's a better balance of character and spectacle that is more Gene Coon and less Gene Roddenberry. Of course the special effects are (a little ) better in 'Star Trek Motion Picture'; they better be at 45 million dollars. Compared to a cool 13 million spent on 'Wrath of Khan' (some sets DID carry over from the first, that saved some bucks) is part of the reason this movie is justifiably better appreciated. Because the 1st movie was so mismanaged...it shows. Because the 2nd movie was better prep'd with talented writer/director Nick Meyer and producer Harve Bennet who were forced to use creative short cuts to save money without sacrificing story quality; that shows too. (This does not slight director Robert Wise because he never had total control in the 1st movie; besides, with his resume of films, he is permanently etched in movie history as one of the all time great directors.) And Meyer's good natured rapport with the cast saved the Trek franchise from oblivion and recaptured the magic of the Trek characters that was so sterile the first time out.This makes a great double feature to Trek's 'Space Seed'. Or go for triple with 'Search For Spock'...4th with...well; save 'Voyage Home' and 'Undiscovered Country' for another night. A great story has commenced.The Director's Edition is better. I'm glad I waited before investing in the Trek DVDs. Can't wait till #4 & #6 (but I'll get #3 because it's essential to the story). The bonus disc is entertaining. And Nimoy participates in up to date interviews as opposed to his absence from Motion Picture's 2nd disc. Does that reveal anything to anyone?More operatic and intimate. And is that a great score or what. From the first fanfare, you know you're in for top quality trek entertainment. In 1982, this was my first exposure to James Horner; and I was instantly hooked.8 out of 10 !  "},{"Title":"The Mission To go where no Star Trek film has ever gone before","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is (as far as I've seen them) easily the best film in the Star Trek series. This installment just has it all. Excitement, laughs, a good story, a moral and (finally) a good villain. While most Star Trek films have some of the mentioned ingredients not one I'd seen until today could combine all of them into one film. I mean of course there was moral, laughs and excitement in most of them, but not one film was so complete and without flaws as this one. Everything was perfect, even the length of the film, which was in my opinion better than most old Star Trek installments. Live long and prosper.8 out of 10P.S. This is Star Trek number 5 I have seen "},{"Title":"Sirrr, where's me whales???","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Big accolades have been heaped upon this 2nd venture to space, and the mere mention of this movie can bring smiles upon thousands of die-hard Trekkies worldwide. Many even said that this is the best of the movie series. While I thoroughly enjoyed it, Wrath Of Khan is certainly one of the best, but it is not THE best. That honor still belongs to the 4th movie The Voyage Home, an immensely entertaining movie that holds true to the real essence of Star Trek.All in all, its not hard to see why so many people love this movie. There are some exciting ship battles to be seen, an unusually sombre ending (and one of the most touching), and two very angry men trying to outwit one another. What more could you want? Also, the old gang are all here despite Shatner's overtly-generous screen time, the real star of this movie is the inimitable Spock. However it would have been wonderful to see the rest of the crew to interact more with each other, which is the biggest single weakness that had always plagued the original series. Luckily, they were given that chance in the excellent 4th and 6th movies (see also the action-packed First Contact, another must-see movie).For those who hasn't watched Wrath Of Khan, do so on a relaxing weekend with a bowl of crunchy popcorns but don't bring any unrealistic expectations or criticisms. I guarantee that the moment you just 'go with the flow' and immerse yourself is when the movie will hit you right on the buttons. "},{"Title":"Greatest Trek of All","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I gave this a ten not because I think it is the greatest film of all times, but at least the greatest Trek, and one of the better Sci-Fi films out there. Doesn't get much better than this as far as Star Trek films go, tho First Contact comes somewhat close. "},{"Title":"The Best Trek Movie","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Re visiting this movie twenty years on, I realised that the reason it is the best of the series by far, is because it has the best story and the best charecters.It is like a good episode from the original series, beefed up with superb effects and a fabulous soundtrack.After playing Kirk and company for so long, the cast didn't sit back and rely on past glories, they invested something new and invigourating in their performances. Ricardo Montalban is superbly hammy as Khan and this fits in so well with the plot. This film was certainly entertaining and I doubt we will see it bettered by any future Star Trek movies. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel!  One of the better Star Trek films!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In light of me finally getting around to watching the first Star Trek film, Star Trek The Motion Picture, I decided that I ought to watch Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan again just to refresh my memory.  To my own surprise I realized that I remembered very little about the film.  So, it was most definitely time for a refresher.I have to say that I think I like Star Trek 2 just as much as I liked Star Trek 1.  I thought the special effects were a little bit better and the costumes were much cooler looking, but overall, I liked the film about the same as Star Trek 1.As far as story goes, I thought it was very good and definitely held my interest.  The end of the film kind of leaves you lingering, but all your questions will be answered in Star Trek 3 The Search for Spock, or so I hope, I haven't seen part 3 in quite some time, and don't remember anything about the film.All the actors do a great job with their respective roles.  I won't go through and list them all, but they all did a great job.If you're a fan of the Star Trek films, then you should definitely see this film if you haven't already.  Even if you aren't a huge fan of Star Trek, you still ought to take a look at it.  I hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Saved Star Trek from oblivion","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  'Star Trek' was near dead after the horrid and terribly dull first movie. Paramount would give little to no money for a second movie and Leonard Nimoy did not want anything to do with another movie. Then came miracle workers Harve Bennett and young enigmatic director Nicholas Meyer. Together they weaved a brilliant story that lays within the roots of Star Trek lore. Bring in Khan, an enemy from one of the original series episodes. Bring in the Genesis project, which is such a strong plot line it carries over to the third and fourth film of the series. Bring in David, an aggressive but wimpy scientist who might just have a connection with Kirk. Hit the video stores and watch a classic. 'Star Trek The Wrath of Khan' is sci-fi entertainment at it's peak.  "}{"Title":"swashbuckling space opera","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wrath of Khan is almost a genre to itself. Certainly space opera has never been so well done in the movies. Never. Gene Roddenberry set out in the original Star Trek to do something along the lines of C S Forester's Capt. Hornblower -- in space! Here, at last, that original idea was realised grand battles between starships in far-off space, with a gloriously scene-chewing villain and heroes to match. Let them eat static!  "},{"Title":"The best of three Star Trek motion pictures I've seen.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've only been able to see Star Trek's II, III, and VI in full; due to the usual reason (life), still, this is probably the best because of it's canon; it's from the continuation of a classic episode of T.V. Trek, Space Seed.There is trouble going on in the galaxy again, and who best to solve it but Kirk, Spock, McCoy and the rest. Walter (Chekov) Koenig, Paul Winfield, and others go to a planet where there is a disturbance and they meet up with Khan (Ricardo Montalban). This was the planet that Khan and Kirk agreed that he would be allowed to populate with his superpeople 15 years earlier (at the end of the Space Seed episode, Kirk wonders what would grow from Khan's world. Well, he's about to find out!). Sadly, it worked out badly for Khan and his followers, and he sends Koenig and Winfield back with the message that he is going to get his revenge on The U.S.S. Enterprise and Earth with his stolen Genesis destruction device. So it's time for the older, but wiser crew to put a stop to this.Much like a classic episode of Trek, you'll see all the great qualities that make Star Trek a favorite great dialogue, superb intrigue, and even better, William Shatner tones down his overacting schtick for once. A superb film, although not an all-time classic, but a great science-fiction flick.  "},{"Title":"Hope for STAR TREK reborn, hope for Kahn lost","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  With the release of WRATH OF KAHN, all STAR TREK  fans who'd been disappointed and disillusioned by  the first STAR TREK movie could breathe a sigh of  relief.  So these people hadn't forgotten what  STAR TREK was really about after all.  The humor,  the characters we all knew, and the rapport among  them were all here this time.But I'm afraid I did have one complaint about  this movie.  The STAR TREK episode Space Seed,  to which STAR TREK II was a sequel, ended on a note  of hope and anticipation.  Just what sort of new  world was Kahn going to create?  It was rather  depressing to have that hope and anticipation  completely trashed by the revelation that that Kahn  hadn't been able to create anything.  It was also  depressing to see Kahn turned from a complex,  and even noble, villain, into a purely evil,  one-dimensional vengeance machine.     "},{"Title":"A model for mixing Science Fiction and Action","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the best out of all of them, with First Contact and Undiscovered Country following close behind. Action and Science Fiction don't mix together easily. When they get it wrong, they get it very very wrong - this is close to perfect. The techno-babble is developed just barely enough to explain key elements of the plot, not to the point of becoming tedious. The villain is perfect, the heroes are people you want to win.The action will make you forget about any slight imperfections in the rest of the film.Like for instance Why did Kirk get all cocky at poor Kirstie Alley after he won the first space battle? You just keep on quoting regulations, Savik! Excuse me? If you followed the regulations she was quoting, Kahn wouldn't have just locked his phasers on you and blown you to kingdom come, mortally wounding Scotty's nephew in the process. But it took me twenty years to notice that point, so consider that a testimony as to how powerful the action is and how well it works. Or to my density with regard to Star Trek films. "},{"Title":"The best of the originals","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the absolute best movie the original Star Trek cast did! Shatner's dramatic over-acting (with contorted face) is more than compensated for by the charismatic Ricardo Montalban. (They say that revenge is a dish best served cold. And space, is very cold indeed.)  The story line, the directing, the special effects, all make up  one heckuva movie. "},{"Title":"Best star trek film","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok so watching star trek isn't the coolest thing to do to most people, but i would recomend this film to any fan of sci-fi or action films. I have seen all the star trek films and have been well entertained in them all, but this film keeps me on the edge of me seat. Shatner is brilliant (makes a change), say what you want about him but this performance of James T Kirk is almost faultless. I like all the characters and think that the evil khan is played very well. The special affects are very eye pleasing to.Good film Go watch "},{"Title":"Sci-fi at its best.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Whereas the first Star Trek film lacked action, this movie responds by giving plenty of it, along with an extremely interesting story involving the return of an enemy from The Original Series. Star Trek II shows the characters acting with the same chemistry that made them so likable in The Original Series, and the mental battle between Kirk and Khan is wonderful. The movie is very interesting, very exciting, and probably the best action/sci-fi movie of all time (yes, better than those Star Wars flicks). And William Shatner's performance at the end is easily Oscar-worthy.     "},{"Title":"Kahn, A Formidable ST Villain","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In the mold of the television series that its based on, Star TrekThe Wrath of Khan(1982) is the most deep and tragic tale in the Star Trek films series involving Captain Kirk and his crew.  Goes by what made the original 1960s show popular among its legions of fans.  Unlike Star TrekThe Motion Picture(1979), ST2 is more focused on the human qualities of the story than in big budget special effects.  The crew led by The Next Generation cast has yet to make a ST film that's on the same level of human complexities and villainy as Star Trek 2(1982).  Is William Shatner's greatest acting performance in any motion picture he has appeared in.  Followup to an episode called SPACESEED which involved a group of super strong beings led by Khan who attempted to take control of the Starship Enterprise but failed and was sent to an planet as banishment.  In this film, Khan is bitter towards the former Captain now Admiral James T. Kirk thus plans to gain some bitter vegeance on the Admiral.  Terrific followup to Nicholas Meyer's underrated time travel gem, Time after Time(1979).  A Star Trek film that comes close to achieving the greatness of this film is Star Trek 6The Undiscovered Country(1992).  The battle scenes are the best in the series and the different set pieces are impressive.  Leonard Nimoy steals the show with his humaine as ultimately tragic heroic turn as Captain Spock.  The last two scenes is a sad moment in the history of the Star Trek films.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of all time and easily the best Star Trek movie.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really consider this movie to be the first true Star Trek movie, as The Motion Picture was patched together and expanded from a story originally intended as a pilot episode for Star Trek Phase II. (A series that was originally planned, but then abandoned in favour of the movies)Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan was developed specifically as a movie and didn't have any of the baggage left over from all the failed attempts to resurrect Star Trek in the 1970's. Paramount also brought in new creative staff who brought a slightly different and somewhat darker approach to the Star Trek universe.Another aspect to Star Trek II was the significantly reduced budget. This means that many special effects scenes were re-used from The Motion Picture and meant that any additional special effects or sets couldn't be too extravagant. Unfortunately, this means that Star Trek II is one of the least visually exciting Star Trek movies (not that the special effects are bad though). Depending on how you look at it, this can either be a good or bad thing. As they didn't have the resources to simply produce a simple special effects thrill ride, they had to concentrate on the story, which is one of Star Trek II's main strengths*** spoilers ***While the movie contains a number of interesting subplots, the main story concentrates on Kirk vs Khan. As the story develops, the tension and suspense builds up to an incredible level, climaxing with what I think is one of the best space battles that has ever appeared in a movie and Spock's ultimate sacrifice to save his ship and crewmates. The buildup of tension and suspense is also helped considerably by the lack of lame jokes that appear in later Star Trek films.*** end of spoilers ***For many fans, this movie is the one that all other Star Trek films are judged by. Once you see it, its not hard to see why. If I could, I would give it 20 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Like the best of the original series.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Arguably the best of the film series based on the classic original, this one benefits from a literate script by Jack Sowards and (uncredited) Nicholas Meyer, with gung-ho direction by the latter. Shatner's performance as Kirk is agreeably restrained, for the most part avoiding the hamminess he's been mocked for over the years, while Ricardo Montalban makes a splendid villain, larger than life, a perfect futuristic Ahab. Nimoy is a center of calm as usual; his death scene is quite effective, with Shatner playing off him with conviction. But Spock should have stayed dead as witnessed by the limp sequel THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK. Great nautical score by James Horner. "}{"Title":"It's a far, far better thing that I do. . .","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The best Star Trek film that the world has ever known. Too bad it is kept out of the top 250 by .1 vote! Impressive story and special effects topped only by the chemistry by the characters. Montalban is now a different Khan than in '66. Best villian ever. James Horner's score is spectacular and Meyer's directing surpasses any other Trek film. Spock dies, but in the world of Star Trek, death is almost never a constant. He'll be back. ..4 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"best movie, worst uniforms","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  i love this movie but what gives with the uniforms? i love the old uniforms but these make them look real fat. one reason i like this movie so much is i loved the episode space seed. i recommend this movie for all trekkers or trekkies out there. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Awesome sequel! More of a sequel to the episode Space Seed than to the original motion picture, Ricardo Montaulban brings back his role of Khan to torment Kirk's crew in this very worthy feature which I rank as my second favorite Star Trek Picture behind IV. The special effects hold up to today's standards, and you will like it.Caution-spoiler ahead. SPOILER!SPOILER!SPOILER!SPOILER!There will not be a dry eye in the house as Spock makes the ultimate sacrifice to defend the Enterprise. END OF SPOILER!I loved this movie and guarantee, so will you.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Good movie, it's the best star trek film that I have ever seen. lots of action, and good acting.  I like what they have done to the ship and the change in uniforms, there much better than the ones they had on the motion picture. Again this is the best star trek film and I think anyone who sees it will agree. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh and love.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  THE WRATH OF KHAN is perfect STAR TREK fare. Everything that made STAR TREK great is in it cheesy acting, witty dialogue, original good guys versus bad. . . KHAN is perfect. Many lines are memorable and although it is hard to believe that KHAN is nearly twenty years old, it was a very large factor in keeping the phenomenon alive throughout a quiet moment in STAR TREK history.It is Admiral Kirk 's birthday and life as a cadet teacher pushes him deeper into a midlife crisis. His old crew and friends fail to boost his esteem while doing a routine inspection aboard the Enterprise. Meanwhile, the Reliant, doing inspections to find a compatible lifeless planet for a life making experiment, do a closer inspection on one potential subject only to find Kirk 's old foe, Khan, alive and ready to seek revenge.The production is terribly cheap. So is much of William Shatner 's acting. But Ricardo Montalban is brilliant, and so is much of the fighting between the Reliant and the Enterprise. Khan is an excellent and classic villain. The dialogue and simple one-liners is also what makes THE WRATH OF KHAN so great. Everyone has at least one excellent line throughout the movie. THE WRATH OF KHAN is a must for anyone curious about STAR TREK. "},{"Title":"A great Star Trek flick!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  STAR TREK THE WRATH OF KHAN is one of the best STAR TREK movies in the STAR TREK series. William Shatner gives his best performance as Kirk in this one. The special effects look pretty good for a movie that was made in 1982 and the dialogue is just fantastic. This is a movie that all Star Trek fans and science fiction fans should see. "},{"Title":"Best Trek fuses pathos and action","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For me, this was the best of the Star Trek films.  It succeeds in the difficult task of balancing human drama and intense action where other action films often fail.  The animosity between Capt. Kirk (Shatner) and Khan (Montalban) is engrossing.  Montalban's menacing delivery produces several quotable lines.  Beyond its sci-fi action, the films also weaves in its themes of vengeance, aging, friendship, and selflessness - giving it more pathos than other Star Treks and sci-fi movies.  Perhaps its greatest asset is the James Horner score performed by a full orchestra.  The music seemlessly corresponds with the changing mood of the on-screen action. The score and the raw emotion  makes for a viscerally satisfying experience. I think viewers know little or nothing about Star Trek would still really enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"It's what other Star Trek Sequels look up to.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When a Star Trek sequel come out this is the film they look at beating. No other Star Trek movie tops this one. The acting is superb and the story is well written. Ricardo Montalban plays the best villain that I've ever seen in a Star Trek series. The rest of the cast is wonderful and the ending is shocking. "},{"Title":"incredible movie for all to see","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"     This is a classic,hands down. Even if you don't follow Star Trek or know the backdrop to this movie,its still highly entertaining. Excellent balance of action and drama with a great storyline. If I had to choose between Empire Strikes Back and Wrath of Khan,I'm certain I'd be in a deadlock. "},{"Title":"We tried it once your way Khan, are u ready for a rematch?","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Speechless. Thats what I was after I saw this movie. This movie almost made me give it a Standing O after it was over. When Khan attacked the first time, I just wanted to shout at kirk and Co. that it was khan. But the best scene was yet to come. The battle in the Nebula was good, but not as good as when spock inputed the Prefix Code to lower Reliant's Shields (16309). That was the best scene. The worst one, was when they found khan. It just was boring. Just boring. When i first saw all the movies in order, i thought that this was gonna turn into a disaster like TMP, but i was wrong. WAY wrong, this has been and always will be my favorite trek movie of all time "}{"Title":"The perfect science fiction film...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ... this is the best Star Trek movie next to First Contact! The acting is brilliant, the effects are perfect and the musical score was done by a James Horner when he still was a genius! And, of course, the pace of the action is amazing! I can't wait until the DVD release in Europe and I can't wait to watch the new Star Trek Series V - ENTERPRISE... Live Long And Prosper, you fans out there! "},{"Title":"Great Space Opera","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek as a revenge tragedy is wonderful. The movie, with it's many highs and lows, moves at a quick pace. And some of the levity that was clearly missing from the first movie is back. That's not to say it's a humorous movie. At the heart of it all is a wonderful melodrama involving Kirk trying to recapture his past glories as a starship commander and coming to terms with the presence of his son and the death of his best friend. It's a shame that most people overlook this subtle performance in favor of his way-over-the-top `Khaaaan!!!!' (which actually turns out to be a performance staged for Khan's benefit).  Speaking of which, I don't think there's been a cooler Trek villain then Khan Noonien Singh. Ricardo Montalban is wonderful.James Horner's score is great. And the dramatic moments are perfectly done. I'll never forget the moment near the end, when Kirk hears McCoy's broken voice over the intercom and then notices Spock's empty seat. The look on Kirk's face, the look that says he suddenly knows what's happened to his friend, hits you like a sledgehammer.  "},{"Title":"The best of the Star Trek movies!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you miss this one, you are not a Star Trek fan of any type. Revenge, action, and Spock gets killed. What more could you ask for? This movie was downright awesome and was the only movie that I actually liked Kirstie Alley in! Watch it and be your own judge! from a trekker forever!  "},{"Title":"It's Almost a Shame...","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's almost a shame this movie was made because it showed us that the folks at Star Trek have the capability to produce great movies.  If Wrath of Kahn had never been made, I might have actually like the other Star Treks.  I still don't understand why this movie was never even nominated for an Academy Award. "},{"Title":"I'M LAUGHING AT THE SUPERIOR INTELLECT.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is my second favorite of the Star Trek movies (behind First Contact).  Bringing back Ricardo as Kahn was a master stroke.  Every time I see him, I am amazed how well this old dude can do this role.  Plus even Shatner's acting is good.  I am a big fan of Star Trek, and I thought this one brought out the things that make the series so great.  Plus, it added some GREAT special effects.  It is refreshing to see again how they did it before the advent of computers in the movie industry.  Only one problem, David.  He is VERY weak character. "},{"Title":"The Best Star Trek movie!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Of all the Star Trek movies, this one remains my favorite.  The only thing I would've wished from this film Kirk and Khan should've had more interaction.  Other than that, this film is near perfect!  William Shatner does his best here as James T. Kirk, and the humor and sci-fi action\adventure scenes are fantastic.  Plus, the Spock death scene was very dramatic.  This one, Star Trek IV, Star Trek VI, and First Contact will remain as the best Trek movies. "},{"Title":"Best Star Trek Film","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was the best Star Trek film with the original cast. It had the drama of any great movie the battle in the nebula, Spock's death, the emotions of his friends after it and many more great scenes.This is a film that anyone can enjoy if they can lose their inhibitions about Star Trek. "},{"Title":"beats the heck out of the motionless picture","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star trek 1 was slow, didn't go any where, you didn't feel any danger. that movie could of destroyed the star trek francias then and there, but along came THIS! talk about a welcome relief! this was kirk at his best! shatner did quite well in this second instalment. and Lt. saavik was better protrayed in this film than the next two. i hated it when they made her more vulcan. "},{"Title":"Debatably the best of the Star Trek genre","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Nicholas Meyer's interpretation of the vision of Gene Roddenberry is a more intense, more grown-up version of Star Trek than seen previously. Some viewers are put off by the more militaristic portrayal of Starfleet than previously or later as per STTNG's 'kinder, gentler Trek', but if there's one movie of this genre to see, this is it. "},{"Title":"This is William Shatner at his absolute best!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I concur with EBERT, William Shatner should have been nominated with an Oscar for his role in Star Trek II - The Wrath of Khan.  Cheers to Gene Roddenberry and Paramount for bringing this story to the silver screen. This should be the one, Sci-fi picture in your home library.  "}{"Title":"The best of the Treks","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Unlike all the other Star Trek movies, ST2 really stands the test of time. Having watched it many times, it is amazing how well done the movie is. Shatner actually ACTS - and does an amazing job portraying and aging hero.  If you haven't seen ST2 in a while, go rent it and just listen to the dialog.  "},{"Title":"One of Star Trek's best.  Remember","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a rollercoaster ride from start to finish.  Kirk and crew up against one of their biggest foes now insane with rage to kill Kirk.  If the first Star Trek film was cerebral this one is all action.  All the characters are well developed and Kirste Alley makes her screen debut. Khan played my Ricardo Montablan is a very believable Khan, grieving over the loss of his wife and aged on a devastated world with only one singular purpose.  The storyline was established in the orginal series episode Space Seed and if you have not seen it watch it before you see the film.  After that you will want to see Star Trek III The Search For Spock which is directed by Leonard Nimoy. "},{"Title":"Third best Star Trek movie","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is an excellent Star Trek picture. This is the one that started the tradition of the even numbered Star Trek movies as the best in the series. The first film (odd numbered) left most people, especially Trekkies, unsatisfied. Many people say Star Trek II is the best in the series. To me, Star Trek II is the third best, behind Star Trek IV and Star Trek VI and just ahead of Star Trek VIII (First Contact). I wouldn't quarrel over anyone who says this is the best one in the series because I agree it's a very good movie. I just liked the fourth and sixth films better. Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is not only a sequel to Star Trek The Motion Picture but it's also a sequel to an episode of the TV series. In 1967, an episode called Space Seed aired and Ricardo Montalban guest starred as the villainous Khan. 15 years later, while currently starring on the popular TV show Fantasy Island, Montalban took the time to reprise his guest starring role from that Star Trek episode in Star Trek II. And what a performance! Montalban's Khan is the best villain in the Star Trek movie series to date, and none of the other villains in the following films have topped him (Christopher Plummer's General Chang came the closest in Star Trek VI, followed by Alice Krige's Borg Queen in Star Trek First Contact). The story of Star Trek II has Admiral Kirk (William Shatner) and the rest of the Enterprise crew encountering Khan and his crew of baddies when Khan gets a hold of a science project known as Genesis. Plus, Khan seeks revenge on Kirk. Genesis is a project created by an old flame of Kirk's. This woman, Dr. Carol Marcus (the late Bibi Besch), also has a son who's father just happens to be Kirk. The Enterprise crew comes in and tries to save the day by battling Khan which leads to some very exciting moments. And there's no doubt that at the time this movie came out alot of moviegoers (especially Trekkies hungry for another sequel) were totally shocked at what happens to a major character late in the film. It's a moment that has to be seen to believed and I couldn't believe it either. Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a whole lot of fun. It's got action, humor, and much better special effects than in the first movie. And it has good performances. The regulars Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, James Doohan, Walter Koenig, George Takei, and Nichelle Nichols are fine as usual, but the only thing that keeps Star Trek II from being the best movie in the series is that the supporting regulars (Scotty, Chekov, Sulu, and Uhura) aren't quite as well-written as they were in parts 4 and 6. But that's only a very small quarrel. Kirstie Alley (TV's Cheers) made her film debut here as Vulcan Lt. Saavik, and she's terrific. She's come a long way since this film was made nearly two decades ago. Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a sci-fi adventure that's worth multiple viewings. ***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"agreed, the best, but ...","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This really is the best of the Star Trek movies -- one that really managed to bring back the really good qualities of the series. Since so many other reviews have mentioned all the good parts, I thought I'd concentrate on the drawbacks (the few). It's unfortunate that Khan and Kirk don't get to actually appear in any scenes together. Also, the basic premise is a little weak -- Khan's people were decimated because of a natural disaster, not anything Kirk did. His chief sin was not checking on their progress, as Khan said. Seems that's a little wimpy for somebody like Khan who was used to being self reliant. And I always thought they kind of let it get away, that Khan had great ambition and ability and at the end of Space Seed he was going to cut out a new civilization and empire out of the wilderness. He was looking forward to it, in fact, hence the quote from Milton. In the movie, he's been reduced to a rag tag desert dweller. And it really made very little sense that they were looking for a totally dead planet to experiment with Genesis on (seems like those would be a dime a dozen--we've got eight or so in our own solar system, not counting moons). But then they totally miss in their scans of Ceti Alpha all those humans walking around -- and the little creatures as well, which we have to assume were plentiful enough to eat, but if not, what have all of Khan's crew been eating for all that time. And didn't it strike anyone as weird that most of Khan's people looked as if they were in their twenties and thirties, when they had been stranded for fifteen years, the math doesn't add up quite right--they'd either be in their forties or barely fifteen. I never bought the Checkhov thing, meaning sure he wasn't in the Space Seed episode, but he might have been elsewhere on the ship so that Khan might have recognized him (he has a superior intellect after all). But fifteen years or no, would Checkhov really forget being to the Ceti Alpha system entirely and plopping Khan down on one of the planets? Yet when he sees Botany Bay he's searching his memory for it, as if that's the first time he's thought about it. And wouldn't anyone notice an entire planet blowing up? Maybe it was a remote system, but you'd think the number of planets in it would be a pretty basic thing to know since Kirk had been there fifteen years before charting new territory and all. And exactly why does that little creature crawl out of Checkhov after Paul Winfield kills himself? That's never really explained very well, it's supposed to be wrapped around the cerebral cortex after all, not just wandering around inside Pavel's head. Anyway, these are all kind of picking nits, it's still an outstanding movie, in some ways I wish it had been different. "},{"Title":"Kaaahnnn!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Easily the best and only good Star Trek movie.  The entire original cast is back and parade around, in updated uniforms, with unabashed self-consciousness.  Every look, gesture, or familiar phrase from the popular late 1960s television show is delivered with aplomb.  Overall, the look of the movie is closer to the television show in style and the merely competent special effects add an authentic touch.The story resurrects Kahn, a nemesis of Captain Kirk from episode ??.  Operating from a captured Star Fleet vessel, Khan's pirate ship engages Kirk in a battle over a wacky genesis bomb (it can create a whole planet in minutes) and revenge left over from the television show.  The ensuing struggle, however, is engrossing.  The battle sequences are terrific and the familiar tale of the untested junior officers learning from the masters and becoming heros is easily forgiven.  Watch for a young and alluring Kirstie Alley (in only her second movie) as a cool-headed Vulcan on the bridge.There is plenty more good fun and all-round entertainment in this picture.  The question to this reviewer is, why have any other Star Trek movies been made? "},{"Title":"This is what Star Trek is about!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful movie.   I thought that Ricardo Montelbon was excellent, by far he has been the most ruthless, cruel and evillest of the villains in the Star Trek Franchise.  Dazzling special effects, and excellent space battles, the nebula scenes are the best ever in Star Trek.  Saturated with emotion and depth, this movie shows that it is possible to learn from mistakes made in previous films! "},{"Title":"Easily the best.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Easily the best of the Star Treks with the original cast, this links the later series (3,4,5,6) with the TV series and amplifies on the characters begun before. StarTrek 1 was an experiment, showing new uniforms and more expensive sets, a meandering, slow plot which went nowhere (but oddly mirrored a later Trek).  Trek 2 was the real start of the movie series, and it seems to have continued into the next generation.  We eagerly await the next in the series. "},{"Title":"Admiral Kirk vs. Khan","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  ***Possible Spoilers***  ***Warning Do not read unless you have already seen the movie***Kirk must face one of his greatest challenges in this riveting movie.  The interaction of the big three-Kirk, Spock and McCoy is excellent as usual. Ricardo Montalban does an excellent job of reprising his role as Khan Noonian Singh.  However, this time when Kirk encounters Khan he is thirsting for revenge.  Khan blames Kirk for the death of his wife and marooning him on that planet(Caeta Alpha VI).  ***Spoiler space***In the end Khan's blood lust to avenge himself upon Kirk turn into disaster for Khan. "},{"Title":"kirk battles the lover of real corinthian leather...spoilers","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  STAR TREK 2 THE WRATH OF KHAN is by far the best film of the STAR TREK franchise. It's strength lies in it's gritty portrayal of space combat and it's story. Khan was a character who was marooned on a planet in a tv episode called SPACE SEED. In this film, KHAN is back and looking for revenge against Kirk. During the course of the film Khan steals a Federation ship (the Reliant) and takes Chekov and Capt. Terrell hostage. To make matters worse, he steals a scientific torpedo called THE GENISIS DEVICE. The Genisis Device can be fired at a moon or other astronomical body and leave a perfectly habitable planet. The problem is Genisis will destroy all existing life on that planet or moon in favor of it's new configuration. Kirk gets dispatched to stop Khan...the problem is he has a ship full of cadets. The space battles in this movies are brutally realistic and not the whitewashed brand from the old show. This film reads as a cross between a chess game and submarine warfare...in the end Kirk is only able to win by using Khan's arrogance against him. This film's script is based on like 10 different one's. The Paramount brass and Harve Bennett had Nicholas Meyer use portions from each of these scripts to concoct a instant script of sorts. A writer named JACK B. SOWARDS got writting credit because his script was the most heavily drawn from. This film was also shot for 10 million dollars....a far cry from the first film. Of note is the fact, this film made more money than the first film. The production was geared around internal sets on sound stages and some recycled special effects shots from the first film (primarily the spacedock sequence.) these factors account for this productions low cost. STAR TREK fans and sci-fi lovers will enjoy this film. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Revenge is a dish best served cold.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II takes the star trek movies in a different direction than its predecessor, Star Trek (The Motion Picture).  It augments its philosophical underpinnings and great special effects with an action-packed plot.This movie effectively plays off of the Space Seed episode of the original series of Star Trek.  In that episode, Capt. Kirk and the Enterprise discover Khan (portrayed by Ricardo Montalban) and his crew in cryogenic freeze on the Botany Bay, a ship lost in space from the year 1996.  When Khan is awaked, the Enterprise crew discover that Khan was the madman from history who nearly took over all people on Earth.  Khan then tried to steal the Enterprise and murder Capt. Kirk.  Due to the intelligence and resourcefulness of the crew, Capt. Kirk managed to defeat Khan's plans and then exiled Khan and his crew to spend the rest of their lives on planet Seti Alpha 5.In Star Trek II, Chekov accidentally discovers Khan on Seti Alpha 5. Unfortunately, Khan's anger against (now Admiral) Kirk has kindled during his exile, and he is intent on accomplishing one thing ... killing Kirk for vengeance.  Khan manages to steal a Federation starship (U.S.S. Reliant); raid a Federation research laboratory (Regula I); steal the secrets to Project Genesis, a potential destructive project; and engage in a deadly pursuit of Admiral Kirk and the Enterprise.During this film, we see a transformation of its characters.  We see Admiral Kirk regaining his passion for his duties in Starfleet and reconciling his relationship with his illegitimate son and his son's mother.  We see Khan as an intelligent madmen who lets his desire for revenge overshadow his rational, and otherwise prudent, judgment.  We also see Spock's genuine devotion to the livelihood of his fellow crew members.In conclusion, this film contains great special effects, memorable dialog, and great acting.  This film has intense action scenes and a breathtaking final sequence.  In this film, we see the destructive nature of revenge, the creation of new life, and the necessity to reckon with past events in our lives. "}{"Title":"Fantastic, the best film in the series","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan was released in 1982 and was a sequel to the original series episode, Space Seed. Totally ignoring the events of the previous picture, this one creates an interesting plot featuring a planet creating device called Genesis and the return of Khan Noonien Singh, whom Captain Kirk exiled to planet Ceti Alpha V fifteen years earlier. Captain Clark Terrell and First Officer Pavel Checkov from the USS Reliant, land on Ceti Alpha V, which they thought was planet VI, to seek out a test site for Genesis. They encounter Khan (Ricardo Montalban) and his genetic supermen and are brainwashed by some gross creatures that Khan put in their ears. He takes over the Reliant and seeks out the USS Enterprise, which is now an Academy training vessel, on a run with a group of trainees. The rest of the film is non-stop action as a cat and mouse game is played with the Reliant and the Enterprise, Kirk and Khan exchange words, and a battle in the Mutara Nebula. The rest of the original cast is here along with Kirstie Alley as Lt. Saavick. Ricardo Montalban is way over the top as Khan, which makes the film all the better. Everyone seems to have emotion in this one (which is put to the test at the end of the film), they have better uniforms, the Enterprise is no longer pastel-heaven and there is a significant amount of action in this to please the viewer. This is the best film in the series and it is VERY emotional at the end, but he will return... "},{"Title":"A major improvment of Star TrekThe Motion Picture,this sequel...","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A major improvment over Star TrekThe Motion Picture,this sequel shows us what Star Trek is all about. It has enough entertainment and excitement for all trekies and people who are not fans of the original series. Kahn(who was featured in the original series episode Space Seed)is the perfect vilian. He's a real threat for Kirk,and will do anything to get back at him for leaving him marooned for all eternity on the center of a dead planet,I mean anything. I could talk to you about this film  all day but to keep it short,watch this film,you'll won't regret it. This is a read treat for everyone.Rating ****1/2 out of ***** stars "},{"Title":"Star Trek's Best Movie Ever!!!!! Must SEE!!!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hello Everybody,I bought a Star Trek's Movie Collection which have all the movies. I saw them all but this movie is the best. You must see it. The story is just like Moby Dick but in a very Modern Style. I won't tell you the story but if you like you can go to  your nearst Library and take Moby Dick by Herman Melivelle. Or Buy Or Rent This Great Movie - this movie is not only for Treki's (Star Trek Fans) it's for everybody!!!!. So See It Now!!!Best Regards Roy Marmelstein  "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece of what a Star Trek movie has the potential of achieving.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wrath of Khan was a movie I saw as a young boy at the age of seven and I was amazed at the beauty of the work.  I have a few fond memories of great movies as a kid and this is one of them.  I am now twenty-four years of age and the movie still has the same effect.  It is a masterpiece that combines talented actors who enjoyed their profession, enjoyable special effects even by todays standards, and beautiful,touching music that allows you to experience the movie on a different level.  I highly recommend this to anyone who has an interest in Star Trek, action, space or to anyone looking for a fun movie to enjoy.   "},{"Title":"One of the better ones in movie series.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you're a Star Trek fan, this movie should satisfy, because it has all the ingredients of what made Star Trek so popular; the  familiar faces of the Enterprise crew, fast-paced plot, and an over-the-top villain, played wonderfully by Ricardo Montalban. And of course we have Captain Kirk, starring one of the hammiest, campiest actors of all time, William Shatner, make for an evening of entertainment. The special effects were pretty good for 1982, especially the Genesis presentation. And Khan's reference to Moby Dick was a nice touch. "},{"Title":"DCW32 STAR TREK QUESTION","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love Star Trek The Wrath of Khan but I have seen another version with scenes that explained more of the plot. I wish I could find that version, so if anyone knows the version I am talking about let me Know. Still both version are great to watch. I wish the crew would meet for one more mission but that is hopeful thinking. "},{"Title":"The ONLY truly great Star Trek film.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've been a trekkie since I was four.  I've sat through nine trek films quite happily, but only one of those is really a great flick.  This one.  Great script, great expanded cast, great story, great effects...This is a Hell of a movie.  Go see it.  Now. "},{"Title":"Exhilarating romp with the original crew.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Closest rendering of the original series to the big screen so far. The story is so good , that special effects are hardly necessary ( how many times have you seen a movie with spectacular effects but where the cast is reduced to cardboard cut-outs ?). Ricardo Montalban is superb as Khan and William Shatner is great as Captain Kirk. In this Star-Trek movie there is plenty of action and all the cast get decent parts to play. Latter Trek series ( my humble opinion - no offense) just don't stack up to the original. Sure the newer series and spin-offs have vastly superior sets and effects but they all suffer from often bland story lines and heavy doses of political correctness. Wrath of Khan gets nearly everything right here in a totally enjoyable adventure. As Patrick Stewart commented playing Captain Picard in Insurrection  Remember when we used to be explorers ?, well here in Wrath Of Khan you don't have to remember, because you can see it.  "},{"Title":"The Best Trek....","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  To this day, this is still the Best Trek movie. Great script, good update of the characters from the original series and them having to deal with there aging selves. Also Great Sci Fi not to mention two new characters of Savik and David. I only wish they had done more with them in subsequent films. too bad they cant get Nickolas Meyer back to do a Next Generation film.We need another one of these. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II is a wonderful movie. It has everything action, drama, comedy, horror, a love story (long lost loves meeting again) death, life, and great special effects. Watching it again recently, it finally hit me that the script for this film is terrific, especially the dialogue. Certainly the best of any Star Trek movie and one of the best period. There are so many memorable quotes.Even to this day, Trekkers may watch this film and still have a hard time watching the sacrifice near the end of the film. It is still a powerful scene.Those who may have never seen this film, may want to watch the original series episode SPACE SEED. It isn't required, but would let you see Kahn in action for the first time.Just to be nitpicky, how Kahn got to meet Chekov before we met him in the series is weird, but oh well!I give this film an A.  "}{"Title":"A classic","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Wrath of Khan is not only the best Star Trek film, but one of the truly great science fiction films, earning a place of esteem with classics such as the Fly, War of the Worlds, the Terminator, Aliens, and Invasion of the Body Snatchers.Unlike many of the other Star Trek films, most of which are superb in their own right, this film is not laden with continuity references to the series which spawned it, making it more accessible to a general viewing audience. Aside from its obvious dramatic merits, it will always hold a sentimental value for me since I saw it as a child in the movies with my father.  It also served as my introduction to Star Trek, familiarizing me with a cast of characters that would inspire me with their heroism for the rest of my life. "},{"Title":"The best Trek","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Wrath of Khan is more of a sequel to the original series episode Space Seed than it is to the first Star Trek motion picture, which probably contributes quite a bit to the prevalent opinion that it's the best.  Yet even for those - like me - who haven't seen all of Space Seed, TWOK stands at the top of the list on its own merits.  Quite simply, no other villain in the Trek film series is as compelling as Khan.  The interaction between him and Kirk is wonderful, and it's even more impressive when you realize they only see each other for a few moments in this film -- and then only through a viewscreen. "},{"Title":"The Star Trek movie with the best plot.","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Star Trek II is everything the first film wasn't It is exciting, thrilling space opera, full of tragedy and plot twists, it has scary and light moments, and is interesting in every minute.I like it second best of all Star Trek movies... and it certainly has the best story (but Star Trek IV was such a brilliant comedy). The actors are playing very well, and the final scenes are really moving.Splendid Science Fiction! "},{"Title":"Many conflicts, good tight plot.","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie contains several fantastic conflicts.  Man vs. man, man vs. machine, man vs. nature (old age in particular), man vs. himself, man vs. fate.  The story is richly complex and involves the struggle of 'aging' heroes who have to learn to cope with loss and mortality.  The death of Spock serves as a major focal point of the film, as it forces Kirk to deal with death, something which he has cheated all his life.  The backstory involves such lasting Trek-lore as the Kobiyashi Maru and the creation of the Excelsior vessel.This movie is the BEST in the whole Old Trek genre, and is my favorite movie of all time...if only for the pacing and story of it.Great scene  Kirk, David, Saavik and McCoy in the Genesis Cave talking about not liking to lose.  Notice the timing and flow of the scene.  "},{"Title":"I am impressed","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have just seen this movie and am quite impressed by it. As I have only seen recent installments(5+) of Star Trek before, I never thought the series had this much potential. Above all, William Shatner shows that when he is not on an ego trip, he can be quite an actor and manages to keep a plot moving, which has both style and substance. Also the villain is quite superb and the special effects are excellent (proving again that it is not the raw computer power that makes them believable in the first place).If this film has one flaw, it is that the series should have ended here (or at least Spock should not have been raised from the dead). But then I guess this is just Star Trek. Spock has lost his brain before... "},{"Title":"Best of the bunch","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Undoubtedly the best of the Trek films, though I have yet to see the latest (Insurrection).  Wisely shied away from the goofy New Age style of the first Star Trek movie; has an old-style epic swashbuckle feel, as if a resurrected deMille hovered in the production like a muse.  For once we sense the Enterprise as what it was designed to be a military weapon manned by military people, not a Disneyland ride.  However, missed opportunities Koenig's Checkov is still wooden, couldn't they tone down that dopey accent and give Koenig a chance to be the good actor he is?  And Memo to David, Son of Kirk lose the sweater!          "},{"Title":"My views on Star Trek II...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie had much more action and was much more energetic than the more bland Star Trek The Motion Picture. It's faster paced, with the Spock-McCoy tradition being once-again upheld. Those pale pajama-like uniforms from TMP have been replaced with more colorful red tunics and black pants. The battle in the nebula between the Reliant and the Enterprise was excellently done, making it more like a submarine battle. And Khan had a revenge-driven mind on his hand after losing his wife in a planetary disaster, in which was inspired by Moby Dick. Plus the most touching death scene ever in Star Trek can really get to fans and non-fans.Rating A- "},{"Title":"Almost perfect","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The more times I watch this movie, the more I am impressed with the characterizations and dialogue, as well as direction and editing.  There's lots going on here that doesn't at first meet the eye--the sarcastic Don't mince words with me, Bones...what do you *really* think? is lost on most people, I think, and is indicative of the subtlety of much of the movie. People complain that Shatner is an overacter--I say that this exemplifies what he CAN do.  Check out the interactions between Kirk and Spock regarding Saavik, and you'll see what I mean. The only thing keeping this from a 10 is the oft-mumbled dialogue, and the reuse of many of the SFX from TMP.  "},{"Title":"Number 1.","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The best Star Trek movie. Why? The excitement and the spectacular acting of Kahn. I mean this one shows the reason why I love Star Trek so much. It shows why Star Trek is loved so much throughout the United States. It has humor, emotion and life and death theme to it, that was just great. To all those people who think First Contact is all that, rent this movie and see the real Star Trek, the way it was meant to be. "},{"Title":"Action, adventure, romance, tragedy...who could ask for anything more?","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In 1979, Star Trek The Motion Picture was released.  Generally panned by critics, it featured state-of-the-art effects by the then-fledgling Industrial Light And Magic.  But the effects overshadowed the close-knit Enterprise community that Gene Roddenberry had spent three long years creating in the mid-sixties.  Harve Bennett was hired to do the next Star Trek film, generally outlined to cost much less.  Once the story and the actors were in place, it couldn't miss.  I love this movie. As a Star Trek film, it is surpassed only by The Voyage Home.  The high-energy of the battle scenes swoop to the tragedy of Spock's death in the engine room, where one of the most famous friendships is once again testified to.  If you haven't seen this movie, then you should.  Even if you don't consider yourself a Trek fan.  Adventure, romance, action, tragedy...who could possibly ask for anything more in a movie? "}{"Title":"No Whales, No Corinthian Leather, Just a great movie","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Finally, the second Star Trek makes a nod towards the original series. After seeing the first movie, directed by Jerry Garcia I think, this movie was the benchmark for which all Star Trek movies must meet.  And those are high standards.  You can tell Gene Roddenberry had a hand in this movie.  I loved it for it's forocity, it's emotional strength, and all around greatness.  Plus, the Earworm thing freaked every kid I knew out of their mind.  There's not a single child of the eighties who doesn't share that nightmare.  Ricardo Montebahn (did I spell that right?) gives a spectacular performance, and looks good for his age.   I remember seeing the original Star Trek episode, and felt like they just picked up where they left off.  The best Star Trek movie so far (sorry TNG fans). "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Probably the best Star Trek movie of them all, containing the most emotional moment in all of the Star Trek universe. I'm talking about the end of the movie when Spock and Kirk are separated by a transparent wall, but not separated from their emotions, and neither am I when I watch it. What a heart wrenching ending which makes us think that Spock is truly dead, and gone from the Star Trek world(when we saw it for the first time if no one gave it away before hand), bringing tears to the eyes of many, only to slowly bring us back to the reality that Spock would most certainly be back , with what Mccoy said about returning to the planet of life someday and the way the movie came to an end. There is one person most responsible for the greatness that is Star Trek The Wrath of Khan, and the legend of Star Trek it's self. That person is Gene Roddenberry. We will miss him always.  "},{"Title":"My all time favourite Sci-Fi film","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II is not only for me my favourite Star Trek film, but it is by far my favourite Sci-Fi movie, combining Shakespearian acting with a complicated story of revenge as well as adding top of the range special effects (for the time) and a soundtrack that continues to be one of my favourite film scores!The film begins in space as a Vulcan Lieutenant named Saavik takes charge of a starship. Upon receiving a distress signal from a cargo freighter, Lieutenant Saavik orders their craft into an area known as the Neutral Zone, whereupon they are attacked and nearly destroyed by a group of Clingon Vessels. It is revealed however that this is all a Training Simulator overseen by Admiral Kirk. Kirk is starting to feel blue as his age is now starting to dictate whether or not he can still command a starship, and this is starting to show on the crew. Meanwhile, the Starship Reliant is on a mission to locate a barren planet upon which they can test 'Genisis', a device that plans to create life on dead worlds by reorganising matter on a molecular level. Commander Chekov and Captain Terral beam down to a barren desert planet with violent storms known as Seti Alpha VI. After coming across a group of Cargo Bays, Chekov is distressed by the sight of the ship's name 'Botany Bay', but before the pair can escape they are captured by a group of men led by the sinister Khan. Khan reveals to them that the planet they are on is Seti Alpha V and that due to the explosion of it's sister planet, the orbit has been knocked irreparably off balance and all that was once luscious has been obliterated. Khan, now feeling betrayed by Kirk for the events that took place 15 years earlier during the original series, plans revenge for the death of his wife. To do this, he places mind controlling bugs into the ears of Chekov and Terral so that they will become his loyal servants. Meanwhile, Kirk and the Crew of the Enterprise prepare to head out on a training mission. However the mission is called off when Kirk's estranged wife, Dr. Marcus, sends him a message saying that the Genisis project is being taken from their test satellite, Regula 1, by the Reliant with no authorisation. The group then make their way to the Satellite but come across the Reliant en route. Unaware that it has been hijacked by the evil Khan and his band of genetically engineered soldiers, Kirk keeps his shields down believing it to be a friendly ship. Now in range, Khan blasts the Enterprise mercilessly with fasers, leaving the vessel short on power. Moments later he reveals himself to Kirk over the Comm Screen, and demands the surrender of the Enterprise and the surrender of all data regarding project Genisis. Kirk uses the time given to gather the data to instead hack into the Reliant's computer and lower their shields so that the Enterprise can retaliate. After receiving several hits from the Enterprise, the Reliant retreats back into space. Repairing what damage they can, Kirk and the Enterprise proceed to Regula 1. What will they find at Regula 1? Can they stop Khan from stealing the Genisis Device? How will Kirk be able to stop his Genetically Engineered Nemisis? Only the movie gives you the answer...What can I say? It is a fantastic film, and still one of my favourites! The acting, the special effects, the character development, the story and of course the soundtrack are just unbelievable! I recommend it to one and all, be you Trekkies or not, this film will have you sitting on the edge of your seat the entire way! "},{"Title":"This is the Star Trek we had waited for","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It was the best of times, it was the worst of times. I first saw this movie on opening with my shipmates from the USS Stargazer, a Star Trek fan club that is part of Starfleet International. As you can imagine, we were and still are serious about all things Trek. I remember every moment of this film. The characters that were new blended with our old friends seamlessly. Ricardo Montalban recreated his role from the original series with astonishing voracity. All of our old friends were more seasoned, and seeing them again after the debacle that was Star Trek The Motion Picture (STTMP) was like letting out a breath that you had been holding.Don't mince words, Bones. Tell me what you really think. William Shatner nailed the movie version of his old friend for the first time here. His discussions with Carol Marcus - his old flame, the interaction with his son, the discussion of retiring with McCoy, his discomfort at taking the ship from Spock and his explanation of his solution for the Kobiashi Maru - all of these moments make this film a masterpiece of storytelling. True, Star Trek IV The Voyage Home was a more commercial success, mostly because it held us as a story for non-Trek fans. But for the faithful, this movie was a apt apology for STTMP.I have been and always shall be, your friend. Finally, the death of Spock shows a range of emotion by Leonard Nimoy and Shatner that has rarely been duplicated on film. Spock sacrifices himself for the ship. Spock Don't grieve Admiral. It is logical. The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few. Kirk Or the one. I knew it was going to happen and still I wept openly and could not stop. For some generations that defining moment on film is Ilsa and Rick at the airport in Cassablanca. Still others remember Marlon Brando yelling Stella in Streetcar Named Desire. Or it could be the death of Old Yeller. Or maybe is Kevin Costner playing catch with his dad in Field of Dreams. For me it will always be Spock slumping against the chamber tube as he gives up his life and Kirk his voice breaking simply saying No! That, my friends, is movie magic! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Star Trek movie on film!","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Admirel James Kirk (William Shatner) just had a birthday recently but feels like he's growing old. He and his crew Spock (Leonard Nimoy), Sulu (George Takei), Dr. Bones McCoy (Deforest Kelly), Scotty (James Doohan), Chekov (Walter Koenig) and Commander Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) with a great new member who happens to be a female vulcan named Saavik (Kirsty Ally) go on a mission on the U.S.S. Enterprise. Meanwhile on the USS Reliant, Captain Terrell (Paul Winfield) and First Officer Private Chekov investigate an unknown and desolate planet which happens to be the home of a evil genetically enhanced bad guy named Khan (Ricardo Montalban) as they find themselves in trouble. Meanwhile on Space Station Regula 1, Kirk's former love Dr. Carol Marcus (Babi Besche) and her son Dr. David Marcus (Meritt Butrick) are trying to do a scientific experiment called The Genesis Device which involves making desolate planets and give them new life. However Khan is eager to take the device for himself as he raids the spaceship, can the enterprise crew stop this madman from creating an apocalypse? Brilliant and wickedly awesome sequel that has been praised by fans and critics as the best sequel of the series. Featuring spectacular visual effects, action, emotion, excellent score by James Horner and excellent performances by the cast even by Kirsty Ally who made her cinematic debut. Khan himself is one of the most awesome bad guys in Sci-fi film history since his appearance on the ST episode Space Seed and the story itself is very unique. Seek out this movie and you'll see why it's the ultimate ST movie ever! "},{"Title":"Feel the Wrath Grip You","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Unlike most viewers of this movie, I have watched Space Seed, the Star Trek episode which introduces the character Khan. I highly recommend it. To give a little background to those who have not seen Space Seed, the Enterprise happens upon a lost spacecraft which holds Khan (Ricardo Montalban) in hibernation. Upon freeing him, Captain Kirk (William Shatner), Spock (Leonard Nimoy) and Dr. McCoy (DeForest Kelley) learn that Khan was once a dictator on Earth. Facing defeat, he and his closest allies fled to space. That information comes too late, as Khan has already re-routed the ship's controls in an effort to take it over. After beating him in a fistfight, Kirk drops the criminal charges against Khan and his crew. Upon request, Kirk allows them to colonize Ceti Alpha V, but they have no way to leave.Fifteen years later, the USS Reliant approaches Ceti Alpha VI while looking for lifeless planets. Carol Marcus (Bibi Besch), a former lover of Kirk, and their son David (Merritt Butrick) have created Genesis, a device meant to create life but also capable of great destruction. While scouting the surface, Chekov (Walter Koenig) and Reliant Captain Terrell (Paul Winfield) encounter Khan. As it turns out, Ceti Alpha VI exploded and altered the orbit of Alpha V, wiping out most of Khan's followers. Khan steals Reliant and sets up an ingenious sting for an unsuspecting Kirk, using Genesis as the bait.Although some later villains come close, none can match Khan, and there never may be one who will. He has changed since we last saw him. Back then he was charming and lively. An Enterprise Lieutenant defected to his side because of the vision and inspiration he offered her. He projected arrogance as he fought Kirk.Only parts of that man remain after fifteen years. Kirk never returned to see their desperate situation, and Khan holds an ocean of bitterness and resentment. Retribution has become his singular focus. When a crew member suggests that he does not need to kill Kirk, he responds, He tasks me, and I must have him! I'll chase around the moons of Nibia and 'round the Antares Maelstrom and 'round perdition's flames before I give him up! Aside from Dr. Soran, Khan is the most intelligent of the Trek villains, and not even Soran matches his passion.Montalban's splendid, inspired acting completes the character. Khan's old personality surfaces only once, when he thinks he has Kirk at his mercy. Montalban embodies it just as well he did in 1967. At the other moments, he is equally adept. We see the pain raking his face and hear it pollute his voice when he must let the Enterprise flee, and when he informs Kirk of his plan to strand him, and again as he catches up with the Enterprise, when he refuses to end his pursuit no matter what the circumstances and when he literally spits his final words of hatred. Montalban works effectively with his eyes and breathing to display Khan's state of mind. Intimately evaluating acting with words alone is nearly impossible. Were I to use a structured grading sheet, Montalban would receive and A.Another critical element is the clashing, but close friendship between Kirk, Spock, and McCoy. Their differing personalities, which provide the best moments of the series, were mostly absent from The Motion Picture. Now they return. McCoy can call Spock a green-blooded inhuman one moment and become roused with concern for his safety another. Kirk and Spock understand each other so well that even Lt. Saavik (a well-casted Kirstie Alley), a fellow Vulcan and student of Spock's, cannot understand what their words mean. It is a fortunate fact that the movie can stand on its characters because the Space Battles, although necessary, are sorely limited by the budget. It is under one-third of the The Motion Picture's. When the starships attack and evade each other, they are mostly shown up close. They either move in straight lines or slow turns. The final blast, which ILM had to build a new device to capture, likely siphoned a large portion of the money away from action and limited sets. Director Nicholas Meyer compensates by focusing on the strategic aspect, particularly in the final encounter.This movie is all about its dynamic characters and conflicts, which hold it up by themselves. It seals its status as a classic with the ending, which I will not reveal although probably everybody knows it by now. All action needs good conflict, but sometimes conflict alone suffices. An action film without strong action is usually bad, but here is one that not only survives, but thrives. "},{"Title":"Easily the best of the Star Trek movies","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK, second best. First Contact was slightly more dramatic, but Khan is certainly the best with TOS stars. Most people seem to think Voyage Home was better. (I loved the whales and Spock's cursing, would give it a ten, but gotta shave one point for the dreadful Leonard Rosenman music.)As to Khan, what more could anyone want from a sci-fi movie? Revenge, long-lost son, creepy ear-crawling Ceti Eels, ships blasting each other, Kirk's mid-life crisis and the death of a favorite character. E.T. and Blade Runner seem to get all the press as the best science fiction movies of 1982, but seriously, Wrath of Khan is right up there. Maybe the FX are a little dated, but they're still impressive, and Ricardo Montalban was really good as Khan.Curious about one thing, why didn't Judson Scott (Khan's right-hand man from TV's Phoenix) get any credit on the movie? "},{"Title":"i think it's better than number one","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i think this movie is a bit better than the first one.it starts off better,with some action right off the bat.it slows down somewhat not long after,but it's not as boring as number one.i think it is better paced,and i feel it is also is written better.the dialogue is more interesting.there is more of a story to this one,and the villain is pretty well defined.there is a bit of suspense and excitement in this one,which i found lacking in the first one.also the characters are given much more to do in this one.i do think the last 30 minutes or so kind of drag though.even though this one is better than the first,there is certainly room for improvement,in my view.its' still not that great.i'll give Star Trek 2The wrath of Khan 6/10 "},{"Title":"an instant classic for Trekkies; casual fans get ready for one of the best yet","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Wrath of Khan is a supremely entertaining chapter in the Star Trek saga, even if it goes so much at times into the realm of the ham-bone acting style that it reaches critical mass. And, oddly enough, it's not Shatner this time, but Ricardo Monteban, in his most revered (or at least most recognizable) performance as Khan, who steals the show. Monteban goes deep into making this such a shamelessly entertaining goof who is actually a terrifying presence of vengeance against the Enterprise. He's got that fake chest (yes, it's fake, and once you realize it the more it looks cheesy), the incredible mullet, and accentuation on almost every sentence combined with the pauses and facial gestures that tell all. Not only does Monteban make Khan one of the landmark Star Trek villains, but one of the most memorable villains in all of mainstream science-fiction. He's a great counter-balance to the rest of the characters, who are in the mode of basically making a very good episode of the show into a feature-length movie.This includes a) added drama involving Karen, the mother of Admiral Kirk's child, who also happens to be on-board, and who is responsible for the Genesis project, where b) a quasi lesson can be learned through the Genesis project about what the future could bring on other planets (and, besides, why can't a world be destroyed/created just like that?), and c) more added drama involving the departure of one of the key characters. This, of course, is no shock to those who've now seen what the franchise ended up, as part 3 spells it out all too clearly. But the fact that at the time in 1982 the Star Trek people went for an Empire Strikes Back move is ballsy and quite commendable (not least of which because it's a compelling twist). Overall, director Meyer, the cast, the special/visual effects team (the visuals still look amazing after all these years), and the writers have concocted a movie that provides for everyone- for die-hard fans it provides a comeuppance for a memorable past episode entitled Space Seed, and for casual movie-goers it's a movie that skirts tongue-in-cheek with thrilling adventure in one swift stroke. A masterpiece? Probably not, but it would be hard for me to pass it up if I saw it on TV again.Speaking of which, I can't resist KHAAAAAAAAAAAN! "},{"Title":"The Genesis (sorry) of a good run....","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Years ago there was a US Sitcom called 'Nurses' which had a joke in which one of the orderlies told the receptionist that the patients were watching some old Star Trek movie. Now who... he asked, Would want to see some old movie with Ricardo Montablan? to which the receptionist replied Richardo Montablan!! and vaulted over the desk, running down the corridor to join the patients. Not a bad joke and not a bad way to sum-up part of this second Trek's enduring appeal. This is one of the all time sci-fi greats. As a Trek movie it was the one that ensured the series had a future after the slow and ponderous original, introducing the wit and well drawn character dynamics of the original series.That it balances action, good humour and tragedy so well is due in no small measure to Nicolas Meyer and Harve Bennett who along with writer Jack B.Sowards produced a fable that ties the characters personal journeys into wider themes of life and death. Its clever to, 'killing' off Spock in the terrific 'Kobashi Maru' opener, that fooled audiences at the time into thinking that rumours of the character's death had been exaggerated. When it subsequently occurs at the films climax its an absolute sucker punch as a result and manages to be both touching and memorable. If there is a better death scene in any film i've yet to see it.You could dish out praise all over the place but if you had to be ruthless you'd want to single out James Horner for an excellent score, in the days before he was over-egging the cake in fare like Titanic, the cast who deliver uniformly excellent performances, especially Montablan who eats up the screen like an Atkins dieter at a steakhouse, Sowards for a great script which manages to introduce a few interesting new characters who by the end feel like they've been there all the time and the Genesis plot which is both the films thematic double and the founding metaphor for the subsequent trilogy and finally Meyer, who turns in a pacey, well balanced film that manages to make most other entries in the series so ordinary.It may not be perfect, after all Chekov knowing Khan is a continuity error and its a shame that the budget necessitated the reuse of footage from the first film, but this provides the much needed link to the TV Series as well as cementing its cinematic credentials. Unfortunate then, that the Next Generation would undo all the good work with 4 lame instalments, kinda like tearing down Buckingham Palace and building a council estate on the foundations. If only there was a spare Genesis Torpedo they could fire at this series now to bring it back to life- still we'll always have Khan, or should I say Khhaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaannnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. "}{"Title":"Not the best for me, but an enjoyable adventure, highlighted by an emotional finale.","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  6 out of 10When I was young 'un (back when I was about 8 or so), The Wrath of Khan was actually my least favorite Star Trek film to date.  Having seen it again on TNN recently, I'm not sure why I disliked it so much, and while I won't call it the best Star Trek film (that honor lies with First Contact), it's an entertaining adventure highlighted by good performances, memorable special effects, and two tense space battles.The Wrath of Khan is a sequel to the episode, Space Seed, where evil genius Khan and his gang were exiled on a planet.  Khan and his group escape, hijack a starship, and plans vengeance upon Kirk.  Then there's the genesis device, a machine capable of creating new life, but also has the potential to destroy those the living.  It all leads to a tense showdown between the two biggest egos in the universe.There are a lot of things about The Wrath of Khan that still bug me. For one, how the hell does Khan recognize Chekhov (stating how he never forgets a face), considering Space Seed was a season one episode, and Walter Koenig didn't become a member of the cast until season two.  Then there's Khan and his gang of marauders themselves, who look more like rejects from a He-man audition than genuinely menacing villains.  And is it just me, or does Ricardo Montalban's chest look, well, fake?  Bibi Besch and Meritt Buttrick make very small impressions, and this movie's also got Kirsty Alley, the most annoying actress who's not Rosie O'Donnell to ever grace the screen.   I also didn't much care for James Horner's score, which aims to be rousing, but comes off as occasionally grating, and certainly can't hold a candle to Jerry Goldsmith's famed Trek score.With those criticisms out of the way, there was a lot I enjoyed about the film.  William Shatner and Ricardo Montalban make for an effective protagonist/antagonist duo, with the former delivering a genuinely good performance and the latter chewing the scenery with aplomb.  Leonard Nimoy is excellent as Spock, as always.  The most acclaimed aspect of the movie has always been its space battles, and while they don't really hold a candle to the opening sequence of First Contact, these two setpieces nicely emphasize strategy over visual spectacle (which it still has) to up the suspense factor.The most memorable scene of the whole film is the emotional climax, which features the death of a major character.  This represented the first time that Star Trek could not only engage the mind and rattle the nerves, but also touch the heart (and put a lump in your throat).  The Wrath of Khan appears to be the series fan-favorite, and I can see why, but too much of it doesn't click with me.  Still, recommended to those looking for a space opera with the occasional dose of action and pathos.    "},{"Title":"Do you know the Klingon proverb that says revenge is a dish best served cold?  It is very cold... in space.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What can I say about this movie?  Quite simply, think of *all* the memorable quotes, or scenes from this movie.  It might rank #3 in my all time movie list, behind The Empire Strikes Back and Aliens, but has a lot to remember it for.  The dialogue is quite simply as good as it can get.  As a budding screenwriter I can only look to this movie as something to aspire to.  If I can write a script as good as this, and have such an impact and influence on others, as this has had on me then I will be a very happy man.  Jack B. Sowards is the man to look to.  What do I know about him?  Nothing.  What has he written since?  No idea.  Such a shame because I really do admire this true work of masterpiece.  Ricardo Montalban is awesome and what is really great is that he pushes William Shatner to his best ever performance as James T. Kirk.  Everyone looks to a great villain coming up against an established and renowned great hero.  Khan vs. Kirk.  Nothing better has happened in Trek before, or since.  I can only rate the TNG episode The Best of Both Worlds as better Trek.  Unbelievable.  If you haven't seen this movie then you really need to.  The bar gets raised to such a height with this Trek outing that none of the seven Trek films since have come even come.  My main desire as a screenwriter would be to write a Trek film, and to write a film that people would compare to this one.  Does it have any flaws?  Only one, it was so out of this world that The Search For Spock had an impossible task of trying to follow it.  Naturally, it failed. "},{"Title":"An enduring benchmark for futuristic space action/adventure.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I viewed the special edition DVD, I had not seen the film for nearly five years.It was like watching the movie for the first time, and I was thoroughly impressed.  Considering that The Empire Strikes Back, arguably the best installment in the Star Wars legacy, was released two years earlier, it's perhaps a strange coincidence that the best installment of the Star Trek legacy was also the second in the series.This film was a large breath of fresh air for the series after the bizarre first film.  This movie delivers an emotional punch that I believe might have been matched, but has never been surpassed, by the subsequent sequels in the series.  The anger and hatred between Kirk and Khan is truly haunting.  The way both sides were never willing to surrender or run away was completely different from the two Star Wars episodes at the time, in which the Alliance was always hiding and running away from the Empire.Acting was fairly convincing by most of the cast.  I was particularly drawn to Montalban, who of course plays Khan.  His intensity reached a level of conviction that no other villain in the series has been able to match since.  His obsession with the destruction of now Admiral Kirk resulted in the film's now ground-breaking, now legendary, use of close-up minature action photography, which although outdated today, I found amazing that they could pull it off twenty years ago, when movies were using rubber Halloween costumes for their enemy characters.This film is an enduring benchmark for futuristic space action/adventures, and it still holds its ground against today's space films.  I find the story of the movie still intriguing and entertaining after many years away from viewing it.  In Alien, the film relies on suspense to enhance coherence and drive the movie on.  This Star Trek film is completely entertaining, and the action just makes it all the more fun to watch.The only criticism of the special edition DVD is its lack of a DTS audio track.  Action scenes, while fairly clear, lack the crispness that would be best desired to convey the intensity of the action.  For those who say that the film's audio track is too old to properly convert to a DTS track, remember that Jaws was released in 1975, seven years earlier, and its been given a DTS track. "},{"Title":"Just another TV episode recycled","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie starts off with a rather interesting premise  Federation scientist have invented a terra-forming bomb called Genisys.  It could be used as a force of great good or evil--depending on how it is used.  While looking for a lifeless test planet capable of supporting life a federation vessel comes across Khan who was marooned by Kirk in the T.V. series.  Khan is mad because a neighboring planet exploded changing his planet into a barren wasteland and the Federation (Kirk) never checked up on them.  He steals the bomb and goes after Kirk!!??His son advises him that he could threaten the entire Federation, but Khan wants his revenge against Kirk.  The movie then degenerates into another TV episode where Kirk does battle with a Romulan Starship captain ala Run Silent Run Deep.  The tension is not as exciting but the special effects are better.A rather surprising, but not unexpected result, of Kirk's space carousing comes into his life.Except for some vicious alien brain worms this movie is almost totally trashable Star Trek. "},{"Title":"The classic example of excelling above what you had in front of you","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek is something I have seen some of and... not to insult the fanboys considering I've only seen the JJ Abrams movies, this and the first dozen episodes of the original show but I have mixed opinions on at best. I liked the idea when I watched the original show but it's extremely cheesy by 60's sci-fi show standards (Either that or I've been spoiling it by watching Doctor Who and The Twilight Zone before this). I decided that because I was crawling through the original show at the slowest pace possible I decided to instead watch the Star Trek movie that most people say is the absolute best with The Wrath Of Khan (or as Kirk would say it the wrath of KHAAAAAAAAANNN!!!!!!!).Kirk is now an Admiral and misses being in the Captain's chair and the crew have gone on their almost separate ways while still working for Starfleet. Chekov is on a mission to scan planets to test out a project called Genesis, a device literally used to play God with planets, creating life where there wasn't any. On one planet they find an old enemy of Kirk who he left marooned on the planet and his wife dying shortly thereafter. Khan is understandably angry at Kirk through this despite the context that he tried to take over the Enterprise and kill Kirk in... an earlier episode of the series maybe? So he decides to brainwash Chekov and his captain to try and get Genesis after hearing about it. Kirk attends Spock being Captain of the Enterprise to do a test flight with his inexperienced crew and one thing leads to another and it becomes a space battle and a battle of wits at the same time between Kirk and Khan.The original show of Star Trek is something that I liked the concept for but never saw it realized to it's full potential. This blew it all out of the water. There are discussions about Genesis and also No win situations that come into play throughout the movie, it even demonstrates it in the ending which I liked that it had the guts to do that, I won't spoil it (although considering pop culture I don't know if it has been spoiled for everyone or not) but it takes in 10 minutes fare more chances then the show ever did. Khan is also a good villain and not I'm evil because... reasons!. The effects still hold up.Onto what I didn't like. William Shatner. His acting is terrible, which in contrast all the other acting holds up. the instance where he screams KHAAAN is the most infamous scene in any Star Trek movie and the reason for that is that it leaps an almost straight up science fiction movie with elements of humour in it to extremely goofy and back in about 5 seconds. I also didn't like the costume design of Khan or his minions. They look more like an 80's Hair Metal Band if they decided to do 70's dance music then the villains of the piece.From what little I have seen of Star Trek, this is the single best jumping on point to the franchise I can think of. I haven't seen the other shows and I'm not yet what you may consider a fan but I did really enjoy this movie and think it would be a great place to start if you have an even slight inkling to watch this cultural phenomenon, and easily one of the best examples of 80's sci-fi next to movies like the Star Wars sequels. "},{"Title":"Good script allows S.T. fans to continue retentive adolescent fantasy of nerd control","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is actually pretty good - the score is uplifting and grandiose, the actors don't get ridiculous lines, and the story even rights a few of the ethical wrongs of earlier Star Trek lore by having a dominant, capable female character for a few minutes, and puts some juicy, novelistic lines in the dialogue for Star Trek fans to mull over after leaving the theater, although these days probably viewed via illegal download or extremely dusty VHS cassette found in a junk shop somewhere.Star Trek II - Wrath of Khan, picks up on the classic (and better produced) low budget TV episode Space Seed, in which a centuries- old Sikh dictator is revived and converses with the Enterprise crew about war, ethics and leadership, before being exiled to a remote planet - Seti Alpha V because, well, he's an asshole that wants to dominate and kill people for profit.The movie Wrath of Khan picks up years later, when enterprise crew members accidentally find that Khans been living a life of total suck on the planet Seti Alpha V because the planet was knocked off orbit and was reduced to sand, lifelessness and occasional dry storms. Much like the lifeless Sahara, which was once green, but due to an orbital knock 6000 years ago, is now a lifeless stretch of sand and rocks in intense heat.Needless to say, Khan wants REVENGE on Kirk and the others for sending him there, and so a kind of plodding submarine warfare sequence ensues, with both spaceships trying to blast at each other, and the bad guys get some great dialogue, and Spock gets some heavy drama cos of his sacrifices, and the spaceship looks better and bigger due to better SFX and the score is loud and powerful. Most of all, the film has thoughtful parallels to our own global situation, but the original episode was actually a bit more clever than this feature filmThat said, this movie is OVERRATED by S.T. apologists - this film contains easily the WORST matte paintings in a wide release motion picture (the Genesis environment looks literally like bad art from a paperback novel circa 1981), and Khans gang of space pirates look utterly camp and tacky, instead of the luminous futurism of the original sixties series. There's a bit of sci-fi techno-worship too, in the overly reverent space- dock sequence showing the Enterprise moving into space, really designed to impress us, the viewers, with widescreen images of the submarine/toilet/lightbulb design of the USS Enterprise, now upgraded for the style of 80's sci-fi.The film also has an 'endgame' feeling about it, wanting us to respect the age, efforts and experience of the Enterprise crew, but because it wasn't a massive flop (like Star Trek the Motion Picture) it heralded about a decade of mixed, and sometimes pointless Trek sequels, never actually including the input of the series creators Roddenberry, and of course Gene Coon who passed away before the film series began. This is probably the real reason the 80s Star Trek series didn't quite feel convincing. Its all about character reverence, mediocre plots and nerdy military banter set in the 23rd Century. Whatever. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Trek outing for an ageing crew","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Many fans consider STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN the best of the STAR TREK movies. As somebody who's no Trekkie, I came to it fairly ambivalently; the first movie left me a little cold, and slightly bored, so I was hoping this one would be more eventful.Thankfully, it is. There's plenty more incident in THE WRATH OF KHAN, and lots of tricky situations for Kirk and co. to get to grips with. Sadly, once again there are younger, extraneous characters getting in the way (Kirstie Alley, I mean you) and the less important characters - Sulu, Scotty, Uhuru - get little to do other than respond to commands and press buttons, but it's all done in the right spirit and with good one.I like the way Kirk is depicted as an arrogant jerk in this film; Shatner's acting style fits this depiction like a glove. Nimoy gets some decent character work too, and Paul Winfield is always a welcome presence. Okay, so villain Ricardo Montalban looks like a reject from an '80s rock video, but we can't have everything.In essence, this is very much an episode of the original TV show expanded and bigged up to feature film format, but it does do what it sets out to do provide sci-fi intrigue and adventure with a slightly more cerebral edge than the STAR WARS movies. "},{"Title":"Bread And Milk For The Wife","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It took nearly twenty years to write these comments, In the mid-eighties, all things Star-Trek were fantasy. Now, things are not so simple. In the opening scene, there is reference to the 23rd' century, and the way things are going, we'll get there in the 22nd! If you're wife, girlfriend doesn't like sci-fi, this is the film to start them on. Sci-fi and goofs apart, this is a well worth watch. Characters have multiple holes, but they are readily filled with the charisma of the original Bones, Spock, Kirk appeal. If you are wondering how to break the bad news to you partner I love Star Trek This is the film to start with "},{"Title":"Crimson Khan (DVD)","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's true that the pretended flaws of STTMP paved the way for this sequel because it's the totally opposite of its predecessor militaristic, action movie, less stoic, formal interaction between the characters. A lot of this changes come notably from the director (as heard on his commentary) and if i don't always agree with him, i like his humor.Thus, it's not really science fiction but rather a thriller in space that have roots in the submarine fights, very similar thus of his repeat in ST6.But Trek offers much than a war movie First, it is touched by beautiful poetry the nebula colors are a great idea to change from the deep space black and the score of Horner is one of his best. As he explains, it's easy just find a handful of memorable cues and mix them all along.Then, I really appreciate the art direction also when you feel the flavor of the 70s in the sets, the clothes.At last, they are still my friends to rejoice this time, they are paired with another sweet new female character Saavik that Alley portrays willfully. For the bad mouths, it was a dirty trick to depict the future romance of the never convincing Kirk's son with Spock's daughter! Spock death's was a moving moment, more painfully reinforced by the glass separation. As the grief comes, we want to hug our dearest ones (as later Kirk does with his son), but Spock is denied this human symbol.If my memory is correct, i remember that my father taped it on VHS. As i viewed it before him, he asked me how it was and i answered that it's was useless for him to watch it because Spock dies at the end. My father wasn't really happy with my answer and my comment hurt him for a long time. I hope it won't be your fate too reading this review! "},{"Title":"The Best In The Series","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In all the STAR TREK movies I have seen (and I have only seen I-V. After V, didn't have the heart to see any more), this is the better told and better constructed story. Here, Kirk is celebrating his birthday while he is drydocked as it were and another urgent mission comes along that puts him and his crew out of retirement. Here, there are some startling revelations about Kirk. He has an ex-wife and a son who work for the science vessels, and their purposes are at odds with each other. The story of Khan is well told. (The guy does like to quote Captain Ahab from MOBY DICK a lot, doesn't he?) This is the most intense of all the STAR TREK stories, with the brainwashing of Chekov early on (is it just me, or does that guy seem to always get in trouble?) and the untimely demise of Spock. His funeral at the end was a very moving scene, especially with Kirk's tearful eulogy.The downside to this movie? I'm sorry to say, Kirstie Alley. This woman is a fine actress and her life story is one of gritty determination in battling some powerful demons. I don't see why in the world she would like to play weak, whiny, neurotic women. ESPECIALLY A VULCAN! Spock is supposed to be the half human Vulcan, but he displays more emotional reserve than Saavik, who is supposed to be a full-blooded Vulcan. Instead, she acts more like a human woman with pointy ears and a bad hairdo. The script writers did her a grave disservice for writing such a crappy part for her. For that alone, 7 out of 10. (Otherwise, as high as 9.5.) "}{"Title":"Tedg what are you blabbering about?","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 3 out of 4 people found the following comment useful - Marooned (light maroon), 27 October 2006 Author tedg (tedg@FilmsFolded.com) from Virginia BeachGo watch another 24 hours of S T A R W A R T S T E D G!There isn't anything more pure than a good science fiction story or movie. Its just the thing, you know, for good storytelling. That's because it is explicitly abstract and we have learned how to accept the abstractions, to scurry the goofy elements into hidy holes, just like we do when seeing romantic movies. That allows the filmmaker greater latitude to impose cinematic expressions, or to bend the story to those streams which exploit the visual imagination.That's why I think Star Trek in all its incarnations is a beast that eats souls, that dulls the mind of whole generations. Its a curse, every element through and through excepting only the score. I saw this only because someone else dragged me to it, and I find it ever so much worse than I recall. That's only in part because the effects are extremely hokey by today's standards.This is essentially a movie about two spaceships fighting, led by two men who pretend to be complex. Ahab and Lear are enlisted in the attempt to add weight to these characters. Its beside the point that the effects are ghastly, and the acting is among the worst ever seen.Its because of how the thing was conceived, the decisions about abstractions that were made.Those decisions were made in the sixties and to support a TeeVee show, about 40 minutes with 20 minutes of obnoxious ads. That means the characters are cartoons and the stories are so simpleminded and the moral so accessible that any dummy would get it.So we have simple morality plays in the TeeVee show that were grafted onto the chickenwire skeleton. Yes, they dealt with social injustice and should get credit for it. But they dealt with it in such a superficial buzzword brevity that we are now paying for it, with many folks thinking that life really is described in Spock parables. And we have the American political tradition based on similar simples parables.That's carried over to the films, all of them. The fans would have it no other way, and even if they would have allowed some maturity or depth anywhere in the vicinity, you're still be stuck with the same actors, characters and spaceship escapes setup.I watch a lot of 50's science fiction and marvel that we took much of it seriously at the time. All these Trek films have now moved into a similar zone of campiness.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Are You Out of Your Vulcan Mind?","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After watching Star Trek The Motion Picture and almost falling asleep, this film was a breath of fresh air. Nice pace, good use of Star Trek characters (unlike the first film's superficial plot) and some important moments in Star Trek history.I really enjoyed this film, what can I say? If you like Star Trek, you'll probably like this. I'm not really sure how you couldn't like it. I have heard this is the best in the series, and I wouldn't even be surprised by that.It's the story of Khan (from the original series) whose planet is ruined. He blames Kirk for this and seeks him out to get revenge. This is all you need in a film a long-haired, super-strong and super-intelligent genetically modified madman hunting Admiral James T. Kirk. You really can't both it.Oh, sure, I could complain it starred Kirstie Alley in her debut role. But to be honest, she wasn't that bad and if she hadn't gone on to do such horrible things I'd even consider watching her in future roles. She's a decent Vulcan (though I thought a bit emotional).And I could complain of the plot hole regarding Khan and Chekhov. How does Khan know who Chekhov is and how does he know that Chekhov and Kirk are connected? This is never explained and is contrary to the series. Maybe they retconned it, I don't know. But it was easy to ignore for the benefit of the film.So yeah, you probably want to see this movie... because where else can you see leeches eating a Russian man's brain? "},{"Title":"Best of any of the Kirk series, which still isn't much.","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie features Khan, a man from the end of the twentieth century who we met in TOS. He's back for revenge, and he's going to do it to Kirk and the entire Enterprise crew (to find out why, watch the movie). He also endangers an experimental program called Genesis, a way to bring life from non-life.The movie might have been better, if only they had thrown Captain Kirk out the airlock and gave Spock total command of the Enterprise. But with him, in a crucial moment in the movie where he needed to do his best acting, he flopped.(watch the movie and you'll know which part I'm talking about)I liked the effects, and Khan was a very interesting villain. As a fan of most Star Trek, this would be a very god movie, if only William Shatner would retire and go to, oh, I don't know, Romulus? "},{"Title":"I don't know tech stuff","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While that line is from the 'Terminator', it certainly summarizes the whole 'Star Trek' series as a whole.  The flaws in technology and plot alone are staggering as the old joke goes, why don't they have circuit breakers yet?Alas, I viewed this after the more cerebral first film, hoping for compensation in the areas where Robert Wise's original failed.  Unfortunately, this movie doesn't innovate.This is your only spoiler warning...--Quoting from Melville and Dickens does't make a film smarter.  Likewise, a cast of TV actors doesn't keep a ship from sinking.--The visual style of this series is hampered by uncreative thinking.  Nearly everything is stolen from films or recycled from the original from footage to props and basic shot set-ups.--Even Horner's score either quotes Goldsmith from the original (he broke that trend for 'Aliens').  Bishop's Countdown can be heard in an earlier, weaker version.  Time hasn't been fair to Horner.--The design of the Genesis console is stolen from the Nostromo's self-destruct panel in 'Alien'.  Likewise the funeral at the end is a melodramatic version of Kane's.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"you have Got to be kidding me","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  My husband, just got the Special Edition of this movie and we are sitting here watching it. I can tell you one thing. William Shatner can not act. The movie would be a great movie if it didn't involve Shatner.  The man doesn't know how to act or be a team player.  Ever notice why some people (other actors) don't get a lot of speaking time, he (shatner) didn't think that they need it. The one and only thing that i can find wrong with this movie and all the Star Trek movies is William Shatner.  In my opinion Ricardo Montalban saved this movie.  "},{"Title":"Not as great as its all hyped up to be...","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am not saying this is a horrible film, its just not as good as other reviews have made it to sound.  Khan is not convincing as a superior intellect, the plot is somewhat thin, the acting is still reminiscent of the original TV series (ie nothing spectacular) and the action doesn't pick up until the climactic battle.  I am a fan of the Star Trek films (although not the original series, too campy, TNG all the way...but thats besides the point) so its not like I am bashing this film for the sake of bashing it.  I just do not believe it deserves all the accolades other reviewers on this website have given it.  Still, its a decent film to watch on a Saturday evening when there is nothing else to do, the effects are top notch (for the 80's that is, I somehow enjoy the mock-up models for special effects rather than CGI, just seems more fun) and the story is decent.Rating 3.25 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Cool and over the top","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After the failure of the first movie,  this proved to be a very good edition  to a series that was almost destroyed.  Ricardo Montalban is hammy as  usual, but the guy knows how to  sell an audience. The action was  solid, and the dialogue was sound.  The little sand creatures were especially cool, sending a real chill down my  spine. A cool movie to say the least. "},{"Title":"One of the Better in the Series","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Clearly not the best, but certainly one of the better of the Star Trek Franchise, Wrath of Khan has it all. Great villian, good effects, the demise of a key character and some vintage Kirk.This is a movie for non-Trekkies to enjoy. It does not dwell on too long and it maintains interest. It is probably the best known of the series primarily due to the title.Skip I and see this. A good, albeit forgettable, film. *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Pretty cool, but not the best","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A decent first sequel to it's superior(In my opinion)predecessor.!!!SOME SPOILERS!!! This time the Starship Enterprise is attacked by their old enemy, Khan. Good story, acting, and effects. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"More than just the best Star Trek film; a good sci-fi action outing.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Robert Wise & Company didn't quite get it right for Star Trek -- The Motion Picture.  Too many special effects, not enough interaction among the characters that multiple generations have come to love.  The Wrath of Khan fixes that problem, as well as presents a terrific plot building on the original series episode Space Seed.  Admiral Kirk and the crew of the Enterprise try to rescue Kirk's old flame, save the ultimate weapon, and stop Khan from taking over the universe.  William Shatner and Ricardo Montalbon chew the scenery to pieces, and everyone has great fun along the way.  Don't think too hard; just haul out the popcorn and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Pretty Good!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is certainly not the most brilliant Star Trekfilm but it certainly was enjoyable. The best Star Trekfilm is I think still First Contact. The latest installment insurrection was a bit of a disappointment, but than again it certainly was a typical Star Trekfilm.  What I really liked about this film was the computer-generated sequence. The Wrath of Kahn is maybe one of the first movies containing computer-generated images (according to the ILM-(Industrial Light and Magic)book I have it is). Furthermore I liked (as usual) the conversations between doctor Spock and captain Kirk. The Performances of all the actors and actresses were very good. The things I didn't like about the film were for the most part the meagre story and the many slow-pacing moments that occurred in the film. Nevertheless, a pretty good Star Trek episode!      "},{"Title":"Montalbonrich Corinthian leather AND a good performance too.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I agree with the rest here-this one really kick started the series; having much more in common with the feel and look of the original series. Good fX, fine Revenge plot, Montalban gives this film a great villain who can hammer away at the Enterprise with the best of them. Its too bad there aren't more in the series that are as tightly wound and as good; but there you go-its good!*** outta ****, rolls right along to #3... "},{"Title":"The second best Trek film","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wrath of Khan is an excellent film that is better than every Trek film, with the exception of Star Trek First Contact. This movie has action, special effects, a good story, a excellent villain and great space battles. A must see for both the fans and non-Trekkies. "},{"Title":"Much better than the first Star Trek movie","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This sequel at least had some action to it. The special effects are  impressive and Ricardo Montablan is a superb villain. "},{"Title":"Arguably the best in the Star Trek series!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time. I love Star Trek. I have seen all of them many times but one of MY favorites it a the second film,The Wrath of Khan! In MY opinion it has some of the best special effects ever seen even to this day! The battles between the ships,the the computer images,and space itself. Ricardo Montalban is great as Khan and is a excellent villan. James Horner`s score is terrific. All Star Trek fans,here is your movie! "},{"Title":"Marginally better than 'The Motion Picture'","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first 'Star Trek' film was a humourless and boring film that failed to transfer the TV series to the screen with any sense of adventure. It was too long, too ponderous, too interested in its dull new characters. The good news is that 'Star Trek II' fixes some of those mistakes. The bad news is - for me anyway, and I'm aware that this isn't the general consensus - I still find the film dull as hell.In the interest of full disclosure I should mention that I used to enjoy most iterations of 'Star Trek' but the whole thing bores the tits off me these days; that said, I never liked this movie even when I was the proud owner of a signed photo of Robert Beltran. The first few films are weirdly sterile, tucked in at the corners in terms of production design, plodding and self-conscious. They're frickin' tedious, is what. This one sequelises an episode of the TV show by bringing back one of its most famous villains it's Khan (Ricardo Montalban) from 'Space Seed', all wrathful because Kirk left him stranded on a planet years earlier. The planet was knocked out of orbit soon after Khan and his crew arrived, turning it into an inhospitable desert - and now Khan wants revenge.In an extraordinary stroke of luck for old Khan the only indigenous life on the planet is a mind-controlling worm, which comes in handy when a craft piloted by Chekov lands nearby; Khan plonks a worm in Chekov's ear and uses him to lure Kirk into a trap. Khan is also after the Genesis project, developed by Kirk's ex Carol and her son David (you probably know where this is going). And so the old adversaries face off and try to outwit each other in not very interesting ways, kicking off a three- movie arc that comes to a close in 'Star Trek IV'.Like the first movie, this spends far too much time making a meal out of scenes that could be told far more economically. Was it really necessary to spend the duration of an episode setting up Khan's plan and getting Kirk back on the bridge of the Enterprise? And like the first movie there's an emphasis on showing the Enterprise in the middle of shiny effects sequences without a strong plot to provide an interesting context. Ships shoot at each other a lot, yes yes. First Khan outwits Kirk and shoots at him. Then Kirk outwits Khan and shoots at him. Then Khan outwits Kirk and... you get the idea. Khan starts to look less like a fearsome adversary and more like a frustrated kid who isn't getting his own way, while Kirk's resolutions to every problem are too easy and limp. On the plus side, the regular cast get a lot more to do than in the first movie, and their characters are well written. The banter between Kirk, Spock and Bones livens things up a bit, and there are some nice moments between Spock and Vulcan trainee Saavik (Kirstie Alley). So it's a shame that the more interesting ideas in the movie don't really go anywhere, like the subplot with Kirk and David, which is so underwhelming they may as well not have bothered. And once Khan's plan gets underway, Montalban doesn't get much to do besides sit in a chair being so fiendish someone should have given him a waxed moustache to twiddle. It all does nothing for me at all. Sorry. "},{"Title":"Outdated and completely unlike the first Star Trek film (which is actually a bad thing)","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My views are in apparent minority but nevertheless I want to stress them out.Star Trek The Wrath of Khan is a film very different from its predecessor. To the point of being entirely different genre. Star Trek The Motion Picture was somewhat dull but ambitious, lagging but visually stunning, based on quite typical, but anyway interesting premise, resembling old science fiction stories. It was the slightly poorer cousin of 2001Space Odyssey. STTWK is nothing of these. It is a simple adventure movie accidentally placed in space. Its story has almost no SF elements, they are to be found only in movie's scenery. As a result it's difficult to compare both movies and I don't understand almost all such comparisons made here, on IMDb site. But personally I find STTMP superior in virtually all elements, including special effects and visuals (in the 1979 original one can really see the effort and its big budget).Putting original aside, and judging STTWK only by modern action-adventure standards I find it an extremely dated film. The acting is weird and/or weak, the main villain outright ridiculous. Khan's motivation is unconvincing, his actions mostly unintelligent (despite film's claims of his being 'superior'), he wears rags on bare chest and looks bizarre and hilarious at the same moment. The story is full of plot holes and, in the end, is utterly boring. One cannot care for neither relate to any of the main characters, even in the supposedly most emotional moments of the film.The Wrath of Khan may be possibly interesting for die-hard fans of Star Trek. However for SF fans, fans of action flicks and pretty much for everyone else it deserves to be forgotten.CAUTION POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERTNot to mention climactic his pattern indicates two-dimensional thinking scene, which is, as the whole movie, ridiculous. The Captain Kirk's final three-dimensional maneuver is as two-dimensional as it can really be. Khan is not showing two dimensional thinking, he is simply ignoring the third dimension existence! Pretty lame for a superior being of excellent intelligence. "},{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's funny to see that on most Trek-related movie lists Khan ranks #1. Even at the time of it's release I thought this film, while better than the first one, was over-rated and boring with only 4 notable scenes; the rest of the time you can fast-forward. 1) I wish the producers could have stuck with the facts. Why couldn't they have picked an actual character from the series to have been the mother of Kirk's son? Even Yeoman Rand could have changed careers and she would have been recognizable enough but the arbitrary creation of Carol and David Marcus was an unnecesary distraction. David comes across as pouty and I couldn't have cared less about this character even at the end. Also, everyone knows about the Chekhov mistake as Khan regonizes him when he wasn't even in the original episode. It would've been more interesting if it were Spock who had the animal implanted in him to see how he would've fought the power of suggestion and to see what Kirk would've done.2) Too much time is spent dwelling on the Kobyashi Maru. Who cares? I understand it sets up Kirk's desire not to lose but couldn't this have been done in a more interesting way? That way you don't need Lt. Saavik as much, a mistake nearly repeated in VI with the introduction of Lt. Valeris but at least she is put to much better use. 3) For all Spock's talk about Khan's intelligence, where is the evidence? Anybody could've captured the Reliant but the fact that he doesn't change the Reliant's access code, can't steer in the Nebula and can't fire a torpedo straight during the big fight scene doesn't support this. After the attack on the Enterprise when Kirk manages to lower Reliant's shields, who cares? Khan must surely know where the bridge of the Enterprise is from his study of the engineering charts (from Space Seed)so why waste time looking for the override? Just fire. He comes off as one-dimensional. What a waste of a good performance by Montalban. Maybe having Chippendale dancers as Khan's crew wasn't a bright idea after all. A note on Captain Terrell. A wasted performance by the late great Paul Winfield. He is nothing to Kirk so why does all of a sudden, he doesn't want to shoot Kirk? I understand Chekhov's reluctance since he served with him but who's Kirk to Terrell? Just another officer. Waste him and everyone gets bumped up in rank. Given what Khan does with the Genesis device, how is a whole planet (rocks, trees, lava and all) formed out of the Reliant? If life is destoyed in favor it's new matrix, shouldn't the Reliant just essentially be a tree-covered ship floating in space? Another thing that made me go hmmm, even at a young age. The 4 scenes worth watching The introduction of Khan, his attack on the Enterprise and how Kirk wiggles out of it, the great CGI presentation of the Genesis device and Spock's touching death scene/funeral. Maybe you can tack on the scences when Kirk discovers Regula-1's crew's fate and Khan's final Cpt. Ahab-esque speech. The latter is well worth it. This is not a bad film. I strongly believe it's overrated and it was disappointing to see the story not being tight and downright dull in spots. The action scenes and special effects are worth it. I just wish there was more wrath in this movie and less talk.  "},{"Title":"Marooned (light maroon)","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There isn't anything more pure than a good science fiction story or movie. Its just the thing, you know, for good storytelling. That's because it is explicitly abstract and we have learned how to accept the abstractions, to scurry the goofy elements into hidy holes, just like we do when seeing romantic movies. That allows the filmmaker greater latitude to impose cinematic expressions, or to bend the story to those streams which exploit the visual imagination.That's why I think Star Trek in all its incarnations is a beast that eats souls, that dulls the mind of whole generations. Its a curse, every element through and through excepting only the score. I saw this only because someone else dragged me to it, and I find it ever so much worse than I recall. That's only in part because the effects are extremely hokey by today's standards.This is essentially a movie about two spaceships fighting, led by two men who pretend to be complex. Ahab and Lear are enlisted in the attempt to add weight to these characters. Its beside the point that the effects are ghastly, and the acting is among the worst ever seen.Its because of how the thing was conceived, the decisions about abstractions that were made.Those decisions were made in the sixties and to support a TeeVee show, about 40 minutes with 20 minutes of obnoxious ads. That means the characters are cartoons and the stories are so simpleminded and the moral so accessible that any dummy would get it.So we have simple morality plays in the TeeVee show that were grafted onto the chickenwire skeleton. Yes, they dealt with social injustice and should get credit for it. But they dealt with it in such a superficial buzzword brevity that we are now paying for it, with many folks thinking that life really is described in Spock parables. And we have the American political tradition based on similar simples parables.That's carried over to the films, all of them. The fans would have it no other way, and even if they would have allowed some maturity or depth anywhere in the vicinity, you're still be stuck with the same actors, characters and spaceship escapes setup.I watch a lot of 50's science fiction and marvel that we took much of it seriously at the time. All these Trek films have now moved into a similar zone of campiness.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Decent science fiction sequel, which goes down a differentiating route to that of the first resulting in a functional enough actioner.","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The second Star Trek motion picture opts for more visual spectacle; action and conflict than the initial film from 1979 does. Most of the conflict and antagonism was rooted from within the Enterprise itself for a lot of Robert Wise's initial adaptation; arriving in the shape of uneasy comings together for an array of multicultural and ethical characters pulling through to save the planet, nicely masking and doubling-up as at once many-an actor's own off screen issues with partaking in said project as well as the necessary unease at venturing out into cinematic territory for the first time. Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is more interested in other things, namely a stone wall antagonist in the form of the titular Khan meaning action, reaction and conflict on a broader but less complicated scale is the order of the day. The sequel appears to be the more successful of the two films; no surprise, given that by the time it had been made big-budgeted American cinema had somewhat undergone a process of juvenalisation by way of numerous George Lucas and Steven Spielberg projects - audiences falling in accordingly with regards to their relationship towards the two Star Trek films. While it works to a degree, the feeling of the film being reactionary to both that of the first and to that of American films as pieces of 'entertainment' as a whole, is unshakable.William Shatner returns to the role of James Kirk, and following years of weaving in and out of deep space; fighting monsters; touching down on planets and partaking in space combat &#x96; he's beginning to feel his age. When the famous Mr. Spock beamed aboard The Enterprise early on into the first film, reading into Kirk's reaction as one representative of a wider context of not just the character's there in the scene, but Shatner's as well as the watching audience's as a whole, ought not be scoffed at. Furthermore, the interior clashing with the ship's doctor (DeForest Kelley's Bones McCoy) was perhaps representative of the larger extent of disagreements and clashing going on within the project as the Star Trek name was taken down different routes to what is more commonly known. Here, the self-referential content is evident in Kirk feeling his age in that he's old and experienced enough to monitor training programmes; feel nondescript about birthdays and make a clear distinction between what consists of a young and old crew, something that more broadly speaking is representative of Shatner's own experiencing of the entire Star Trek franchise. In doing the television show as well as the first film a few years ago, with all the baggage both before and after that came with Wise's 1979 effort, we've now made it here to the second entry and it seems he's beginning to feel his age too.The film sees Kirk and his crew of the usual suspects do battle against Ricardo Montalban's Khan, and his own crew, whose rough attire and generally unshaven appearance mimic that of their leader; Kirk's smart and much more formal crew thus representative of those of a far more civilised disposition. Khan's titular wrath is one he's been saving for Kirk and The Enterprise and stems from an old back-story involving deception and conflict which ended in the leaving of him for dead on a barren planet of high winds and expansive desert; a locale which has since killed his wife and many of his friends. An interesting political allegory linked to more recent times, namely The Middle East, arrives in the form of Khan; his character, upon the first encounter, quite literally unveils himself by way of peeling back some facial garments which is highly representative of an Islamic sort. His presence in a cinematic space resembling a desert that he inhabits with a large group of guerrilla followers are further items, the being 'left short' by Starfleet and its imperialistic nature even more-so; whereas even his name, Khan, appears to have roots of an Islamic nature further-still based around said area on Earth.The content follows when it transpires Khan wouldn't mind it at all if he got his hands on a piece of equipment called Genesis, eventually rendered somewhat of a MacGuffin, which an isolated space station named Regula I is developing; an operation headed up by one of Kirk's former flames in a certain Carol Marcus (Besch). The item is essentially a WMD, something that is able to wipe out all prior existence on a planet so as to re-tune them to the beholder's new order; in Regular I's case empty, dead planets into plush Edens so that life can flourish - in the hands of Khan, most probably the other way around. The hopping about and gamesmanship by the time Khan is up and airborne is pretty good fun, the film keeping a reign on all the darting around and moulding in the expansion of its characters quite well in that when certain people are in peril or facing death, we care and we're sufficiently enough involved.The Wrath of Khan is most certainly geared more towards action and spectacle as major points of interest rather than ideas and reasoning acting as such; this edition seeing its characters settle things with violence and conflict at the demands of a vengeful character rather than suspicious objects which require inspection and deliberation. It isn't a bad film, just a romping space adventure which doesn't outstay its welcome and does what it needs to do; effectively changing gears when certain dramatic events take centre stage. A digital readout sequence towards the end is a little confusing, in that why it isn't set for the amount of time in seconds it takes to say From Hell's heart, I stab at thee..., I'll never know. Regardless, by the end we've come away feeling fairly nourished; enjoyed the film and if you're as new to Star Trek as I am, pondered where the series might venture next. "}{"Title":"continuity errors and other things.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Every movie has errors in it and Wrath of Khan is no different. Khan couldn't have recognized Chekov in the movie since Chekov had not yet appeared in the series when Space Seed was made. Another thing that has caused me to wonder is the appearance of a sun for Genesis to orbit after the planet was created. The whole premise was that the Genesis Device could reorder matter so that new life is created. First they said nothing about it being able to create planets when none were there to start with. Second How did The Genesis Device create a new sun? There was no sun there before. Yet everyone in the movie goes on as if these are ordinary results of setting off the Device. I am extremely troubled about these last 2 things, still the movie is a good movie. "},{"Title":"KHANt help but like this movie!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Wrath of Khan is widely excepted as one of the very good Star Trek movies and i cant help but agree. I have forgoten how i felt when i first saw this film but even now it leaves a lump in the throat so then it must have had more of an affect on my considering at the time we never knew that Spock was to return. Like Star Trek The Motion Picture i have to yet again say how dated the film looks compared to it's counterpart Star Wars but dont think this is as bad as the first Star trek film because it isn't. The acting is better , there is actually a storyline this time ,and a good one at that . I'm not sure about kirsty Alley in this, she somehow does not fit the Star Trek criteria and like in the first movie they have tried to spice the film up by adding an extra female member of the crew. Each are highly forgetable.  All in all an entertaining movie. 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Exciting and watchable Star Trek movie...","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  1st watched 5/12/2001 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-Nicholas Ray) Exciting and watchable Star Trek movie with the regular old-timer TV show cast with new faces, and an old enemy in Khan(Ricardo Montalban), who has the best lines and has the best performance in the film.  Slow beginning that picks up when Khan appears, and a little bit hokey of an ending with Spock saving the day by sacrificing himself.  All in all it's just good Star Trek fun !! "},{"Title":"On par with the underrated first film","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" So here I continue into the previously unexplored universe that is Star Trek. After being pleasantly surprised by the first instalment, I was looking forward to the second offering, in part as I had heard that this was in fact the best of the bunch. However, I find that this film offers much of the same as the first, not really surpassing in any way. The action is muted, the acting is unappealing, but the idea is interesting. This was the difference between the two warring space franchises; the Star Wars saga is fast and fantastical; Star Trek tends to be slower, but has it's narrative ideas firmly placed within science.Star Trek II begins with Kirk (William Shatner) believing he is too old to command a ship (I feel the retirement element of the original cast will be a theme for the rest of their movie outings), but is taken on a mission due to him already being on an inspection of the Starship Enterprise. A project called Genesis is being undertaken, but after surveying planets, Mr Chekov (Walter Koeing) and Captain Terrel (Paul Winfield), are infected with a parasite that controls their minds, by Khan (Ricardo Montalban), who had been abandoned on the desolate planet 15 years previously by Captian Kirk. Khan wants revenge.The interesting science behind the movie is its theme of evolution. The Genesis project will be able to create life on uninhabitable rocks. This accelerates the evolutionary process and creates life in hours. Yet again, Star Trek offers an interesting idea. Perhaps because my expectations were a little higher for this best offering, but I found it to be flawed but a little bit of subdued fun. The film also offers some very decent model work and special effects (including one of the first computer generated images (CGI).www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Yes We Khaaaaan!","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Can we find anyone in the galaxy who can chew more cheese on screen than James Tiberius Kirk? Yes We Khan! In STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN, Ricardo Montalban (as Khan Noonien Singh) joins the regular cast of three actors (Shatner, Nimoy, Kelley) and four extras posing as actors (Doohan, Takei, Koenig, Nichols) in the feature film sequel to their TREK television episode of 1967, Space Seed. In that episode, Kirk stranded Khan on some distant planet, which requires hefty exposition by Khan when Chekov accidentally discovers him and his Chippendale minions on said planet.Khan was so mad after that clunky exposition, he shoved monster puppet earwigs into Chekov's ears. Paul Winfield, as Starfleet Captain Terrell also gets the earwigs, and a dose of rare Action Figure for standing so close to Chekov. The earwigs turn Chekov and Terrell into Manchurian Candidates, for when they meet Kirk later...Khan steals the Genesis Device, a terraforming instrument that Kirk's son and ex-lover have created, and which for some reason, Khan believes will provide him with some kind of ultimate power - other than making a planet habitable...Directed and co-written by Nicholas Meyer, WRATH is 100-percent better than its predecessor; a real movie, not an experiment in making a TV show look like a feature film.Of course, Spock dies. Wha--? After a studio leak over that plot point caused untold fan uproar, Nick Meyer and his co-writers, Harve Bennett, Jack Sowards, Samuel Peeples and (nominally) Gene Roddenberry, decided to kill off the whole crew in a simulated opening sequence called Kobayashi Maru (proving that even in the 23rd century, there IS no Keyser Soze).Kirstie Alley joins the Enterprise crew as Vulcan Saavik (during that period in Earth's history when she was skinny and hot); Spock has been promoted to Captain, and Captain Kirk is still kicked upstairs as Admiral. Titles matter not in Starfleet, it seems, as any time the original 1966 Enterprise crew want to fly off together - they just do.This time, in pursuit of Khan to retrieve the Genesis Device, which can terraform in minutes rather than millennia. There is an interesting moment as Bones argues with Spock against the Device, according to myth, the Earth was created in six days... For those christians who refuse to hear it, he actually said myth in reference to the bible. There's hope for humanity yet.Kirk meets his fey son, David (Merritt Butrick), swishing about the science space station like Peter Frampton, with his mother who looks like Dee Wallace (Bibi Besch), one of Kirk's old flames, now on slow boiler. Uncomfortable family issues ensue...Khan is genetically engineered to be homo superior - but somehow I don't think he'd mind too much if we dropped the superior suffix, what with his contingent of body-oiled, feather-haired extras who look like refugees from a Pat Benatar video, his gloriously shaved chest-prosthetic (which everyone claims is real - from Meyer to Shatner to Paramount), and his gorgonzola cheese theatrical flourishes.Adding to his ambiguously-hetero mien, he insists on quoting Melville and other classics as if he's wearing an ascot and not a prosthetic chest (which I'll believe is real once I've wrapped my teeth around those nipples). Refusing to be outdone chewing scenery by someone with such a thick Fantasy Island accent, Shatner sets some kind of Richter Scale record for melodrama so funny we can't even laugh at it, with his monumental, head-shakingly furious, Khaaaan! Khan and Kirk have their final battle royale in a starship dogfight to end all plastic toy starship dogfights - in a fish tank injected with dye-in-water effects posing as a nebula.Like all great villains, Khan believes any day is A Good Day to Die, and goes out with a bang by exploding the Genesis Device on his ship while quoting Melville, but I wonder how did his ship become a planet when it blew up? But then comes the Death in the Family, super contrived as it may be Trying to outrace the Genesis blast, the ever-inefficient Scotty can't provide enough power to the Enterprise, so Spock dives into the Reactor Room to Do Something with the Glowing Something which will Fix Something and allow them to Escape The Blast. The McGuffin successful, now Spock can do his Tragic Acting with KFC skin taped to his face to signify Something Fatal and die face to face with his best buds unable to touch him through the perspex, eliciting reciprocal Tragic Acting from Kirk, who doesn't have to be asked twice.It's what Shakespeareans and Kurosawans would call A Good Death, a Warrior's Death, and brings a tear to the third eye, as Spock immortalizes the concept, The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few. Or the one. During the funeral, as Scotty plays Amazing Grace on the bagpipes and they shoot Spock's casket at the Genesis Planet, Kirk attains Untold Heights of Melodramatic Overacting, Of my friend, I can only say this of all the souls I have encountered in my travels, his was the most... human. And thus the fanboys were left, all those years ago, pondering at the last shot of the photon torpedo encasing Mr. Spock, having landed amongst the primordial Genesis greenery (without any signs of a landing approach tract, just looking like it was dumped amidst the ferns, which it was, by the science-minded producers), few realizing that Nimoy himself was instrumental in the decision to kill off Spock due to irreconcilable differences between TREK creator Roddenberry, himself and the studio.He wanted to be free of the green-blooded ties that bound him to that character. He did, after all, pen that 1975 book, I Am Not Spock.How wrong he was...--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"Twice as good as the original","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is an improvement over the original.  Thus again, my friend Dwight, sister, and her boy friend Scot McDonald went to see this one.  I thought Kahn was great, and the attack on Kirk was excellent.  The worms in ears, and the big blast for the ending where the right ingredients for this film.  In-between battles, the over stretched dialogue, and sub stories bog down this film, but do not kill it.  Worth watching 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good as a genre movie and for its time but honestly nothing to get all that excited about.","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Maybe I'm just crazy but I wasn't all that taken by this much loved Star Trek movie. And yes, I'm perfectly capable of liking other Star Trek movies and series! The main criticism for the first Star Trek movie, which was also this movie its predecessor, was that it was mostly a boring one. Well, I can't really say that this movie is much of an improvement. Boring is perhaps a harsh word but it's definitely a movie with slower moments in it and not all that much action or other excitement.Besides, the story is being a bit too simplistic and straightforward, though it still tries hard to be clever about it all. It also lacked some good depth, which prevented me from feeling involved with this movie or with any of its characters. The emotional scenes therefore also fell quite flat for me.It also aways confuses me as to why the Star Trek movies keep on introducing new characters in them, while the movies already had plenty of returning characters in them. This movie also introduces some new characters, that in the long run add very little to this actual movie. And Khan...well, I guess he's a good enough villain but I did wish the actor Ricardo Montalban who played him wouldn't had gone so over-the-top with it. His overacting is worse than Shatner's, at times.There is still no need and reason to completely bash this movie into the ground though. I do admit that for its time this was simply being a good, high quality, science-fiction adventure movie. The genre at time still wasn't one that was being taken all that seriously and of course the technology was also still somewhat lacking to create a good and convincing science-fiction movie with. This movie however is being quite good and convincing to watch and everyone involved took their jobs seriously, so the movie actually does work out well within the realms of its genre.Good for what it is but hardly the best Star Trek movie I have ever seen.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"So Bad It's Good","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan should be a terrible movie. It has all the requisite ingredients for badness bad dialogue, gaping plot holes, and over the top acting. However, it succeeds in spite of these issues, and not only on a camp level. With a genuinely moving ending, Star Trek II moves past its humorous flaws to provide an entertaining film.Let's get the campy parts out of the way first. This film has some genuine clunkers for dialogue, not the least the infamous Khaaaan!!! scene. Furthermore, it is a veritable orgy of scenery chewing, with William Shatner and Ricardo Montalban overacting hilariously, to the point that they crowd out most of the cast. The central macguffin of the movie, the Genesis device, is scientifically implausible even by Star Trek standards, and its method of operation is inconsistent throughout the movie. (Through most of the film, the device only creates conditions necessary for life to flourish, which has to be transplanted to the planet. At the end of the film, the device appears to actually create life forms.)In a sense, these issues embody all that fans love and hate about the Star Trek franchise. On one hand, it is fun to watch with both intentional and unintentional humor. On the other hand, Kirk and Spock, along with Khan in the film, crowd out the other characters. This is an issue notable in other Star Trek franchises, particularly Voyager.However, the climax and the ending, if rather drawn out, make it come together. They inject a level of sadness and tragedy into the film that are unexpected and, frankly, undeserved. Although the following sequels undermine this pathos (and Star Trek Nemesis blatantly rips it off), it is still moving. "},{"Title":"Revenge is a dish best served... in SPACE!!!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First, I found the 'warp speed' completely unrealistic. I've seen warp speed before, and you may rest assured that it looks NOTHING like that. When Data used that light saber on the ice monster it looked so fake. Also, who made Spock a Captain? Has Lando Calrissian gone completely mad? (You rock, Billy Dee!) Also, to all the space-babes out there, have any of you ever considered being in space porn? No gravity. Think about it. Also, the addition of the Clone War led me to believe that Khan was a clone himself. Is he supposed to represent George Lucas, who cloned the Star Trek idea, and made those other movies? What a loser. Try and original idea once in a while, weirdo. And shave that beard! Also, Spock should've worn an earring, to reflect that Star Trek is hip, and up-to-date. You rock, my space brothers and sisters! This is the captain, signing out! Beam me away, Worf!!! "},{"Title":"Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first Motion Picture was most likely a big hit for science-fiction lovers and Trekkies all over the world, so a sequel was pretty inevitable. Basically Admiral James T. Kirk (William Shatner) (apparently in the middle of a nervous breakdown) on the U.S.S. Enterprise is instructing new recruits, with Captain Spock (Leonard Nimoy) acting as cadet training officer. While there are also mention of the Project Genesis experiment, which has something to do with long lasting life, Mr. Chekov (Walter Koenig) and Capt. Clark Terrell (The Terminator's Paul Winfield) has been sent to an inhabited planet where they discover the remains of crashed ship Ceti Alpha VI. The two of them are then captured by a group of villains, under the command of returning TV series character Khan Noonian Singh (Ricardo Montalban). He has returned, stolen the U.S.S. Reliant, and plans both to get his revenge on Kirk and steal the Genesis Device in a surprise attack. After numerous zaps of lasers, explosions on both spacecrafts, Khan is eventually defeated when he decides to try and explode the Reliant and get the Enterprise at the same time. But also, while getting away from the explosion, Spock is forced to sacrifice himself in a radiation chamber with the Genesis torpedo, and his body in a casket is blasted onto the planet Genesis. Also starring DeForest Kelley as Dr. Leonard Bones McCoy, James Doohan as Cmdr. Montgomery Scotty Scott, George Takei as Mr. Sulu, Nichelle Nichols as Cmdr. Uhura, Merritt Butrick as Dr. David Marcus and Bibi Besch as Dr. Carol Marcus. The first film was really chatty and had almost no spectacle or action, and this sequel is a much better example of how a TV show can be turned into a great film. I may not have understood the full story, but for the great laser and spaceship battles, a good villain in Montalban, and some good moments with Nimoy, it is a likable science-fiction adventure. Star Trek was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Mr. Spock was number 23 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters. Good! "}{"Title":"Ersatz;good as a B movie or as an episode","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Wrath of Khan looks like it is the extended version of an episode (and maybe indeed it is,I don't yet know).But the movies need to be evaluated by other criteria than those useful for TV shows.The material of this movie is that of an ...one hour show. Correlative,the cinematographic thinking behind The Wrath ... keeps being that of the TV shows,no transformation occurs.It is a TV show made for the cinema,a TV film format.(Well,this may be just enough for some people;I'm not one of those happy many.)This is as if one would try to make a novel with the material and the plot of a short story.It is a question of proportions.This is why Star Trek II looks very worn out and poorly.But it's also very enjoyable as a B movie. "},{"Title":"This is not Star Trek","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"15 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie many years ago, and then it was good, or at least ok. Recently I have seen the entire first three seasons of The Next Generation on DVD, and compared to those, this doesn't even qualify as Star Trek to me. It deals with none of the deep philosophical questions the TNG crew is confronted with in almost every episode, and the acting is much worse. It is strange to me how this movie can be rated as the best star trek movie. "},{"Title":"One Of The Worst...","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I found this installment of the Star Trek movies to be depressing, disgusting, and not in the true spirit of Star Trek.   Sure, all great sagas have to have their dark points, but this  just didn't seem to be Star Trek to me.  Ricardo Montalban brings the films only high points, and Spock's death is proved meaningless in the third movie.   "},{"Title":"OMG acting-SPOILER","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" To properly enjoy this movie and to achieve the proper state of mind required to truly appreciate special effects and lively banter between Bones and Kirk, I will neither confirm nor deny if I toked up, got baked, tripped out, did a bump, torched up, went to a safety meeting, joked a smoint, got weird, got sh!tfaced, got small, got pis sed or pie eyed. Neither will I admit to whether or not I doctor-shopped, powdered my nose, tripped balls, rode the white horse, puffed puffed passed, huffed, bogarted, got stucking foaned, got tanked, tight, oiled, blown away, corked, stewed, buzzed, fried, half lit, soused, blotto, bombed, loaded, crocked, 3 sheets to the wind, juiced, cock-eyed, saw pink elephants, felt no pain, was in the bag or got instant zen. Maybe or maybe not did I tipple, snort, guzzle, lap up, wet my whistle, inhale the devil's dandruff or Peruvian flake, smoke a spliff, blunt, peace pipe, kind bud, nuggets or the chronic. I cannot recall if I popped, dropped or otherwise ingested any reds, yellow jackets, whippets, roofies or ludes. Note that if I did agree with a common theme that is assumed by the Trekopshere it is coincidental. A series of random notes. Kirstie Alley is a bad actor. Spock rules. Kirstie Alley is really, really bad. Wow special effects have come a long way in 30 years. Good thing William Shatner still has that girdle. Wow, William Shatner seems really smug. Industrial grade ego. Wow how super macho, war masks on the wall. Oh cool, the ship numbers are getting bigger. Oh my god it's the kid in square pegs. Kirk would not have put the shields down, who wrote this stuff?Khan looks like a lesbian to me. OMG red collar must equal red shirt, he's dead. I don't know how I am going to get through this movie it is so unbelievably hokey. The sick bay scene is so unrealistic I laughed out loud. That rat weighs about 12 pounds and looks like someone's pet. This is the special effects team who put in the lowest bid. Kirstie Alley-'That was close'- dust off your shelf for the Oscar. Oh she's supposed to be a Vulcan!! I get it. But she still sucks as an actor. This movie should be called 'The Kirk/Khan Pis sing Contest I shall avenge you? Seriously, who wrote this? I am finding it hard to be objective. I am expecting to see the special effects by 'Alan Smithee' All this science and the big dramatic button is a plain white doorbell. A tied sweater around his neck? OMG I can't take it. This director should be publicly hanged then shot then dissolved in a plastic tub of acid 'Breaking Bad' style. OMG acting. How did they all keep straight faces during this? Amazing Grace at the funeral? You have got to be kidding me. Leonard Nimoy is Jewish. If I was Spock I would have jumped out a portal just to get away the ham smell from William Shatner. He probably hopes he stays dead. "},{"Title":"Good But Copycat Sequel","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan**1/2 (out of 4)112 mins/ 12Cast William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, James Doohan, George Takei, Nichelle Nichols, Bibi Besch, Kirstie Alley, Ricardo MontalbanDirector Nicholas MeyerPlot With his old crew on a training exercise, Admiral Kirk is forced to do battle with his old rival, Khan.JJ's Verdict On the surface, 'Wrath of Khan' seems the perfect sci-fi film. From a cool film opening, to its humour, likable protagonists, good special effects, a brilliant villain and an epic score. However, all of these just seem an imitation of a far superior film series Star Wars. The first entry in the Star Trek series, although had its faults, at least had its own style unlike this. This doesn't mean it isn't a bad film, however. Yet again the entire crew put in commanding performances and William's Shatner portrayal of an ageing Kirk is probably his best. The film also has better sound and visual effects and ups the suspense, most notable in the film's first and last half an hour. Ricardo Montalban puts in a performance only second in his career to 'The Naked Gun', in terms of sheer entertainment. His character, Khan, is terrifying and ruthless and Montalban adds a brilliant sophistication to his character with his charming Mexican accent. In this film, as a viewer, you get a better sense of the threat to the Enterprise crew. Despite these positives, the films middle section is painfully slow and despite having a fairly simple plot, its ending, however satisfying it may be, is awfully confusing. It is a huge disappointment that the supposed space battle is very tame and that there is no final confrontation between Kirk and Khan. Probably better than its predecessor and clever in parts, 'Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is just an attempt at copying the style that is so loved in George Lucas' 'Star Wars'. "},{"Title":"Not good, not good at all","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  BAD Trek film.  The entire show focused on revenge - one of the worst parts of human nature - and was totally 100% against the grain of the ideals of Star Trek.  It still had good acting and special effects, but for me the story was a desecration of all things Trek.  It was a very interesting film - if you could forget that the characters are supposed to be kind and loving, and not war-mongers.  I would still rather watch this than most cr*p that Hollywood puts out, but it is, and always will be, at the bottom of my Trek film list. "},{"Title":"This film stoops to the level of Star Wars.","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There is no doubt that the entertainment value for a shoot 'em up plot is there, and people will pay good money see that...but that is not what Star Trek is all about.  The director did an awful job on controlling Shatner's ego by letting that comment I don't think these kids can steer, make it to the screen.  Even in today's armed forces, no good leader would ever utter an expression like that. The film didn't appeal to any mature leader. Every mature leader of today knows that an adversary with a personal vendetta to launch, can cause excess casualties.  Would you serve on the Enterprise if your captain had enemies all over space or the open seas, waiting to get him? Come on.... No wonder Spock eventually leaves Star Fleet.  The plot was very good, but poorly written.  Kirk's character was filled with weakness that made him unsuitable for command. The final death scene with Spock was very dramatic and moving.  McCoy and Scotty's roles were underutilized.  Lt. Saavik (Kirstie Alley) was youthful, but weak, and also underutilized. Dr. Carol Markus (Bibi Besch) injected some of the most positive character in the film, and nearly stole the lead.  Much more could have been done with her to help the plot, if Shatner didn't have so much weakness to keep in check.  Looking back on the whole movie shows where Star Trek has grown from.  The New Generation rectified much of the flaws left from the Original Series.  The Wrath of Kahn was among the Original Series worst dramas. This film would appeal to a child with an empty imagination to fill.              "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I just saw Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan for the first time. It had a lot of faulty logic in it. It felt like a bad sixties B-movie.1) Why didn't Chekov get beamed up as soon as he was in danger? 2) Why didn't they happen weapons? 3) How could Khan have survived with those people so many years on a decrepit planet? 4) How could Khan's men just take over a starfleet ship? They are clearly outnumbered and outgunned. 5) How could Khan and his men know how to fly a starfleet ship? Wouldn't they have security measures to use things on the ship? 6) How did Khan have time to go the science station and kill all those people? 7) Why wouldn't the enterprise have its shield up at all times? What if they got shot out of nowhere? 8) When Khan is beaming up the genesis, the Star Trek crew has a good 15 seconds to move that out of the way. Instead, Kirk yells Khan! for 15 seconds. 9) What was Khan's plan with the genesis? How would he even know how to use it?Bad Acting-wise1) Chekov and that black guy. Especially, the black guy when he is resisting killing Kirk. 2) Khan is hokey a lot of the time. 3) People saying their last words, then dying. 4) Kirk's yelling of Khan! was as bad as Darth Vader yelling No! in Episode III. "},{"Title":"Where was McCarthy when we needed him?","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love science-fiction but Star Trek never seemed to work for me. If anything it was too sanitised for my taste. So, I never saw more than five minutes at a time of it. I heard that if I wanted to learn to appreciate Star Trek, I could best start with The wrath of Khan. The other day, for the first time, I sat through a complete Star Trek movie. Alas, without a positive result.The story is not much and the characters and sets are made out of cardboard. The villain could have really shone in this setting of holier than the pope dogoodies but unfortunately he was nothing more than a middle-aged He-man or Conan with a son who is a combination of He-man and Donny Osmond. Things were hilarious when they were not supposed to be. On top of that it had me asking questions like Why could the delegation that was beamed to a planet not be beamed back when they were in danger of being captured by bad guys?, Why did the good guys not move the genesis device a little bit when Khan was planning to beam the device up but only knew its co-ordinates?, Why did the good guys not look out of the window when an enemy vessel was not visible on their screens because of some interference from a nebula?. The camera viewpoint showed clearly that the enemy vessel was all too obvious to see with the naked eye and what ever happened to radar, anyway. It just made me feel silly watching it. The only positive point I can think of was that for the first time in my life I actually thought Kirstie Alley was quite hot which was a revelation.There was graffiti and vandalism in Roman times, it is here today and it will be there in the future but not in Star Trek. There is no boredom, unemployment or money. I don't know if anyone ever noticed this but Star Trek is communists in space. And, though, communism is one of greatest political systems ever devised on paper it does not work because, for example, people have ambitions of their own. In Star Trek I just saw drones. This movie was made in 1982, a time when movies like Star wars, Blade runner and Alien were already made. Star Trek and its ideology belong firmly in the fifties. McCarthy would have burned them at the stake, though.Independent of any Star Trek knowledge this is supposed to be good science-fiction. Not so, in my opinion, this movie is cheesy and not up to par. If you think you are not a Trekkie based on five minutes of footage then don't bother watching any more. Liking Star Trek is not an acquired taste but a talent. For all the untalented viewers 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Uhhh...","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First off I must say that I consider virtually everything done under the Star Trek moniker including ALL the films and ENDLESS TV spinoffs to be at best nothing but juvenile sci-fi and at worst, the most blatant example of hack writing, production, direction, and acting ever foisted off as legitimate sci-fi. Basic problem with the series is that it limits it scope by always having to be tied to the Federation especially a ship and its crew. They are all obviously written to appeal to no more then a 10 year olds intelligence level.I can ONLY recall a couple episodes that perhaps stand out (God knows I have NOT seen them all - I quit wasting my time years ago) - Arena and Doomsday Machine (was that the title?). Arena astounded me as it is based on my favorite S-F short story by my favorite author...IF YOU WANT AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT REAL SCI-FI IS LIKE, READ IT SOMETIME AND IMAGINE WHAT IT WOULD BE LIKE FILMED EXACTLY AS WRITTEN.Roddenberry tried but obviously had to adapt it to the SFX and budget he had at the time. I give him credit for his occasional choice of good source material however.Anyway as for The Wrath... (I liked Mad magazines parody better (The Wreck of Khan). Gosh they really tried hard to make an exciting film (especially after the BIG disappointment of TMP) but alas...Does it make sense that the Captain (or in this case Admiral was it?), in fact supposedly the very BEST commanding officer of the top Star Ship of the Federation would carry around enough emotional baggage to keep 3 or 4 shrinks busy ( seems Bones was always psycho-analyzing him)? Man what a screwup! Conveniently violates Star Fleet rules at the outset and jeopardizes the whole ship and crew. Sheeesh.Overacting abounds in this mish-mash of space swashbuckling. If I was an actor, I think I'd be ashamed to admit I was in this film (or any others like it). This film is so full of illogical plot elements, flaws, and plain laughable scenes that I won't bother trying to list them all here. I take it there were no Academy Awards nominations for this film which tells you something. Talk about a clash of the egos - Kirk vs. Khan. Ricky Montalban overplays the uber-evil Khan to the max! God, anybody seething with that much hate inside would have burned himself up long ago. I think any serious actor would laugh their ass off when Khan (his face all torn to ****) looks into the camera and spouts From Hell's Heart I spit at thee! For Hate's Sake, I breath my last breath at thee!!!! (or something like that).Give it a rest pal!Perhaps he should have added Have a nice day!. "}{"Title":"Too Many Problems","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler Alert TNN showed Star Trek II Wrath of Khan last Tuesday.  I forced myself to watch again, this time to document the many obvious problems with this movie.  It is beyond belief to me that this movie is generally considered to be the best of the ten Trek films, and I want to take a moment to dispute that claim.  Some of these issues have been addressed before, in discussions raised here and elsewhere.  I apologize for the repetition, but I choose to include them because I want this to be a complete summary1) I never forget a face, says Khan to Chekov.  And, yet, in Space Seed Khan never saw Chekov.  The argument is sometimes advanced that we can assume it happened off-camera.  You may advance; I will not accept.  We either have canon, or we don't.  If we do, let the rules be applied equally to all Trek.  If it ain't on camera, it never happened.  Khan never saw Chekov2) When Chekov realizes the danger he and Terrell are in, he dons his helmet and leaves the cargo hold.  Uh, whatever happened to emergency beamout? He should have been reaching for a communicator.  If we are expected to believe these people are Starfleet personnel, they might act like it once in awhile.3) Other transporter issues  Kirk and Company board the Enterprise for the Admiral's inspection via a shuttlecraft instead of using a transporter? Obviously, so we can get the beautiful panorama of the Enterprise in space dock. I thought it was bad form for movies to so transparently speak to their audiences, even non-verbally, and this isn't the only such problem I saw.4) In the Mutaran nebula, shields and sensors are inoperative, and visibility is almost zero.  Yet, we, the audience, can see every movement of the two ships with crystal clarity?  Uh, hunh ..5) Other problems with the Mutaran nebula special effects  in one of the scenes there was a vortex, a rather poorly visualized one at that.  We are supposed to believe this is a black hole, apparently.  I doubt we know, at this point, what's inside a nebula, but in my view, a vortex is a pretty poor guess.6) In another Mutaran nebula visual, this gossamer filament kinda just hangs there.  Would have been nice to have that filament be between us and one of the ships.  It would have been more effective in persuading me the two ships were actually inside a nebula.  As is, the Mutaran nebula sequence here presents no better than the special effects in ST V.7) In the space dock departure sequence, Saavik engages the maneuvering thrusters, and then orders the ship to one quarter impulse?   I've heard of a lead foot, but this is ridiculous.  I noticed the movie had a science advisor, a Dr. Richard Green.  He must have been sleeping here.  No one else appears to have a clue here as well.8) Revenge is a dish best served cold, says Khan at one point.  How does Khan know Klingon proverbs?  He's been in suspended animation for 200 years, and then marooned on a lifeless planet for the last fifteen.9) Speaking of that planet, Khan says at one point that it has only one indigenous life form  What did that creature live on, love and air? What did the crew of the Botany Bay live on for fifteen years?   We can assume the BB grew food in hydroponic gardens, or recycled their own waste, or something ..but no animal life survives without food, and this creature didn't have any.10) Khan says also that Ceti Alpha *6* exploded.  There is no doubt here Ceti Alpha *Six*  Yet Chekov and Terrell beam down to Ceti Alpha 5 thinking it was 6. Shouldn't they have beamed down to Ceti Alpha *7*?11) Khan never forgets a face, but Chekov cannot seem to remember what happened to the Botany Bay in time to warn his captain about Khan?  Yes, he thinks Khan is on the next planet over, if he remembers him at all.  Yet, the reaction when he realizes his danger, suggests to me that he should have remembered before the beamdown, and said something12) Khan refers to my beloved wife at one point, which statement seems out of character.  The only thing beloved by Khan was Khan.13) The Enterprise is sent to investigate the Regula space station with a crew of trainees, because Kirk says it is the only ship in the quadrant. Oh, really?  Should have been the only ship in the sector, or the ship capable of reaching Regula the quickest, or something.  This is sloppy.14) There are technobabble labels throughout the Regula space station. Two I caught were synthostasis which is meaningless, and thermonics  They might have meant thermionics, which is unlikely.  Perhaps, they meant thermotics.  In any case, here is at least the third example where the Science Advisor or Production Staff had no clue.15) That brings to mind some of the other images of rheostats turning and buttons being pushed and switches being thrown.  TNG's tactile instrumentality makes this stuff look hopelessly crude.16) The relationship with Carol Marcus was never mentioned on TOS.  I vacillate on whether I believe the two were married, but that relationship is by far the most committed, fulfilling, and evolved of Kirk's life. It's inconceivable that it was never mentioned.  I'm aware, of course, that it never existed in TOS. Which knowledge makes it hard for me to accept seeing it here.  Although I will say that the emotional subcontext dramatized here between Kirk and Marcus is enough to put to rest forever any claims among slashers that he is gay..17) I had claimed elsewhere that the Genesis device was a big, overgrown ray gun, a contrived sci-fi element as old as the genre.  It is not.  It is a wave generating device, and if the visuals at the end of TWOK are to be believed, an omni-directional one of fixed range. Yet in its first use in the movie it appears to be a projectile.  Which is it?  If it's a wave, there are problems with the wave pattern generated, for that pattern appears to spread as range from the source increases. Meaning, it is impossible to use because any user winds up like Khan, or it spreads so quickly, it is inconceivable it could be still effective over any range as small as say the distance between earth and the moon.18) More discussion about transporters.  Saavik used the transporter on the Regula station.  How did she get to the cavern below-ground?  We can assume an auto-beamout or a timed beamout, but this should have been addressed.19) In one scene, someone aboard the Enterprise asks them to provide coordinates for beamout.  The Enterprise had the coordinates, or could get them by locking on to the communicators.   I would be interested in knowing, too, how it is even possible for a landing party to furnish beamout coordinates.  The Enterprise could use sensors to detect them and calibrate from sensor readings, placing them in a position relative to their surroundings.  The landing party could provide their position with respect to the Enterprise, or the Enterprise's position with respect to them, but this would be of no use for transport.  Yet another case of science advisor asleep at the switch.20) In the cat and mouse game at Regula, Scott says that auxiliary power is restored, but that they have barely enough for transporters. Transporters are rather low energy systems.  This does not compute.21) I've discussed the death of Spock at length, saying it was unbelievable because of story-external knowlege, namely, Nimoy posturing that he doesn't want to do Trek anymore.  It has other problems Kirk pushes a crewman out of the way to get to the ladder to go to the chamber where Spock is dying. I guess this was to show his haste, and that he considered it important. I thought it was cheap, gratuitous, and unnecessary.22) In Spock's dying soliloquy, he mentions that he never took the Kobiyashi Maru test.  However, he did graduate from Starfleet, and all Starfleet cadets are required to take the test.   Maybe, he was sick that day.  Or, skipped class.24) Minor quibbles.  I didn't like the music, the credits font was mediocre, to be kind, and Spock looked like my great-great gandmother in the dress he wore in the meditation sequence in his quarters.Final thoughts  if TWOK is the best of the Trek movies with all of these problems, then the others are sad, indeed, and we deserve the disdain of non-Trek folks for liking them.  Rather more likely, it is not the best of the Treks.  I do not see how given these manifest problems that anyone can say otherwise.However, this was Shatner's and Montalban's movie from the start, a sci-fi version of Moby Dick.  Montalban tries; he really does, but his lines are so lame, not even he can save them.  Shatner, OTOH, was brilliant.  I can't think of a single scene in this movie I liked without him in it. He deserved an Oscar for this performance, and the only contribution this movie made to the preservation of the franchise was that performance. "}]