[{"Title":"Better than most of the slashers from that time","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember watching Silent Rage along time ago when I was very young, and I could barely sit through the whole film because of the suspense. I would get up and walk into another room, then come back to check out what was going on. It was quite intense for a young kid. I can certainly sit through the whole thing now, without trouble, but the movie is still suspenseful. And, like my one line summary says, this movie creates and maintains suspense better than a lot of the slasher movies that were being made back the the early '80s.This isn't a well known movie, but it's really one of Norris' best that he's been in. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Chuck faces the bogeyman.","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young, unstable man hacks to death the lady and man he lives with, and Texan Sheriff Dan Stevens comes face to face with the killer, to only see him gunned down by his men after he tries to escape when captured. At the hospital, he's pronounced dead, but secretly he's used in an experiment by some surgeons working on a formula to help the body genetically heal in quick succession. They thought they could control him and this development would bring them success, but now this homicidal murderer is an unstoppable killing machine and Sheriff Stevens and his rookie Deputy are on the trail.Norris' fans might dig it, but others might find this cheap-jack b-film a boring chore. I thought it was fair. Anyhow who's the man, Chuck's the man. Not much of an actor though, but we know. He gets by with that golden blonde hair and legendary chop-suey who-ha&#133;. And not forgetting that distinguishable fuzz above the lip. The premise is like an over-extended episode of Walker, Texas Ranger meets John Carpenter's Halloween (1977). Actually a lot scenes and filming techniques closely resemble Halloween and even its first sequel, but the main difference it's headed by Norrissssssss. The far-fetched concept isn't bad with slasher tones, a lady in peril get-up and a mad scientist theme, but it throws so much in that there seems to be too much useless filler (like the corny romance sequences, biker trouble (nice work in the bar Chuck, but we already know how good you are), scientific moral dilemmas and non-effective comic humour) interrupting what could've been more fun. Silly it is to begin with, but do we want to see Norris romancing, or kicking ass? These redundant acts only slowed it up and got in the way on the main story. What outweighs the film is the weakly lacking script with many clumsy dialogues. Norris even gets time to share some heart-warming advice. Director Michael Millar starts off pretty slowly, but in the second half demonstrates well-shot camera placement and steady pockets of poignant tension. The atmospheric synthesizer score seemed to work. Chuck gets his hands dirty with some gusty scuffles involving the super-human killing machine, like the modest, if unspectacular showdown with him using his jump-kicks (in slow-motion of course) and sudden close-ups to show that focuses on his face. Norris' chimes in with a stoic performance, but goes gusty when the action calls. Brian Libby's menacingly towering figure is effective. Ron Silver sticks out as the humane doctor, while William Finley goes all-smarmy as deceitfully mad doctor looking for that Nobel Prize award. Stephen Furst as the overweight, downright clueless deputy was there for the laughs, but where were they. Toni Kalem looks all-sweet as Norris old flame. "},{"Title":"The Human Terminator","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I always liked this film and have wanted a sequel to  it.  Yes, it could have been better than it was, but  it was fun to watch.  Stephen Furst's character has  to be the most pathetic deputy ever.  There really  wasn't much of a plot.  But it was fun to watch this  unkillable guy and no matter what you do to him, he  just keeps on ticking like the energizer bunny.   It's a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Not your daddy's Chuck Norris movie!","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, I know that Chuck Norris is predictable. He hardly ever says   anything and he just kicks butt. We that is true for this movie also,   but there are some extras that make this an unusual movie for Norris.    First, Sheriff Chuck has a girlfriend, Toni Kalem, and they spend as   much time as possible in bed giving us a great view of her ample chest.   Now, that is not typical Norris behavior! When Norris visits a biker   bar, we get to see some of his typical style as he cleans the place   out. You knew that was going to happen, but, before he does, his   Deputy, Stephen Flounder Furst (Animal House) gets an eyeful from one   of the biker chicks, Lillette Zoe Raley, in her only movie. What a   shame! We also see some action from the other biker mommas (Linda Tatum   and Kathleen Lee) before Norris arrives. I've never seen so much action   in a Norris film.    All of this is just titillation as the real story is the mad scientist   and his partner (Steven Keats and William Finley) develop a serum that   resuscitates a dead man and causes his wounds to heal immediately,   Bullets, falls from second stories, cars, fire - nothing stops this   guy. Well, you know who will eventually stop him, or does he? This is   the only film in which I have seen Ron Silver in a humane role. He was   the third doctor who tried to stop his boss. I actually was starting to   like him, but, fortunately, he gets killed off before that happens.   That was close! If you want Norris action with a little sci-fi   craziness, then this is the flick. "},{"Title":"Back Down Memory Lane","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just as fresh today as when I first saw it in 1982, this movie is in a class by itself because it explores a topic that is rarely discussed anywhere cures for diseases that the public doesn't know about. Director Michael Miller gives us a science fiction movie mixed with chiller dementia. I will never forget the first time I saw this in the theaters. From beginning to end my eyes were glued to the screen. Brian Libby's maniac is one of the most realistic madmen you will ever see. The score by Peter Bernstein and Mark Goldenberg is wicked, especially in the opening credits. Some of the murders in this movie are downright brutal. Chuck Norris does a good job as the Texas lawman on the case, while Ron Silver and Steven Keats are spectacular as two doctors bickering over medical ethics. The international poster for this movie is one of the most chilling one's I've ever seen. I hope there's a sequel in the works.Score, 9 out of 10 Stars "},{"Title":"Appreciation where it is due","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is pretty much how everyone describes it (a B-grade flick), but there is one worthy element that I feel most people have missed. Brian Libby's character creation was nothing short of brilliant. During the first half of the movie this might not be so noticeable, but towards the end, and especially during the final fight sequence, his movements and mannerisms are highly original and unique. The director would have told him to play the part of a man that has become almost zombie-like, and who has the ability to recover quickly and suddenly, and then left the rest up to the imagination of Brian. Well Brian certainly rose to the occasion, and his work in that last portion of the movie alone should have earned him an award. So yeah, the movie overall might be B-grade stuff, but Brian Libby deserves credit and recognition where it is due, and it is worth while seeing the film just for what he brings to the screen in that last half. I'll add an extra few points out of respect to Brian Libby, and give the film 7/10. "},{"Title":"This time Chuck Norris confronting an ominous psycho-killer","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At a little town from Texas a tough sheriff (Chuck Norris) and his helper(Stephen Furst) pit a dangerous killer series with a supernatural force. The monstrous man is a Frankestion-alike creation from scientific (Steven Keats, William Finley, Ron Silver) and acting similarly to Jason Vorhees and Michael Myers.This Chuck Norris vehicle contains action-packed, thrills, chills and lots of blood and violence. The comic relief at charge of Stephen Furst as silly and botcher police saying stupid things , furthermore imitating Taxi Driver's Robert De Niro. Chuck Norris demonstrates his qualities as action hero on a fights against some nasty punkies into a saloon by means of punches, kicks , bounds and leaps. Peter Bernstein's screeching musical score is made by synthesizer . The motion picture is regularly directed by Michael Miller. This is an inferior Norris film in spite of it he was on his best period with his hits such as ¨The Octagon, An eye for an eye, Forced vengeance, Lone Wolf MacQuade, and Missing in action¨ among others. Rating  Average but entertaining. The picture will appeal to Chuck Norris fans. "},{"Title":"Fun but Sometimes Dull","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you can get past the painfully slow and boring parts of this film, you should have a rather good time watching it much like I did. It's a fun little horror from the 80's with the ridiculous but hilarious Chuck Norris so of course, you can expect cheesy lines and poorly placed kung fu moves from him.I was actually surprised by some of the suspense in this film. They actually managed quite a bit of it. The story is pretty silly but it seems like every Chuck Norris movie has the same premise in a way some sort of bad guy is terrorizing people and Chuck Norris has to fight him. The acting was pretty bad but I guess that's expected. Don't expect an Oscar worthy film from this but turn off your brain for 100 minutes and have a good time! "},{"Title":"A neat nailbiter and an unexpected flick for Norris","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked it.  With Norris you expect lots of martial arts and/or guns versus normal criminals and terrorists.  But then you run across this flick!  This is as close to a supernatural flick as you can come without any actual suernatural elements.  The mute killer is one scary guy, far more terrifying than Jason Vorhees or Michael Meyers. Oh, and like all good Frankensteinian critters, he's still there at the end, waiting for a sequel that will never get made. As most people are used to seeing Stephen Furst doing comedy, it's really disturbing to see him die in a flick. "},{"Title":"The best Chuck Norris movie ever!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This, in my opinion, is the best Chuck Norris movie ever made.  It has a lot of action, Chuck Norris in his usual position, and an invincible psychopath made by three doctors, one who's behind it and another one who's trying to let the killer rest in peace.  What's probably best about this movie is the drum beats during some parts and the music during the credits, gosh, I love that music.  It also has a cool ending from the time Chuck Norris shoots the psychopath out of the window of the institute to the very end when the psycho emerges from the waters of the well.  It's a shame they haven't made a sequel like I thought they would.  Without a sequel, the story is unfinished.  They should make another one.  This movie is da Chuck Norris bomb.  I recommend it to everyone. "}{"Title":"A raging psycho thriller no viewer should keep silent about","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the better Chuck Norris movies, and there's not many. Here, a spin is put on the story which a loved. There's a psychopathic killer out there. He's shot down and killed. Three gifted specialists, do the unthinkable, when injecting the corpse with a serum that brings the nutter back to life, so red haired Chuck, sporting that moustache, has his work cut out for him, as the indestructible psychopathic force, escapes the medical facility. Silent Rage is really good and compact movie making that I like, thanks to it's story. Furst's performance is appealing as Chuck's overweight and bumbling partner, and also that of a younger Ron Silver who opened Pandoras's box, conducting an experiment that should of never happened. We have a nice little romantic montage too, and again, Chuck does what he does best, and it isn't acting. One set up scene of action in a bar, I liked, with Chuck kicking some redneck bikers's asses, another memorable Chuckie moment. With these films about indestructible forces, The Night Stalker, another one to springs to mind, you really want to believe the unbelievable, where even for the hero, we're uncertain, where the fight has never been stronger, as the odds almost seem unbeatable or with a small survival rate. These films, I really find exciting and this is just another example. "},{"Title":"Silent Rage (7/10)","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not often can two strongly defined movie genres come together and present such a wild mash-up and fun viewing experience. Silent Rage effectively connected Chuck Norris's kung fu action talent in combination to the typical 1980's exploitation of evil, horrific serial killers. The unexplainable madness of Brian Libby's murderous character is similarly crafted to what Michael Myers was in Halloween. There are a lot of comparable features Silent Rage has with Halloween without being a direct rip-off at all. In fact, Michael Miller as the director, attained a great outcome with suspenseful storytelling, humorous dialogue, and exciting sequences that were all his own. Silent Rage may come off outdated and downright silly at certain points but there is also a great deal of entertainment provided. "},{"Title":"No mad slasher ever faced an opponent as formidable as Chuck Norris.","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Norris vehicle was a little different for its time, taking inspiration not only from the slasher films of the time but classic Dr. Frankenstein type stories. So one could say this is part suspense, part sci-fi, and part horror as Norris plays a low key sheriff of a small Texas town. His nemesis this time is a man named John Kirby (Brian Libby), a disturbed sort who'd gone on a rampage and then been gunned down. However, interfering doctors decide to test their experimental rejuvenating serum on the guy, and turn him into a virtually indestructible monster. Aside from one scene where Norris humiliates a gang of bikers, this doesn't play out like your usual Norris story, and as mentioned goes for scares more than it does action. Director Michael Miller, who'd previously done the cult classic Jackson County Jail, handles the material with skill, and manages to create some honest-to-God tension, relying on the music score (composed by Peter Bernstein and Mark Goldenberg) as little as possible. There's one sequence at about the halfway point that will automatically have the viewer thinking of Halloween, and Libby is genuinely creepy as the killer, having little in the way of dialogue. He's introduced in a striking opening sequence in which the sense of chaos and prowling camera greatly assist in the the mood and the sense of a mind deteriorating. An interesting supporting cast certainly helps, although Toni Kalem is an unfortunately nondescript leading lady and the supposed comedy relief intended by the casting of Stephen Furst as Norris's deputy doesn't really work too well. Ron Silver is also stuck in a grating role as a one-note voice of reason type of guy, but excellent character players Steven Keats and William Finley, may they both rest in peace, are amusing to watch as the scientists doing things just as much for their own egos & gratification as any desire to help mankind. The movie is a good deal of fun and gets a lot out of its rural setting. The climactic fight is especially noteworthy the way it takes place without a music score to help drive it along. The movie may not appeal to Norris fans across the board, with its lack of emphasis on his fighting skills, but if they're looking for something a little off the beaten path, it does have its rewards. Trivia note none other than Katey Sagal sings the movies' love song. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"part action, part sci-fi, part horror?","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of my all-time favorites of Chuck Norris' earlier movies growing up. Is it me or is this one part action, part sci-fi, and part horror? I mean this little movie has it all! I mean this flick is just as scary in some scenes as most horror movies from that era. And it has a great bar fight thrown in for good measure. One of Chuck's better flicks. (Until he made Lone Wolf Mcquade that is, that is probably up there with my favorite three Norris films.) Blooper alert (I know that this is waaaaay before CGI, but did anyone ever notice that the actor Ron Silvers moves his eyes after he is supposedly dead and hanging on the back of the door, watch close when the actress opens the door, his eyes move right then back again, just a funny-find. I think the guy who plays John Kirby (the crazy-bionic guy) was in an earlier Norris flick called the Octagon. Anyone know if this movie will be out on a special edition DVD any time this century? It would be cool to take a stroll down Chuck Norris memory lane. Any comments are welcomed. "},{"Title":"possible cult classic here....","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can see this movie being on a list along with Rocky Horror Picture Show, Animal House, any of the Blade movies and other cult classic movies. While if taken seriously, it's a very bad movie, but with tongue firmly in cheek, it's kind of funny. Norris is great, as always, in the fight scenes, while his acting in this 1982 movie has a long way to go before it can be called good. This is a movie yo can watch with a bunch of guys and have a great time. The story can be followed and understood without too much thinking needed. There is no doubt who the bad guys are and who the good guys are in this movie. With a few beers and the right group of friends, this movie is a real party. Anyone who writes a bad review of this movie needs to find their sense of humor -- there are a few classic moments n this film that can be seen copied in many later movies. This movie does a lot more things right than wrong -- Norris should NEVER do love scenes. His fight scenes more tan make up fr the awful love scene, though. "},{"Title":"was entertaining","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's see if this comment works. I have to give this movie respect because it was the beginning of an entire plot genre of reanimated killer movies. It never seemed to get the credit it deserved because not a lot of people know about it. I like it when a martial arts star (Chuck Norris) does something a little different, like when Marc Decascos did DNA. It adds something supernatural, and suspenseful to the movie along with some martial arts-and some obvious athletic ability. Usually the main objective of watching a martial arts star is to watch fighting, that can be monotonous if there is too much or that is all there is in it, but this movie gave me a new perspective of Norris- and unlike the movies now geared for younger pop cultured audiences, which don't really build suspense, that just throw shocking images at you- this one does build suspense and has thriller capability also, depending on your tolerance for horror, of course. There is some cheese- things that to the trained eye are obvious and unsatisfactory, but all in all I thought the movie worked. "},{"Title":"A Chuck Norris vehicle where the killer is the real star.","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It could be argued that this movie ripped off Halloween, and I'd have to agree, but at least there's an explanation behind the seemingly indestructible nature of the killer in this movie.The bulk of this movie is hard to watch. Too much of Norris trying to act and not enough of the fighting that made him famous. Chuck's deputy sidekick is one unfunny joke after another. The love scenes were awkward. I didn't even enjoy the gratuitous Norris vs. bikers fight.The killer's scenes, on the other hand, were mesmerizing. The movie starts with his failed struggle to maintain his sanity. We witness his descent into madness and homicidal rage and then his transformation into one of the most terrifying monsters I've ever seen on film.Think of it as a typically bad Chuck Norris movie where the killer steals the show and makes the movie slightly better than bad. Bonus A musical score that at moments was surprisingly effective. "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris @ his best","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Rage (1982) Dan Stevens is the sheriff of a small Texas town who checks out a disturbance which turns to murder. The killer is still in the house and he tries to kill Dan, but Dan stops him and arrests him. The killer attempts to flee, but is shot and killed and is taken to a medical institute. Three doctors, led by Dr. Philip Spires, operates on the killer and brings him back to life using a formula that the three doctors made and the killer is made indestructible. Dr. Tom Halman tries to terminate the killer, but he and his wife are killed. After the two remaining doctors are killed, the killer goes after Dr. Halman's sister Alison, and it's up to Sheriff Dan Stevens to stop himthis is Chuck Norris best movie of all time.it's pretty scary i think. "},{"Title":"Overlooked!!","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Am I the only one who has noticed that the first few minutes of this film is one long take without any cuts? It is superbly executed and being a filmstudent ( And filmgeek!! ), let me tell ya´, I have rarely seen it done better. But besides that, this is good ol´ Chuck Norris, when he had a bit more charm and a twinkle in his eye to back up his asskicking skills.. See it... (You really should you know...) "},{"Title":"Okay at best","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Spoilers*Silent Rage has Chuck playing a small-town sheriff who goes head-to-head with a murderous, seemingly indestructible villain played by Brian Libby. My favorite scene in this movie is unrelated to the main plot line. It's a fight sequence where Chuck singlehandedly takes on a gang of bikers in a bar. The fight scene at the end of the movie between Chuck and the villain is also well done.This is not your typical Chuck Norris action flick. This is a science fiction/horror movie with some martial arts thrown in. Some of the characters are killed in graphically violent ways, which include1) A woman is axed to death. 2) A man is axed in the head. 3) A woman has her head slammed into a wall. 4) A man is stabbed in the neck with a syringe. 5) A man has his head twisted snapping his neck. 6) A man is bear-hugged to death.The ending of this movie leaves open the possibility for a sequel, but one was never made. If you're in the mood for a Halloween-type movie with some karate fights thrown in, check this out.  "}{"Title":"The B film that wouldn't die!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie. It's got all the ingredients of a Classic B Action genre film plus some.. The fight scene in the Bar was one of Norris's best. Stephen Furst is hilarious with his dog story and his basic comic relief. Mr. Keats plays an excellent Mad Doctor against Ron Silvers good Doctor. And Brian Libby gives one of his best performances as John Kirby or The Monster. Libby really nailed it. Mr. Norris is a little awkward as the Sheriff since this is early in his career, but he pulls it off thanks to his supporting cast and an interesting story line that seems to move well. I would have loved to have seen a sequel to this one since they clearly left that open. "},{"Title":"Norris doesn't need prophylactics...he has denim","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a lost classic, the the Godfather of the karate trained, small town sheriff vs. indestructible killer, while running a motorcycle gang out of town, and rekindling an old romance genre. All kidding aside, what's not to like about this movie? Chuck Norris is at his butt kicking best, Stephen Furst makes for excellent comedy relief, and Brian Libby, as the indestructible killer, brings to life one of the most bizarre and effective screen maniacs ever, all while hardly speaking a word. There are so many great things about this film. The opening scene, with the noise amped up of screaming kids, loud TV, and the screeching landlady, (easily one of the most annoying characters in screen history), gives perfect motivation to the killers rampage. And what I never hear mentioned is the great lighting and camera work found here. The steadicam work is a particular joy. And the bizarre color palette of reds and greens gives the movie an off kilter look that is unique to only a few movies. The bar fight with the bikers, while a little stagey, is still one of the best fight scenes ever. And Norris' final confrontation with the killer who will not stay dead, is tense and exciting. When I am king, I will have a weekly movie program called Lost genre classics that will show great, but little seen movies like Night of the Kreeps, The Monster Squad, Master of the Flying Guillotine, From Beyond, and others like them. And Silent Rage will be right there at the top. "},{"Title":"Chuck's best!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was Chuck Norris's best film and another great example how a great movie can be made without a multi mega budget,just enough uncopromising scenes.Very entertaining for action/martial arts fans and sci-fi/horror fans!Provides good comedy relief too and no wasted time.The movie flows very well scene after scene and the action choreography is very sharp and uncompromising!The villian/monster was portrayed very well although the other actors performances were merely adequate.The best sci-fi/horror/martial arts movie of all time!Many lambast this movie as a copy of Frankenstein.Well then,I can safely counter that in this line of thinking,the great Terminator movies was a copy of this movie as well for this movie came out first.This movie is being unfairly torn down becouse of it's liberal and uncompromising style.Although I do not recommend it if you do not like sci-fi/horror with martial arts/action combined.  "},{"Title":"Norris Meets His Match","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jackson County Jail director Michael Miller's Silent Rage qualifies as an adequate but unexceptional melodrama that pits karate champ Chuck Norris against an indestructible Michael Myers type villain of Halloween infamy who repeatedly defies death. Indeed, the reviewer at DVD Talk summarized Norris' tenth feature as Walker Texas Ranger meets Frankenstein. This description accurately encapsulates this formulaic but fast-moving thriller that incorporates elements of the classic Mary Shelley novel with Chuck Jones' Wiley E. Coyote. Mad scientist Dr. Philip Spires (Stephen Keats of Black Sunday), who has no qualms about his research or the collateral damage it causes, has been experimenting with a patient's ability to heal himself in the literal blink of an eye. Tall, lanky John Kirby (Brian Libby of The Shawshank Redemption) isn't feeling too well when he awakens one morning to a house filled with noisy children and an equally noisy mother who banishes them from the house and sequesters them to the backyard. Kirby talks to his physician on the phone and explains his predicament, but he can get no relief. Finally, he seizes an ax and kills both the father and the mother of the children. By the time that he has killed the mother, the local authorities have arrived. County Sheriff Dan Stevens (Chuck Norris) confronts Kirby and they clash briefly before Kirby escapes Stevens. Sadly for Kirby, he doesn't get very far before several sheriffs gun him down in a barrage of gunfire. At the local hospital, Dr. Spires experiments with Kirby and makes it possible for the young man to seal his own wounds up within seconds of receiving either a knife-point slash or a bullet. Meanwhile, Dr. Spires refuses to release the body for the coroner to examine. Dr. Spires' colleague Dr. Tom Halman (Ron Silver of Reversal of Fortune) wants Spires to stop trying to make Kirby so indestructible. Mind you, after Kirby breaks out of the institute, he searches for Dr. Halman and kills him. Aside from some rowdy bikers in a bar, our hero spends the better part of his time hunting down this psycho. At one point, Dr. Halman shows a colleague how advanced Kirby's body is to infection.Miller and Good Guys Wear Black scenarist Joseph Fraley keep things fairly basic in this shallow showdown. After the opening scene where Stevens and Kirby tangle, the action settles down and everything becomes routine until our hero confronts the indestructible Kirby again. Like Michael Myers, John Kirby is a man of few words. The only time that he talks is during the opening scene. Afterward, he embarks on a murderous rampage but remains mum. As Steven's rookie deputy Charlie, Stephen Furst provides the comic relief until he runs afoul of Kirby in the hospital showdown. Charlie's childhood story about freezing a pup doesn't play too well for laughs. Between his bouts with John Kirby, Sheriff Stevens takes on a biker gang single-handedly in a bar and whips them to a pulp. Stevens rekindles romantic relationship with Dr. Halman's sister Alison (Toni Kalem of Sister Act) after he runs into her at the hospital while awaiting Kirby's death certificate. Some nudity is involved in their intimate scenes. Predictably, she is stalked by Kirby when he escapes from the hospital after he kills Dr. Spires as well as other hospital personnel.Silent Rage is a lowest common denominator actioneer with essentially four sets. Aside from the biker bar scene, everything here focuses on Kirby and the medical geniuses who made him. This villain survives more than you'd expect considering the circumstances. Although Stevens kicks him around in the last scene and plunges him down into a well miles from nowhere, the villain pops up briefly before the end credits roll. The cast is strong, and Miller never wears out his welcome. "},{"Title":"Chuck 'n' cheeze.","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A word to all scientists if you should create a regenerating serum, capable of not only healing fatal wounds, but also of imbuing the subject with superhuman strength, please don't test it on a homicidal maniac. It'll only end in tears. And blood.In Chuck Norris slasher/action flick Silent Rage, axe-murderer John Kirby (Brian Libby) is gunned down by the cops, but is soon returned to health by two medical boffins keen to try out their as yet untested formula designed to mend wounds in seconds. It's up to tough sheriff Dan Stevens (Norris) to catch the killer before he can hack his way through too many innocent townsfolk.Hoo boy, this is one seriously silly flick, but it's also quite a lot of fun, with Chuck on fine form, kicking serious ass in the name of the law not only does the karate cop have the indestructible Kirby to contend with, but he also lays down the law to a troublesome biker gang in the process, a bar-room brawl with the bikers being the film's highlight. Amidst all of the mayhem, our hero also finds time to woo ex-lover Alison Halman (Toni Kalem), bedding the lovely lady not once but twice.6.5 out of 10&#x97;which I might have rounded up to 7 if it wasn't for Stephen Furst as Chuck's deputy Charlie, a more inept and irritating cop it would be hard to imagine. We're meant to feel upset when he dies, but I suspect that most viewers will be happy to see him bite the dust. "},{"Title":"Remake of The Indestructible Man","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If Silent Rage is not an acknowledged intentional remake of The Indestructible Man(1956)starring Lon Chaney Jr. someone needs to be sued. True it is not a scene-for-scene remake, however, the plot of the 1956 film is of a killer who is executed and his body is delivered to a group of scientists/doctors who bring him back to life. One of which is the hard core crazy doctor and another who is not. The experimental process has made him extremely difficult, if not impossible to kill. He kills the scientists/doctors just as they are about to kill him and goes on a killing spree before finally being killed himself in a spectacular ending. Sound familiar? Both killers have lines only at the beginning of each film. Both films, I suspect, were influenced by their stars. The plot of the original allowed Chaney to work without too much pressure. Very few lines and he could stumble around. The slight change of plot for Norris allowed him to perform for his fans. Both films are certainly watchable and if you allow enough time in between, watchable more than once. "},{"Title":"probably Chuck Norris's best movie","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ahh Silent Rage.. I saw this in the theatre when it first came out. I think I was about ten and it scared the pants off me.All in all, probably Norris's best. this is actually a real film. Not just chop socky dressed up with in a story. Basically, it's a genuine horror movie (and a scary one at that) that happens to feature Chuck Norris.A group of scientists create a living zombie out of a madman. Living zombie then goes on a day-long rampage with Chuck Norris trying to stop him.Film has a lot going for it. The opening 5-10 minutes are striking and somewhat disturbing (and totally without Norris), as we see an everyman make a desperate last call to his psychiatrist, complaining that he is losing it. The man's face is pitiful and fearsome at the same time.The opening ten minutes is a single, very complicated shot that follows that man around the house, watches him for a while, watches other people, then shows the man finally lose, snap for good and go on a terrifying killing spree.Film generates a great deal of tension through silence and hand-held camera work. Often we actually feel a sense of dread for Chuck Norris!! Film's weaknesses are some dialogue is weak and Norris's acting could be better. "},{"Title":"underrated b-flick","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Surprisingly effective action-thriller-suspense-horror hybrid. Worth seeing mainly for the supporting cast. In particular the 3 docs (Steven Keats, Ron Silver, and the much under appreciated William Finley) give very effective nuanced performances. Libby is also very good as unstoppable killer John Kirby. Frankly, the only let-down is Chuck himself. He gives a whole new meaning to the term wooden. Direction is tightly paced with several nicely timed scares. Probably Chuck's best film. Good for a rainy night with a few candles. Bring popcorn. This really is one of my all-time closet favorites. (But that cheesy song It's a time for love has soooo got to go.)  "},{"Title":"perfect fighting machine vs perfect killing machine!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  an excellent idea,an unstoppable maniac against a perfect weapon chuck norris! great suspense and superb martial arts action check out the bar room brawl a classic ,overall good story ,great action ,a very underrated chuck norris film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Norris meets Frankenstein","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was still a kid. In that time, the '80, I was a huge Chuck Norris fan. Not much people know this one, wich is sad because it's not so bad. The story tells about a cop (Norris) who is chasing some kind of medical experiment in the form of a living zombie. Ron Silver is the man that made it.Silent rage is a B-movie, no doubt about it. But very entertaining and not so bad at all. Go rent it!!! "}{"Title":"Great Rock and Sock 'Em Movie!","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another fine movie for Chuck Norris. I liked the plot, the action, and the suspense it persived. I'd figured it would be a horror as well. This is not your typical horror movie. Sheriff Dan Stevens(Chuck Norris) and his partner Charlie(Stephen Furst, Animal House, then St. Elsewhere) investigate a disturbance now murder, in which two eager scientists tests the new drug on the dead killer. Hoping to get a Nobel Peace Prize, they'll have to settle for an arrest warrant instead, or even worse, Toe Tags. Charlie was supposed to take care of back up which he instead, talks to the guy about the biker chick who flashed her breasts at him. Good grief, Charlie! Tell that later! I liked Toni Kalem who played Alison, Stevens girlfriend. I liked every scene she was in, especially the part where she changes clothes for a trip, that will have to wait. The killer was unbelievable, he killed and killed again with different methods. Slamming Alison's sister to the wall, bear-hugging Charlie till his back broke, and killing the creators who revived him. The one who injected him the acid was wiser than the greed bound one, who didn't see the betrayal coming for him when the killer gave him a chiropractic nightmare. That's what you get when you toy with science. The Boomerang effect. If this guy was sent to prison, death row would not be likely, he'll be good enough to lower the population probably in all prisons. The movie was intense, and it's a keeper in the 80's collection. Rating 3 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris vs. Frankenstein","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cool movie. Chuck shows charisma for the first time in his career. There aren't a lot of fight scenes in this action/thriller, but the ones that are there are good. The one-on-one fights between Norris and Libby are very realistic, but the biker bar fight was strictly by-the-numbers action-fu stuff. Not that it was a bad scene, because it wasn't. But they probably could have cut it and made the pace of the film smoother. While we're at it, they could have made significant cuts to the romantic subplot. The musical interlude during Chuck and Toni Kalem's boinking is laugh-inducing. The fat comic relief, Stephen Furst, is the movie's weakest part. In horror movies, typically, the comic relief is an annoying a-hole the audience is begging to see offed. The opposite is true in action flicks; the comic relief is loved by the audience and often times is the movie's saving grace.This movie had a problem trying to decide if it wanted to be an action or a horror movie; Furst's character is the proof of that. He's never funny, consistently annoying, and yet we're expected to give a rat's ass when he bites it. All this aside, though, I really did like the movie. It's kind of a slasher flick meets a Norris kung-fu vehicle. The highlight is the final battle between Chuckie and the killer (played by Brian Libby, who is nobody now and was nobody then but he does deserve credit for being good in this). "},{"Title":"A watchable Norris flick, but still I can't help but think it could have been so much better than what it was.","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" CHUCK NORRIS stars as a Sheriff in a small town who must face a Halloween/Michael Myers like maniac that is going around killing people, the problem? Chuck's cop buddies already killed the guy days before! & even worse, thanks to the usual sneaky scientist types you usually see in films like this, he has now been made virtually indestructible, meaning he can be stabbed & shot at only for his wounds to heal in seconds (Kind of makes you wonder why these guys are allowed to be scientists in the first place, when you consider how smart these guys are, I mean which smart scientist would want to make an unhinged bloodthirsty maniac super invincible to begin with?!) Now after killing off those that attempted to pull the plug on him for good, the maniac sets his sights on The Sheriff's girlfriend & the Sheriff learns to his horror that this time not only will he may not be able to kill this guy, but he & is girlfriend may wind up as yet two more victims on his grisly resume. SILENT RAGE is a film I heard about some 10, 12 years ago when I stumbled upon a review of it in an old movie review book, the plot sounded pretty neat & I never knew action star Norris had done a Sci-fi/ Horror/Action film prior to that, so I was interested in seeing it, but could never find a copy until lately, when I stumbled upon an old VHS copy of the film & decided to watch it & while the film is a cut above most horror combos that were being made at the time (& far outshines pretty much any horror film being made currently) I still felt a little disappointed by the time the credits rolled. The acting & directing is very well handled here & there are a few tight suspense sequences on hand, to keep you on the edge of your seat, however the film is far to chatty at times & has the usual cliché characters you would come to expect from this type of film, a fat dumb deputy, tough, bad to the bone bikers, sneaky scientists & the not so sneaky one who realizes the whole experiment is a mistake to begin with, the cheesy subplot where two lead characters who were once in love are trying to sort out their differences etc. & that's exactly the problem, after the suspenseful opening ten minutes, the film slows down until about midway, with far to many scenes where Norris & his former girlfriend try to work out their problems & the unneeded subplot where Norris & the Deputy must deal with some bad guy bikers who plan on tearing up his town, unneeded because the plot point adds nothing to the movie & could have been written out of the script, & the element of regeneration, although boasting many interesting ideas, is handled quite awkwardly & when the Killer does spring back to life the film is almost over & many scenes that could have been suspenseful is ruined since the film cries out for a musical score, adding that something special to the film, heck even the finale between Norris & the psycho would have really benefited from a great music score, yet when there should be music in many of the attack scenes there's none! another problem that no doubt stopped me from enjoying this movie a little more than I should have was this, thanks to the moron in the movie text who reviewed it, he totally gave away the ending to the movie which dampened any possible suspense there might have been in the finale. Though I highly doubt weather I learnt of the ending before hand or not would have made the ending more suspenseful, since the final confrontation is poorly executed, at least in terms of the unexciting fightNorris & the killer has & what's worse, Norris sees this guy lit on fire & shot at countless times & heck even falls out a top story window, & get back up alive, moving just as good as always, yet he thinks dumping this vicious psycho down the well is going to kill him?! In fact the ending seemed like it was laying the groundwork for a larger future scenario for a sequel that fortunately (or unfortunately, whichever way you want to look at it) never materialized. As a whole, it makes for an entertaining watch, but still makes one think how so much better it could have been had it been in the hands of a more suitable director. Regardless, this is worth a look for horror/sci-fi/action/Chuck Norris fans!*** stars "},{"Title":"one of Chuck's better films","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Rage is undoubtedly one of Chuck Norris's best movies.the story is interesting.the villain is great,especially the performance by Brian Libby,who plays the nearly unstoppable force.for once,we get a bad guy who present a great challenge for Chuck Norris character the most refreshing thing about his movie is the fact that the villain is more than worthy of our hero.in many such films of this genre,the villain is easily and soundly beaten,while the hero sometimes escapes without a scratch.obviously not very realistic.this time,the villain is not just a punching bag.in fact the good guy is in peril at times.the fight scenes are good,especially the climax.the movie also brings up some interesting moral and ethical issues,which are way ahead of their time.even forgetting all of that,this is one of Chuck's better movies.very entertaining.8/10 "},{"Title":"Badass Sheriff vs Slasher Killer","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" SILENT RAGE (1982) Rated R An ugly creepy ax murderer gets blown away by cops, yet later on a slab at the clinic, he gets healed by three scientists' genetic formula experiment. In a secret test, they argue over the ethics of trying it on a human.Figuring the autopsy is over, the Sheriff stops by and he wants the body - but the top scientist delays that ! because the dude is alive again, and loose on a non-stop killing spree.Shot or stabbed, his wounds heal in seconds, and he's baaaaack.It is creepy as *beep* as he stalks victims. At the hospital, in homes, and elsewhere....Chuck Norris plays the Sheriff.Ron Silver plays a psychiatrist doctor.Stephen Furst is the big lovable goofy Deputy.Plus it has sleazy Biker Babes baring boobs.A 9/10 Rating for wicked thriller/slasher/action. "},{"Title":"jason vorhees crossed with wolverine","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this right here is a norris horror flick. even though i'm about to praise this movie, you ain't gonna to hear any lame, passé chuck norris is so tough jokes, got it? so this stone cold psycho snaps one day and goes on a kill crazy rampage. for some unexplained reason he has super human strength. he snaps off his hand cuffs, kicks a door off a police cruiser, and wrecks a pile of police officers with his bare hands. then some mad scientists get their hands on him and turn him into an unstoppable jason vorhees with a wolverine-style healing factor. the killer in this movie is butt ugly and played by the worst actor i've ever seen. luckily he doesn't get much lines, but he does get a mint super villain outfit that's seriously stylin'. chuck catches up with this foo and drops some super sonic judo on his butt. he also puts some smooth moves on a fly hon and follows it up with a polished love scene. then he has an intense fight in a bar against something like 200 rough biker dudes. the best part about the fight scenes in silent rage is that there is straight up no music playing in the background. ever. somehow it makes the fights way more intense. usually white boys look like nerds when they try to execute some wack kung fu shoot, but my boy chuck shows ya how it's done. this movie is fulla glory. i ain't even touched the surface with my praises. but i'm tuckered out now, so that's all you getting' from me. "},{"Title":"A nifty handy dandy multi-genre combo treat","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Vicious indestructible scientifically enhanced psychotic killer John Kirby (played with frightening intensity by Brian Libby) goes on a rampage in a small Texas town. It's up to rugged Sheriff Dan Stevens (the almighty Chuck Norris in top rough'n'tumble form) to stop the hulking loony. Director Michael Miller relates the story at a steady pace, stages the plentiful action with considerable flair, maintains a good deal of suspense from start to finish, and effectively evokes a flavorsome small town atmosphere. Joseph Fraley's blithely trashy script incorporates elements of martial arts action, early 80's horror slasher stuff, and your basic Frankensteinesque science-gone-amok sci-fi premise into a really tasty and entertaining whole. A strong supporting cast helps matters a lot Ron Silver as the ethical, practical Dr. Tom Halman, Steven Keats as the driven, unscrupulous Dr. Phillip Spires, Toni Kalem as Stevens' spunky, appealing gal pal Allison Halman, William Finley as the flaky, ambivalent Dr. Paul Vaughn, Stephen Furst as the eager, bumbling Deputy Charlie, and Stephanie Dunnam as Halman's sweet painter wife Nancy. Moreover, this movie certainly gives you your money's worth we've got frequent outbursts of bloody'n'brutal violence, a nice smattering of female nudity, amusing comic relief courtesy of the endearingly clumsy Charlie, excitingly gritty down'n'dirty fight set pieces, a little romance, engaging characters, a lively biker bar brawl, and a rousing climactic confrontation between Stevens and Kirby. The polished cinematography by Robert C. Jessup and Neil Roach makes occasionally inspired use of a prowling hand-held camera. The pulsating score by Peter Bernstein and Mark Goldenberg likewise hits the shuddery spot. A hugely enjoyable flick. "},{"Title":"Go Chuck!","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very good action flick. One of the better Norris movies. I read Chuck's autobiography, Against All Odds, and he seemed pretty sanctimonious throughout. Yet, he was really getting it on with the nudie actress who played his girlfriend here. He really put forth some good acting, too. He's much more effective with the moustache instead of the beard, which tends to make him look like a monkey. He should have stuck with the moustache - that was the look for him; kind of like the way the ponytail worked for Seagal. Lillette Zoe Raley, who played the biker momma who was not opposed to displaying her ample assets in public, was a great one-hit wonder. I can't believe she never did another film. As for Chuck clearing out a biker bar single-handedly, yeah; I can believe that. He was the six-time world karate champion and surely would have made short work of those drunk bozos. Too bad Chuck later toned down his acting and grew the beard. This flick stands out in his resume as one of his finest performances. Great supporting cast and the reanimated killer was very menacing. "},{"Title":"Two different movies","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching Silent Rage I felt like I was watching 2 movies spliced together.One movie had Chuck Norris as a sheriff of a small community trying to keep the peace and rid the town of scum. He shoots a multiple-killer & cleans house in a bar invaded by bikers. He also has a comic sidekick (surprise) played by Stephen Furst of Animal House fame (I chuckled a bit at his parts, especially the Robert DeNiro/Taxi Driver scene). Double-punches and roundhouse kicks aplenty here! Then there's the other movie.A man gone made by society's ills is brought back to life by a doctor (Steven Keats) and his assistant (William Finley), under the protest of Dr. Halman (Ron Silver, in his usual good form). The premise struck me as a kind of Reanimator premise with the serum bringing the killer back to life, thought Reanimator was made years later & based on a H.P. Lovecraft story.I felt the stalking scenes were well-done & suspenseful and the opening scene was great. I felt the movie would've been pretty good without the Chuck Norris scenes. However, since this is was a Chuck Norris vehicle...The Norris portions were filled with scenes we've seen in any other Chuck Norris film; barroom scenes, Lone Wolf McQuade-like stances against lawbreakers, etc, etc, etc.The producers must've been thinking, OK, who can we put Chuck Norris up against that he hasn't faced before. Got it! An indestructible killer! Going into the film you know that Chuck would have to face the killer eventually, and when he does it's a HUGE disappointment. If fact, old Chuck RUNS from the guy! WHAT?! Yep, he runs from old Stoneface.No spoilers here on the ending, though you would've thought it could have ended better than it did after seeing it.My rating? 6.0 for the horror portion of the movie 2.0 for the Chuck Norris portion Averages out to 4 "},{"Title":"Good for a film of its kind...","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I also first saw this movie when I was about 9 or 10 and loved it and was scared by it. Now that I'm a little older and a bit more wiser I can see that the film does have it's flaws and is a 'leave your brain at the door kind of picture', but the movie does make a great film to rent and anyone who likes Chuck Norris should be entertained by this. "}{"Title":"Silent Rage","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hipointe County, Texas Sheriff Dan Stevens(Chuck Norris)has the unenviable task of dealing with a seemingly unstoppable killing machine, whose cellular structure has been altered by geneticists, conducting experiments on healing disease and other ailments which destroy the human body.You know, I thought the use of hand-held camera works exceptionally well at the opening where we first follow mentally unbalanced John Kirby(Brian Libby)from his bedroom(..where we can tell his sanity's on the brink)throughout the two story house for which he's staying, as he moves about, answering the phone with his doctor, as he slowly turns homicidal. Attacking two with an ax, we later follow Stevens as he enters the house looking for the killer. It then moves outside and we see both Kirby and Stevens exit the upstairs window where the action ends with the nutcase handcuffed after much resistance. We see here, once he's subdued, just how ridiculously powerful Kirby is, as he snaps loose his handcuffs and kicks out the cop car door! This is where the police unload a round of bullets which drop this joker. It's quite a set-up, to say the least! Here's where one questions the credibility of the plot that develops..scientist Dr. Phillip Spires(Steven Keats)is so determined and desperate to see if his formula Mitogen 35 works, he's willing to revive whoever it takes to see it successful, and this decision(to up the dosage behind his surgeon, behavioral scientist, Dr. Tom Halman's back despite his demanding pleas to let Kirby die because of his mental instability)will obviously come back to haunt him. We have to ask ourselves this..why would Spires inject such a serum in the powerful hulking frame of a homicidal maniac?! I mean, it isn't like another test subject wouldn't eventually show up on his slab, certainly not as dangerous a behemoth as this guinea pig! Well, we know why..it's because the film's intent is to provide Chuck Norris with a formidable opponent. One thing's for certain, Libby was hired for his build and presence, not acting ability. He's essentially a Michael Myers clone, an emotionless, indestructible force..the perfect adversary for Chuck to grapple with.Solid cast in this movie. Ron Silver as Halman, the only decent scientist of the film, who warns Spires against conducting his experiment on Kirby, and his desire to kill the monster costs him(..and his darling wife)their lives. William Finley shows up as a scientist taking orders from Spires(..who himself follows the Frankenstein mold of cold mad scientist who cares more for the reward than the lives which would be lost at the hands of Kirby. Stephen Furst is the comedy relief of the film, as bumbling, child-like, amiable, and impressionable deputy Charlie, Stevens' partner and buddy. Furst even has a Travis Bickle moment in front of a mirror..he's a lovable doofus whose fate is rather sad and adds extra motivation for Chuck to go after the villain. Toni Kalem is Chuck's love interest(..and Halman's sister)Alison, soon running for her life with Kirby in pursuit throughout the genetics hospital located in Stevens' county.Credibility is further tested when even injected sulfuric acid into his blood stream, multiple gun shot wounds, a flight out a window, being set on fire, and tossed down a well have no resounding effect on Kirby! Many associate Silent Rage with the slasher genre since it has certain traits relatable to those kinds of movies prevalent at the time of release, such as the use of POV camera as the killer hunts down Allison, a hefty body count, and way Kirby systematically executes the victims. I thought this was strikingly lit and to reiterate, there's some fine hand-held which allows us to follow characters moving down halls, up stairs, and around rooms. Since, the movie is more about Kirby annihilating folks, Chuck only really has one major sequence to show his martial arts skills, and that's during an entertaining bar fight with a large number of loathsome biker scum. The other two are hand-to-hand combats with Kirby. Interesting decision to shoot the final showdown without musical accompaniment..I know some who like this decision, and those that didn't(..I'm rather torn on this, there are times I like it this way, other times, I'm not so sure). "},{"Title":"Not even a bad movie, mediocre...","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am aware that Norris has turn into a better actor with time. But in this movie...let's accept it we can all imagine him as a ranger, yet not as James Bond. The way he seduces the girl is sometimes even comic, pretending to be what he is not. And the way they kiss each other is so mechanical!The story reminds of Frankenstein, and even though sometimes it's scary, and I liked some of the fights, it's all way to obvious. The ending makes us think that maybe the producers thought of a second part...really???!! Moreover, I watched it in Spanish...and the dubbing makes it even worse. Not even the jokes are saved. The storyline discussing about science investigation and its moral could have been interesting, but it's just used as an excuse. I do not recommend this movie, unless you're a Chuk Norris fan. And even so... "},{"Title":"Perhaps Miller should direct the next Halloween installment....","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...because here he manages to recapture some of the menacing atmosphere of the original (1978) film of that series - the way he keeps the figure of the indestructible killer in the background in some shots is very similar to Carpenter's directing style. There is also a fight in a bar that must rank as a classic of its kind. The only thing that keeps this entertaining b-movie from receiving a solid three-star rating is the dreadful comic relief by Stephen Furst he's the worst kind of pseudo-funny, pseudo-lovable overweight supporting character.  "},{"Title":"Strange Mix of Martial Arts and Slasher","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silent Rage (1982)** (out of 4) Chuck Norris plays a sheriff who must go up against a psychopath who at one point was dead but three scientists brought him back to life with a new experiment. Soon the maniac is running loose and killing more people so it's up to Norris to put an end to it.SILENT RAGE isn't a good movie or a very successful one but at the same time it is a rather interesting one. The movie was a turning point for Norris who would enter into some more violent pictures before signing with Cannon Group where he'd make his most famous pictures. This film was also released during the Golden Age of the slasher era where movies like Friday THE 13TH, HALLOWEEN II and others were making a killing at the box office.This film has been called by many the unofficial HALLOWEEN III. As you know, the real HALLOWEEN III was without Michael Myers but the killer here actually has a lot in common with Myers so obviously fans decided to have some fun and include this as an unofficial entry. For the most part the film offers up what Norris fans want in a movie with him as the actor is thrown into countless action scenes. The highlight is without question a sequence where he must battle a dozen or so bikers one after another.The horror elements are rather obvious with the killer being a mix between Frankenstein's monster and any of the slasher era killers. The violence isn't overly graphic but there's no question that the filmmakers were trying to cash in on the success of such films. As I said, Norris is quite good in his role and we get some fine supporting performances by William Finley and Ron Silver. There's also Toni Kalem who is good as the love interest and Stephen Furst (NATIONAL LAMPOON'S ANIMAL HOUSE) is here for some comic relief.The biggest problem with the film is that the direction is rather flat, which leads to all of the scenes feeling as if they're just getting dragged on to the point where they become boring. At 100 minutes the film runs way too long and the pacing is way too slow at times. The opening sequence is quite intense but after that there's really no tension, which is another major issue. Still, SILENT RAGE isn't a horrible movie and there are enough good things to make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Strictly for Chuck Norris fans","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is a watchable time waster. The melding of Norris' butt kicking action films and Halloween type stalker films is a mixed bag. While this new genre puts a fresh spin on the Norris ouevre, it eventually bogs down into a cheap Halloween clone. The comic relief by Furst is rather pathetic. Still, I would recommend it to Norris devotees. "},{"Title":"Better in Spanish","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this film is just another notch in the belt for Norris' long line of action films which all seem to place him in similar plots and characters... this film supposedly has the potential to reach out beyond those others into the horror genre.  WRONG.  This film was horrible, just as is most of his other work.  I happened to stumble into the film the other day, but this time it was on one of the spanish-language channels.  What used to be a subpar action/horror film, became hilarious with poor dubbing and rather sloppy translation.So I'd advise watching this film with a version in some other language, just not the standard english version.  It'll make it so much better.  Won't help the plot or poor acting, but it'll make the night a lot better.  Enjoy.English 3/10 Poorly dubbed other language 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hallowe'en And Frankenstein Together - But Not As Good As Either","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not being a Chuck Norris fan in particular I tuned in not expecting too much, and didn't get much more than I expected. My first impression was that John Kirby (the evil monster played by Brian Libby) was Michael Myers without the mask. In fairness, however, I've decided the character is more like Frankenstein's monster. (SOME SPOILERS AHEAD)The intention of director Michael Miller is to make Kirby an object of sympathy. We don't know much about the guy's past, but we know that in the present he's being subjected to some hideous experiment in genetic engineering. The mad scientists (Ron Silver, Steven Keats and William Finley) have turned him into some super-human monster who heals almost instantly from wounds that should kill him, but at the same time they've turned his mind to jelly, and he simply lashes out against any and all around him. Fair enough. He's not just a psychopath; you can understand his rage. He's also a very limited character, though, and after the first 10 minutes or so (and his first two murders) he never speaks a word (thus, I presume, the title.) Unlike Frankenstein's monster (and detracting from the sympathy we feel for him) there is no sensitive side to Kirby. Frankenstein's monster laughed and played with a little girl; Kirby would have just killed her! So, even with the attempt to delve a bit more deeply into Kirby's reasons for killing than is usually the case in these kinds of movies, he's still a very one dimensional character.That's the primary problem with this movie. Everything and everyone is one-dimensional. There's no attempt at all at character development. Ron Silver (Dr. Halman) is the mad scientist with a conscience, Steven Keats (Dr. Spires) is the mad scientist without one and William Finley (Dr. Vaughn) is in the middle. Then we get the simpleton cop (played by Stephen Furst) who's kind of Barney Fife with a lot of extra pounds, and the traumatized female who discovers all the dead bodies (Alison, Dr. Halman's sister, played by Toni Kalem.)And then there's Chuck Norris (Sheriff Dan Stevens.) If you're expecting a big time martial arts flick, don't bother. There's little of that (and all restricted to the last ten minutes or so.) Again, Stevens is one dimensional. He's the hero, who you know is going to win out over Kirby in the end. If I was slightly (very slightly) impressed by the attempt to develop Kirby beyond Michael Myers, I was disappointed in Stevens. Straight hero stuff. For example, how in the world does he flatten this super-human genetically engineered monster with a couple of kicks to the head after everything we've seen Kirby do in the movie? It didn't make sense to me.Anyway, the movie isn't a disaster. It's has some good moments of suspense, especially as Alison is trying to escape from Kirby, but I wouldn't have gone out of my way to see it. I'd rate it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Kind of a Chuck Norris versus an unstoppable killer movie.","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this one quite a bit.  The premise has Chuck going against a psycho.  Kind of like a Jason or Michael Myers, but here it is explained why the killer can keep getting up after he is seemingly stopped.  The problem is some doctors have been using an experimental drug that basically gives the killer the same healing powers as the X-men's Wolverine.  All in all, this one moves pretty well, except for some scenes here and there that could have been cut out.  I don't know if the biker gang was necessary, but it was sort of fun watching it.  I could have used a few more scenes of the killer going after victims, as they are the best scenes.  This one is a lot better than The Hero and the Terror as it sort of had the same thing, but this one I find a lot better.  That one is kind of boring and the final fight isn't very good.  Here though you get right into the action as you see the killer at home.  He basically starts losing his mind here as kids are screaming and some lady keeps yelling at the top of her lungs.  The guy gets a phone call from his doctor and basically tells the doc he is about to go over the edge.  He then proceeds to get an axe, and you can see what this leads too.  The movie could have explained some parts better and I wasn't fond of the ending as it should have been painfully obvious that what Norris did wouldn't be good enough. "},{"Title":"This is not a good film","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has its moments, the big karate fight with John Kurby, the biker bit, but the rest I would not recommend.  The acting except for John Kurby is awful.  The budget is too low, and the director makes this film very choppy.  John Kurby plays a good role and you could see what drove him crazy, after listening to this women and her kids, it reminds me of a shift at the post office.  Anyways I give this film a 4. "},{"Title":"An Experiment in Dumb","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow. Where do I begin? Silent Rage is awful, awful stuff, barely valid even as a campy, so-bad-it's-good time. Chuck Norris is stiff as a board (though maybe it's the tight blue jeans) as the sheriff of a small Texas town where a bug-faced psychopath strikes, killing 2 residents of a boardinghouse; after an ineptly-shot and unexciting chase, the psycho is gunned down...but still alive. Scientists at a local institute/monkey farm (including Ron Silver and De Palma vet William Finley) repeatedly inject him with an experimental serum that revives him as an indestructible killing machine in a silver jumpsuit. Their reasoning? Well, because they can...and it's cool and stuff. We're scientists, not moralists! one belligerent egghead posits. While the premise has some camp value, Joseph Fraley's terrible script isn't as ambitious as it is juvenile--right down to the obnoxious, overweight deputy (Stephen Furst), the pointless sequence where Norris takes on a dozen biker badasses single-handedly, the tacked-on romantic subplot, and scenes that shamelessly borrow from the first two Halloween films. Though Silent Rage builds some suspense in its last act, with the killer stalking various characters through the institution, director Michael Miller shoots the climactic showdown as a repetitive series of extreme close-ups and long shots of unexciting stunt work that goes on far too long (another absurdity is the scene's complete lack of musical score), with a surprise ending that is anything but. Why this wasn't given the MST3K treatment is beyond me. "}{"Title":"Not Silent enough....","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Chuck Norris and science fiction.Two great things that DON'T go great together.Silent Rage is basically story about a psycho (Libby) who is nearly killed by sheriff Norris then brought back to life by the local mad doctor (Silver) and made indestructible.  The brand-new madman then goes on a tear, killing nearly all he gets his hands on.  Everything leads to he and Norris going at it mano-a-mano.The same old thing done the same old way, save for the Frankenstein slant, and for Furst playing Gabby Hayes to Norris' John Wayne.In fact, the only Rage to be experienced here is the one you'll feel if you rent this and realize you could have watched something more entertaining.Like, say, your clothes spinning around at the laundromat.Two stars - one for Furst's comic relief and another for a scene where Norris clears out a bar full of bikers.  Now THAT'S entertainment. "},{"Title":"Chuck Horror-Norris","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Chuck Norris is one of the absolute last people you would expect to find in a typical early 80's slasher movie, and yet Silent Rage has a lot more in common with those movies than with your usual Norris martial arts vehicle. The idea is actually rather good instead of an endless army of disposable bad guys, Chucky is only up against one virtually indestructible psychopathic killer. And, simply to satisfy the die-hard Norris fanatics who rent movies without ever reading the plot synopsis on the back of the VHS, there are nevertheless also a couple of sequences where Chuck Norris single-handedly pulverizes a whole gang of Hell's Angels bikers. Silent Rage opens very atmospherically, with a mentally unstable individual axe-murdering two people before getting shot to pieces by Sheriff Chuck Norris' deputies. Whilst the Sheriff is sleeping with the doctor's sexy sister, a trio of amateur Frankensteins revive the maniacal killer and add a little option that makes him indestructible. He naturally escapes and goes on a bloody killing spree in Sheriff Dan Stevens beloved little Texas town. As mentioned at the beginning from the review, Silent Rage bears a lot of resemblance with the better slasher movies from the early late 70's and early 80's; particularly the original Halloween and its direct sequel Halloween II. The small town setting is almost identical to Haddonfield and emotionless killing machine John Kirby could easily have been Michael Myers' distant cousin. A large part of the film also takes place within hospital walls, like Halloween II, and there are a couple of suspenseful and slow-brooding stalk sequences. Inevitably though, since the plot is so ridiculously simplistic, there are also quite a lot of irrelevant sub plots and padding footage, like the aforementioned clash with bikers, a horrible we fall in love montage and a pathetic role for Stephen Furst as the fat and clumsy comic relief deputy. Chuck is awesome, Steven Keats and William Finley are impressive as the two evil doctors and Brian Libby is perfect as the silent but ultra-violent killer. Good entertainment for both fans of action and thriller. "},{"Title":"Good guy in Chuck Norris, science question, sequel???","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Depicts Chuck Norris as a persistent police officer who just doesn't give up. He takes his profession seriously, wants justice, and is always concerned about the safety of others. The film also shows how scientists doctors struggle with should we pursue this scientific find at the risk of human casualties? Good film, and at the end.......could there be a sequel?????? Thank you. Bill Pauldine 2/8/03 "},{"Title":"The Chuck Norris Film for People Who Don't Like Chuck Norris","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am somewhat surprised by the amount of negative comments left by readers in reference to this inconsequential little movie. I will stand right up and admit to not being a Chuck Norris fan; I think he is a fine fighter but pathetic actor at best, and anyone looking to a Chuck Norris vehicle for credible performances, complex and dimensional characters and a plausible plot are totally wasting their time. We watch Chuck Norris films to see him kick arse, and on that level of consideration I can see how this film would be a disappointment for his fans -- there are only two fight scenes in the film. Norris fans have a skull cracking quota Silent Rage falls woefully short on that scale and they will probably not enjoy sitting through it. Too bad for them.I happened upon this film when it was on a late night local creature-feature 2am movie slot when I was about 17 and returning from a mind altering excursion to Neverland; granted that with impaired or heightened senses any film would leave an impression on the viewer, but what struck me the most about the movie was how at odds it was with Norris' persona, and had an agenda that was unrelated to what viewers of his films expect; I actually liked it. The effect of having an unstoppable killing machine who utters only grunts and peers oddly at his victims as he shuffles across the ground towards them is also strangely unsettling. The memory of this unspeaking murder machine stuck with me long after forgetting about Norris and what he had to do with the story.As other readers have pointed out, it is the John Libby character that really makes this film, because he is such a total unknown and one dimensional void of psychotic behavior. Upon acquiring a tape of this film as an adult I am struck by the banality of the opening sequence where we first see Libby go over the edge, and am intrigued by just what he had experienced that pushed him into insanity. The image of Libby trying to open his medication bottle, while the noise and clamour around him becomes unbearable, is quite an interesting portrait of pathos; one can almost understand why he decides it is time to go get an ax and shut that woman up once and for all.It is unfortunate that the scriptors did not avail themselves of the opportunity to delve more into the source of his madness scarred Vietnam vet? former abused child? we see memorabilia tacked up on the wall of his room i.e. Travis Bickle but never get a good look at it, and instead indulged themselves in unending, pathetic fat guy jokes with Stephen Furst, who I look upon as the film's major drawback. His character is simply a stupid, obese fat guy who is supposed to be looked upon as funny *because* he is fat. That we know just by looking at him for 5 seconds -- hearing the story about his pet dog or seeing him ape Robert DeNiro isn't funny, it's just pathetic.Equally pathetic, and the source of much more humor for me, are Chuck Norris' speaking scenes. The romance subplot is utterly ridiculous, complete with a disco music accompanied lovemaking scene; Check out the obligatory strewn clothing leading to the bed shot and you'll see items like a wrist excersizer and nunchucks amongst the tangled underwear. Nothing like some wrist exercises to put a woman in the mood, I guess. Norris' dialogue is delivered in stacatto statements -- he doesn't talk with the characters, he recites four or five word sentences while facing in their direction. He also looks uncomfortable when speaking, as though his pants were too tight and needed to take a leak or something like that.Much praise is heaped upon the Road House scene, and I will admit a certain guilty pleasure in watching Norris wipe up the floor with the biker scum. To a certain extent this scene functions as a kind of early Reagan era display of the establishment cleaning up the refuse that had been allowed to fester in America during the latter 1970's. Norris plays the role of lone wolf lawman as well as anyone, and there is an undeniable truth in stating that he comes off best when keeping his yap shut and allowing his feet, fists and broken pool cues to do the talking. It is actually one of the best self contained fight scenes I've ever watched, but one thing about it sort of underscores the ridiculousness of it all; At the end, Chuck's shirt is as neatly tucked into his tight cowboy jeans as it was before he fists started flying. Those karate suits are loose and baggy for a reason -- you don't execute flying kicks very well while your LL Bean shirt is tucked nicely into your ultra tight jeans.The ending showdown with Libby is equally preposterous featuring a little homage to Raiders of the Lost Ark, but provides the film with an ending that suits it's offbeat nature. Having a kung fu fight at the climax of a Frankenstein movie is about as fitting as having Dirty Harry take to the disco floor for a dancing showdown with John Travolta. And having a Chuck Norris film end in a fight to the death against a Frankenstein monster is equally preposterous, yet it provides a workable ending to the film that suggests a sequel, which was wisely never made. In the same way that our imaginations have to suggest what drove Libby insane, we have to imagine him slowly scuttling up the sides of the well to continue on his kill fest, and what we might think up is far more effective than anything that could have been filmed. Leave him down there, I say.As far as the movieness of Silent Rage, I actually like the low budget early 80's exploito-horror feel, complete with the ominous synthesizer music score that is on par with Ennio Morriocone's music for The Thing, also made in 1982. Libby's opening single take freak out sequence is actually very cleverly shot kudos to the film student reader who pointed that out; very Scorcese-esque, and love that long underground corridor in the Research Center with its BIOHAZARD signs. I also appreciate the cheap color stock used during filming, suffusing certain scenes with a kind of ambient green flourescent tinting the result of not using the right lights for the stock when shooting; oops that helps to underscore the nightmarish aspect of the story. The movie has interesting use of color scemes and light/dark contrasts. I also admire how Silent Rage looks like it was made on the cheap, but doesn't try to disguise it for a second -- dig those police uniforms, consisting of a light blue work shirt over a pair of tan chino pants with whateve boots you have handy and tin stars that look like they came out of a box of Cracker Jacks. The film doesn't try to disguise it's low rent and lurid nature for a second.So what I see here in the end is an interesting, intriguing and ultimately satisfying little sci fi shocker that just happens to feature Chuck Norris and his karate skills in the hero role. Nothing wrong with that, and this will probably stand as the only Chuck Norris movie to grace my collection.I give it 2 1/2 stars out of 4; A minor cult item worth a look, but not for everybody ... especially Chuck Norris fans. "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris's only Horror Film","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Underrated film that gets better with age.  The only downfall about the movie is that the climax is too much like Halloween 2(1981).  Silent Rage(1982) has one of the best fight scenes in a Chuck Norris movie.  Chuck Norris in here seems to be preparing for his later role in Walker, Texas Ranger.  Brian Libby is simply terrifying as the re animated and unkillable psychopath, John Kirby. "},{"Title":"Bad , but not terrible","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a Bad movie , but actually I was expecting something terrible . Sure , the movie offers cheap thrills and it isn't really worth watching , but I've seen worse.GOOD  Stephen Fears (Animal house) is funny comic relief as the clumsy deputy of sheriff. Chuck Norris (a young Chuck Norris) actually shows that he is able to do more than one facial expression. Toni Kalem is nice as the shy girlfriend of Norris. And Brian Libby as John Kirby really has something creepy in him. There is also nice bar fight scene here.BAD  The story is predictable and stupid at places. The action scenes aren't really impressive and the final fight is definitely NOT BREATHTAKING . The movie sometimes is unintentionally funny , especially when it shouldn't be . There is also quite a lot of boredom in the middle of movie . The screenplay also never gives as details about the mental disease of villain. The ending is lame and obviously a setup for sequel.VERDICT  Better than expected , but not worth watching . If you're interested in a movie where humans fight against seemingly indestructible villain better watch Terminator. I give it 1/10. "}]