[{"Title":"see in preference to Sommersby","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This definitive version of the story of Martin Guerre (remade in English with Richard Gere and Jodie Foster as 'Sommersby'; and musicalised in a misguided version by Boublil and Schoenberg) is amongst French actor Gérard Depardieu's greatest roles.  As the bluff, romantic, sensitive soldier who returns to the village after years away (or does he?) he manages to provoke all sorts of reactions from his other on-screen characters as well as the film's audience.As Bernadette de Rols, the wife seeking love and companionship, Nathalie Baye is superb; while a large and talented cast give flesh to the remaining characters.  I defy anyone to see this adaptation and not be moved by it; try and see in the cinema, where it undoubtedly has more power than on a small screen; and avoid the version dubbed into English.  'Le Retour de Martin Guerre' need to survive with its language and poetry intact. "},{"Title":"The real thing","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After about thirteen or fourteen years I finally was able to see this film again, this time in French with subtitles, not dubbed into German. There was nothing wrong with the German version, the film certainly didn't fail to impress me so much, that I declared this film to be the best Gérard Depardieu has ever done. I think I still have the same opinion, although meanwhile it ties with Les Misérables.Now today I watched it again. I couldn't remember anything really, just parts of scenes and what happened at the end, of course. But then everything came back. The music suddenly seemed familiar, the village, the faces. I still was surprised to see Tcheky Karyo's name in the credits at the end, because I missed him completely, while I recognized Dominique Pinon at once, much younger of course. Again I stood in awe of the costumes and the village scenery. Everything was so convincing and realistic. As if someone had done a time travel and brought back a video. After The Name of the Rose this is the best period film till now. In the art department. But also certainly in acting, writing and directing.Gérard Depardieu and Nathalie Baye deliver performances which are outstanding. Every acting student should watch them, they are masters of their profession. They show emotions which are almost palpable, you feel with them, certainly towards the end, but also during the rest of the time. The script offered them only great parts and they created lives out of the printed words. Every gesture, every movement, every look fits and connects the viewer with the story. As if you're in the story, not watching it. There is no doubt whatsoever that this story is real. Even if history should have been a bit different (which I don't know), the story in the film feels real.And I just want to add that everyone who calls M. Depardieu ugly or anything like it, is not only extremely rude but obviously not receptive to any kind of charisma and aura. With actors (as with people in general, right?) looks are not important. Whoever thinks that, should switch from watching films to watching models. There he can get empty beauty.My recommendation is watch this film. You can hardly spend an evening in a better way. 10 out of 10.     "},{"Title":"Based on actual events","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This isn't a comment on the actual quality of the movie itself, but rather a response to the number of postings which have suggested this movie is not an original concept.I have some shocking news for you, but there really was a Martin Guerre. His court case in the mid-16th century is well documented in primary sources and this movie attempts to retell this story.In 1983, historian Natalie Zemon Davis, who incidentally  was originally involved with the film as an historical consultant, wrote a well received micro-history on the court case and it's outcome. (The Return of Martin Guerre - published by Harvard University Press, 1983)This case was thought of as unusual even during the 16th century. So much so, that it became part of French folklore. Earlier Hollywood movies likely tapped into this folklore, when they penned similar stories.So this film, rather than simply being another in a long line of similar movies, is the first to tackle the original story. That being said, the movie is not perfect and strays from the facts a great deal. Natalie Zemon Davis, herself, states in her introduction to her book that she was troubled by the film's creative license with history.Nevertheless, I recommend anyone to see this film yourself and make up your own mind. Better yet, read the book!   "},{"Title":"a history seen through a 'humane' binocular","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I always enjoy watching French movies, and this one's no exception. In my opinion, this is a very beautiful movie. I love the romance, and the great performances enhance it to the maximum effect. This drama is very well made that you feel emotionally helpless on the mercy of the director. You get involved up to the point that you expect (want) things  to work out like you want them to be but you really can't predict what's going to happen next.The film tells about a true 16th century story about a man Martin Guerre who comes back to his village and family after an eight-years leave to a war. Everybody's really happy that he's come back that nobody questions the changes or differences after that long eight years; until someday a vagabond says that he's not Martin Guerre. The villagers start to think the possibility that he may not be the man he claims to be.For me the film is about our judgment, our perception, our interpretation, our motive. It's about adding a human value to the rules, ethics, customs, and law that hold our society together. Sometimes what's right is wrong and what's wrong is right. In other words, sometimes we're looking for a 'humane' solution. You'll understand what I mean after you watch this movie.The casting is wonderful, especially the casting of Nathalie Baye as Martin's wife. Something in her eyes  perfectly reflects her character's sad life. She's beautiful. I imagine it's going to be very hard not to sympathize  with  her. Just watch this movie. I hope you'll be touched and enjoy it as much as I did.  "},{"Title":"Best of Depardieu","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite movies, even if the ending is a heartbreaker.  Every Depardieu fan should have a copy - in French, not dubbed.  You can't help but like the returning Martin, as played by Depardieu.  His talent at facial expression is wonderful.  The courtroom scene is his best - check out the look he gives the wife as she steps forward to select the correct Martin.  "},{"Title":"Corrections...","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER!! Of course, being french makes it easier for me to understand the film. But nevertheless I'm surprised by some comments here. No, there is nothing about amnesia in this movie. On the contrary; Gerard Depardieu's memories are quite accurate, and that's the problem... Nothing in common then with The Majestic or other movies about amnesia.And no, Depardieu is not charged with the murder of the real Martin Guerre. He is charged for identity usurpation. And the real Martin Guerre shows up before the execution...Oh... I forgot... really good movie...  "},{"Title":"Probably the best historical movie ever","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Set in early renaissance Arriege, this movie is truly as masterpiece. Don't be put off by subtitles, just enjoy. Depardieu is superb, one of his best performances...Truly amazing! The story Bertrande de Rolls's husband, Martin Guerre disappeared sometime ago. She remained faithful, until Arnaud du Tilh, appears and pretends to be the returning Martin Guerre.If, like me, you like both, movies and history, you must watch that masterpiece. The costumes, the settings, the decors, peasant life... all made to recreate a corner of french renaissance countryside.The story is based on facts, on real events. It's a true story, slightly changed and without the catholic-protestant antagonism. What a brilliant movie!!! Like to know more? Read Natalie Zemon Davis'The return of Martin Guerre "},{"Title":"a little slow but oh so fascinating","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This story is supposedly based on a true story, though the story is so fantastic it's hard to imagine that it actually occurred. The story, in brief, is that a man named Martin Guerre went off to war and was not seen for nearly a decade. When he returned, he seemed to be a nicer person--and in particular, a more attentive and less impotent husband. No one really questioned any of this until a disagreement arose between Martin and his uncle. At that point, the possibility that this was NOT Martin arose and much of the movie consists of the court trials attempting to get at the truth. Exactly what occurs I'll leave to the viewer so as not to spoil it.The acting is wonderful--particularly Gerard Depardieu. The costumes are also very good and fit the era well. And, the movie is a lot more interesting that the American remake (Sommersby) in every way. The story is awfully complex and interesting as well, but it does, at times, drag a bit--so some with shorter attention-spans and little interest in period dramas would certainly be put off by this. I loved it, but given that I am a history teacher, this isn't so surprising.An interesting tiny and unimportant mistake that my wife noticed was that the inside of the church in the film shows very very faded painting on the walls. However, when the film was to have occurred, they probably would have really been fresher--and a lot brighter. I never noticed this but she was right. "},{"Title":"not the remake","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK. This is not a remake of carrefour, as many may think. This is the actual story, on which carrefour was based, from 16th century France, it just happens to have been transferred to film after the other adaptation. Go read the book if you're at all interested, it's by Janet Lewis and is called The Wife of Martin Guerre. The story is based on court documents among other things, and the character names in this film are those of the actual people. Don't get confused- carrefour may have been made before this film, but this is the closer adaptation and, thus, should not be labeled a remake.  "},{"Title":"a window to another time","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brings to life intriguing and complex drama from middle ages. Brilliant acting, musical score (original instruments--well-researched), and costumes. Possibly one of the best Gerard Deperdieu films. "}{"Title":"Fascinating, insightful true story","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Le Retour de Martin Guerre is a brilliantly made film. Daniel Vigne crafts the plot - which is based on a true story - with great skill, fooling us in a fascinating manner. Gerard Depardieu is his usual flexible self. It is a captivating examination of love and the law. A great film to rent when you're tired of going to see the filth that is in theaters today. "},{"Title":"Absolute gem A tale of deception set in the ancient times.","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Daniel Vigne described his film as a modern story that took place in 16th century.Le Retour de Martin Guerre is a wonderful historic romance that pertinently comments on an individual's role in society.The film is a beautiful illustration of 16th century pastoral life. Pancette had the nerve to assume Martin's identity as Bertrande constantly assisted him in deceit.His greed was responsible for his ruin as he claimed wealth which never belonged to him.A vast majority of viewers will not be in a position to form an opinion about Bertrande as she did not wish to spend her life with an impotent village resident.The entire storyline hinges heavily on Gerard Depardieu's captivating performance.His imposing aura makes us readily accept him as the real Martin Guerre even though,in reality,he is Martin's lookalike Pancette.Le Retour de Martin Guerre will fascinate not only the admirers of suspense genre but also those spectators who are attracted to drama.Daniel Vigne has effectively crafted a thought-provoking oeuvre which competently wrestles with major issues like identity and deception. "},{"Title":"Another passionate performance from Depardieu.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've managed to see the original French version as apposed to the atrocious English dubbed version. In this you can hear the passion in the actor's voices and the music somehow seems more traumatic. This is a wonderful tale about the importance of love if the truth does not matter. Remade in the USA as SOMERSBY. "},{"Title":"Quality is not USA's own","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The one thing that THE RETURN OF MARTIN GUERRE serves to do is prove positively and absolutely that not all the great film productions come from the USA.This is an extremely well made movie, with extremely high production values. Great acting, great sets, great costumes, great score.  Pure quality.  "},{"Title":"An Intelligent and Humane Look at Some Strange Events","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Martin Guerre was a young man who, in 1548, disappeared from the southern French village of Artigat after being accused of stealing grain from his father. Eight years later, a man arrived in Artigat claiming to be Martin. He was accepted as such by Guerre's wife Bertrande and family, and lived with Bertrande as her husband for three years, although some villagers entertained doubts about his identity. Rumours, encouraged by Guerre's uncle Pierre who was involved in a property dispute with his supposed nephew, began to spread that this Martin was in fact an impostor. He was arrested and placed on trial, but his intimate knowledge of Guerre's past life and the support he still enjoyed from many villagers seemed likely to secure his acquittal. During the trial, however, there was a dramatic development; another man turned up claiming to be Martin Guerre. It was quickly established that the newcomer was indeed the true Martin and that the impostor was in reality a man from a neighbouring village named Arnaud du Tilh. Du Tilh was convicted and subsequently hanged, adultery and fraud being capital offences in the France of this period. A number of writers and film-makers have taken inspiration from these events, Whereas the later American film Sommersby tells a fictitious tale loosely based upon the story of Martin Guerre, transferring the action to nineteenth-century Virginia, Daniel Vigne's film is a reasonably accurate version of the historical events, aiming at a reconstruction of 16th century French peasant life. The main role, that of du Tilh, is taken by Gérard Depardieu, possibly France's finest modern screen actor. His attempts to conquer Hollywood have not been very successful, but I have never seen him give a poor performance in his native language, and this is a fine one, playing his character as a plausible and at times almost likable rogue. He is particularly good in the electrifying trial scene. Whatever else du Tilh may have been, he was clearly a consummate actor, and Depardieu's impassioned speeches reflect his character's knowledge that he needs to give the performance of his life, as that life now depends upon his acting skills. Just as it seems that du Tilh has succeeded in his imposture, Vigne interrupts the proceedings with a brilliant coup de cinema; the sight of a man with a wooden leg entering the courtroom. Or rather the sight of the wooden leg itself- the angle from which the scene is shot means that we see this before we see the man's face. (We have heard it suggested that the newcomer cannot be Martin Guerre because the real Martin, after leaving the village, joined the army and lost a leg in battle). Other acting fine contributions come from Roger Planchon as Jean de Coras, the humane and sceptical lawyer in charge of the investigation, and Nathalie Baye as Bertrande, a young woman placed in a difficult situation by the return of her supposed husband. It is implied that Bertrande, despite her doubts, welcomed du Tilh into her bed because he was both a better lover and a more considerate husband than the departed Martin, who seems to have been deficient in both departments. I would, perhaps, have welcomed a greater exploration of why du Tilh might have tried to claim another man's identity, although Vigne possibly wanted to create a sense of mystery by keeping alive as long as possible the thought that Depardieu's character might actually be the real Martin. Vigne makes use of few bright colours other than the green of the vegetation and the red of the judges' robes during the trial; in the days before chemical dyestuffs bright colours did not play a large part in the lives of the peasantry. Visually, however, the film is suffused with a warmth of tone reminiscent of an Old master painting; I was particularly put in mind of the works of Breughel and Georges de la Tour celebrating peasant life. It is sometime said that the British are obsessed with the glories of their past, and that in the cinema this is reflected by the large number of films made on a historical theme. French film-makers, however, seem equally obsessed with history, and this was particularly true in the eighties and nineties. Le Retour de Martin Guerre is one of a number of fine French films on a historical theme to date from this period. (Others include Jean de Florette, Cyrano de Bergerac and Le Colonel Chabert, all of which also starred Depardieu). It is well-filmed and well-acted and takes an intelligent and humane look at the strange historical events which inspired it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Dense and complicated; one of Gerard's best","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was a big reason why Gerard  Depardieu was known in Europe as such  a great actor. It was somewhat unfortunate  that he tried too hard to make it in American  films. Nonethless, The Return of Martin  Guerre is one of those films that illustrates  the mannerisms of fuedalist Europe,  examining the powerless of women and the  healthy prvalence of black magic and what  not. What begins as something of a character  study turns into an indictment of an era,  showing just backward European thought  used to be. Well thought out and evenly paced,  this is certainly one to watch. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Stories Ever Done Brilliantly","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Gerard Depardieu fans will have to see this film - I believe this is the one that solidified his standing as a great actor. That notwithstanding, this is a gorgeously-filmed true historical tale that will rivet you to the very end, bringing to life characters you will care about deeply and a long-forgotten Medieval world that will absolutely fascinate you. And what a glimpse it gives you into an era that's not been brought to life this well hardly ever. This movie was remade in America as a forgettable movie with Richard Gere whose title I won't even mention; don't see that version. While you have to read subtitles if you don't understand the French, it's worth it because this is one of the best movies ever made - and it puts most American movies of its time to shame. This is how you tell a story. And the story keeps you guessing to the very end - and even then leaves you with questions. You won't soon forget this tragic story and you'll be glad you made the effort to see the movie. "},{"Title":"A good historic epic","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Among foreign films I've watched, the return of Martin Guerre is definitely a must see. It truly stays true to history, as much as possible.I found it interesting that the film came into being only because Coras had written about this otherwise obscure occurrence. Furthermore the way the characters were portrayed in such a true to form manner that made this film even more worth watching. I found the entire trial scene as particularly interesting. Also the scenes from the farm, give true insight to what 1500's Europe may have been like. I also give high marks to the social commentary, showing how far someone can go for financial gain, and how something that started solely as for personal gain continues to go on because those involved appear to be satisfied with the arrangement. this is very insightful as to how it related to human emotion.i strongly recommend this film to all, especially to those like myself that like true local historic themes. "},{"Title":"Fine cinema","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has all the elements of fine cinema Great acting, compelling story, great cinematography, and terrific costumes. But above all this movie is lovingly crafted. It is so nice to be taken back in time to another place and experience life as our ancestors lived. This movie proves that you can do this without updating the script to modern thought.  I put this movie on my list of top movies ever made. You may want to compare this move with the Americanized version `Sommersby' and see how a copy can be bad. "},{"Title":"Is there a French film that doesn't star Gerard Depardieu?","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I mean, I know there are, but come on.Martin and Bertrande got married.  Martin was not a very good husband.  They finally had a child.  Martin left.  Many years later, he came back.  Or did he?The premise behind Le Retour de Martin Guerre (The Return of Martin Guerre, obviously) is that someone has returned after many years saying he is Martin and that he has been at war.  But is it Martin or Arnaud du Tihl?  Bertrande says it's Martin.  Martin's uncle says it's Arnaud.  Whoever it is seems to know an awful lot about Martin's life, but on the other hand, his feet are a couple sizes too small.Depardieu (as the returned Martin... or is he?), Nathalie Baye as Bertrande, and Roger Planchon as Jean de Coras, the chief investigator into the matter, all give fine performances, and the matter of who Depardieu really is is in doubt right up until the last, a good sign.  It's ironic that a 1500s period piece ends up turning into a whodunit courtroom drama, but it works well.  The final ending is a bit of a letdown, but it's what had to happen, so it doesn't take too much away from the picture. (A-) "}{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" An intriguing premise, fitting music, and a solid performance by Nathalie Baye make this okay viewing overall, but it is terribly overlong, since the premise just does not have enough in it to last for a two-hour length. The situations and various issues that arise are interesting at first, but it all becomes a bit repetitive, drawn out and monotonous as the film progresses. This was a breakthrough piece for Gérard Depardieu, who does quite a good job, and the film was Academy Award nominated for its apt costumes too. It is quite competently made, and certainly quite watchable, despite somewhat awkward narration and thrills and excitement that are only intermittent. I cannot help but feel however that as a short film the material would have worked better. Either way, it is still worth a look. "},{"Title":"Bertrande de Rols anticipates Mae West","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't find an attribution, but I think it was Mae West that said . . . a hard man is good to find . . . Certainly that is the attitude of Nathalie Baye's Bertrande de Rols. The story begins in 1542, not the middle ages as stated, but the age of the Reformation, the Council of Trent and the turbulent religious wars. Though the original Martin Guerre (there is meaning in this name, St. Martin of Tours was actually Hungarian, I believe) is a veteran of the Battle of St. Quentin little of the days current events intrudes on Martin and Bertande's village, and contributes little to this romantic triangle. After two hours the two Martin Guerres cancel each other and what is left is Nathalie Baye's wonderful performance as Bertrande de Rols and her concurrence with Mae West.   "},{"Title":"Honey, I'm Home","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is, of course, as someone once said, nothing new under the sun and the cynic in me wonders if Janet Lewis, who wrote (in 1982) the novel on which this film is based, was familiar with a British film directed in 1946 by Basil Dearden entitled 'The Captive Heart'. In that film a Czech soldier, Karel Hasek (Micheael Redgrave) assumes the identity of a dead British soldier, Geoffrey Mitchell, in order to survive and when he is sent to a P.O.W. camp he is obliged to correspond with the dead man's wife, Celia (Rachel Kempson) in order to maintain the pretence and gradually via this correspondence they fall in love but when, at the end of the war, Hasek meets Mitchell there is no question of his pretending to be her dead husband. Daniel Vigne has taken the novel by Lewis and adapted it for the screen. By setting it a few centuries in the past both writer and director distance it from The Captive Heart and do so further by depicting the real Martin Guerre in situ with wife Bertande (Nathalie Baye) then, after establishing his indifference to Bertrande he is allowed to abandon her. Years pass and Martin returns in the shape of Gerard Depardieu who is able to assuage doubts about his identity via his wide knowledge of both Bertande and the neighbors. There's not a great deal of suspense, it's fairly obvious that Depardieu is NOT the Martin Guerre who left the village but Vigne is more concerned with illustrating that Good can come out of Bad; living with Depardieu Baye is much more happy than when living with the real Martin and the faux Martin also proves a much better neighbor so it's just a question of waiting for the bubble to burst and wonder if hope will triumph over knowledge (no such luck) and the lovers will be allowed to live happily ever after. Both Depardieu and Baye turn in first class jobs and the period setting is well photographed. If not exactly a 'must-see' it is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A worthy of your time foreign film mini spoiler","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" A classic Gérard Depardieu film. Any Depardieu fan will love it.In French, It follows a newly married couple's life through their difficulties. I feel that that acting is solid and their marital problems are somewhat humorous if not relatable to today. It explores marital problems in a realistic and open way.Though there is some brief nudity, it follows the story.It is truly a story about love, and what you will do for it.It's a story that will touch your heart. "},{"Title":"Enter the World","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I have had a lot of trouble with this film. When I watch films, I look for two intents the  intent I observe, and the one I deduce was intended. They are often not the same  because filmmakers are like any other artists; often they work by intuition and don't  explicitly see what they are doing.I know what I saw. But in this case, I don't know what was intended. That's because we  have a muddle. This is an extraordinary visit to another world, and is transporting on  that basis alone, like ` Heart of Glass.' But we also have the revealed conspiracy of the  pair for sex (and companionship). We have the investigation and hanging. It is just not  clear what the filmmaker had in mind other than following the script.Here's what I gotMany films are about films or acting, sometimes in the clothing of `the con.' Here we  have a story people by actors who convince, and that story is about a character who is an  actor who convinces. He convinces thoroughly until he demands too much of his  audience, and then some of them rebel.That is a clever manner of folded storytelling a story about storytelling and why it works  because life has abandoned us and left us without a narrative as it has gone off to war. Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"NY times reviewers did too much LDS in the 60's","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen this film twice, once in French with no subtitles (my French is poor but as I recall the movie intrigued me), and with English sub-titles.Without the distraction of reading the sub-titles the film is a nicely crafted period piece, and in reference to Monty Python, no kings are anywhere in sight. A man returns from war, claims to be Martin, there is general uneasiness in the village, as it turns out this guy gives himself away by being way too nice. The shoemaker blows his cover by discovering his feet are too small. The wifedoesn't complain, I guess not everything was two sizes smaller. He's tried for murdering the real Martin, who turns out to be alive, but he's executed essentially for identity theft. And he didn't even run up his credit cards, which seems a bit severe.The NY Times has this on their list of 1000 best films ever, which mystifies me. One nice touch about the NY times list is a warm place for quirky independent films, like Repo Man, My Life as a Dog, Desperately Seeking Susan. I could go for that. But what I found bizarre was that this was the only return film on their list. I'll buy that ROTK wasn't out yet (except that most Times reviewers claim to be omniscient), but to snub Return of the Jedi? The IMDb claimed 399, 239titles last time I looked, and I'd place this solidly towards the middle, maybe even in the top 100,000. "},{"Title":"....and another remake in disguise.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" A man suffering from amnesia coming back from war to be confronted with a wife and child...Well we've seen this before and long ago...To be precise in 1938 ,when Curtis Bernardt -who continued his career in America afterward- directed his carrefour starring the excellent Charles Vanel and Jules Berry.Here the director -very academic- substituted the Middle Ages for WW1 and presto!an original screenplay! Actually ,and even the scenarists will never confess it it's carrefour remade as Martin Guerre remade as Sommersby .Best part comes from Nathalie Baye,who portrays a woman who could belong to the Middle Ages as well as to our own era .Bernard-Pierre Donnadieu would have outstripped Depardieu, had the script given him the chance to shine.Since I posted my comments,an user wrote that both carrefour and Martin Guerre came from an incident from the sixteenth century.Perhaps so ,but in my native France,nobody said a single word about that.Carrefour was based on a John Kafka novel (not to be mistaken for THE Kafka),and as for Martin, famous scenarist Carrière -who wrote for Luis Bunuel - and director Vigne took all the credits.Jean Tulard,the most erudite historian of the French cinema does not hint at the American novel of Janet Lewis in his dictionnaire des films.I must add that in France MG is not looked upon as the great film it is in America.It's actually a return to the swashbuckler genre that was thriving in the 1955-1965 years in France,a bit more realist perhaps ,to gain the highbrows audience ,but not necessarily better.The real writer was actually Jean de Coras ,conseiller au parlement de Toulouse,whom you can see in the film (Roger Planchon) and who reported the story. "}]