[{"Title":"The finest performance by an actress in the history of film.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"132 out of 167 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Sophie's Choice' should be compulsory viewing for any member of the voting panel who decide Academy Award winners. Quite simply, Meryl Streep's performance is THE benchmark for that 'Best Actress' category. I've seen a LOT of films, but not one performance has ever (and will ever) match her's. The manner in which she embodies Sophie goes beyond explanation. It is too accomplished and moving for words. It is almost offensive to think that Julia Roberts was awarded the same statue for &#145;Erin Brockovich'!Aside from the breathtaking central performance from the marvellous Ms Streep, there are so many other reasons to see this film. Kevin Kline and Peter MacNicol are excellent, the cinematography is beautiful (particularly the shots of Brooklyn Bridge) the score is haunting ... I could go on.Although certain critics have berated 'Sophie's Choice' as a mere platform for Meryl Streep as an actress, I urge you to overlook this view. The film succeeds admirably in bringing to horrific life an event in history which we should all be made aware of. It is undeniable that the phenomenal performance of MS leaves you spellbound, but NOT at the expense of being horrified and affected by what you have seen. All I can say to sum up is just see it. An intelligent and profoundly moving film which will (I promise you) live on in your memory long after the closing credits.  "},{"Title":"The definitive Meryl Streep","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"90 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt, Meryl Streep delivers the Greatest Performance By An Actress EVER - period.The performance is totally naked, where you can almost feel her sorrow come right out of the screen. For all of the heart wrenching scenes in this movie, you never once feel as though Streep is going over-the-top. That says alot for someone who spends just about half of the time in her scenes with a tear in her eye. Everything about her performance just seems so effortless and natural. This especially shows when she is speaking German flawlessly, or English with a very convincing Polish accent.The fact that Kevin Kline and Peter MacNicol are not completely lost in this movie says alot for their performances. Kline himself delivers a great performance of a man suffering from delusions and bi-polar syndrome. It is one of his greatest performances as well. Peter MacNicol plays the role of a character who pales in comparison to the other characters. MacNicol has the somewhat undesirable task of having to play the character who carries the least amount of baggage. He therefore might be overlooked, when viewing at the movie as a whole. However, MacNicol does a great job with the character, not trying to make more out of it than it is supposed to be. His role is very important to this movie.But the real story here is Streep. Her performance would be a stand out against any other performance in history. I honestly believe that. Streep just digs down deep here - delivering lines that just put a chill down your spine. "},{"Title":"Best Performance Ever","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"89 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meryl Streep's performance as Sophie is simply the finest performance ever captured on film. Period. The subtlety and depth with which she reveals Sophie's wounds are simply spellbinding. She is at once radiantly beautiful, yet deeply wounded. She is charming, yet vulnerable. She is someone you want to love, yet someone whose pain keeps you at a distance.This film takes the viewer on an intense emotional journey. Anyone, but especially anyone who is a parent, would have to be an emotional rock to not be absolutely haunted by this story. As much as I have studied and pondered the Holocaust, this film has connected me to those events more emotionally than I have ever been before.This film, and Ms. Streep's performance, are a gift to humanity. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"69 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! I am still in absolute shock from this film. Meryl Streep delivers a magnificent performance, with a flawless Polish accent. Kevin Kline and Peter Macnichol are terrific and together the three of them make a highly enjoyable film. The 'choice' Sophie has to make is shattering, a beautifully acted and unforgettable scene.  Meryl Streep won the best actress Oscar for her portrayal of the nazi camp survivor, this was richly deserved. The film was incredible with a great score and many moving emotional scenes. The emotions of the characthers, especially Sophie, are incredibly beliveable and bought to life. All 3 of the main performances are haunting and memorable. A must see.Highly reccomended. 10/10 "},{"Title":"..only one of the commentaries found its true star...","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...all of the characters in this astounding book/movie were as good or as unimportant as viewers/readers found them to be, simply because William Styron developed them that way Stingo WAS an unexperienced nerd, having lived an idyllic life in the South with nothing happening in his life, yet aspired to write the Great American Novel; how perfect for a virginous male to so fortunate to live with people who educate him what a horrendous journey life can be. McNichols was perfect for this role, because he was the opposite of Sophie. Nathan was mad and KNEW he was mad, longing with all his soul to be otherwise; a little madness drives people to do astounding things. Kline was perfect; what a shame he has never found another role as good. Sophie was the haunted lady whose life made her that way; Styron's development of her character is masterful. I read an interview in which he was asked how he felt his novel was presented in the film. His reply, I took the money and ran. He could foresee there would be controversy over his work.Some viewers, especially the younger ones, cannot appreciate how actresses have developed over the life-time of movie-making. They should watch some of the silent films to learn that mime was the only way to express an emotion. Mellodrama, intentionally so - yet, look at the entire work of Bette Davis and Joan Crawford as examples of contrived performances. They were, at last, able to confront one another in Baby Jane - attempting to out-drama one another made it the wonderful film it is.There is simply no other actress, that we know of, who is more talented a performer than Streep. Unlike Davis and Crawford, she is not concerned about her star-power. She becomes whatever character she is playing, no matter if we like them or not. SO WHAT if Sophie's Choice was a vehicle to demonstrate her power? Please write another !! William Styron, stand forth ! Because of her absorption into her characters and the many nuances she developed in Choice, take a look at The Deer Hunter to see how powerfully she played an un-extraordinarily plain woman perfectly. Under-playing a character, to make you believe people are actually like that, is the mark of a great actress.I ardently pray there will be another role for Ms. Streep - even in her older years - that will allow us to become totally engrossed, to get outside of our own lives, to become completely destroyed, delirious, shattered just for a couple of hours, to realize there is still such talent in the world - THAT WE CAN AFFORD TO WATCH, at least.....thank heavens for this magical film..... "},{"Title":"22 years later.....still the BEST acting ever","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is still one of my favorite movies of all time ....and absolutely the best acting by an actress in all the years since then. Streep is magnificent and flawless.  The choice scene was so horrifying to me (a mother of a young son and daughter at the time) that it took me several years before I could watch the movie without skipping past that part.  It is such a small scene, yet its impact was so haunting and so horrifying - I can't think of any other scene in a movie that has affected me like that.  Kline was terrific as well, and the musical score is beautiful and memorable.  All in all, a wonderful film, and a perfect 10 from me.  What a gifted actress! "},{"Title":"Probably the best Oscar-winning performance ever.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If the Oscars were to take every Best Actress winner ever -- from Janet Gaynor to Helen Hunt -- Meryl Streep would definitely have a good shot at winning against them. She gives a spellbinding, totally believable performance as Sophie, a timid Polish woman who befriends Stingo (Peter MacNicol), while she tells him of her tortured past in a concentration camp. As always, she does her foreign accent without fault, and puts her all in her performance, better than she's ever done. The movie itself is very good, too -- it may drag at times (at 2 1/2 hours), but definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep raises the bar","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After enjoying Meryl Streep and Kevin Kline in the recent ensemble comedy A Prairie Home Companion, it was great to see their dramatic performances in Sophie's Choice, the movie that made them famous. Here, they play Sophie and Nathan, a volatile young couple living in a Brooklyn boardinghouse in the summer of 1947. Their story, and eventually the story of the Polish Sophie's time in a concentration camp during World War II, is presented through the eyes of Stingo (Peter MacNichol), their young Southern neighbor.Though other characters appear, especially during the flashbacks, Sophie's Choice is largely a three-person drama that relies on subtle interactions. Meryl Streep can always be counted on to give a nuanced performance, but here, especially, she raises the bar. Speaking three languages (including a very realistic portrayal of how foreigners can hesitate and hunt for words when speaking English), going from a haggard Auschwitz inmate to a pretty blooming rose, consumed by guilt even during the madcap or romantic moments she shares with Nathan, she gives a brilliant performance of a very complex character. Her big scenes with Nazi officers are of course powerful, but I was equally struck by smaller moments the heartbreaking little flashes of emotion that reveal Sophie's postwar wounds, or the extraordinary conversation she has with a Nazi's daughter.Kline throws himself into the role of the fatally glamorous Nathan and also displays impressive range he goes from charming to menacing. MacNichol is not up to these (admittedly high) standards. He can play the wide-eyed innocent, but he always seems somewhat thick-headed and lacking in passion. The movie would be more effective if Stingo seemed more truly changed by his experiences with Sophie and Nathan.Despite Stingo's weakness as a character, I liked the unusual structure that reveals Sophie's story gradually, in flashbacks that draw closer and closer to the ultimate horror. The movie is nicely shot and some of the Brooklyn scenes look as though they actually could have come from a 1940s movie. But no director from the 1940s would have confronted the brutalities of the Holocaust so directly, and few actresses from any era could have given a performance like Streep's. "},{"Title":"The performance of a lifetime","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although achingly literary at times, moments of true emotional power are rendered by fluid storytelling, Nestor Almendros's haunting cinematography, Marvin Hamlisch's quietly effecting score, a touching performance by Peter MacNichol, and a seminal performance by Meryl Streep; one that Kim Stanley (the celebrated actress/teacher and Oscar nominated mother to Jessica Lange in 'Frances' of the same year) proclaimed, the titanic portrayal of her generation.No matter what your initial feelings about this film, I encourage you to go back and take in Streep's dark dance of loss, madness and, finally, sorrowful redemption. "},{"Title":"A career defining role!!!","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Arguably Meryl Streep's most compelling performance...and lord knows the woman has turned in a few during her career! I found myself delighted, beguiled, enchanted, crushed and ultimately reduced to a drained and empty shell by the film's end; it took several days thereafter to fully recover. Her vulnerability and honesty are as inescapable as her demons. And you cannot help but be drawn into such a real sense of both conflict & compassion, duty and despair...this film completely melted my face off while cementing an admiration and awe I rarely experience from an actor's performance. All due respect to both Kline & MacNichol for their fine portrayals, but really the movie begins and ends with Streep's haunting, brilliant and enormously human turn as Sophie! This is a must see film albeit a gut wrenching experience!!! Totally amazing!!! "}{"Title":"Powerful beyond belief.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gave this movie a very solid 10. Streep's performance is perfection at its best, there is not one flaw made by her in the entire movie. Bringing together scenes of both romance, passion for life, misery, and joy, she allows this movie to get a hold of you and not let go until the end, as all great films should. Other performances are equally great, but it is Streep as the 'very believable' Sophie that will take you by storm. Without a doubt one of the best films of the 80's. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Quite Simply the Most Superlative Performance in the History of Cinema","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Alan Pakula must have been falling over himself with delight at the presence of his three main actors. Each give impressive performances, but it is Streep's that takes the breath away. So much has been written already about her flawless depiction of Sophie, who has to be the most heartbreaking character ever seen on film; I can only add my support to the view that Streep here gives the best performance ever seen by an actor.Additionally, I agree that the Academy should look at this performance as the watermark of the Best Actress Oscar. Inevitably, no one will ever match it, but to think Gwyneth Paltrow won the same award for her role in Shakespeare in Love is laughable.Kevin Kline is brilliant as the chilling yet endearing Nathan, whilst Peter MacNicol is the character whose superb narration and acting transmits us into the movie.I noticed that the morose Pauline Kael, the most ludicrously over-respected film critic of all time, once again shows her cynicism in finding much fault with the movie I will have none of it it is utterly moving, without having to resort to cliché or overloud, haunting music to influence our emotions. Quite simply, the subject matter - Sophie's tragic life and (in)ability to come to terms with what has happened to her - is enough to do this on its own.The final frame is to me, perhaps the most beautiful I have ever seen, and the film will stay with the viewer long after. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep's Greatest Performance","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice is set in Brooklyn in the late 1940s, soon after the end of the Second World War. The three main characters are Stingo, a young writer from the Deep South, and Nathan and Sophie, the couple who befriend him. Nathan is a Jewish New Yorker who tells Stingo that he is a research biologist for a pharmaceutical company. Sophie is a Polish gentile immigrant who has survived imprisonment in Auschwitz by the Nazis. At first the atmosphere is relatively light, one of love, friendship and fun. This part of the film is shot in brilliant colour in a summer setting, and the affluent suburbs of New York seem a safe haven from the horrors of the war that has recently ravaged Europe.Gradually, however, the tone darkens as we become aware that the gentle, beautiful Sophie is hiding a dark secret. We learn that her beloved father was not, as she claimed, an anti-Nazi intellectual, but was actually a rabid anti-Semite and admirer of Nazism whom the Germans murdered by mistake. Nathan originally seems eccentric but vivacious and likable, but as the film progresses he begins to show signs of disturbance, insulting Stingo whom he has previously treated as a friend, and unreasonably suspecting Sophie of being unfaithful to him. We, and Stingo, learn from Nathan's brother that he is in fact suffering from mental illness and that he is only employed by the pharmaceutical company in a lowly clerical position, not as a research scientist, although Sophie remains unaware of these facts.In 1982 there had been many films made about the Second World War, but relatively few about the Holocaust, which seemed to daunt film-makers by its very enormity. Alan Pakula was therefore breaking new ground, particularly as he approached the subject from a controversial angle, tackling the question of war guilt- not the legal and moral guilt of those who perpetrated the Holocaust, but the psychological guilt of those who survived it. After liberation from the camps, many survivors such as Sophie experienced feelings of guilt that they had survived whereas many others, including friends and family members, had died. Sophie's feelings of guilt are exacerbated by her knowledge of her father's odious political views and by the fact that she had attempted to exploit her father's reputation and her fluent knowledge of German in an attempt to ingratiate herself with Rudolf Hoess, the commandant of Auschwitz, whose secretary she became. Sophie's most agonising secret, however, is the choice of the film's title- the fact that she was forced by a brutal Nazi officer to choose which of her two children should live and which should die. Her love for the Jewish Nathan, whom she clings to despite his mistreatment of her, may be a way of atoning for her guilt feelings.There are a few weaknesses in the film. During the first half the action can be too slow, and Stingo, as played by Peter MacNichol, seems a fairly weak figure. The scene of his sexual encounter with a girl who talks like a whore and acts like a prude would be funny in a comedy but is out of place in a serious film like this one. Despite these weaknesses, however, this is a film which more than justifies its ambitious theme. Meryl Streep is one of the greatest film actresses of all time, and certainly the best of the early eighties, and this is possibly her best-ever role. She demonstrated her famed linguistic talents, playing the Auschwitz scenes in excellent German and the English-language scenes with a Polish accent, but (contrary to what some hostile critics have sometimes claimed) there is more to her acting than a collection of foreign accents. One criticism that is sometimes made of Streep is that she is too intellectual an actress, self-consciously thinking her way into a part rather than trying to live it emotionally, but in this case at least this seems to be the right approach. It is difficult to see how the Method could cope with a role like Sophie, whose emotional experiences are so far beyond those of any actress likely to be called upon to play her. Certainly, I found this one of the most affecting performances I have seen. Never can the Best Actress Oscar have been better deserved. Kevin Kline was unlucky not to have been nominated for his part as the tormented and tragic Nathan. This is a dark, sombre film but one of high quality and great emotional power. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pure cinematic intoxication!","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Alan J. Pakula's film, a departure from his conspiracy and suspense dramas, is an adaptation of William Styron's best-selling novel of the same name. The story itself is based on his experiences as a southerner living in Brooklyn in 1947.Pakula essentially preserves the structure of Styron's novel as it begins with the arrival of Stingo, an aspiring young writer, in post - WWII Brooklyn. After settling into a boarding house, he meets a unique couple that offers him alternating support and heartbreak.He befriends the Jewish biologist, Nathan (Kevin Kline), and his girlfriend, Sophie Zawistowska (Meryl Streep), a Polish refugee and Auschwitz survivor. But their relationship is clouded by Nathan's violent behaviour, his uncontrollable jealousy, and Sophie's unexpressed but troubling memories of war. Her stories about her life during the war begin to unravel, exposing her as a liar and adding a tone of mystery to the relationship between Nathan, Stingo, and herself. The film culminates in a flashback, reflecting the horrors of the war and the true cause of Sophie's insufferable pain and the bitter choice she had to make&#133;Streep deservedly won an Oscar and a Golden Globe for Best Actress, bringing on the tears, playing both a naive girl and a worldly woman, transforming herself into a Holocaust victim and survivor. Speaking flawlessly in a Polish accent and acceptable German, she basically became Sophie Zawistowska.And while Streep is undoubtedly the star, both Kevin Kline and Peter MacNicol deserve credit for making 'Sophie's Choice' work as well as it does.While overall this is Stingo's coming of age story, at its central core we get drawn into Sophie's saga. Pakula uses an Emily Dickinson poem to frame her story Ample make this bed.Make this bed with awe; In it wait till judgment break excellent and fair. Be its mattress straight, be its pillow round; Let no sunrise' yellow noise interrupt this ground.The reference to the bed is the key to understanding Sophie's persona. She relies on Nathan's physical love, even as he abuses her, to cope with her Auschwitz ghosts. Nestor Almendros' delicately lit cinematography, with its complex levels of saturation and subtle impositions of shadow, has often been meticulously replicated. The flesh tones are perfect, the image is solid and the colours, when in full bloom, are exquisitely formed. Equally effective is the use of music created by Marvin Hamlisch. Two themes are effectively intertwined throughout the story &#150; both melancholic.Though the film deals with the Holocaust, it doesn't graphically show Nazi horrors, but rather refers to them abstractly, making it more effective. 'Sophie's Choice' provides the emotional core of the horror and shows what devastating experiences the survivors must deal with. For Pakula, the film was an artistic highpoint and his most deeply felt work. Undoubtedly, 'Sophie's Choice' remains his most powerful, highly distinctive drama. "},{"Title":"Truly Great and Important Film","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having a new, big screen, home theater system is giving me the chance to watch some of my old favorite films and see how they have held up over time. I was recently surprised at how strange the story in Manhattan seemed 26 years later. I wondered how Sophie's Choice might have aged. I remember being so moved by Meryl Streep's performance and by the story. I still feel the same urgency to be reminded of the Holocaust. Especially with the horrors and torture still so prevalent we still need to recall what happened not so long ago. Sophie's Choice is still as great as I remember it. Streep's performance is the greatest I have ever seen. The DVD comes with a Making of&#133; documentary which is so enlightening. This was an important project for everyone involved, from the author, the screenwriter, the director, the cinematographer, to the actors all cared about what they were doing in this film. "},{"Title":"this is my CHOICE for the BEST SCREEN  PERFORMANCE of ALL TIMES!!!","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I already knew that Meryl Streep was a phenomenal actress even before watching what many consider her greatest performance as Sophie. I have developed deep admiration for her brilliant portrayals of unforgettable characters like Karen Blixen, Francesca Johnson, and Joanna Kramer, to name some of my favorites. I am already a devoted fan, notwithstanding that the film I had so much wanted to watch kept eluding me. Until that day came when I finally watched her blew me away in what I dubbed as a magnificently explosive performance. Sophie's Choice has elevated my admiration to Streep to levels no other obsession of mine can ever reach.There's no way this class of artistry will be outrank. Streep is peerless. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies Ever","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is almost perfect, if there is such a thing.  Meryl Streep gives her finest performance ever as Sophie.  In fact, her performance here is quite possibly the best movie acting that I have ever seen. (It's really that good.)  Plus there's even more--the music, the directing, the writing, the supporting actors--are all excellent.  Be warned that this movie is very moving and tragic, but it is extremely well done.  It will make you cry and laugh--it will fill you with hope and despair--it will make you appreciate life and understand sorrow. "},{"Title":"Unqualified Cinematic Power","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My experience with this film was endured without knowing anything about the story ahead of time. It was a jarringly emotional experience, so to preserve that possibility for those who I hope will see it, I will tread gingerly. What I will say is that its structure is the bedrock of its effect. It begins with a pleasant atmosphere, entirely unsuspecting. Then come ominous scenes that the characters seem to pretend to forget afterwards. Then a plunge into an entirely different world indefinitely. Then the initial mood returns without having lost a shred of credibility. Then we return to deep subjectivity of the alternate one, and when we come back, no matter how unchanged the initial setting remains, we are never the same.Note the title. Sophie's Choice. Then note that it essentially features merely three people, Meryl Streep, Kevin Kline and Peter MacNichol. One's first inclination as to what the title character's choice shall be proves to be a disquieting revelation of what little we've experienced in our lives. What do we know? Whatever the most harrowing or ecstatic of the moments through which we've lived barely scratch the surface of life's possibilities owing to the infinite extent of human nature. The relationship between two of the characters is a testament to what a person can and can't live with, and what a person can't live without. Peter MacNichol's mediating protagonist learns this, and so do we, through him.When we are his age, we never believe people, no matter how much we respect them or love them, when they tell us that there is so much we don't understand. As the film begins, we are introduced to the two people he happens to meet when he moves to Brooklyn. In spite of our, and his, initial reaction to them, we grow to believe we know and understand them. We have no reason to believe that when they behave, speak and react, they are inventing or denying anything. Upon reflection, the last line we hear Sophie say to the impressionable young central character has no way of indicating her true reason for saying it, whether it's true or false.All three leads are becoming, deeply realized and even unique in their performances, but Streep deserved all of her acclaim. She truly delivers one of the best portrayals I have ever seen in any dramatic medium. Where she, as I said, neither invents or denies, intimates an authentic facet of human nature's intricacies, more normal and sexy in the early scenes before showing us who Sophie really is. It is a mystery for many how someone speaks in a foreign accent, in this case pivotal to her role, and even speaks the corresponding language, without pretending or affecting, or doing an impression. There is no sign of any seams through which we can glimpse the devil who wears prada or the adventure mom in The River Wild. Without leaning into any extremes, there is hardly an emotion left untackled by Streep in this film.Sophie's Choice appears as if it might as well be shot with a soft lens, a film whose scaffolding is its Oscar-winning star. I cannot tell you how contrary that appearance is, and how eerily relevant that deception is as analogy to the movie itself. There is a rawness that remains untouched by many filmmakers superior to he who directed this, Alan J. Pakula, who also adapted it from William Styron's novel. Pakula is sneaky. The structure of the film could easily have felt uneven. His visual choices could easily have felt alternately overdone and under. We realize later that a handful of early certain scenes which feel initially like sappy Americana are emotional red herrings. He simply knew, in spite of tried and true conventions, logic or practice, that his vision would work. And it is unqualified cinematic power. "},{"Title":"Sophie's Choice~Classic","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Rarely would I give a film a rating of 10 as that is perfection. Sophie's Choice is and always will be a classic film, a film that will be watched decades from now by other generations. Meryl Streep is simply one of the greatest actresses of our time and has truly made her mark. Sophie's Choice is not another Holocaust film. In fact most of the movie doesn't refer to the holocaust but of Sophie, the character so brilliantly created by William Styron in his novel 'Sophie's Choice' and beautifully adapted into a screen play. We see Sophie through the eyes of Stingo, the young writer from the south who becomes infatuated with Sophie. Little by little Sophie's story is revealed. The title 'Sophie's Choice' refers to a particular choice made in the film by Sophie but in my eyes there are many choices that Sophie makes through out this film. Meryl Streep completely transformed herself into this character which she won the Acadamy Award for Best Actress and rightfully so. I don't think anybody else could have created Sophie as Streep did. Sophie lives for Nathan, the man she claims saved her life 6 months after coming to America. Sophie and Nathan's relationship is a roller coaster of highs and extreme lows. Stingo, their best friend is constantly on the outside looking in at the complex characters of Sophie and Nathan. This is a beautiful film as Sophie is a beautiful character you can't help but love and feel her pain. "},{"Title":"The casting person made an excellent choice!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree with the previous commenter--an extremely powerful film. But I would like to add that I think this was Kevin Kline's best role in any film he has made.  I especially love the part in the beginning when Sophie and Nathan are arguing on the stairwell and he finds Stingo eavesdropping.  His switch to a southern drawl, the stinging quality of his words, amazed me.  I've watched this movie so often I'm about to wear it out.  Also the music is very well done.  I STILL cry when I watch it!  "}{"Title":"An example of an excellent actress","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice is a vivid portrayal of the human side of World War II and the holocaust. The setting is post-World War II, late 1940s Brooklyn, New York.Meryl Streep is Sophie Zawistowski, a Polish immigrant. This is the movie that caused all of us to fall in love with Ms. Streep. Her performance is impeccable. In some scenes, she is flawlessly dressed, and absolutely beautiful, while in others she is completely dehumanized at the hands of the Nazi Germans, and yet Meryl Streep is completely convincing throughout the film. Her accent sounds genuine, and you feel Sophie's pain throughout the movie.Kevin Kline is Nathan Landau, Sophie's mentally unstable boyfriend who meets her in Brooklyn. Kline's performance as the 'Jekyl and Hyde' Nathan is ominously realistic. Peter MacNicol is Stingo, a naive young writer from the South who moves into the same building as Sophie and Nathan. Stingo soon learns the secrets Sophie and Nathan have been keeping from each other.This movie will keep you on the edge of your seat. The acting is brilliant, especially by Meryl Streep. This movie contains one of the most haunting scenes ever depicted in film history.Sophie's Choice is an excellent film that portrays the suffering many endured during World War II. "},{"Title":"The Trolley Problem","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alan Pakula directs Sophie's Choice, adapted from a William Styron novel by the same name. Both were released in the wake of the NBC miniseries Holocaust (1978), which rekindled mainstream interest in the Final solution.Highly melodramatic, the film's first half revolves around the tribulations of the Polish Catholic Sophie Zawistowski (Meryl Streep), who has left Post-War Europe for life in Brooklyn, New York. Here she lives with the volatile Nathan Landau (Kevin Kline), a Jewish con man who suffers from schizophrenia. Landau is abusive toward Sophie, plays power games with her, and suspects that Sophia may have betrayed Jews or sided with the Nazis in return for her own personal safety. Both Landau and Sophie are enveloped by self hate; Sophie tortures herself because she did indeed have a secret relationship with the Nazis, whilst Landau literally embodies a kind of Jewish survivor's guilt. The tale's title initially seems to refer to a choice Sophie must make in the present, choosing between one of two lovers, Landau or a young writer called Stingo, but is eventually revealed to be a reference to a past choice given to Sophie by a Nazi officer. His ultimatum? Sophie must choose which of her two children will be killed, lest they both are. Sophie's choice &#x96; her giving up of her son &#x96; is just one psychic scar carried by the woman throughout the film; her father was a eugenicist who advocated the extermination of Jews.Styron's tale is different from most Holocaust narratives. He focuses on Christians and Slavs (the Holocaust was anti-Christian as well as anti-Semitic) and like Lumet's The Pawnbroker, a Jew is explicitly one of the tale's key bullies. The film and the novel also differ wildly. A large portion of Styron's novel - completely absent in the film - focuses on white-on-black racism, the American South and the slave trade, and subscribed to a view which Holocaust professor Richard Rubenstein says rejects Christian anti-Semitism as causative in favour for the belief that in its essential character Auschwitz was a capitalistic slave society as much as or even more than it was an extermination centre. The novel also continuously jostles Sophie's first person narratives, Stingo's POV and an omniscient narrator. The overall effect is such that the viewpoints of victims and executioners become blurred or fused together. Styron's story is also structured such that multiple narrators find themselves selfishly warring over both Sophie's body and her story, desperate to claim her victimization for themselves. Shades of Egoyan's Ararat (a more overtly postmodern Holocaust story, in which different tribes literally attempt to co-opt the past for themselves).Interestingly, Nathan, a kind of Doppelgänger of German sadists, is himself a Jewish Nazi, whilst the Nazi officer who forces Sophie to choose between her children is himself given an early speech in which he bemoans having to play God, a weight which he eventually grants Sophie; he allows her to also play executioner. Both Nathan and the Nazi are creatures of the grey zone, a concept developed by Primo Levi and further elaborated upon by Giorgio Agamben. For both, the grey zone refers to the blurring of boundaries between victims and executioners, and to the murky process of contamination and collaboration by which relationships within the death camps defied any simplistic Manichaean division of good and evil, imposing instead a condition of extreme equivocation (typically in the form of double binds or impossible situations). The zone is a kind of threshold of indistinction, which calls into question the very notion of ethics.Pakula may never go down as a great director, but he was interesting in the way, like Kubrick, he tended to focus on power, conspiracy and power's reliance on double-binds and no win scenarios. Like Warren Beatty in Pakula's Parallax View, who becomes enshrined in the Law he attempts to remain apart of and/or destroy, Sophie can't help but be complicit. Incidentally, the choice Sophie faces is known as The Double Trolley Problem, a famous thought experiment in cognitive science, neuro-ethics and philosophy. The problem typically involves a subject being given a choice between either allowing 2 trolleys to run over and so kill 2 separate people, or attaching one trolley to another so that only one person dies. The answer to the problem differs depending on whichever branch of philosophy one belongs to. A utilitarian, for example, would typically always save one person. Other schools believe that making the choice is itself an unethical act; had you not intervened, the ethical breech (making the choice to deliberately kill) does not fall on you. When confronted with this problem in surveys, most people instinctively refuse to choose, perceiving choosing as being a complicit and unethical act. When presented with the choice between photos of loved ones (who will hypothetically die), people overwhelmingly tend to refuse to make the choice as well. According to studies, this is true for over 90 percent of human beings. The less than 10 percent who make utilitarian choices display strong tendencies toward psychopathy, Machiavellianism or tend to view life as being intrinsically meaningless.The film is handsomely shot, but is overly slow and Pakula's use of the Stingo character &#x96; a literary device not necessarily needed on film &#x96; goes nowhere. The way the film manipulates us into a state of artificial suspense (what is the choice? Who does Sophie choose?) is somewhat tasteless, Pakula's delaying of the choice and making it the final solution to a mystery echoing the Nazi's manipulating and dismissing of Sophie's humanity. Meryl Streep's acting here is praised, but its overly busy and virtuosic. It's the kind of flashy acting &#x96; all surfaces and no depth - that always wins awards; Pakula should have reigned her in.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Astounding!!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mrs Streep's performance in this movie can easily be rated as the best ever in the long history of the movie industry.  She is simply the best actress, ever.  Having read the book, I could not foresee how any actress could portray such a complex character.  I was so pleasantly surprised!!!! "},{"Title":"What a performance","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meryl Streep has proved once more that she is the BEST Hollywood actress working right now, and one of the best actresses period.  Her performance in Sophie's Choice was gut wrenching and powerful.  Trust me, there is nothing like it. She deserved every award she received for this movie. the movie 7 out of 10.  Her performance pure perfection "},{"Title":"The benchmark performance","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen this movie since its first release, but the mere mention of it still gives me chills.. Not just for the subject matter, which on its own is deep and haunting.. But for the greatest performance ever seen by an actor.. Meryl Streep has since proved she is probably the greatest actress in cinema, and her portrayal of Sophie will be all that will be needed to certify that assertion... She has done brilliant work since then, and of course there are some who deserve to be mentioned in the same breath with her, but her body of work cannot possibly be out-done. And Sophie's Choice is her signature piece.. Her effortless tackling of complex languages with such ease and clarity was a jaw-dropper. Streep changed the ballgame with this gem. The bar was raised so high for her generation that it became crystal clear that no one would ever come close... And now over twenty years since its release it is safe to say.. No one ever did... "},{"Title":"Meryl's movie","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meryl Streep is no doubt the benchmark actress of her generation-it's hard to fathom anyone else being able to pull this heartbreaking story off the way she did. Kevin Kline is also superb, in a much more substantive role than the one that eventually won him an Oscar as well(in A Fish Called Wanda.)It's a sad commentary on the US film industry that roles like this for female leads are few and far between, leaving the Academy a severe dirth of female performances every year to choose from. (This is evidenced by the fact that the last few years have given us the likes of cover girls Julia Roberts and Gwyneth Paltrow winning for lightweight performances in Erin Brockovich and Shakespeare in Love.) Sophie's Choice is the crowning achievement of Ms. Streep's brilliant career and I, for one, wish there were more vehicles written for mature, interesting women like her!    "},{"Title":"Best Acting by a Female EVER","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meryl Streep has received a number of accolades and awards for her acting over the years, possibly the best being that many of the younger actresses have publicly proclaimed Meryl as their role model.  But you need not see any other movie than Sophie's Choice to see why she has been so universally acclaimed.  This is no doubt the best single featured acting by a female in any single movie, similar to Robert DeNiro's in Raging Bull or Taxi Driver.  Meryl's Sophie is a person who is naive, jaded, innocent, guilt stricken, soft and gentle, hard as nails, loving and giving, and both practical and poetic to a fault.  She is a classic tragic figure, a lesson in how to deal with the horrors of life and how not to deal with how those horrors haunt you.  She is funny, soft and sweet, and you want to put your arms around her. Then you realize that underneath that childlike woman is a woman who has given up on childhood.  She is a study in contradictions, speaking English, German, and Polish to survive at all costs.  Then along comes Nathan, expertly portrayed by Kevin Kline (possibly one of his most challenging and multi-layered roles), and her life takes another turn.  But we see all this through the wondering, innocent eyes of Stingo, and the terror, love, laughs, friendship and alienation he experiences, we experience.  This is primarily due to a fantastic portrayal of Sophie by Meryl.  And yes, the key scene -- The Choice of Choices -- is possibly the most painful scene ever on film, and how Meryl interprets Sophie during this scene is, by itself, worth an award!  I love this movie.  Someone once saw it for the first time, and commented, I didn't think I would like it, especially because it was such a downer at times.  But it was so good!  Excellent summary.   "},{"Title":"Couldn't they have just found a Polish actress?","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm baffled by the write-ups here. This is pure middle-brow soap opera, quality Hollywood at its dreariest. The writer-director and actors take themselves way too seriously, the three main characters and their interactions don't add up, and the ending comes out of nowhere. Holocaust-ploitation is too strong a word only because this is just too earnestly boring to tread those waters.Streep? It's a stunt, not a performance. We watch her to see whether her accents slip up, not for any warmth or magnetism or emotional intensity, like the kind that presumably captivated the two men in Sophie's life, because it's not there. Maybe a Polish actress could have brought some quality of a life actually lived to the character.Kline, who I've always found an overbearing presence, can't do much with a character whose antics probably made as little sense on the page as he does on the screen. Tragically glamorous? More like cornily theatrical. As for MacNichol, an actor of no magnetism whatsoever, someone forgot to tell him that even when you're playing a boring nebbish, you have to bring something to the character that'll make the audience want to watch him mope around for two hours. He doesn't.The story is contrived, the various points of development - the revelations about Nathan from his brother, the denouement after Sophie leaves Stingo - feel like they exist only to move the plot along. Sophie's account of her tragedy in the camps feels like something trumped up to goose a wan story about a romantic threesome. Maybe this is Holocaust-ploitation after all. "},{"Title":"Shattering, and still soaring","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice is one of those films I always meant to watch, and finally got the chance. It is best to go into it with as little idea as to what it's about as possible, as it's a slow film with a lot of layers that get peeled off one by one. A young would-be-author from the South moves to Brooklyn and befriends his neighbors, the couple Nathan and Sophie. All three hit it off, but Nathan's bipolar tendencies do puncture their friendship at times. Sophie, however, is a calm soul as kind as she is tortured by her past in Auschwitz. As the author, Stingo, gets to know them better, he is also taken deeper and deeper into Sophie's past, where a hidden pain resides.Sophie's Choice brilliantly captures two polar opposite worlds. The colourful and tranquil Brooklyn is contrasted strikingly by a late 1930s Poland occupied by Nazis, where the colour drains so much out of the film that any further and it would be black-and-white. The present in Brooklyn is a good haven to have and catch our breath between glimpses into Sophie's horrible past.At the end of the day, in spite of the emotionally shattering story, Sophie's Choice is a story about hope and redemption. The performances certainly helped. Peter MacNicol and Kevin Kline are both wonderful as polar opposite personalities, united by a common love for literature.But Meryl Streep is utterly mesmerizing as Sophie. It's not for no reason that this was one of those Oscar-nominated performances of hers that gave that extra edge and got her the statue. All of Sophie's mannerisms, her accent, her speaking German and Polish, her searching for words in English to express what she wants to say, her restrained kindness, her pain; none of it overdone. The director even trusted Streep enough to take long shots with her as she gets into deep characterization. This is quite simply one of the finest female performances in cinema.I did fear, throughout the film, what exactly Sophie's choice was, and I was right, for it is a scene that crushes your heart. But the film comes together in the end and ends in an emotionally satisfying way in spite of everything. Steel yourself for an emotional journey and give Sophie's Choice a view, it's a film as uplifting as it is depressing, and unmissable for cinema buffs. "},{"Title":"What Ever Happened to Baby Jennifer (Lawn)?","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The only bit of information about her on IMDb reads Attended Tulane University (the field of study is not even hinted at...). Under her Filmography, there is only one title Sophie's Choice... This is all that remains from a very impressive performance of 1982 by a little girl whose name was Jennifer Lawn. Those who first saw the famous choice scene toward the end of the film, where the Academy Award winner Meryl Streep was holding terrified little Jennifer in her arms, must have foreseen a bright future for this kid actress who might easily fool the viewers into believing that she was actually living the scene, rather than just acting it! A future Oscar winner in the arms of a present one, one might have prophesied back in 1982. Unfortunately, this prophecy never came true... If you have seen the movie, you are certainly familiar with this intensely dramatic scene (DON'T watch it if you have NOT seen the film and plan to do so!) costas-music.blogspot.gr/2012/12/sophies-choice-choice-scene.html "}{"Title":"Finally seen and sadly should have been earlier","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to believe I missed this great film till now.Meryl Streep as Sophie and Kevin Kline as Nathan and Peter MacNicol as Stingo are the focus of what appears to be a typical love triangle in the making set in 1947 Brooklyn.Stingo is a southern aspiring writer who moves to Brooklyn to launch his writing of the bignovel and meets Sophie and her lover Nathan who have a very tempestuous love life.Soon enough Stingo becomes best friendof both and a weird triangle ensues.Simple enough,seen that,nothing special.The acting is fine and although we learn early on that Sophie is a survivor of a Nazi concentration camp,it seems to be little more than a post war love of life and experimental relationship film.POW !!! your hit like a ton of bricks when Sophie starts telling Stingo of her past after more problems with Nathan.Nathan it seems is obsessed with the Holocaust and frequently refers to Sophie and a whore and god knows how she survived the camps.The last hour or so is as powerful a attempt to illustrate in individual terms what happened to those who lived through the Holocaust and how they did,as I have ever seen on film without having real archive footage.Filmed in German dialect with subtitles to add to the realism its hard to watch and when you finally learn what Sophie's Choicereally was,well,I cried.I admit it,I did.The ending was a modern tragedy and the boy from the south learned what life was all about,perhaps.Its a long story but the characters are so well drawn and when the camp flashbacks begin you can't turn away and the film seems to end before it should.You want to know even more. "},{"Title":"Sophie's Choice","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was given an 8/10 purely because of Meryl Streep's forever amazing performance. This movie is truly haunting. ...There are still some things we have yet to imagine, is the slogan of this movie. This is true because some of the things in the world are just too difficult to imagine. Sophie's Choice dares to show us those true horrors of life. Kevin Kline was also incredible with his portrayal of someone with a schizophrenic disorder before the time when that sort of thing was recognized. Peter MacNicol had an easy, but still memorable performance. This movie has a place in history, due to it's disturbing and unimaginably painful decisions and ideals it drives our minds to, and Meryl Streep has raised the bar in way that almost no one could ever surpass. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Heartbreaking","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sohpie's Choice has got to be the most heartbreaking movie I have seen in a long time. It is a tragic love story between Sophie (Meryl Streep) and Nathan (Kevin Klein) who meet an unsuccessful writer named Stingo. They become great friends and Stingo soon discovers the darkness of Nathan, and Sophie's most heart-wrenching secrets. I'm quite surprised this movie hasn't made it to IMDb's top 250 list, because this should be a movie that is recognized as the best performance from Meryl Streep in film history. Fantastic movie, truly heartbreaking, but very well made.10/10 "},{"Title":"Emotionally powerful, a very strong story and great acting.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not many movies I've seen could carry away a top rating. Sophie's choice just made it there. Apart from a good story and very good acting, this movie has some fine little details in the editing as well that only caught my eye after repeated viewing. My favorite scene is (of course) where Sophie has her choice forced upon her by the SS Doctor played by Karlheinz Hackl. (In his book, William Styron gives him a fictitious name Dr. Jemand von Niemand, literally translated as Dr. Somebody of Nobody.) The ensuing scene is truly heartrending and must be every mother's worst nightmare...  "},{"Title":"Suffer Little Children To Come Unto Me.","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In my opinion - Out of this 1982 film's decidedly over-long 2-hour & 30-minute running time, only 30 of those minutes made Sophie's Choice worth watching.These 30 minutes were the moments (told in very vivid flashbacks) when the guilt-ridden Sophie eventually recalls her experiences as a young, Polish woman, and mother, in war-torn Germany and what choices she was inevitably forced to make.It took this film 85 minutes of pure drudgery before Sophie finally got around to telling her harrowing story about choice.To say that this movie was marred beyond belief by Kevin Kline's absolutely annoying, over-the-top portrayal of the Nathan Landau character would truly be an understatement. Kline was an ultimate ass in this picture. Needless to say, I hated him, like you wouldn't believe.As well - Drab, dull actor Peter MacNicol was utterly forgettable as the Stingo character who befriends Sophie and learns of her deep, dark secret.And, finally - I thought Meryl Streep speaking broken-English with a Polish accent was pretty disappointing. Half the time I couldn't understand what the hell she was saying.All-in-all - I do not recommend this movie at all. It is far too over-rated, if you ask me. "},{"Title":"A first class film","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first watched this film on TV approximately 12 years ago.Having watched it in 2001 on DVD, I gained an even greater respect for this superb movie. The acting is first class, the story intriguing and the characters are strong and deep.Meryl Streep gives the performance of her life and displays emotions at both ends of the spectrum.If you have not seen the film then sit back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Fantastic, fantastic, fantastic.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I lack the words to describe this beautiful, heartwrenching, spectacular movie. I cried through handfuls of tissues while watching it, and intend to buy it. I sincerely reccomend Sophie's Choice, although it's not by any means a happy movie.Meryl Streep, Kevin Kline, and Peter MacNicol were all fantastic, as were the writing and directing. I have a rather extreme obsession with history, and am generally very annoyed with historical movies due to serious innacuracies, but I didn't see even one in this. That is especially impressive, considering that the movie was made twenty years ago, and 20-year-old incongruencies are generally fairly easy to spot.In short, it's fantastic--see it. "},{"Title":"The finest actress over the past 20 years in an overwhelming performance","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this movie only had Meryl Streep going for it it would be excellent. But the performances by Kevin Kline and Peter MacNicol enhance the awesome portrayal by Ms. Streep, of a woman faced with a series of difficult choices, one of which should be unimaginable, but sadly is not. In my 40+ years of moviegoing I have not seen a finer actress than Meryl Streep. A word of warning, make sure you have your crying towel before you watch this excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Kevin Kline and Meryl Streep are perfect!","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very powerful film. This film is all about the acting. Even Peter MacNicol is perfect as the young, naive and  good-hearted Stengo. The story is told from his eyes as he befriends and becomes entwined in the lives of Kline's Nathan and Streep's Sophie. It's not the most pleasant topic or the easiest film to watch, but it's well worth it. Now if Kevin Kline would pick his roles a little more  selectively and do more like this, he could become one of Hollywood's greatest actors of all time. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie to understand a paranoid schizophrenic, and the horror of a concentration camp.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sophie Zawistowska is stunningly portrayed by outstanding actress Meryl Streep (One True Thing) who won the Oscar for Best Actress for the part. Nathan, Kevin Kline (French Kiss) is a paranoid schizophrenic. Nathan has this mania of grandiose, mood swings. He bites Sophie.  Their relationship has its ups and downs. When Nathan is up, he is beyond up, when he is down he is suicidal.   Stingo,  Peter MacNicol (Ally Mac Beal), is their good friend who falls in love with Sophie. I found the story to be somewhat on the sad side (1) Because of the situations that Sophie has been through in her life; (2) Nathan's illness and his addiction to cocaine; (3) the concentration camp.  But Meryl is so wonderful with her accents, which makes one forget all the sadness in the movie. This is a good movie to understand a paranoid schizophrenic. When the person with the disorder is treated properly their quality of life can be enhanced. But Nathan in not taking medication and is addicted to cocaine.  Favorite Scenes  Sophie, Nathan, Stingo playing the piano six hands.  Nathan conducting the orchestra in a bay window, which gives basically three images of himself.  Three glasses of Champagne on the Brooklyn Bridge. Nathan was fatally glamorous but severely ill.  Favorite Quotes The truth does not make it easier to understand. The truth... I don't even know what is the truth after all those lies I have told. "}{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sophie's Choice is one of the greatest movies ever made. It's so great primarily because of Meryl Streep's flawless performance. All the performances are fine, but what Streep does under the director's sensitive eye is miraculous. What a tragedy it is that she has never again been offered a part with such range and depth. Let's hope she'll be given more parts that display her stunning talent. You know Streep is acting when she's acting, but it's hard to believe she is.   "},{"Title":"A magical movie","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing another in a long line of flawed movies, I decided to watch what is for me the gold standard in movie-making.  Much has been said about Streep's amazing performance, but  Kevin Kline and Peter MacNichol were unforgettable too.  Great plot, script, and direction. "},{"Title":"A woman's life is never easy","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are three performances that I consider the greatest of all time Ellen Burstyne in Requiem For A Dream, Jodie Foster in The Accused, and Meryl Streep in Sophie's Choice. I was not sure wether I wanted to see this film or not. I read the novel by William Styron, and was not too pleased with it. But, I finally rented it and was very pleased that I did. This is one of those rare movies that is superior to the book. It is amazing!The entire plot is amazing. There is so much mystery surrounding Sophie and her love Nathan, that you are forced to keep watching until they're lives unravel before you. Meryl Streep plays Sophie in one of the greatest performances of all time. She is so good at her role that you don't even relize that it is Meryl Streep (an actress) you are watching, but Sophie. You embark on the journey of Sophie's hard life. Hard is not the word. There is no word to descibe the horrors that she has been through. Meryl Streep is completly flawless. You will never understand what I mean until you watch this movie. You will love this movie and love Sophie. You won't be able to take your eyes off the screen up until Sophie makes her heartbreaking choice that you will not believe. WONDERFUL! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep Has An Unforgettable Performance As Sophie","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice is a drama film that tells the story of a Polish immigrant, Sophie, and her tempestuous lover who share a boarding house with a young writer in Brooklyn. The film stars Meryl Streep, Kevin Kline, and Peter MacNicol. Alan J. Pakula directed the movie and wrote the script from a novel by William Styron of the same title.Aspiring southern author Stingo (MacNichol) heads to New York to seek his fortune. Moving into a dingy Brooklyn boarding house, Stingo strikes up a friendship with research chemist Nathan Landau (Kline) and Nathan's girlfriend, Polish refugee Sophie Zawistowska (Streep). There is something unsettling about the relationship; Nathan is subject to violent mood swings, while Sophie seems to be harboring a horrible secret. Stingo soon learns that both Nathan and Sophie are strangers to truth.One evening, Stingo learns from Sophie that she was married but her husband and her father were killed in a German work camp and that she was interned in the Auschwitz concentration camp.Nathan is constantly jealous, and when he is in one of his violent mood swings he convinces himself that Sophie is unfaithful to him and abuses and harasses her. There is a flashback showing Nathan rescuing Sophie from near death from anemia shortly after her immigration to the U.S. Sophie eventually reveals that her father was a Nazi sympathizer. Sophie had a lover, Józef, who lived with his half-sister, Wanda, a leader in the Resistance. Wanda tried to convince Sophie to translate some stolen Gestapo documents, but Sophie declined, fearing she might endanger her children. Two weeks later Józef was murdered by the Gestapo, and Sophie was arrested and sent to Auschwitz with her children.She reveals to him the tragic choice she was forced to make at Auschwitz. Upon arrival, she was forced to choose which one of her two children would be gassed and which would proceed to the labor camp. To avoid having both children killed, she chose her son, Jan, to be sent to the children's camp, and her daughter, Eva, to be sent to her death in Crematorium Two.The movie is too Hollywood in look and feel, and the flashback and narration are too conventional, and yet the image of the sickly and pale Meryl Streep recollecting her ordeal lingers in memory long after the film is over. Streep is memorable as Sophie which makes her truly deserving of the Academy Award for Best Actress that she won for this movie.Though it's far from a flawless movie, it is a unified and deeply affecting movie due in part due Streep's performance and the story just takes over and happens to you. It's quite an experience. "},{"Title":"the emotional climax of Sophie's Choice will haunt you for the rest of your days","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice is a hauntingly dramatic and beautiful film with the always enthralling Meryl Streep portraying a Polish woman who survived the Holocaust only to find her life wrecked by another tragedy. Any film that revolves around the Holocaust, in which more than six million Jewish people were exterminated within half a decade, should, but intrinsic nature, be gut-wrenching and poignant and sad. Sophie's Choice is all of that and more.Sophie, played by Meryl Streep, is the main character upon whom the story is focused, but the central character, from whose perspective the movie is told is, is Stingo, a young American writer played wonderfully by Peter MacNichol. Stingo, hoping to finish his novel, rents an apartment in Brooklyn. His neighbors, who live upstairs, are Sophie, a beautiful Polish survivor of the Holocaust and her boyfriend Nathan, a warm, friendly Jewish man. Stingo discovers through odd circumstances that there is concrete truth behind Nathan's odd behavior being up down one minute and vehemently down another. As he watches Sophie and Nathan's relationship fall apart and come back together again, Stingo comforts Sophie and learns her whole story, from the point where she turned against her anti-Semitic father, was imprisoned with the people her father persecuted, lost her children in the extermination camps, and ultimately her reveal of the titular choice that she had to make, the one she can still not forgive herself for.This is a very tragic and haunting story based on a controversial novel by William Styron. I can't say about the book, but the film adaptation is so emotionally strong and so gut-wrenching in its more depressing moments that it ranks up there with films like Schindler's List and The Pianist in the way it manipulates your emotions and forces you into giving sympathy for its character. The screenplay written by director Alan J. Pakula is warm and rich and perfectly encompasses every scene. There isn't a moment that does not work; not one frame that should have been trimmed off. Each and every character, even the small ones, have their purpose and fulfill them with quintessential development so we see these people as human beings. And we have to. The Holocaust was about loss and the struggle for recovery for the people who endured it, even those who did not survive. We have to see them as human beings, not stick figures. The movie does not take for granted that this is set in a true period of time, but uses that as an element for generating a reaction from the audience. A brilliant element is the way the storytellers parallel between the flashbacks and the continuing storyline how the character of Sophie has changed. Before the Holocaust, she is depicted as being confident and strong. Afterward, she is gentle and sad and seemingly immature, having been watered down by her experiences.Sophie's Choice is a very well-made film with brilliant, eye candy cinematography by Nestor Almmendros and an ear-worm soundtrack composed by Marvin Hamlisch, but the subject that everybody always relates to is the acting. I, too, praise the acting. Meryl Streep, one of the finest actresses in the history of the cinema, won an Academy Award for her portrayal of a sad, memory-haunted woman and she does it with absolute perfectionism. Hollywood lore relates to the methods Streep prepared for the role and persuaded director Pakula to give it to her and you can see the payoff for her hard work on the screen as she effortless paints this character portrait. Kevin Kline made his debut in Sophie's Choice and its a heck of a performance the way he blends his moments of heart-cheering warmth and frightening temperaments. Peter MacNichol is also fantastic as the narrator Stingo.This is one of the most haunting pictures I have ever seen. I was recommended to it by my mother, who saw it in her college years and despite having not seen it in more than twenty years, could still vividly remember the emotional climax the choice that Sophie must make. Now having seen the movie myself, I can understand why. Sophie's Choice is not the typical tear-jerker. Nor is it the typical Holocaust drama. It is an astonishingly absorbing and wonderful motion picture that will leave a haunting, persistent impression in your soul. "},{"Title":"Dickinson Mistake","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The lines quoted by Stingo at the end of the film are NOT from Dickinson's poem Because I Could Not Stop For Death, but from poem 1337, Ample Make This Bed. The latter poem can be found at Bartleby's, here http//www.bartleby.com/113/4063.html. It's part of her Time and Eternity canticle. Here's the poem Because I Could Not Stop for Death which clearly doesn't contain ANY of the words recited by Stingo http//www.bartleby.com/113/4027.html. As anyone can see, both poems are part of the same CYCLE, but one is NOT part of the other and if you went searching for Because I Could Not Stop for Death, you wouldn't find the words quoted in the film. That could be REALLY frustrating, quite apart from the fact that the statement just isn't accurate. "},{"Title":"Devastating, heartbreaking story, with tremendous performances all around","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie (Meryl Streep) lives in Brooklyn, New York with her fiancé, Nathan (Kevin Kline). It is there that a newly transplanted writer, Stingo, meets the two of them. Knowing few others, Stingo is transfixed by the couple, as Sophie is beautiful and loving and Nathan a witty and brilliant man. They befriend the young writer and take him all over town and welcome him for dinner on many an occasion. All too soon, however, Stingo learns that the twosome has dark secrets. Sophie, although a former Catholic, was in a concentration camp in Poland during World War II and is still suffering from the situation. Nathan has disturbing episodes of violence, most often directed at Sophie, and seems to change his demeanor on a dime. Although Stingo tries to help, he fails. Is there something even more disturbing at the heart of the situation? This is a powerhouse movie, devastating and heartbreaking to the extreme. Streep gives a towering performance, well deserving of her Academy Award. Her Polish-American accent is flawless but, even more so, her agony as a concentration camp survivor, is palpable at all times, even when she is smiling. Kline is just as impressive in a virtually thankless role, for Nathan is a tortured soul who takes out his demons on others. The rest of the cast is also great, with Peter MacNichol giving a loving performance as the caring neighbor and friend of the unlucky couple. The sets, costumes, direction, script, and production are in the stratosphere. If you have never seen this film, do seek it out. Although you must be prepared to have your heart broken in a million pieces, at any view, it still is a vastly rewarding look at the human condition, its response to evil, and the ways we can try to overcome it. "},{"Title":"Amazing Performance!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this film, the one thought going through my head was that was the greatest acting I've ever seen!.  Meryl Streep's performance is the most believable, honest portrayal.  I think the Academy, Hollywood Foreign Press, etc.. should be required or at least strongly encouraged to watch this performance as a gauge on what a truly marvelous performance looks like. Whoever comes the closest to Meryl Streep in Sophie's Choice should be nominated. "},{"Title":"Sophie's Choice","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I knew that the lead actress won her second (her first first for Kramer vs. Kramer) Oscar for her leading role, and I knew her two supporting actors, and I knew vaguely the storyline behind it, and it turned out to be be very good, from director Alan J. Pakula (All the President's Men). Basically young American South writer Stingo (Peter MacNicol) has come to post WWII Brooklyn, and meets beautiful Polish immigrant Sophie Zawistowski (Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Meryl Streep), and her lover Nathan Landau (BAFTA nominated newcomer Kevin Kline). The three of them spend much time together, and become the closest of friends, but Sophie is not as innocent as she seems, she is haunted by ghosts from her past, and Nathan's obsession with the Holocaust, and violent temper with increasingly apparent mental illness doesn't help. One night, Sophie tells Stingo the reason behind her tattoo serial number, and the reason for her pain, with flashbacks to 1938, where she and her daughter and son were taken to a Concentration Camp. Back in present day, Stingo asks Sophie to marry him, she accepts, but at the same time, Nathan is asking the same of Sophie, and Stingo has to be best man, Nathan goes into another violent mood, and Sophie runs to Stingo, and tells the rest of her story. She and her children arrive in Auschwitz, and a Nazi officer forces her to choose life for one of her children, and the other will be taken away, and despite her pleading, and an officer almost taking both, she chooses her daughter, and after she has finished her story, she tells Stingo not to mention marriage or children. Despite sleeping together, and finding a note from Sophie saying she went back to Nathan, Stingo finds that they both committed suicide, and he leaves Brooklyn soon after. Also starring Rita Karin as Yetta, Stephen D. Newman as Larry Landau, Greta Turken as Leslie Lapidus, Josh Mostel as Morris Fink, Marcell Rosenblatt as Astrid Weinstein, Moishe Rosenfeld as Moishe Rosenblum, Robin Bartlett as Lillian Grossman, Günther Maria Halmer as Rudolf Hoess, Karlheinz Hackl as SS Doctor and Ulli Fessl as Frau Hoess. The three lead stars all have their moments, Kline adds both serious and silly moments, MacNicol is the adorable timid character, but the stand out is obviously a deserved Oscar winning performance by Streep, who handles the Polish accent and language perfectly, and gives real depth to the film that has all the right ingredients, and especially gripping in the Holocaust flashbacks. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Music for Marvin Hamlisch and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Meryl Streep was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and she was number 26 on The World's Greatest Actor, and the film was number 19 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers. Very good! "},{"Title":"I can't think of a more impressionable film.  Outstanding!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While I've always thought of Meryl Streep as a great actress, she surpasses my praise in this film. To see her speak her lines, to hear the delicate phrasing of not only her Polish, but her German with a Polish accent, then later, her English with a Polish accent, an altogether brutally difficult accomplishment, leaves me breathless. Beyond that skill, there's her transference to the character, Sophie, and to the main test as an actress, the absorption of the unspeakable atmosphere of a place -- the camp at Auschwitz -- of wholesale pain, indescribable humiliation, and the final acceptance of death of her child to save another. I'm sure the author of the book wept too in seeing his creation come to life as Meryl Streep. "}{"Title":"Just try not to put yourself in her shoes","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I own this Laserdisc for 3 reasons. 1) because it is a great film. 2) Because no scene in any other movie has made me feel so helpless. 3) Because no other actress or actor could have played Sophie and convey her loss the way Meryl Streep did. Truth is, the other characters were filler so you could breathe once in a while. Perhaps the saddest movie ever filmed and that is saying alot. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The movie that touched my heart","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was made a little before I was born and the first time I seen it, I was too young to understand. Then, recently, I have to watch a movie for my humanities film research paper. My mom suggest to me Sophie's Choice and I was touched. Meryl Streep was a superb actress, she knows the character from the inside out. Peter MacNicol was a natural too, I cannot imagine anybody else who can portray Stingo like he does. Kelvin Kline was a amazing new actor of that time. I am glad I seen it and I suggest if anyone needs a thoughtful movie, see Sophie's Choice.    "},{"Title":"Golden-toned without being lyrical, Sophie's Choice is like an opera without the music...","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Portraying a Polish-Catholic Concentration Camp survivor now living in Brooklyn 1947, Meryl Streep admirably keeps a haunted look in her eyes--and in her forlorn smile--throughout all the fabricated histrionics of this Alan J. Pakula prestige picture. It's a commendable acting job, most especially because nothing else in this vehicle quite comes off. Sophie, struggling with her broken English during her initial days in New York, is 'rescued' (from despair, from hopelessness) by a combustible genius (Kevin Kline), and soon they are reading literature and poetry to each other in his bed. The details of their love-hate relationship come spilling out to a Southern writer (Peter MacNicol) who has rented a room in the same building as the couple. William Styron's book has become an embalmed actors' showcase, with the three principals each doing contemplative-turned-combative bits of character business, to little avail. There are two or three scenes that put enormous demands on Sophie (and Streep the actress), and the woman simply does not disappoint (my favorite was an early flashback scene wherein she attempts to check out a book by Emily Dickinson but doesn't have the author's name right). Still, Pakula paces the melodramatics with funereal solemnity, and the too-careful, too-rigid art direction and cinematography make the proceedings look like a waxworks museum. Kline cannot get a grip on his tortured Nathan, and for good reason the character is a writer's contrivance (bombast conjured up out of mental illness), while MacNicol has some strong early scenes but eventually plays third-wheel (not an enviable position). Much discussion was made of Streep's letter-perfect accent and her scenes as a prisoner, and indeed she's quite remarkable; however, Sophie isn't allowed to bloom as a person. Streep makes her tremulous and lovely, nervous and chatty while also politely flustered, and there are moments when she's radiant. Unfortunately, there's nothing gripping or substantial in the writing to help the actress carry the weight of a long, heavy Oscar-contender. We understand right away that Sophie is a survivor with an enormous heart...Pakula doesn't give us anything else to ponder except romantic heartbreak tinged with masochism. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Sophie's Choice is the quintessential sad film and for good reason too.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie played by Meryl Streep, is the survivor of Nazi concentration camps, who has found a reason to live in Nathan, a sparkling if unsteady American Jew obsessed with the Holocaust. They befriend Stingo, the movie's narrator, a young American writer new to New York City. But the happiness of Sophie and Nathan is endangered by her ghosts and his obsessions. Sophie's Choice won the Academy Award for Best Actress (Meryl Streep) and was nominated for Best Cinematography (Néstor Almendros), Costume Design (Albert Wolsky), Best Music (Marvin Hamlisch), and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium (Alan J. Pakula). The film was also ranked #1 in the Roger Ebert's Top Ten List for 1982 and was listed on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies. Sophie's Choice is the quintessential sad film and for good reason too as it is extremely moving. Meryl Streep is just magnificent in this tearjerker; Meryl Streep delivered a magnificent performance, with a flawless Polish accent. Sophie's Choice is to me, perhaps the most beautiful film I have ever seen, and the film will stay with the viewer long after. "},{"Title":"Impossible Choice.","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on William Styron's novel, this Alan J. Pakula directed adaptation stars Meryl Streep as Sophie, a Polish refugee and concentration camp survivor haunted by those painful memories; Kevin Kline plays Nathan, a Jewish man who loves Sophie, and is obsessed with the Holocaust and emotionally erratic, veering from affectionate to combative; Peter MacNicol plays Stingo, a young American writer who befriends them both, and ultimately tells their story, as he acts as the film's narrator as the three of them share a boarding house, and Stingo will learn Sophie's terrible choice that has haunted her for years...Meryl Streep is magnificent in her Academy Award winning performance, portraying the haunted guilt and heartbreak of that impossible choice made many years ago. Nathan's craziness does grate on the viewer after awhile, and film is a bit long, but so powerfully acted and told that it is well worth seeing regardless of these quibbles. "},{"Title":"memorable","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the novel. the director. and the cast. result - memorable movie. or, only, a gem. not only for grace of adaptation. or for magnificent performance of Meryl Streep. but for precise form of an universal message. for the memories of viewer. for the shadow of words and gestures. in fact, it is one of films who, after its end, becomes an experience. aesthetic, emotional and , in same time, a map more than a lesson to understand the life as a chain of profound choices, cruel sacrifices. it is difficult to write a good review. because essential is out of words. because images, the small gestures, the art of each actor, the accent of Sophie are details who gives to entire film soul. a fragile soul. must see it ! for be more rich in the exploration of every day nuances. "},{"Title":"Sophie's Choice Review","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone in this world has a choice, no matter what the situation is, and whatever decisions we make they are by our hands our hands alone. In the end of our self made choices we carry them on, living life with that knowledge. Sophie (Streep), a Polish immigrant had made so many choices in her life. These very decisions drove her to so much, and so little for other's to see. It doesn't really matter what others think, because the truth of the matter is that our decisions can't be influenced by anyone else. Only we have control. There are in fact times when we think our decisions were made by others rather than ourselves. It's a very common and very cowardly response, one which I rarely saw Sophie exhibit through the course of this film. The film starts with the narrations of Stingo (MacNicol) a young and curious writer hoping to complete his work, as he moves to a small apartment in Brooklyn. Upon his arrival he easily befriends a pair of lovers named Sophie and Nathan (Kline). Sophie, a Polish Catholic who's own survival of the Holocaust baffles her, and Nathan, a Jewish/supposed biologist, with even greater mysteries surrounding him. On and off he goes crazy on Sophie, exhibiting anger beyond control, inexplicably accusing her of infidelity, and even mocking her surprising survival of one of the world's darkest moments. Meryl Streep portrays a truly tormented character who is suffering, but not just from her own experience in Auschwitz, but at the deepest corners of her soul lingers the memory of the most difficult and haunting decision she'd ever made. Upon her arrival in the camp, her presence as a Catholic Polack had given her an opportunity at life. In the control of a typically perverted Nazi guard, her fate was made with the choice of which of her two children may live, and who may die. A decision, no parent can possibly or even put any sense into considering. Unfortunately, out of her desperation to end that very moment of stress riddled insanity, her daughters' life is declared to be over. Her son's life wasn't to last very long either. Sophie could not know, being on one side of the camp, while her only remaining child lived in a disease infested section of the children's zone. In the time she had opened herself to Stingo, the attempt she made to take her life, can only further describe her anguish, as well as her still remaining motivation to live on. Nathan, a man who's brilliance is very unique, whether it's in the manner of which he expresses himself philosophically, or in the thrilling and quite often humorous persona he uses to define himself. His very existence alone is Sophie's reason for living. Despite his flawed personality, and even surprisingly revertible emotional expressions (all a result of later discovered Schizophrenia), Sophie remains with him. To many of us viewers were going to ask ourselves, why. Why doe she stay with a man that can be so kind one minute, and so dangerous the next minute? It's hard for most people to understand, because obviously the 2 lovers have a very odd relationship. Maybe their relationship is suitable for their inner demons. Sophie battles her grief and remorse of her children, and Nathan lives with the lies of hiding his disorder, while constantly battling it at hand. The main truth of this film revolves around more than just Sophie's past choices, but it also focuses on her current decision to remain with a man who is as equally damaged as she is. That's probably what defines their spiritual connection for one another, their inner torment. Together, to the eyes of Stingo, and even viewers they seem perfectly happy, and they probably are when together, but when separate and without each other, their worst feelings of inner misery are truly expressed up to the point when both of these intriguing characters meet their own self destructive ends at the hands of a cyanide injection. The loss of his beloved friends, with whom he learned and bonded with so much, results n Stingo's departure from Brooklyn, leaving the very home where many fond, but painful memories will lie. It is through the narrations of his older self, that Stingo tells us the story of a moment in his life where he discovered so much. Through the kindness of Sophie and Nathan, he learned a sense of friendship that seemed truer than any bond he had with anyone else. His own feelings for Sophie, as well as his loss of virginity with her, made him further see clearly in the end, as he narrates this event as if it were an actual written story. Using a tone of calm and yet sophisticated expression, he tells his greatest and most fulfilling moment in life with such tender love and gratefulness. In fact I myself feel this film is very heart warming, using the theme of a tormented persons guilt to further explain the reasons for her choices. Meryl Streep is a tremendous actress, making her character so authentic, with not just her mastery of fluent German and Polish, but also with the very mannerisms of the character's crucially damaged and still benevolent persona. Kevin Kline brings the thrilling nature of his character with such ecstatic behavior using his intelligence, anger, wild humor, and desire to live life with joy and excitement to the best of his own definition. Sophie's Choice is what I call a very rare and powerful movie to view, using both the elements of tragedy, drama, and love to further guide viewers into the real nature of this film's title. "},{"Title":"What makes my top ten (10 out of 10) list of movies...","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...is when I catch it on TV and must watch it through to the end, even though I own the DVD.A moving work of art...still.Glowing things have been mentioned about Meryl Streep's performance, but I would direct you to the Choice scene when the calmly-diabolical German soldier gives Sophie THE choice. Her halting response with the eye-flutter is so perfect, it must be seen to be believed. Streep is truly in the moment. Also, pay close attention to her little girl, starting this scene. I don't believe she is acting, at all.This was Kevin Kline's first. Coming from the stage, I was surprised to learn that he was very nervous about his first movie role and that Streep had to coach him, intensely, to be as brutal and confident as he appeared in the film.Peter MacNicol was perfect as the writer, but interestingly, was not the actual narrator. Great stuff! "},{"Title":"Sophie's Choice--Excellent film, excellent novel","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Film is a different aesthetic experience than a novel. The film adaptation is fairly consistent with William Styron's novel. But a film must be completed within a short period of time--in this case the film is 150 minutes--2.5 hours. While a novel spends time developing characters, scenery, meditation on the topic--a movie supplies all of that on film. The viewer must interpret what is being seen on the film while the novelist must interpret with words what is being projected in the mind as background to support plot or themes. The reader or viewer must bring intellectual acumen to the aesthetic experience of reading or film viewing.Stingo is a case in point. As narrator of Sophie's story, the viewer or reader must see him as a flawed character. His sexual liaison with Sophie must be seen as him climbing an erotic sexual mountain. His taking notes of Sophie's story (in 1947) for a projected novel from which he will earn money must be seen as a cynical act, not entirely an act of devotion to Sophie. When Stingo claims Nathan is a genius, the reader/viewer must accept Stingo's assessment, an assessment reinforcing Stingo's flawed character. These events are apparent in the film and movie and the reader is expected to interpret these events.Actors read the film script, the novel, and interpret the words accordingly. And as somebody once said, acting is acting natural. It's not as easy as it looks and its why they earn huge salaries. And all the principals performed with excellence, without exception.It is a sad commentary when viewers get their history from film. The Holocaust was a real event, atrocities of this nature were a daily occurrence in Nazi Germany, Nazi concentration camps. For 6 million Jews (and many others) evil triumphed. This film is not a sentimentalization of the Holocaust as Schindler's List was or Life is Beautiful or The Pianist. The Reader struck me as porno-horror--like the viewer needs any erotic association with the Holocaust. As a student, I learned of the Holocaust through Anne Frank, Bruno Bettleheim, Primo Levi, Viktor Frankl, Elie Wiesel, William Shirer; Styron's novel I read after seeing the movie and long after reading these other chroniclers.The novel has a greater density than the movie. It is a complex novel about redemption and judgment. Denied redemption and harsh judgment for Nazi perpetrators, redemption and judgment for victims, redemption and judgment for a Christianity which allowed for such racial hatred as an extension of its anti-Semitism created at Golgotha with the Crucifixion. When Stingo recites Emily Dickinson's poem at Sophie's funeral, at the end of the novel/film, this important thematic point is being made. He reads Ample make this bed / Make this bed with awe / In it wait till judgment break / Excellent and fair. In the novel he laughs uncomfortably then recites the second concluding stanza Be its mattress straight / Be its pillow round / Let no sunrise's yellow noise / interrupt this ground. There is a scene in the novel that is not in the movie. After he has sex with Sophie he sees her for the first time without her teeth, her makeup, her hair combed and he is truly frightened. And I realized that she was a vision of horror right out of Dante and the horrid sirens. There is always profound troubling element in writing or thinking about the Holocaust. In the novel, there are many allusions to redemption and judgment; density of the novel is lost in the simplicity of film media. "},{"Title":"Strong, disturbing drama from the heart","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Strong, disturbing drama is told from the heart. One of Pakula's best, it is graced with the superb Meryl Streep, Oscar winning here as the Polish refugee who has lost everything to the Germans during World War II. Her outstanding portrayal of a gentle, yet utterly broken woman is amazing. Great too is Kevin Kline as the lover who is at once brutal and generous of heart.Peter MacNicol rounds off the trio as the naive Stingo, who falls for the couple who will ultimately shape his life. His too is a strong turn.This drama, with tragic twist in the tail, is a must. Based upon William Styron's novel.Tuesday, November 30, 1999 - Video "}{"Title":"To See the Goddess of Acting...","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie itself isn't that fantastic - the story could have been told much better, more vividly, and compared to other Holocaust films the cruelty of mass extermination didn't really sink in. But this is not the issue.This movie is about Meryl Streep.I can only highly recommend it to all aspiring actresses, just to see the best actress from the 1980's up until now in an overwhelming performance! After that, the bigger part of the audience will admit that she is simply a class of its own, with maybe one or two other actresses from the past on a par.How does Streep achieve such a presence, such an intensity? How does she act without giving the expression that she's impersonating? How does she convince us that she really IS Sophie, really IS Silkwood, really IS the French Lieutenant's Woman?Go watch much more of her oeuvre, to plainly see the marvels of the goddess of acting, for long times still to be the brightest star of her métier. "},{"Title":"A Choice Role for Streep","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Comments from 2008 Viewing Pakula skillfully brings the Styron novel about a woman's harrowing journey through WW2 to the screen. Streep's performance comes across as too mannered initially but must be considered a success ultimately, worthy of the Oscar she received. Although his character is supposed to be moody and manic, Kline is still much too animated and somewhat annoying as Streep's lover. MacNicol is fine, bringing much needed normalcy into the story as the young man befriended by the couple. The scene depicting the title of the movie is perhaps the most heart-wrenching in all of cinema. Hamlisch's elegiac score helps create a haunting atmosphere.Comments from 2013 Viewing The scenes in Brooklyn, which take up much of the film, are repetitious and somewhat dreary. The flashback scenes are disjointed and lacking in narrative flow. Pakula's direction seems heavy-handed and too respectful of the book. Rating reduced from 8 to 7. "},{"Title":"Soap Opera with Superb Acting","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A high-brow soap opera, but an awfully good one.Meryl Streep delivers an absolutely heartbreaking performance as Sophie, a woman who was forced to make a terrible choice during WWII that haunts her for the rest of her life. The choice is so horrific it can't even be comprehended; therefore, it's a bit tacky that it's used as one of those last-minute plot reveals to make an emotional impact. Streep's performance, though, is never tacky -- it's deeply sincere.Kevin Kline, of all people, delivers a frightening performance as Sophie's abusive boyfriend. It's hard to reconcile the Kevin Kline in this film with the one who would play such nutty characters in later films.Even if you're resistant to the film's melodramatic pandering, it's hard not to be moved by it.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Unveiling the Pain Within a Glacial Stare","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Madeleine Elster in VERTIGO, Sophie Zawitowska (Meryl Streep) situates herself one rung higher and practically at the top of the ladder of what is the most mysterious of females ever to grace the silver screen and offer the most allure, while hiding an unbearable secret just underneath the surface of skin. And like Madeleine, Sophie evolves into the unattainable object of desire for one shy, inexperienced man who has as of yet been unsuccessful in having a significant attachment to a woman.Stingo (Peter MacDonald, the weak link here but not his fault, it's the role) is that guy, the narrator of SOPHIE'S CHOICE who serves as the observer and ultimate participant in the slow unfolding of her impossibly tragic petals, who at the start of the movie stumbles across her first by the rattling of the chandelier of his apartment's ceiling, later as a heated argument, and finally, in the flesh as a shy woman who happens to be sharing the upstairs apartment with Nathan Landau (Kevin Kline in a strong debut), a guy who turns his temper on and off at whim and who must be impossible to live with, especially when Stingo finds out the reason behind Nathan's wild peaks and valleys.As an apology to the insults Nathan proffers Stingo on their initial meet Sophie and Nathan bring Stingo into their own world and a friendship is born. William Styron and Alan J. Pakula both take their time in establishing the threesome's bond scenes of dialog hint at the troubles that both Sophie and Nathan seem to be hiding, and of course, Nathan's ever-present and increasingly irascible mood swings which threaten to cause more harm than good. However, Stingo is an innocent caught in the middle and cannot imagine what it is he's walked into. It's only when Sophie steps out from being a mere acquaintance and discloses some pertinent information about herself -- even when it's an untruth, the real story comes out much later -- is when the movie shifts consciousness and turns its focus on her.And this becomes the way of bringing forth not just a character, but an actress' inner horror, which here becomes a thing of indescribable beauty, translucent, and in one crucial scene, unbearable. Sophie has a story to tell, and once it comes forth, the camera never pans away from her face (except to reveal the actual flashback sequences, shot in sepia tones) and lights it in a cold blue tone which accentuate Meryl Streep's blue eyes and turn her into a Vermeer, or a living Mona Lisa. Sophie's story becomes so powerful that it actually trumps the oblique meandering of both Pakula and Styron a mere 90 minutes would have sufficed and it wouldn't have lost its impact. "},{"Title":"All the intelligibility of the world can't get over the shock deeply rooted in the experience...","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" History seems to me like a book where every single chapter is written under the traumatic effect of the previous one. To better understand Nazism's rise, one must understand the trauma of the 1918 Armistice on German people BUT to comprehend the French diktat of Versailles in 1919, one must also take into consideration the trauma of the French defeat against the Prussian Army in 1870. Following the same logic, History is the never-ending chronicles of successive traumas turning yesterday's losers into today's winners.But blood sometimes dries quicker than History books' ink, and while we're allowed to judge an event in a more rational and reasonable way, it leads to a very singular paradox if you deprive your analysis from its emotional substance, you get more objective, rational, yet it can undermine your very comprehension of further events, because men make the events, and most of the times, they're guided by the weight of a traumatic experience -every act of terror takes its roots in another one- but then, if you use emotion, you lose the objectivity, which is the key element in science. To put it in simpler words one death is a tragedy, one million is statistics, statistics are more relevant to understand the present but only tragedy can help to anticipate the future. A film like Sophie's Choice focuses on one tragedy to better highlight the gravity of a much more large-scaled tragic chapter of Human history the Holocaust and its profound effect on people's minds. The world indeed would never be the same after 1945.But I'm still perplexed about the film. It tells the story of a young woman who survived the atrocities of the Concentration Camps and had to make one of the most horrific choices that was ever allowed to a mother choosing which of her children would survive. The irony is that she's given this very privilege because she's not Jewish, she's a Catholic and what's more, not a communist, yet she would have to live with a terrible weight in her conscience, something that a Jewish mother wouldn't have to endure because she would be forced to lose her children. Another irony occurs when we discover Sophie's romance with Nathan, an American Jew, we're shocked seeing treated her as a whore for Germans, no matter how sick or demented he was. As I said, it's only through shock that you can comprehend the atrocity of an event. That Nathan carried this pain in his heritage because he was a Jew is one thing but it would be insulting to those who really lived the experience, to distribute the share of guilt and sorrow in the hearts of people who didn't live it, regardless of their ethnic background.So, I'm trying to figure out what the clear purpose of Sophie's story is? I try to imagine what was Alan J. Pakula's thinking when he decided to make the film. He probably thought that it would be great to have a film depicting one of the most horrific and painful dilemmas ever, carried by a marvelous performance from Meryl Streep, who was in her path for cinematic glory. Then, she'd have to tell her story in flashback, because the choice would only work if it came late in a film, to let us sense a trauma hidden inside her heart. But something must provoke the confession; it must be about children, then Stingo, the young idealistic writer, played by Peter MacNicol must ask Sophie for marrying her. Step by step, we get to the necessity of featuring this sort of triangular love between three friends, Nathan, Sophie's lover, Sophie, a Polish Auschwitz survivor with a lovable accent, and the sweet and naive Southern boy who'll naturally fall in love with them, mirroring their very passion for American literature. The promise of the film is carried by three spectacular performances and a sweet and tender score, but I failed to connect the story to the flashbacks and I wonder what the results would have been if the story was simply about Sophie's experience.The movie is guided by Nathan's weird behavior, Sophie's attempts to speak the most correct English, and Stingo's passive observations, the whole thing enrobed by a sort of back-story involving a passion for English and literature. The feelings driven by these parts go from amusing to infuriating, we're touched by Stingo's sweetness, frustrated by Nathan's lunacy and impressed or not by Meryl Streep's remarkable performance. There's a sort of lightness floating in the air that efficiently contrasts with the darkness of the flashback, but when the flashback started, I felt the weakness of the first hour and half that immediately felt like an overlong set-up and made me wonder what was so special to make this film in the American Film Institute's Top 100? One spectacular moment can redeem a whole film &#x85; or is it just because it's a Holocaust story &#x85; or a coming of age story of a kid who discovered the world's sudden cruelty from Sophie's trauma? Hadn't he heard about writers like Sartre or Camus who expressed their angst toward a world that allowed the Holocaust to happen and accept the idea of a Nuclear bomb wiping out Japanese civilians?To the choice, yes, it remains one of the most heart-breaking moments in cinema's history as I was haunted by the genuinely frightened look of Sophie's daughter and her piercing cries while she was taken in the misty dark under the powerless look of Sophie. Yes, Meryl Streep deserved the Award for that very part. But the rest belonged to another film, and instead of making another 'Holocaust' story, which I'm sure, would have been extraordinary, I trust Pakula's talent for that. He chose the option of a character study but he thinks too much of us on that level, because all the intelligibility of the world can't get over the shock deeply rooted in the experience. "},{"Title":"Easily Streep's best role - Best female role in film history?","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to believe that Meryl Streep went from the Deer Hunter playing a rather minor role to this in just four years. Also it's sad to think of her in Devil Wears Prada and other far inferior works today.Perhaps Sophie's Choice was the best performance she will ever do. However I agree with most of the other reviewers that say that Streep's character in Sophie's Choice is the greatest role for an actress in film history. In short, everything else Streep does in her life will never measure up to this performance.None of the modern crop of A-list actresses (or actors - a more pejorative term to me) like Anne Hathaway, Angelina Jolie, Charleze Theron or frankly anyone else could be taken seriously doing a role like this. You have to be able to have a range of emotion to pull this kind of a thing off. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece about the humanity that keeps us alive....","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just finished watching Sophie's Choice, and I realize that I have seen something extraordinary...Sophie's Choice is sort of a life-inspiring film. It is about an American writer, Stingo, who meets a remarkable woman, Sophie Zawistowski, and her lover, Nathan Landau. They form a sort of unexpected touching friendship, and they struggle with their past, and Sophie reveals her hidden truths and her lies. This film is very dialogue-filled, so some people might get restless, but the way the three characters bond is very uprising. I loved that is was a very unexpected film. It really did not have a particular plot, but more of a look at these peoples' lives. The way Sophie has to remember her past, the way she is tormented affects both Nathan and Stingo, since Nathan sort of has personality issues.The character of Sophie is played by Meryl Streep. She gives probably the best subtly done performance by a female I have ever seen. Her acting is not over-the-top, and she hands it on with grace. Of course, since this character has a lot to hide, she has to play it sort of tormented and afraid. Meryl Streep commands the screen, with all her character's characteristics and traits. She plays it straight from the heart, and she gives the most emotional acting I have ever seen. Peter MacNicol, who plays Stingo, I thought played him very naturally. He was such a like-able character,and his acting and narration carried the film forward. He deserved some Oscar nomination. Kevin Kline also plays his part well as Nathan, in a supporting performance.Sophie's Choice might be called as a draining film, since there is a lot of themes that would be found in a life story. I personally loved it. There were some flaws in the screenplay, like some certain occurrences, but overall, it fit well for what it was trying to do. It was a human study in war and humanity, and how people might be affected in past choices. It was a very in-depth film, and that is why I liked it so much. The classic performance by Meryl Streep is one not to be forgotten, and I think as a whole, the film rises and shines to what makes people themselves in real life. The ending was so emotional and powerful... A Masterpiece that gets too much hate... "},{"Title":"An Impossible Choice     ***12","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Note to Mr. Styron This was an impossible choice. The worst of all moral dilemmas.Meryl Streep was magnificent as Sophie.She seems to come a long way from the horrors of the concentration camp to Coney Island in Brooklyn. Well supported by Kevin Kline, Sophie eventually recounts the impossible situation she found herself in while incarcerated in a concentration camp. A guard demands that she gives up one of her two children so that the other may survive. What mother could ever make a choice like that? A mother faced with that dilemma would have committed suicide.That said, Streep gave a totally outstanding performance. Her best actress Oscar was well earned. "},{"Title":"a movie allowing you to observe all sides","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The heart-breaking scene of Sophie's choice that has been deeply wounded in her is the largest and most overbearing guilt she's contained her whole life since that decision. Being forced to a choice where either decision would demand the life of one of her children. Does this make Sophie a murderer to her child? She goes on believing so. In a totalitarian form of evil she was forced, had no way to avoid this choice, and could not use herself as a substitute for her children's lives. If she had to choose between the loss of her son or the loss of her daughter with no option otherwise, the loss of one her children was inevitable, such a choice is completely terrifying and unfathomable as well as questionable for who is held accountable for the fatal consequences. Sophie believes the fatal decision is her fault, a declaration of bad motherhood, and has guilt beyond known.Sophie's history involves so many layers, adding onto the death of her daughter. Sophie grew up in Poland with a father who could be described as a horrible, abusive (psychologically and physically), racist person of the time during and after World War Two towards Sophie and her family. Sophie hated her father, and tried to hide this hate inside of her. Sophie's exposure of being raised with such abuse and cruelty set a foundation for other cruelties and violence to become part of life in the future. Sophie is victimized to the point where she accepts and receives abuse, and is returned with guilt on her shoulders.Sophie is put into a concentration camp, Auschwitz, because of actions her father took. Isn't a father or parents figure supposed to one of compassion and love? She goes to Auschwitz with her two children by no choice given otherwise, even though she is Catholic and Polish not Jewish. When she gets off the train full of people sent to Auschwitz, she is given no decision of losing a child but is given the choice between one or the other. The horror and terror of the Holocaust is so hard to comprehend and understand the minds of those in control, Nazi Germany. The soulless cruelties, death, and torments of the concentration camp became greatly wounded in Sophie, as well as mankind over the world during that time and even today. Post-traumatic stress disorder (PSD) is usually talked about soldiers who have survived wars. Sophie being exposed to such horrific and unforgettable surroundings of the Holocaust could easily cause PSD. The Holocaust being so horrible makes it so hard to talk about and to have exposed after surviving such terror, Sophie found it hard to talk about and let the experience out, that she kept these images and secrets in her head and part of her guilt for living.When Sophie was freed from Auschwitz, she was delicate physically and emotionally. She was very sick and very depressed. She met Nathan, an attractive and charming man, who showed her love and compassion and all that was absent from her life at that time. She lost her family and both children and then, with the come back of Nathan, he seemed like her savior and a reason of why she had survived the Holocaust when so many had not. Nathan was very smart, charismatic, enthusiastic, loving, and also erratic for both the good and the bad. Nathan would be the love of all life, then snap into a horrible and cruel person who became violent and said the most spiteful and personal things towards Sophie. Nathan suffered from schizophrenia and the delusions that everyone and everything was out for him. He blamed Sophie for cheating on him with their best friend, Stingo, he yelled at Sophie violently, and was brutal towards Sophie in a way that was completely out of character for Nathan. Nathan was also involved in cocaine, which is known for making delusions and schizophrenic symptoms worse and more prominent. Sophie is unaware of Nathan's sickness and drug use, that she gave reasons of his violent actions towards her, and place blame upon his actions on the basis of having a bad day or other things not within his control including her. Sophie had a secret from Nathan as well. She never talked to him about the personal issues she dealt with as a child, mother, and being at Auschwitz. She shared such love and happiness that she had never been able to experience with someone with Nathan, but never told of her personal wounds, inner hurt and devastating secrets. These deep and unhindered upsets have been boiling inside of Sophie. When she met Stingo and got to know him further and further, she opened up wider and wider, and embraced her inner conflicts when sharing them with Stingo.The history of Sophie's stress of being beaten, tortured, abused by her own family and love was all out if her control. Sophie did not get to choose her father. She did not get the choice of being brought into the concentration camp. She didn't have the option of saving her children's lives. She could not control the relationship between her and Nathan because of Nathan's uncontrollable mental illness of schizophrenia causing his bi-polar behaviors. Sophie was placed into these situations and dealt with them and kept as head strong as possible. The one decision she had control over in the end, she preferred the less rewarding, but maybe to her it fit. Was this in her nature in accepting the less rewarding? Was it her guilt? Did being victimized depict her expectations? I agree with all of these, and in how these shaped her reflections of her life outcomes. "},{"Title":"A Great, Literate Movie","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have ever seen.  It is a thought-provoking, literate movie with great performances from Streep, Kline, and MacNicol. The use of poetry and eloquent narration by MacNicol's Stingo give the film an added beauty.  The plot is well-crafted, and will keep you guessing until the end.  The film is not entirely without flaws; for instance, there was at least one scene that could have been completely removed, and the depiction of the concentration camp was soft-pedalled. Nevertheless, this is a film that everyone should see. "}{"Title":"Life as an ordeal of traumas","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice is a very powerful story of a woman whose strength did not desert her in imaginably some of the most traumatic moments in a person's life. Whether it was her abysmal life in German concentration camps or her Brooklyn existence with her schizophrenic boyfriend, Sophie did not have much to fall back up on with the exception of her inner core - a core that was so solid that it did not falter, did not waver, did not even flinch as she lost everything that a human heart deems precious. In the end she appears calm and poised even after having lost what every one holds dearest to heart - life.In her Academy winning performance, Meryl Streep is peerless. Arguably it is one of the most powerful and yet sublime performances ever - an incredibly realistic portrayal of a character whose numerous shades of existence are impossibly difficult to depict. Streep delivers what easily can contend for an Academy among Academy winners. Other actors, the direction, the script and the milieu are all flawless but this movie belongs to Streep who stands head and shoulders above the rest in a performance bound to leave an indelible impact on the audience. "},{"Title":"One of the best don't hesitate to give it your attention","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw Sophie's Choice again after at least 10 years...it's as heart-wrenchingly near-perfect as it was in 1983.  Forget Meryl's subsequent parade of accents and Kevin's comic turns this is among the best acting in films, period.  And I've come to have new respect for Peter's thankless role as Stingo; he did a first-class job (in a pivotal,crucial part, by the way if you don't realize this, you need to take a class in creative writing 101).  Have tissues ready and be ready to call a friend afterward. "},{"Title":"This film is seamless","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is there an young actress who could make this film today?If you love serious drama and haven't seen Sophie's Choice, make it your next film.  This film is the top of the wave.  Period!Hint -- don't have any distractions!  No kids, no phone, no TV in the other room, no potty breaks!  Devour this film in one, focused sitting.For the serious viewer, this is as close to Rapture as you're gonna get! "},{"Title":"Meryl forever.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems almost everyone comments how outstanding, remarkable, wonderful, precise ... actress Meryl Streep is, especially in the performance of Sophie´s character. What else can be said about Meryl and her role? Almost nothing the best single featured acting by an actress in any single american film. Moreover, Streep has been the best actress during the last 25 years and one of the best ever. "},{"Title":"Meryl forever.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems almost everyone comments how outstanding, remarkable, wonderful, precise ... actress Meryl Streep is, especillay in the performance of Sophie´s character. What else can be said about Meryl and her role? Almost nothing the best single featured acting by an actress in any single american film. Moreover, Streep has been the best actress during the last 25 years and one of the best ever. "},{"Title":"Slow Moving, yet incredibly powerful","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meryl Streep's Oscar winning performance highlights this dramatic depiction of life after the holocaust.  Thought the performances are good, and there is a lot to like about the story here, it does go a little slow.  But, it is still very effective and very well done.  A- "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie...","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I own this movie and it is a hard movie to sit through because of the subject matter but this movie packs a wallup and proves that Meryl Streep deserves more money than most Male actors in Hollywood. She plays a tragic character that never fully recovers from World War 2 and neither do we after viewing it.Very Powerful! "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Films - EVER","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the 20-something years since I first saw this film, nothing has compared. That first night I sat crying alone in the dark for Sophie, I decided I had two new favorite actors Meryl Streep and Kevin Kline. Meryl has never once left that #1 position.What can be said about this film has already been said so eloquently by others. It IS a standard, it IS the absolute best performance by any actor (Meryl Streep) and it WILL break your heart into a million pieces.I'm not sure enough people give credit to the real creator of this character - William Styron, whose novel spawned the screenplay which gave birth to this monumental film experience.And honestly, people who are depressed or in despair should really not see this alone. Uplifting it is not. "},{"Title":"Book and movie","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cliche is that the movie is never better than the book.  This is sometimes not true.  I read Styron's novel after seeing this magnificent movie and was greatly disappointed.  The novel is overlong, clumsily written,  and lacking in subtlety.  It conveys little of the multidimensionality that Meryl Streep, who never made a greater movie, conveys, by, for instance, mastering long passages in perfect German and, I'm told by someone, near-perfect Polish.Another movie that is much better than the novel is Day of the Jackal. In both cases the novels bludgeon where the movies entice. "},{"Title":"Powerful does not even begin to describe this movie.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the script/plot content to the cinematography to the unbelievable talent displayed by every single actor involved, this movie is the best of what film can be.  No matter how long it has been since my last viewing, Sophie comes to me and haunts me with her sadness, her desperation and her ache to rid herself of her pain.  One of the best films ever made. "}{"Title":"Breathtaking classic.","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Script Wonderful. The pacing is a bit rocky and awkwardly handled, which prevents the viewer from really being able to sink into the power of this film. For instance, after a particularly thought-provoking and powerful scene with Sophie and Nathan reading Thomas Wolfe, the script quickly flashes to a light, comedic scene with Stingo and a sexually repressed virgin. But besides the pacing, the script is great. Using Stingo to show how Sophie's story fits into the world is an ingenious and highly original technique to put Sophie's pain in proportion. Notice I didn't say diminish Sophie's pain--instead this film puts Sophie's pain into proportion, thus making Sophie's pain even more powerful. One of my favorite lines  When I could finally see again, I let go of the rage and sorrow I held for Sophie and Nathan, who were but a few of the butchered and betrayed and martyred children of the Earth. This was not judgment day Only morning. Morning excellent, and fair. This beautiful line is an example of Pakula/Styron's ability to capture many things in a single sentence. In this line (that is, when you hear this line in conjunction with the previous choice scene), they capture * the neurotically absurd way human beings pursue hope no matter what. The short, snappy quality of morning excellent and fair conveys humans' outlook on life we love it, and that's that. We don't care for logic when it comes to our view of life, we only care for emotion, for example, hope. * the hope that God has brought to us manifests itself in oddly scientific ways for example, the way the sun rises to bring us morning. * how we are all rooted into Earth. * the grief the human race has in the past endured and will continue to endure * the way our love of life is consistently betrayed and yet we continue to believe in life, in goodness, in hope. Acting Kline just barely scratches the surface of Nathan. To play Nathan convincingly you'd have to give a truly great performance, equal to Theron's in Monster. But I'll give Kline points for scratching Nathan's surface as Nathan is such a difficult role. Streep Best performance I have ever seen. As good as what everyone says. Captures how humans are incapable of handling God's responsibilities, like choosing between children. Intellectually and emotionally a great performance. MacNicol very, very good. At first view seems blank and whiny, but with many viewings you realize how intricately he is able to portray thought. His best scenes are with Sophie. Better even than Kline. Deserved a Golden Globe or maybe even Oscar nod. Everyone else very good, especially Jennifer Lawn and the guy who plays the guy who makes Sophie choose. Except for the guy who plays the guy who talks to Sophie while Sophie is showering, and the girl who plays Leslie Lapidus. They aren't very good. Overall, very good acting. Camera-work Very good. I particularly like the two blackouts, which are elegantly effective, and the shots of the Brooklyn Bridge. The Brooklyn Bridge shots convey the universal quality of the emotions portrayed in Sophie's Choice. And the fade-out of Sophie's face reminds us that, though there is always hope, the hope in no way diminishes the pain in life. Another thing I like Elsa's face fades out on a background smoke--the smoke which gassed her. As the shot closes in, we see that the smoke that Elsa's face faded out against is the smoke of the concentration camp which Sophie has to work in. It reminds us how enraged Sophie must have been that she is working at a place that killed her daughter. Very effective, very powerful. Cinematography beautiful. I particularly like the drabness of the flashbacks. They convey the emptiness of the Nazis' lives. I also particularly like the cinematography during Sophie's monologue the colors of Sophie's face are clear, crisp, absolute, and crystalline, like Sophie's emotions. However, the colors are not screaming or loud. They are delicate and finetuned, also like Sophie's emotions. Music beautiful and moving. I love how the song that Elsa was playing on the trainride to Auschwitz is the theme song of the film. It gives the music, along with Elsa's character, weight. Overall Absolute knockout of a film. The only film I've seen that is maybe as good as this is West Side Story. As a whole, West Side Story resonates with a power SC lacks, but Sophie's Choice reaches higher levels of emotion many in individual scenes. "},{"Title":"I wish I'd never seen this movie...","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was truly a worthy film.  Years after I accidentally caught it one sleepless night with no forewarning as to its content I'm still haunted by it.  As a mother of four children I can honestly say this is one of the most disturbing films I've ever seen.  I wish that someone had told me what it was about before I saw it so rawly depicted on the television.  The images of it have never dimmed.  Odd how the memories we want to hold on to seem to fade over time, but the horrors cling with astonishing clarity.SPOILER AHEADFor those of you who have not seen this film and wonder what I'm referring to I'll do you the service that was not done for me.  In this film the horrors of German concentration camps was dramatized when Sophie (Meryl Streep) was forced to chose between her two children.  She was told that they'd both die if she didn't chose.  So she had to let one be taken away by the guard (surely to the child's death).END SPOILERThe movie honestly had little to do ultimately with this one scene.  It was about the complicated relationships between Sophie and two men in her life after the war.  It was interesting and rich.  But God, I wish I'd never seen this movie. "},{"Title":"Great performance, so-so film.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a WWII historian I felt the scenes lat in the film had quite an impact, particularly with reference to her choice. Streep's performance was unquestionably powerful and warranting of praise and awards. Getting to the parts of the film where, as a viewer, I was moved took unnecessarily too long. While we really became to understand the characters, the only one we really needed to relate to was Sophie. The preamble could have been reduced significantly and the tragedy in the Camp could have been played out longer.Such a story, such a tragedy, and I really am left trying to decide whether the film was about the victims of the Nazi's or a twisted romance. I believe it can be about both, but the determination of the primary plot needed have been so muddled. "},{"Title":"For Meryl Only!","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hailed as the best female performance of all-time, Meryl Streep's harrowing incarnation of a Polish holocaust survivor Sophie Zawistowski is truly deserving all the laurels. Written and directed by Alan J. Pakula, the Oscar-nominated director of ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN (1976), SOPHIE'S CHOICE starts off as a sparkling JULES AND JIM (1962) frolic, but soon Sophie's past experience has been squeezed out of her buried memory, thanks to the amorous but volatile relationship with a passionate Jew Nathan Landu (Kline in his film debut).However, the film is told from a third person's angle, Stingo (MacNicol), whose voice-over is throughout the entire film, is a young writer comes to Brooklyn pursuing a career in 1947, and Sophie and Nathan are living upstairs in their boarding house. His very first encounter with them is being a self-conscious witness of a vehement squabble between them, on the staircase, Nathan blusters with medical terms to a whimpering Sophie, condemns their doomed relationship, and insolently taunts Stingo for his southern upbringing. But the next day, Nathan comes to make up with him and it turns out he is a great guy when he is not angry, the three of them chum around and Stingo begin to know more about them.Stingo has an incurable crush on Sophie, who is a decade older than him, and vastly admires Nathan's enthusiastic passion for love, literature and music, he doesn't mind to be the third wheel around them, the three form a perfect rapport, except for one thing, Nathan's fitful outburst of rage, jealousy and spite, which the film throws repeatedly to takes the stage, to the convenience of allowing a thoughtful and tender Stingo to comfort Sophie subsequently, then Sophie will confide to him her heart-wrenching life story before arriving in USA. And each time, we get closer to the truth, but like Sophie says to Stingo, even if you know the truth, it doesn't mean you can understand it better.Sophie is not a Jew, she was sent to the concentration camp simply because she tried to smuggle some ham for her ill mother, and more shockingly her father is indeed an avid anti-Semite, who is killed by Nazi because of his nationality, they don't care about his ideology, that is the paradox of Sophie's story, but trenchantly lays bare the barbarian kernel of war no matter how noble (or in the case of WWII, cockamamie) its cause is, war will most probably turn into a genocide under the volition of those few who seize the power, individualism doesn't stand a chance to secure safety and the civilised is usually the first to die.The character, who speaks Polish, Germany, French and English with a Polish accent in the film, is no doubt Streep's most demanding role and she pours so much empathy and commiseration into her flawless rendition, never over-the-top and never a dull moment with her presence. Sophie is a victim, period, she shouldn't be persecuted for being the survivor while millions are murdered (she was doing all she could to stay alive in the camp); or accountable for her father's radical thoughts, (in her own defence) she has never sided with her father; as for the choice she made between her son and daughter, it is utterly unethical, the cruelest thing ever could happen to a mother. Sophie is innocent, that's why the finale comes off quite uncomfortable, there is no need for her to be martyrised? She has no will to live, probably, but she is not a sinner, very possibly time will heal it, yet why oh why she cannot leave that deadly poisonous man? She had a better choice and forfeited, she doesn't want to promise something she cannot promise, right, but a self-destructive submission is not the best thing her story can offer.Nathan, in Stingo's words, is utterly fatally glamorous, and fittingly, the film reveals the secret of his side, not so plausible (one cannot figure what is the deal behind the day when he claims his biological research has made a Nobel-worthy progress) but Kevin Kline is marvellously bipolar switching from a forcible menace to an amiable life-force, to and fro.Another bone to pick with this otherwise superb war-panning essay, is its clichéd exigency to fulfill a male's ultimate fantasy you're a great lover, Stingo!, after Sophie finally sleeps with him, this is what a man really wants to hear, even though she leaves without saying goodbye, and at least five times with lines like you are so beautiful are referred to Sophie from different characters, as a constantly vexing reminder of the shallow canon from a man's perspective, beauty is a woman's original sin, even in Auschwitz, next time, we might wage a war to exterminate all the unsightly ones, that definitely would make the world a more eye-catching place! "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep's finest hour","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the level of acting to set your standards to. Meryl is absolutely outstanding as this complex character. I have seen the movie a number of times now and it still takes me on an emotional roller coaster and lives with me for a long time after each viewing. I also get a lot more out of it each time I see it. The title of the movie obviously refers to one specific harrowing event for Sophie, but you get to see all Sophie's choices throughout her life and the consequences of her choices. Stunning cinematography. The flashbacks are well done and timed to perfection. The scriptwriting is first rate. The characters are for the most part very believable. The ending is the most poignant one of any movie I have ever seen. They put out flood warnings on the Mississippi when I watch it!!!! Despite the emotional outpouring, it is a must-see movie on many levels. I can't speak too highly of this movie. The first half hour is comparatively slow moving and an introduction to the characters, then after that it kicks in and keeps you mesmerized. Even if you only see this movie once, it will remain in your mind forever! A finer performance by an actress has never been recorded. "},{"Title":"heart wrenching scene and superb acting","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1947. Stingo (Peter MacNicol) moves from the south to Brooklyn trying to be a writer. Sophie Zawistowski (Meryl Streep) and Nathan Landau (Kevin Kline) are his amorous volatile couple and upstairs neighbors. She's Polish Catholic having survived Auschwitz and haunted by a heart-breaking secret. He works at Pfizer and is obsessed with the Nazis. The movie has long flashbacks that reveal Sophie's past and secrets.It's a very slow moving movie at times. It meanders and teases for the first hour. It can get tedious at times. There are some interesting bits like Dickens and Leslie Lapidus. The three actors are superb but they can only hint at the final explosive reveal. The reveals are compelling bits of the puzzle. Streep is impeccable transitioning between the various languages. Kline does a good deteriorating personality. MacNicol gives a solid performance to give the audience a voice. Of course, the climatic scene is heart wrenching iconic cinematic history. The piercing girl's scream is devastating and it shows on Streep's face. "},{"Title":"It's all about Meryl Streep . . .","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" t may surprise some to know that despite a thirty-five year career, seventeen Oscar nominations, fifty films and a reputation of being one of the best actors of her generation, Meryl Streep has been named Best Actress by the academy only twice. It first happened in 1983 with Sophie's Choice and it wouldn't happen again for 28 years when she won for playing Margaret Thatcher in The Iron Lady. I think Sophie's Choice is still her best. Not that her subsequent roles haven't been excellent, but it is within this sad melodrama that her best gifts are displayed.Her achievements, on the surface, come from the way she prepared for the role. Her legendary ability with accents began here as she gives Sophie a polish accent and plays the flashback sequences speaking Polish and German. But those are the technical achievements, what she is able to portray in Sophie Zawistowski is a woman who is happy, playful and sexy, but just under the surface suffers a thinly veiled level of pain. Around the edges of her lips, in the closed in lines around her eyes, we sense there is a buried horror in her past.We meet Sophie, a survivor of the death camps at Auschwitz, through the eyes of Stingo (Peter McNichol) a naive young kid from the south who has designs on being a great writer. This is 1947, in the years immediately following the war and he has moved north to Brooklyn, New York where he meets Sophie, a polish immigrant living with her lover, a brash older man named Nathan Landau (Kevin Kline). Sophie and Nathan become friends and their friendship gradually begins to break down the blinders of Stingo's adolescence. There's a level to Sophie that doesn't become immediately clear, but also doesn't reveal itself all at once. We learn that she was a polish-Catholic who was thrown into a concentration camp for trying to smuggle a ham. She lost both of her children in the camp and then survived the camps herself and immigrated to the United States.She has experienced a lifetime of hurt and pain, of loss and of sorrow, but she tries to soldier on in her life by trying to put it all behind her. Yet, erasing all of her memories won't make them go away, they still reside within her. Look at the way her makeup whitens her face, as if the experience has left her a ghost of her former self. Her voice is very sweet but her speech seems somewhat cautious as if telling stories about those experiences are too difficult to put into words. What I intuit from Sophie, whose present life has very few walls as she drinks and takes up with a lover, is that she spent so many years having to watch her step and keep herself within a small confined space that now she simply lives at will.In her former life, in the death camps, she had to watch every move, every syllable, every motion. One of the best observances in the film is during one of the flashbacks in which she and a fellow inmate use the Auschwitz Walk, walking through deep areas of mud but trying to only step in the footprints of the people who have gone before. Observe how that scene connects to later scenes in which she is carefree and dances at will but when she is frightened, her footsteps are very small.It may have seemed more rational to simply tell Sophie's story through Sophie's eyes without the narrative of Stingo's growth from callow youth to a young man who, and how this experience makes him a better writer. But I think we need that understanding to bring her story to the surface. What happens to Sophie in the end is only fitting because her life in the wake of the holocaust was more or less meaningless except in it's relation to Stingo's understanding of human nature. There's nothing left for her and finally, in the end, she has found some peace. "},{"Title":"The Best Film of 1982. The Best Female Performance in Film History.","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When you look at 1982 in film, you will see things like Star Trek II, Fast Times At Ridgemeont High, ET, Blade Runner, Tootsie and Gandhi. Sophie's Choice is the most underrated as well as the best. Gandhi may have won nearly every major award and ET may be the most beloved, but this tops both films. ET's only massive strong point is the ending which the movie builds up to, Sophie's Choice also builds but has vast strength from everything that comes out. Gandhi is pretty much the inferior version of Lawrence of Arabia, massively dragged out. There is not one dull moment in Sophie's Choice. It is worth seeing why this is not a dull 150 minute movie.Peter MacNicol plays a young writer, known as Stingo, who moves into a duplex in New York and hits it off with his neighbours, Sophie and Nathan (Streep, Kline) right away. As Stingo grows closer to Sophie and Nathan, winning their trust, he can tell that they are harbouring deep secrets that will change him forever. Peter MacNicol and Kevin Kline are extremely underrated actors. Both of them are extraordinary. Then there's Meryl Streep who gives the best acting performance in film history by a female. A few years ago when I saw American History X, Edward Norton's performance in it became the best I had ever seen. I said nobody, male or female, could top this. Then I saw Sophie's Choice. Does Meryl Streep do a better job of acting than Edward Norton? I don't know, tough to say. But I do know that Norton is the best male performance and Streep is the best female performance. She is the main character who's background gets dived into the most. We see her experience in war and her choice. They are haunting and you will never forget what they do to you. "},{"Title":"A lesson in acting by Meryl Streep","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Whoa! Meryl streep turns in such a fine performance it is literally impossible to miss this one out. Kevin Kline too packs a punch but is completely overshadowed by Streep's powerful act. Nevertheless, a great second act. The movie about the travails of a young Christian pole who survives the holocaust and the effect of the choices she made to do so. Brilliantly directed and acted, this is a must watch for any of the history buffs who enjoy this genre. One of the finest for sure. A delightful little chemistry between the narrator and Streep holds the movie together whenever it gets a tad stretched and doesn't let you get bored as it gets weary at times. Meryt Streep is grief-stricken and Kevin is mad as they both bring celluloid magic and something that must be watched by one and all. "},{"Title":"Sophie's choice","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When i watched Sophies choice it was for physcology class, and I was looking at it from a physc point of view. I had no knowledge as to what it was about before i watched it other than that it had to do with a woman who was in a concentration camp. In watching this movie it was very capturing, Sophie just seemed like a typical woman who had a fight with her boyfriend but as it got further in you could see something about her lover was just not right he was very happy one minute the next he was accusing Sophie of having romance with Stingo a young writer who lived a floor below them and became very good friends with Both Nathan Sophies lover and Sophie herself. As Stingo becomes close to Sophie he starts to find out things from her past in the Camps that not even Nathan knows. There is more to it but something u would have to watch. "}{"Title":"Meryl, acting as a medium for Sophie, gives the most powerful performance I have ever witnessed","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When Meryl Streep's Sophie slowly discloses her holocaust experience to Peter MacNicol's Stingo I literally felt I was witnessing the entire experience first-hand. Have I had such an experience with any other actor? No, I never have. Part of the credit goes to Alan Pakula for representing the event starkly but a majority of the effort is from Streep who can be termed as the 'best storyteller in the world'. I could sense her caliber in Out of Africa when she importunes the Governor to help the Africans and during the courtroom scene in Kramer vs Kramer, but only in Sophie's Choice could I see no Meryl but a completely different person by the name of Sophie Zawistowska. But that was also the case with Daniel Day Lewis in My Left Foot, but Meryl, in my opinion, had such a difficult character to portray that to achieve the effect of transporting the audience into Sophie's world without faltering any moment is the pinnacle of the state 'I am' in acting. Some say she her Polish/German/Broken English accent and diction weren't believable enough; my only advice to them is - try perfecting a foreign accent in 3 months yourself. On top of that, Meryl had to transcend Sophie on to the screen, not just with the accents, but with gestures, movements and more importantly, feelings. And Sophie has probably the saddest fate a woman could have - she was married to fear, grief and loss, first during Holocaust and then after the event. Throughout her life, she has had to make choices, many against her conscience; not only the choice that gives the film it's name, but also others for example, in spite of loathing her father's ideals, she used her pure blood status to escape more misery. But the ghosts of her past slowly unravel when Stingo, a young simpleton author develops friendship with her and her lover, the volatile Nathan. And Meryl does all this with uttermost sincerity and spontaneity, never faking it even when she could have got away with it because many people fall for pretenses. I'll tell you about a play I had seen yesterday where one of the actors, as the situation was reaching it's climax, began screaming his lines out as if stung on the rear by a bee.   The audience, to my dismay, was in raptures, with an old lady besides me commenting Superb performance and I was like  O these audiences can be tricked so easily!. So there may be people who find Meryl's performance to be 'dull' at first, and it is because they believe only an external representation of emotions is enough. I request these people to surrender themselves to Sophie, rather than thinking about how she could have cried buckets instead of just one teardrop to show that she was sad. The character is embodied so completely that I may not be able to endure Sophie's misery again. The choice scene, when watched during the film, is a million times more painful than watching the four minute clip separately on YouTube. The most powerful performance I have witnessed by an actor or actress.Kline and MacNicol have a hard time measuring up to her, but in a way, they gave better performance because of the support they got from Streep's performance. Kline is theatrical but his act suits his character well at times. MacNicol doesn't fail but he neither succeeds in fully justifying his difficult character. The supporting cast, mostly consisting of Germans give authentic performances, the best one coming from the little girl playing Sophie's child, the Nazi officer and the German officer's daughter. The background score is haunting and perfectly placed in the scenes. I frankly wanted more much Sophie and could do without that young coarse lady who had a short-lived romance with Stingo. It was an extraordinary experience watching Meryl acting as a medium for Sophie Zawistowska and a harrowing one to see Sophie's misery.My Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"We became the best of friends.","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a vehicle for Meryl Streep's incredible range as an actress, Sophie's Choice is an undeniable recommendation to watch. Unable to shake the ghosts of her past as a Nazi concentration camp survivor, the utter horror of Sophie's 'choice' is a stunning revelation in the flashback part of the picture. Once revealed, it is hard to escape the conclusion that the rest of her post-War life has also become a conflicted series of choices as well - a relationship with a cocaine addicted, paranoid schizophrenic (Kevin Kline), an understated and guarded friendship with Stingo (Peter MacNicol), and the ultimate choice that closes out the picture that argues against whatever other life affirming decisions she may have made after her escape from a brutal past.I think I agree with another reviewer's suggestion that the picture might have been more interesting and effective if most of the story were set during the war in Germany a few years earlier. Then of course, you wouldn't have needed the Kline and MacNicol characters, who to my mind were somewhat miscast here. Maybe that's just me, both give effective performances, but the whole while I kept picturing other players in their roles. But Kline IS good in schizophrenic mode, and the 'Gone With the Wind' segment added some needed color and brightness to the suffocating confines of the boarding house where a lot of the scenes took place.Still, once the nature of Sophie's Choice is revealed, it was difficult for me to maintain attention on the remainder of the story. With the scenes of the concentration camp, I was quickly reminded of 2008's The Boy in the Striped Pajamas, one of the most disturbing films I've ever seen. The entire history of Nazi brutality and attempts at human engineering still make one shudder almost seventy years after they occurred, and should serve as a warning against the threat of existential evil in the world in whatever form it takes. "},{"Title":"Very, very good film that contains a Virtuoso performance","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While it may be somewhat of a cliché, Sophie's Choice contains what might be the best performance ever captured on screen, and it has made Meryl Streep what she is today. Her work as Sophie is monumental and heartbreaking, and while it is a calculated performance, it is still very intriguing to watch.The film also contains great performances by Kevin Kline and Peter MacNichol. Both were robbed of Oscar nominations and Kevin Kline would have gotten my vote for Best Supporting Actor had he been nominated.With these great performances, Sophie's Choice is escalated to classic movie status and makes it worth the watch. However, the movie does drag at times and can lose its luster, but thankfully, the work put into the film saves it and keeps it afloat.The film deserved Best Picture and Director nominations as well, and a lot of this is credited to the team behind the scenes and the actors who made the movie work even in the slower scenes. A powerful effort! "},{"Title":"A survivor's tale","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's year 1947.Stingo is a young writer who relocates to Brooklyn.There, in the same apartment, he meets Sophie Zawistowski, a Polish immigrant and her lover, Nathan Landau.Sophie was married Poland, whose husband and father were murdered in a German work camp.They weren't Jewish and we later learn about her father's thoughts about Jews,that he was an anti-Semite.Sophie herself was interned in the Auschwitz concentration camp.Nathan doesn't always treat Sophie right,even though he can be gentle sometimes.But sometimes, quite often he can become very jealous and abuse and harass her.Later we learn, from his physician brother that Nathan is mentally ill and that he's not a biologist he claimed to be.Sophie doesn't know that.Sophie's Choice is an Alan J. Pakula film from 1982.It's based on William Styron's novel, which I haven't read.Meryl Streep gives a strong performance as Sophie.She won an Oscar she deserved.Kevin Kline is terrific as Nathan, who you hate at first a little, then feel sorry.Peter MacNicol gives a brilliant performance as Stingo.The role of Larry Landau is played by Stephen D. Newman.Josh Mostel is Morris Fink.David Wohl plays English Teacher.Günther Maria Halmer portrays Rudolf Hoess.Josef Sommer works as the narrator.This movie offers some great drama.The sequence where Sophie tells everything to Stingo is fantastic.It's very touching when she arrives with her son and daughter to Auschwitz.We learn a Nazi officer made her choose life for other child and death for the other.She shouts Take my little girl!That was Sophie's Choice she has to live with...until her death, and Nathan's by taking cyanide.A tragic ending to a sad story, although, from time to time, filled with hope. "},{"Title":"Let's get this into the Top 250! An Emotional Whirlwind of a Movie with One of the Best Performances of All Time.","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In my view this is a highly underrated film on IMDb and deserves a place in the top 250. The 3 main characters of the film give outstanding performances with masses of depth. Within the first 5 minutes of Meryl's performance you can see why she one an Oscar, even having seen most of her films- she had me pretty convinced she was European. Kline's eccentricity and passion works well with Streep's character and the two complement each other throughout. I can only say I've seen Peter MacNicol in 'Bean' before which was released many years later though he tames the fiery nature of the other two by his gentle, Southern approach. For the first hour or so, the film is quite simply fun and you really wish you were one of the three, but at the back of my mind I was trying to work out what Sophie's choice was. The film unravels and pieces together adhesively to where I get to a point where perhaps I don't want to be part of the trio. Unlike Schindler's List, where there is sadness throughout; Sophie's Choice touches upon the Holocaust but with such impact that will stick with me for life. As a story progresses it pieces together so well with a well-deserved, superb finale. It certainly touches upon all sorts of relationships, and cultures that we can all relate to and even as quite a critical person (when it comes to films), I consider this to be a must-see for everybody with possibly one of the best performances I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"Streep at her best!","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" These days I watch movies via DVD,as I have two young children and it's just harder these days to watch a movie straight through than it used to be unless I am in theater.I usually,as a result,end up watching a movie in parts.I intended to do that with this film,but ended up being so captivated by the story,not to mention the ever dazzling acting ability of Meryl Streep that I couldn't turn away.It takes a lot for me to sit through a movie uninterrupted nowadays,and Sophie's Choice delivers the goods.I was deeply moved by this film,and it does it's job well.Streep of course is the star,but she is supported well by Peter MacNicol and,Kevin Kline in his first film role. "},{"Title":"Sitting Here Speechless...","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I waited all these years to see this film. Meryl Streep already was my all time favorite actress, but after seeing her in Sophie's Choice I must say I feel speechless. I am sitting here trying to put together sufficient words to describe her performance, her abilities, her talent.. yada yada yada. I don't know how a human being can pretend so convincingly, so raw with emotion, so completely and utterly possessed by the fictional character she portrays. Darn right creepy and at the same time marvelously sublime.I waited all these years to see this film. Meryl Streep already was my all time favorite actress, but after seeing her in Sophie's Choice I must say I feel speechless. I am sitting here trying to put together sufficient words to describe her performance, her abilities, her talent.. yada yada yada. I don't know how a human being can pretend so convincingly, so raw with emotion, so completely and utterly possessed by the fictional character she portrays. Darn right creepy and at the same time marvelously sublime. "},{"Title":"A deep look into the psychological side of the Holocaust.","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A deep look into the psychologically immeasurable dark, ice-cold and silent side of the Holocaust drama. The angle of incidence focuses on two different sides of the drama the Jewish side and the Christian side. For Christians, the movie has particularly the merit of reminding Christians why, and when, they did NOT want to take the place of the Jew (in spite of a theology which has so often been greedy to loot their position). Meryl Streep (Sophie) plays indeed a grandiose role, making the anguish on the Christian side of the drama frightening. It may also make the non-Christian understand how much Christians have been in the almost front lines of the attack - just one step behind the Jews, and many of them full of fear of what might happen to them, next. This is a great play. "},{"Title":"Must-see acting","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw 'Sophie's Choice' I was completely bowled over by Meryl Streep's performance. She went from happy, zany, carefree Brooklyn woman madly in love with her even crazier schizophrenic husband to Holocaust prisoner tormented by the most awful choice anyone has ever had to make, and did it it all with such style. Also, she switches effortlessly between Polish, German and English with a perfect Polish accent. I really admire actors such as Kristin Scott Thomas and Antonio Banderas who can express themselves dramatically in more than one language, but I never imagined that anyone could manage three languages plus a highly convincing accent in one film. When I saw the film a second time, I realised that Kevin Kline was also excellent as the paranoid schizophrenic Nathan; a very difficult role. He portrayed the emotional extremes of his character very well, and I thought it was a shame that he was so obviously overshadowed by Meryl Streep. Stingo was sweet but nothing special. Without the incredible acting, however, I didn't think this was an amazing film. The script is clear and easy to follow, but at times overly melodramatic, especially during Stingo's voiceovers. (and why is he called that ridiculous name?)And there are some scenes that are just pointless, like the one when Stingo goes on a date. And the ending was a bit odd, and again melodramatic. However, this film is DEFINITELY worth seeing just for the acting, which is absolutely stunning. "},{"Title":"I believe this is the best movie ever made.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sophie's Choice is a breathtaking work of art.  This movie is stunning not just for Meryl Streep's award winning performance, which I think is the best of her career, but for the performances of all of the actors involved as well as all of the other elements (screenplay, cinematography etc.) that go into creating a film.  This film is a Michaelangelo. "}{"Title":"Wrenching, horrific choice but ruined by post war story","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I realize I will be in the minority but personally, I did not care for this film. Meryl Streep won a Best Actress Oscar for her portrayal of Sophie, a woman forced to make a gut wrenching decision in a concentration camp. Streep is not normally my favorite actress, though I did like her in Music of the Heart. I couldn't really decide here whether this was a superb portrayal of Sophie's devastating choice, or whether my judgment was clouded by all my past negative impressions of Streep tending to overact.The story revolves around a Polish refugee, Sophie, who is haunted by past concentration camp experiences, in her modern relationship with a schizophrenic American Jew, Nathan, who is obsessed with the Holocaust and is abusive to her. The story is related by their mutual friend, Stingo, a Southern writer who has come to post war New York.The flashback scenes to Sophie's Auschwitz days are unforgettable and her choice horrific, but in my opinion, her story would have been infinitely more powerful if the entire movie had been set back in Nazi Poland, where she served as Rudolh Hoess's secretary due to her fluency in German. I completely agree with a few others, who also find it's an effective one third of a movie, the concentration camp portion. Much of the film is boring, as we await the gripping climax.I am a mother and certainly find Sophie's choice a haunting one but this movie not at all impressive. The only character of interest in the post war setting (the majority of the picture) is Sophie herself. It does indeed diminish Sophie's dramatic tale, that her woeful experiences (in fact, a living death) are placed on equal par with all the assorted psychological jumble of Nathan's admittedly sad (but apparently atypical) paranoid schizophrenia and, worse, the mindless tittle tattle of Stingo's love & sex life. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest performances by an actress I've seen.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was superb well written and directed, but the performance by Streep was overwhelming.  She certainly deserved the Oscar she got for this movie. "},{"Title":"Great performance, awful movie","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meryl Streep is fantastic, always convincing as a Polish survivor of a concentration camp. Rest of the movie is at turns silly, grating, and maudlin. Seems inappropriate to make the real life outrages of the Holocaust fodder for a sappy southern boy's bildungsroman. Stingo is an annoying Thomas Wolfe stereotype of the sensitive genius writer; unfortunately we are subjected to examples of his overwrought purple prose in voiceovers that sound lifted from The Waltons. If we only could have been spared the confession that his climatic tryst with Sophie was the end of his virginity; I had bad flashbacks to Summer of 42. Still gets four stars because Streep is just so good. "},{"Title":"Sophie's choices","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am forever blindsided by the inhumanity of the Nazi war machine, collective insanity! With that being said, the movie title is a bit misleading --- In my humble opinion, It was not a singular choice Sophie made but many choices. Some viewers of this movie contend that Sophie's choice was the one she made to save her son over her daughter. The title is deceptive and leads the viewer to conclude it that way with little effort on the viewer to go beyond that.Sophie is rifled with choices. Stingo vs. Nathan, life versus death (during the war and in its aftermath). Be loyal to her dad's worldview and that of her husband, or support their enemy. Be truthful in her post as Nazi aid and secretary, or save herself from certain extermination. The list goes on and on.I found the acting to be superb but found the overall movie to be just competent, nothing amazing. "},{"Title":"Do not see many like this today...","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" how sad to say that. This film when it was first released was Streep's tour De force, it put her name in the average American household as a force to be remembered, prior to that she had done a few (with Roy Scheider, Night and the City) but this film is where most from that era will remember her.And she is indelible as Sophie, a Polish survivor of concentration camps, her features are too perfect for her to be something other than German an officer remarks as he allows her to be his personal secretary, he reports directly to Himmmler.Kevin Kline is a bit out of place as Nathan a troubled genius with schizophrenia. It is not accurately portrayed and a bit over the top but serves the purpose. There is a moving scene on the Brooklyn Bridge where Kline toasts Sophie and Stingo, his writing talent.It would also help to read the book, which I will go back to eventually to get a better sense of the story.I disagree with some reviews which state that the story is disjointed and pale. I think that effect was intentional, as Sophie has survived through hell, probably is living through post traumatic stress disorder and is barely holding on to her life, at times. The scene where she collapses from malnutrition after being harassed by a rude library clerk is believable.My father was in that war. People who returned or survived it did not often talk about it. This is just a sad fact of those times. Surely Sophie after having to choose one child, endure the pawing of a German officer and pretend to favor Nazism as her core belief would escape to the U.S. in shambles, much as the character of Kevin Kline. Inwardly, he is a mess, but manages to eke out a few seasons with Sophie, and his friend Stingo, the stable observer, much the same as the Sam Waterston character/narrator in the Great Gatsby The scenes of the war are filed on location in Yugoslavia, and we feel the cold dead environment, the mud and people trapped and starving at Auschwitz. Some of the Germna actors also are very good here. Sophie is talking to the daughter of an officer as she remarks that she liked Dachau better than Auschwitz because the children of officers had a swimming pool and camp. Surreal cold facts, nothing more and no remedy.The writer remains buffered, at a safe distance, while he watches the principal characters head for passion, momentary solace, and disaster. All the things that life is. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Depressing Masterstroke!  Streep is Indeed Immortal!","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A film like 'Sophie's Choice' is unsettling, depressing & unforgiving. Alan J. Pakula directs this story wonderfully and Meryl Streep's performance as Sophie, is horrifyingly convincing.'Sophie's Choice' is a drama, that tells the story of a Polish immigrant, Sophie, and her tempestuous lover who share a boarding house with a young writer in Brooklyn.Alan J. Pakula handles each sequence wonderfully. The writing has so much depth, that even the lethargic pace never really bothers you. Cinematography is excellent.The character of Sophie Zawistowski is haunting, courageous & powerful. Streep's performance not only elevates the character, but, in fact, immortalizes it. Streep, once again proves, that, she indeed is one of the most influential film actors of all-time.It would be injustice if I forget to mention Kevin Kline, for his work in here. He is astonishing as the tempestuous lover, and makes you feel the pain beneath him in each & every sequence.On the whole, A Depressing Masterstroke! Streep is Indeed Immortal! "},{"Title":"Sophie's Choices","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was a lot more neo-Freudian when I saw SC in the early '80s. I didn't write this then, but it's what I would have written, save for the notions about beliefs, values, interpretations and evaluations I picked up from cognitive theory in the '90s.Sophie's father taught her to value men (and their opinions) over women. A German (as opposed to Slavic) and Roman Catholic, Sophie's father left her with the absolutistic values of the Germans and Papists, including a final solution for those trouble-making Jews. That she chose as she did as a new captive in a hell she never expected to be part of makes perfect sense, then. That she later chose to try to save herself and her child by abasing herself to an authoritarian potential Rescuer, also makes sense. She is overwhelmed, confused and regressing to her childhood and the values she learned there.For the same reasons, it also makes sense that she would allow herself to be Rescued and then persecuted by a Victimizing knight on a white horse to her damsel in distress Nathan presented himself as a man in authority. But he is also borderline-organized (not paranoid schizophrenic, though that might well have been the diagnosis applied in the late 1940s). Nathan is caught in an unconscious splitting of his values and belief &#x96; and all the interpretations of reality that result from his values and beliefs &#x96; between all good and all bad. He cannot perceive others as being combinations of some good and some bad; he can only see them in black and white.Enter Stingo. Nathan initially evaluates him as all bad, but because he needs Sophie to continue to be both his victim and the soothing mother he didn't seem to have as a child, he acquiesces and re-evaluates Stingo. In short order, Nathan has seduced him into the service of maintaining his Rescue scheme with Sofie. And Nathan's Rescue scheme is to keep Sofie as far from experiencing and processing her awful memories as he can.Stingo may act upon his romantic attachment to her, but he allows Sophie to remember her hell and the choices she was forced to make to survive. Nathan sees the obvious romance in bloom and uses it to justify the continuation of his own program to keep him and his beloved as far from reality as he can. In the end, of course, he fails and has to activate his own final solution. I don't know that Styron understood the Karpman Drama Triangle as well as this, but it's all here Rescue the Victim. Persecute and Victimize; then Rescue and Victimize another. Be willing to be the Persecuted Victim to be Rescued. And Rescue the Persecuting Victimizer to maintain his alternately Rescuing presence.In whatever event, Styron did a bang-up job. Most of us will not have to negotiate our way through anything like the horror of the Holocaust. But we will surely deal with whatever challenges come our way with the tools we got from our early life experiences. SC is simply one of the most emotionally compelling presentations of such choice-making ever filmed. "},{"Title":"A great story, a good movie.","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice, directed by Alan J. Pakula, was made famous by an actress called Meryl Streep. The choice she had to make, and that particular scene must be the first thing that comes to the mind of a person who is thinking of this movie. Meryl Streep did a good job as a Polish immigrant Sophie Zawistowski, which is one of her most remembered roles.When I started watching this movie, it didn't take long for me to see how great the storyline was. It's not hard to believe that the book is good too. A Polish immigrant (Meryl Streep), her lover (Kevin Kline) and a young writer Stingo (Peter MacNicol) meet under the same roof, because they live in the same semi-detached house. The triangle, the three characters firstly reminded me of Truffaut's masterpiece Jules et Jim (1962) and you could see other references from Truffaut as well. The storytelling is not typical for America. It has got a lot of influences from European films from the 50's and the 60's. So get ready for something a little different.Basically it's a romantic melodrama, which can also been seen as a description of concentration camps, WWII, maybe even narcissism. It can be watched from many different point of views. The fictional story fits perfectly, because that makes it easier to relate to the events.Stingo (Peter MacNicol), the young writer, gets in the middle of the troubled relationship of Nathan Landau (Kevin Kline) and Sophie Zawistowski (Meryl Streep). They become the three best friends (a bit like in Jules et Jim), then we get to know a little more about Nathan's background and about Sophie's past. It's well written, not a single boring moment, maybe mostly thanks to the writer of the book.As I already mentioned the story is great. But in this case, story wins the film itself. The direction isn't bad, neither is anything in the film, but there are actually nothing special either, besides the great story. So the cinematography, camera-work and the direction seems pretty average to me. The powerful performance by Meryl Streep is the thing that holds this film together, but it's not a bad thing. Perhaps this movie doesn't need any other great elements.I wasn't expecting a masterpiece or a cinematic gem, and I didn't get one. What I did get was a good, touching experience with a great story and a good film.7/10 Great story, great performance by Meryl Streep and nice influences from Europe. Recommended to everyone interested in films and/or Meryl Streep. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sophie's Choice has been one of my favorite films ever since the first time I saw it, which I think was 1982. The acting is excellent throughout and the plot is just crushing. The quality of the film making, the soundtrack, cinematography, editing, and so on is excellent. Watching it again recently, I really appreciated the way that all of the characters have layers of story that get peeled back every time you learn a little more about them until you end up with some really horrible truths. The impact of the film never seems to lessen for me. I find it every bit as compelling and powerful now as I did twenty-two years ago. "},{"Title":"amazing acting, amazing story, amazing book..the movie should have been better.","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say that I have difficulties explaining what I felt having watched the movie. I mean, if Meryl Streep (and also Kevin Kline) hadn't played in the movie, it would have been almost not worthy looking. In saying that I don't want to say that I hate the story. The story itself is so beyond words that I can't even begin to explain but.. I read the book first and then decided to watch the movie. And this simple thing ruined it for me. So, when you've got a choice, please read the book before you watch the movie because in my thought, the movie pales in comparison to the book. I mean, there are so many other things in that story that are not brought out in the movie.Having said that, I would recommend watching the movie after you have finished the book, because the actors sure do their job there. 12 points out of 10 should definitely go to Meryl Streep in this movie. "}{"Title":"Powerful, moving and extraordinary performances","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A deeply affecting drama that conveys, very powerfully, the experience of meeting new people, getting to know them better, and how this leads to a constantly shifting perception of those around us.The three central performances are amazing. Streep (about whom I know little) shows here why she is so highly respected as an actress, there are moments here where she manages to show - through her expression - every nuance of feeling contained within individual lines of a tale recounted but without going anywhere near over-egging it. You truly believe she is recalling her experience and conveying it, there appears to be no artifice at all - though, rationally, we know that it is all it is.Kevin Klein is great as an energised, spontaneous man - playing his role in such a way that we learn more about him we are as surprised as we should be, but immediately can see the truth of the revelation as to his behaviour.It took me far too long to place the man in the lead role, until I suddenly realised I was looking at the Perkipsy(sp?) lawyer from Ally Macbeale. Again, a great performance of a young man having some kind of rite of passage or formative experience.These three performances make the tragedy of the tale all the more powerful, and when we finally discover what Sophie's choice was it does as much as a film can do to move us and think about those who were forced to make such decisions in reality.It only misses out on having 10 stars because I am a tight git, and will only award ten to those special films I know I will watch again and again, which tend to be more idiosyncratic than this. "},{"Title":"Powerful film, great performances","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Sophie's Choice' stars Meryl Streep as Sophie in a performance that becomes great after half an hour or so. Well, may be it was just me, but she speaks with a Polish accent and I had to get used to that first. WW II is just over, Sophie now is in the US with a man named Nathan (Kevin Kline) who is crazy about her, but gets a little mad when he is drunk or something in that category. They befriend Stingo (Peter MacNicol), a young writer from the South and the film's narrator. Like Sophie, he sometimes has a hard time with Nathan too, but between those moments they are best friends.The story takes a while to get started but that gives us time to take the accent for granted (it is never annoying, but Streep has become a too well-known actress I guess), to understand Nathan, and to see that Sophie carries a lot of secrets. In a long monologue she confesses most of them to Stingo, who falls in love with her. But not only with her, also with Nathan and his spirit that seems so alive at times, and with the relationship Sophie and Nathan have. It is strange to love both of them separately and them together, but the way this is presented is terrific.Tell you more about the story would spoil things. I can say that Sophie's flashbacks go to Auschwitz and that most of her choices have to do with the war and that camp. Although we have seen a lot of WW II dramas by now there are some great and powerful scenes here. I especially appreciated a scene where we see the concentration camp in grey colors, almost black and white, and how the world outside is shown with so much color when Sophie enters it. You will recognize the scene immediately.In these flashbacks we see Streep speak the authentic languages, her German, which I understand, sounded pretty good to me. Most WW II films choose for English and that takes a little power away. Although it is not a very nice thing to say German sounds less friendly than English, even when it has a German accent. 'Schindler's List', one of the greatest films out there, and 'The Grey Zone' to name a few probably would have been more powerful if the film was in authentic language. (Although especially 'Schindler's List' is powerful enough as it is, I guess.)Streep gives the strongest performance, but we are used to that. MacNicol is solid and Kline's performance makes sure we see how his strange character works. In a way he is as good as Streep. All this, together with some wonderful cinematography, makes this a terrific film, recommended for every film lover. "},{"Title":"Emotionally devastating to see","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"           ********Warning, Possible Spoilers*********I will start this review by saying that I watched this movie for one reason, and one reason only.  Meryl Streep.I have admired this woman since I first saw her in 1985 in the film,  Out Of Africa.  Even though I was only a teenager, I recognized that Meryl had a gift.  She could touch the heart of even the toughest critic with her amazing abilities.  I was aware that she had been in previous films, so over the years I have tried to catch up on her work that I had missed.  I didn't realize until a short time ago that Sophie's Choice was the only film I hadn't seen.  So, I rented the video, snuggled up with my hubby and some popcorn, and settled in for the evening to watch this much acclaimed film.Boy, was I ever taken for a ride!  I had no idea that the movie was about a woman who had survived a concentration camp.  I thought, (because of the picture on the cover of the video) that this was a movie about a woman having to choose between two men.  At certain points I almost gave up on the film, because it seemed to drag at points, and then throw unexpected curves at me that I couldn't quite follow.  I just couldn't understand why Meryl was having such a difficult time choosing to stay with Kevin Kline, because Peter MacNichol seemed like such a geek I could hardly stand him.  I firmly believed that she was out of her mind when she told decided to go to the farm with MacNichol.  Then I discovered what choice she truly had too make.  I was absolutely devastated emotionally after that scene.  I had to stop the film for a full ten minutes before I could bear to watch the rest.  I could hardly sleep that night either, myself being a mother of two children; one a boy, age seven, and a girl, age 19 months.  I was tormented by the thought of what I would do or say if faced with the same choice.  I could never have forgiven myself no matter what choice I made, just as she could not.So now I understand what Sophie's Choice was all about.  Overall, I thought the movie could have transitioned from scene to scene better, so that the viewer would not have been so completely horrified and taken by surprise when the true choice was revealed.  Had I seen this movie in the theater, I would have completely missed the ending because I was so shaken by the previous climactic scene.  But as far as Meryl is concerned, 10+++++++ in my book.  Bravo, Meryl, bravo!Rank 8/10       "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome Flick","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is there no end to the talent of Meryl Streep?  She speaks many languages, awesome actress, and can sing.  Raised in a Jewish home, I can totally appreciate her character and what a story to tell.  The scene about her children and what she had to endure in the camp, was heartwrenching. There is a great book titled, Children of the SS and, every time I see the movie, I think of this book.  To live with the legacy that your dad was responsible for the death of innocent lives?  This was an intense movie, like Shindler's List, and long.  You have to be in the appropriate mood for the flick.  I believe Stingo represented a person overly simple....never experienced much in life and brought up in a sheltered environment.      "},{"Title":"Character study of two people haunted by demons","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much but somehow I felt that something was lacking about it.  From the name of the film, a viewer would assume that the film was about a choice that a woman named Sophie made.  Indeed, when the final credits roll, a viewer understands how Sophie's present life and subsequent death were affected and brought on by the awful choice that no parent should ever have to make.However, the film is 2 1/2 hours long.  We don't learn of Sophie's choice until the last 15 minutes of the film.  In fact, if it wasn't for the title, I wouldn't of thought that the film was about a choice at all.  The film was about two people that came together because they share one thing they're both haunted by inner demons.  Nathan is haunted by natural causes; he's a paranoid schizophrenic.  And of course Sophie is haunted by the choice that she had to make years earlier.  We see these two haunted people through the eyes of a 22 yr old stranger who quickly becomes the couples best friend.I'm not saying Sophie's Choice was bad or that I didn't like it.  It kept my attention for 2 1/2 hours, which is impressive.  I just feel that Alan Pakula could have done more w/ the story by directly (instead of indirectly) centering the film around Sophie's Choice.  The film would have been a lot more powerful.    "},{"Title":"Easily Deserving of the Best Actress Award","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are many things that can be said about Sophie's Choice. It can be viewed as an immigrant tale or a Holocaust tale or a love story or any other number of angles you want to pursue it. I'm not really going to talk about that. The one thing that stands out for me, and obviously stood out for people at the time, is Meryl Streep's performance.Another reviewer says her performance is simply the finest performance ever captured on film. Period. If that's not enough, they call it a gift to humanity. That might be an exaggeration, but it's true to a point Streep mastered a few languages and accents, as well as playing her part physically. Sadly, women in American films are more often secondary, but here she is given the starring role and nails it. Many have said this is the single greatest performance from an actress, and they may be right.As for the film as a whole, I'm torn. I liked it, but without Streep, it would have been forgotten decades ago. "},{"Title":"One of THE most powerful movies I've EVER seen. Her choice is gut-wrenching.","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, what a movie. When I learned what one of her choices was, I cried so hard - so powerful a movie.  Meryl Streep is fantastic. Great, great movie. So very moving.  It really brings home some of the pain and anguish that took place during WW II; the suffering of families that were divided when they were taken to concentration camps; the questions as to what happened to one's children; to their parents.  How anyone could watch this without some heavy crying would be beyond me.  Highly recommend.  I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"choice of life","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A mother's choice would affect her life and her child's life.. A great movie, a different perspective on Jewish genocide. Different than the other Jewish subjected movies as it has enough and satisfied part about genocide. Combining a love story, a love to a father to a husband to children and to a lover with the world's most dramatic history about Jews. GozenA catholic women who was born with full of good ideas of Nazis and Hitler , has been involved in the genocide because of being Polish and has lost her children during this Jewish genocide. She also loses her life because of being in love with a Jewish man. Hakan "},{"Title":"Meryl gives one of her best performances in this haunting film","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice is directed by Alan J. Pakula, is based on the novel by William Styron and stars Meryl Streep, Kevin Kline and Peter MacNicol.Stingo(Peter MacNicol)moves to an apartment in Brooklyn and befriends his two neighbours from upstairs, Sophie(Meryl Streep)and the fascinating(but very emotionally disturbed)Nathan(Kevin Kline).As he grows closer to them he learns that Sophie is a survivor of the Holocaust and that Nathan nursed her back to health.Stingo also gradually learns from Sophie the horrific things she went through during the war. At one point in Auschwitz she had to make a terrible decision concerning her children and the choice she made destroyed her and we eventually see it in a very harrowing scene.Meryl deservedly won the Oscar for best actress for her performance as the emotionally broken Sophie. Her performance in this is one of her very best, her eyes show you how broken and worn out this woman is. You cannot take your eyes off her in this film, her performance is powerful and stays with you long after the film is over.Kevin Kline deserved an award too for his excellent performance as the manic Nathan, one moment he's the life and soul of the party, utterly charming and happy. The next moment a darkness descends upon him and he has these terrible rages and becomes terrifying. Kline portrays these mood swings so convincingly you believe he is that character, one of his best performances for sure. "},{"Title":"A horror movie","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this is a horror movie. Horror because while the story may be fiction, the story is also real. 6 million innocent Jews went to their death, along with mentally ill, homosexuals, Jehovah Witnesses etc... Its the story of humankind at our worst, against other humans. Its a sad story but one that needs to be seen, lest forgotten and doomed to be repeated. Its a strange story, true, 3 people try to deal with the holocaust in different ways. But it is a must see and to be thought of. One man tries to understand the horror of two others that survived it. They deal with their emotions in their respective ways. How do you deal with something like that?? You can laugh, you can cry, you can become eccentric. This is a beautiful movie and again, horrifying. One that should be witnessed and thought about. Let it never happen again. "}{"Title":"Don't watch it if you have a weak stomach.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We usually assume that big stars have to debut in B-movies, but Kevin Kline (my favorite actor) made his debut in Sophie's Choice, an absolutely flawless movie. In 1947, aspiring author Stingo (Peter MacNicol) moves to New York and moves in with concentration camp-surviving Polish immigrant Sophie Zawistowska (Meryl Streep) and her Jewish-American biologist hubby Nathan Landau (Kevin Kline). As the movie progresses, we learn the full story of Sophie's gut-wrenching past, and the truth about Nathan's mental state.I don't know whether this was Meryl Streep's best role ever, but with her impeccable Polish accent, she turns in a top-notch performance, as does the rest of the cast. Alan J. Pakula, who also directed All the President's Men, turned in another masterpiece here. "},{"Title":"Heartwrenching performance by Meryl Streep!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Except for the fact the AMC interrupts  this movie too many times,it takes some time to develop the characters,and is a little too long. It is definitely worthy of Miss Streeps acting abilities,and Kevin Klines additional character make it worth watching  this movie more than once.......I'd suggest going to the library or video store and renting it......uninterrupted by commercials! "},{"Title":"Streep Steals the Show in Haunting Drama","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophie's Choice (1982)*** 1/2 (out of 4) Meryl Streep picked up her second Oscar for her performance as Sophie, a Polish-Catholic woman who finds herself in Brooklyn just a few years after being rescued from a conservation camp. She lives in an apartment with her lover (Kevin Kline) and soon the two of them strike up a relationship with a Southern writer (Peter MacNicol) who she soon shares some secrets of her past with. SOPHIE'S CHOICE is probably best remembered for the choice the lead character is forced to take over two-hours into the picture and it's easy to see why because the scene in question is without a doubt one of the most haunting and chilling of anything you're going to see in any movie. I won't ruin what exactly happens but the scene lasts just a couple minutes but the horror and anguish in it are pretty much untouched by countless other films that have tried to display as much power. A lot of the greatness in the film belongs to Streep who clearly deserved her Best Actress Oscar. There's a lot of reasons the performance is so great and of course one of them is the magic that Streep is able to do with the accent. I've always been amazed at how well she could dig into an accent and make it come off so believable but the way she does it here really brings this character to life and you never once feel you're watching an actor learning how to speak this accent but instead you feel as if you're watching a real person. The emotional and psychological ranges that Streep go through are quite remarkable as well and especially in the before mentioned choice that she's given and there's another powerful sequence when she first starts to tell her story. Just take a look at Streep's eyes as she's telling this story and you can see the horror and fear in them. Kline is also quite impressive as he plays a mentally disturbed man and I thought he did a very admirable job being able to be charming in one scene and a complete snake in the next. MacNicol never seems to get enough credit but he really carries the picture the majority of the time as he's in it the most and really plays well against Streep. Director Alan J. Pakula handles the material quite well and his tenderness to the story comes across just fine. The one complaint I'd have against the film is that at times it seems to lose focus of the story and after the picture was done I couldn't help but think there was at least fifteen-minutes that could have been left out of the movie and it would have made it flow a lot better and not take away any of the overall impact. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep is superb...but the movie isn't","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meryl Streep plays Sophie Zawistowski--a concentration camp survivor. She's being romanced by seriously unstable Nathan Landau (Kevin Kline). Stingo (Peter MacNicol) is a friend. He watches their romance beginning to dissolve because of Nathan's mental instability and a choice Sophie had to make.OK--I saw this when it first came out. I was not impressed--I found the story trite and predictable, found Kline overdoing his role so much it became comical, MacNicol so bland you hated him and the movie far too long at 150 minutes. But Streep's performance ALMOST single handedly saved the movie. Words can't describe how good she was. She wasn't acting--she became Sophie. The sequence where she had to make her choice has got to be one of the most disturbing and harrowing things I've ever seen in a motion picture. I can't even imagine what Streep went through to play that. She won a well-deserved Oscar for her role. Unfortunately her acting is the only thing this movie has going for it. Even her performance couldn't save this film from becoming ultimately very boring. It was just too long--by the end I just didn't care about the characters or situations anymore. This gets an 8 solely for Streep's acting. For her performance alone this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"De-Fangs Any Horror Movie Ever Made","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm almost amazed they continued to make horror movies after this film came out. Not even the sickest, bloodiest, most twisted horror flick ever made comes within light years of the pure deranged awfulness of the scene in which the choice is forced upon Sophie. It is, hands down, the most disturbing, upsetting, horrific scene in movie history...and it will rattle you to your core. The first time I saw was during a college Philosophy class. Afterwards I was furious...furious at the professor for showing it, furious at the filmmakers for making it, and furious at the Nazis for, well, everything. I was even furious at Sohpie for choosing. Now, years later, I'm not angry anymore. I have children of my own - a boy and a girl - and I feel sick anytime I think about this film. My heart aches for Sophie and anyone who might have really been through that at the hands of the Nazis. If you want true, bone-chilling horror, then look no further. And quite honestly, you might just want to skip it altogether. If you have kids, it's almost too much to handle. "},{"Title":"Great performance by Streep, but not the best in the movie history.","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Falconetti's performance in 'the passion of Joan Arc' IS the signature performance of the history of movies. Period. Streep gave her best performance in sophie's choice, but I feel her performance here a little bit too proficient and pitch-perfect but coldly over-studied.  Typical Streep way. I won't rank her performance in 'Sophie' above Jessica Lange's Frances, which also came out in 82.There are lots of great female performances that you can cite on Masina in 'la strada' and 'night of cabiria', Watson in 'breaking the waves' (heck, how can she ever lost to Frances M in 'fargo'?  Another evidence that the Academy is clueless and run by morons), Ullman, Anderson, and Thulin in Bergman movies... The list goes on and on... "},{"Title":"Hoess as assembly-line death merchant family man","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Rudolf Hoess, Kommandant Auschwitz 1940-43, is very interestingly portrayed here in my opinion. I had often wondered as to whether or not this once-devout Catholic suffered any misgivings during his reign at the well-concealed killing factory Auschwitz, and having read the majority of Herman Wouk's War and Remembrance, recalling his reaction to the girl with the apple blossoms, was this fact or fiction? His subsequent testimony at the Nuremberg Trials revealed something of a man who could care less one way or the other, about the war or any such thing. To my understanding Hoess's residence was several miles from the actual camp, but in Sophie's Choice it's separated from the camp by a high wall. Frau Hoess and young Emmi appear to be as ardent Nazis as the Kommandant himself. Baldur von Schirach and Gertrud Scholz-Klink must have had a field day with Emmi, a deutsche Maedel if ever was. There seems to be genuine love and affection between Hoess and his wife, the way they seem completely at ease with one another. He also is quite civil towards Sophie, business-minded and somewhat unsure of himself. THEN all of a sudden he flips his nut. I don't think it would have mattered if Hitler was in the room instead of Sophie, with a migraine attack like that he'd have still curled up with a pillow. I am of the opinion that Hoess was probably an insomniac, although I can't say for certain. To live in such luxurious surroundings with his loving family adjacent to, well, Auschwitz-Birkenau with its most unpleasant atmosphere, would have some kind of an effect on even the most heartless ruthless bureaucratic SS-Mann. "},{"Title":"Choose dullness","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alan Pakula, best known as a director of taut, well-paced conspiracy thrillers, turned his hand to serious drama with 'Sophie's Choice' - very serious drama, in fact, for the subject is the holocaust, following the story of guilt-ridden Auschwitz survivor Sophie (Meryl Streep) attempting to rebuild her life in post-war New York. Unfortunately, the start of the film is very slow, and the trio of central characters manage to appear both as clichés and as a freak show. Schizophrenic Nathan (Kevin Kline), Sophie's new lover, is of some interest but can hardly be said to manifest the classic symptoms of his disease, while Streep, although a capable actress, appears over-stretched in her role, and gives an irritatingly affected performance. Most annoying of all is our narrator, pious, wide-eyed, thick-drawled southern boy Stingo (Peter MacNicol), an aspiring novelist given (in a sonorous voice over) to astonishingly tedious pronouncements such as My lust was inexhaustible. Hers was a headlong rush into carnal oblivion - at times, it makes for a very dreary movie. The scenes set in Nazi-occupied Poland are in fact much stronger; Streep is much better as Sophie's younger self, and the bleak story throws the horrifying reality of the times into stark, answer-less relief. Perhaps, if the story was told entirely from Sophie's perspective, the film as a whole might have worked better, without the essentially irrelevant medium of Stingo to convey it. As it is, the terrible choice that Sophie has to make is relegated to mere background detail in a film that, for all its evident earnestness, fails to match Pakula's genre-tonged masterpieces, 'All the President's Men' and 'The Parallax View'. "},{"Title":"Worthy, but the focus is off","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When writer Stingo comes to Brooklyn he rents an apartment downstairs from rowdy couple Nathan and Sophie.  Over time he becomes friends with the eccentric pair and learns not only of Sophie's past in a German concentration camp but also of Nathan's illness.  The friendship is a rocky one and will not have a happy ending.This is a classic film and I was looking forward to watching it despite not being a big Meryl Streep fan.  The film is a strange mix, at times you wonder where it is going as the story spends plenty of time on the friendship that develops.  In fact Sophie's story only comes out late in the second half of the film and the choice of the title is not really given enough time - it's a very short flashback sequence.  The story can get frustrating at times because it doesn't seem to go anywhere, however when Nathan's mental illness comes out and Sophie's stories start, the film becomes more interesting.  The second half of the film is far superior to the first, although the first has a certain amount of charm that can be quite deceptive.Streep is very good here - her accent is excellent and it was made before her accents became more of a source of amusement than a source of Oscars.  Kline is even better as the troubled Nathan who mixes eccentricity with madness and violence to great effect.  Peter McNicol is also good in an early role as the focus of the story - he is weak and soft in a world of violence and violent emotion.Overall this is not as good as I thought it would be, mainly because I disliked it's wandering aimless feel for most of the film.  The moments of revelation are powerful, but more time should have been spent on Sophie's story and more of the friendship development should have been edited out to make it a bit shorter and tighter. "},{"Title":"Streep time","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sophie's Choice is a luke warm flick with a whole lot of toos. Too long, too obvious, too theatrical, too unbelievable, etc.  Telling of a holocaust survivor in America, Sophie (Streep), and the pair of love interests she cultivates (Kline & MacNicol), this ensemble drama showcases an Oscar winning and memorable performance by Streep who gets to stretch and strut her consummate talents over a 2.5 hour run. Streep's wonderful workout is about the only reason to give this 20+ year old flick a dust off. Recommended only for Streep fans. (B) "}{"Title":"way too slow","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel like I was sold a bill of goods. The first half of this movie was not what I came to see. And most of the last quarter for that matter. I think the movie would work much better with a basic framework like Saving Private Ryan. Set me up in the present but let the body of the movie deal with the past. That's a much more interesting subject than what they went with.Throw in how quick the titular and pivotal scene is and the movie is simultaneously plodding and rushed. And the jarring back and forth between her second choice of Stingo or Nathan. I'm not a psychiatrist, but I got whiplash in the back and forth. I can see from her background how that might have happened. I have trouble seeing from Stingo's point of view why he'd expect anything different. "},{"Title":"Amazing - - A Holocaust Movie Without Any Jews!","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree with Elie Wiesel's review of Styron's work, as applied to this movie While in Auschwitz, has she (Sophie) even run into Jewish prisoners? It seems to me that she has been put there so as to illustrate something the the 'universalists' have been claiming all along, namely that others have also witnessed agony in Auschwitz.Certainly many millions got swept away in Germany's insane war of genocide against the Jews. But the war was, first and foremost, against the Jews. There was no Kristallnacht for Polish Catholics, no racial purity laws issued against Communists, no beaches declared Gypsy-free by Reichstag directive. A Holocaust movie that refuses to include Jewish suffering in its scenes is nothing less than creepy. I always wondered what Styron's *true* motivations in writing such a novel could have been. "},{"Title":"not the best performance by an actress!!!","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i love the movie but its very slow moving...i hope they focus more on the holocaust...im a big meryl fan...meryl streep delivers one of the best performance...its not the best acting by a female i've seen better...the benchmark acting by a female is a Renee Falconetti for The Passion Of Joan Arc...Here's the list of the top 5 performance by a female... 1. Renee Falconetti for The Passion Of Joan Arc 2. Giulitta Massina for La Strada & Nights Of Cabiria 3. Emily Watson for Breaking The Waves (should've won the oscar in 1997) 4. Meryl Streep for Sophie's Choice 5. Liv Ullman for Cries and Whispers...Bergman for The Faces Of Eve  "},{"Title":"Riveting final third lifts otherwise tedious character study","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meryl Streep won best actress for giving a penetrating and complex portrayal of a woman whose guilt makes her postwar life a walking death. She is incredibly intense, occasionally inappropriately so, but always memorable.  But, that intensity in combination with Kevin Kline's overplaying is hard to take at times.  Add in the slow pacing and you have an unpleasant, albeit well crafted, movie-watching experience.  Peter McNichol does his best to provide some irony and insights, and Josef Sommer's superb narration helps move things on a bit.  If you can stick with it, you will be rewarded by the unforgettable denouement.  It works as art much better than it works as entertainment. "},{"Title":"Jessica Lange was Robbed!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How Meryl Streep beat out Jessica Lange for the Best Actress in 1982 is beyond me.  Once again, Streep pulls out one of her phony-baloney accents with the emotional range of a stuffed tortoise.  What do people see in this claptrap?  Stingo was well-cast, but as usual Kevin Kline was annoying, loud, pretentious, while eating the scenery.  What is with this guy? The fact that this was even nominated shows how bad the Academy had slipped by the early 80's.  Junk is junk.  Streep and Kline are portrayed as intellectual fun-loving free spirits, when they're really just a couple of neurotic con artists.  Forget this one!  I gave this a 3 because of the cinematography and Stingo. "}]