[{"Title":"Excellent Disney family drama","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Has there ever been anybody who could play troubled teenagers as well as Matt Dillon could? His performance as a fifteen-year-old rural boy who is being raised by his older brother is his best; at least of his earlier films. The director Tim Hunter gives the movie a slow and steady slice of life feel, as the two siblings deal with problems involving friends, money, horses, sex, and in a ridiculously false scene - drug dealers. Overall it's a surprisingly mature and straightforward family drama from Disney. Ben Johnson has a memorable part as the repressive father of both Meg Tilly and Emilio Estevez. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Unpretentious coming of age story","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story is of two teenage brothers living together on a small property in Bixby, Oklahoma (a small town about twenty miles south of Tulsa). Tex (Matt Dillon) is the younger and Mason (Jim Metzler) is the older. Their mother is dead and their father rarely shows up. The brothers are doing everything they can to avoid the clutches of social services. The dynamic of their relationship is one of frustration, love, and anger. Their lives are not easy and money is running out. To buy food and get the lights back on Mason is forced to sell Tex's horse and of course that infuriates Tex and he takes off in a rage. The poignant scene that has Mason drive his pickup along the road to coax Tex back is an early scene that establishes the tone of the relationship between the siblings.It is not clear where this story will go. There are some moments along the way where it looks like Tex is going to take a very wrong turn when in the company of a drug dealing friend. The young Dillon and Metzler carry the movie by their natural performances; the kids talk and act like most kids of their age did in that place and time (early 1980s). The fact that the movie was filmed on location in Bixby and Tulsa adds to the feeling of authenticity.This movie does not go beyond the scope of being a simply-told, affecting tale and, within that scope, it delivers admirably. Some sentimentality creeps in toward the end, but for what it is I found this modest movie satisfying. "},{"Title":"Just as good as the book","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I saw that Disney made this movie I was expecting it to be a toned down adaptation of S.E. Hinton's novel. Boy, I was wrong. This was one of Disney's more mature movies and had all the important stuff from the book. Even the drug deal that went wrong. The characters are just as likable as they were in the book which is good. It's too bad that this movie is forgotten. There was one review that called the movie version of That was Then... This is Now a gem and I would've agreed with that statement if it didn't have that crappy ending. This is the real gem out of all S.E. Hinton adaptations. If you ever find this movie somewhere, I recommend checking it out. "},{"Title":"Its pretty much just like the book","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Disney Pictures did a pretty good job on this movie. Matt Dillon played a really good Tex McCormick and the other actors and actresses were really good too. The movie was almost like the book except for little differences. The only thing i did not like were the cast members. Now! wait don't get me wrong they all did a wonderful job, but the only one that seemed to fit the description of the character as in the book was Matt Dillon. That dosen't really matter, its the movie not the book. So it should be different,and its a good movie. Just that you can't really rent it anywhere so you will probaly have to buy it. I had to. "},{"Title":"brat without a purpose","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tex McCormick (Matt Dillon) is a young delinquent living in the farming town of Bixby, Oklahoma with his older brother Mason. Mason is a basketball player who is looking for a scholarship in Indiana. They are struggling to pay the bills with their absentee father on the rodeo circuit. Mason is forced to sell Tex's horse. Tex is angry. His best friend is Johnny Collins (Emilio Estevez) and he likes Johnny's sister Jamie (Meg Tilly). Their father Cole Collins (Ben Johnson) tries to keep Tex from his kids. Tex and Mason picks up a hitchhiker but he turns out to be a violent fugitive. Mason deliberately crashes the truck and the fugitive is killed in a shootout. The brothers become media heroes and their father returns. A family revelation sends Tex over the edge.Matt Dillon is playing Tex as an idiotic bratty teen. I don't remember much from the book since I read it some 30 years ago. There has to be a more appealing way to portray the character. Also the story is an overloaded melodrama. It may work in a book but it's problematic when a violent shootout is nothing more than a pit stop. It's a bit too overwrought. "},{"Title":"Period Movie for the Early 80s","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Starring a very young Matt Dillon in one of his earliest main roles, Tex is a completely by-the-numbers movie. It trudges over cliché after cliché, but it's age and settings sort of let's you forgive it's generic feel. It's core development is a drama of brothers growing up together and looking out for one-another. I liked the movie for it's simplicity and charismatic performances from Dillon and especially Metzler who stood out as the anchor in movie. Conversations were honest and occasionally poignant. One of the better aspects of the movie is it's unmuddied reflection of Southern society and school in the early 80s. In this way it excels. Supporting cast are fairly good including also young Emilio Estevez and Meg Tilly. Overall it didn't surprise me that it was Disney. "},{"Title":"He looks good in the cowboy hat...aside from that, not a whole lot happening","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In her review for the New Yorker, film critic Pauline Kael quipped that the young actor Matt Dillon who stars in Tex possessed an extraordinarily natural grasp of acting. This may be true, although another comment from Kael--that Dillon had never played a role like this before--isn't altogether accurate. Tex McCormick is a rascally, down-home country kid, an Oklahoma high school student struggling to stay out of trouble after he and his brother are abandoned by their father, and the role feels like an expansion of Dillon's character from 1980's Little Darlings. There are no surprises from this up-and-coming star, no revelations, and not a trace of personal substance on display. Dillon falls for the daughter of self-righteous Ben Johnson, who seemingly always plays self-righteous (no surprises from him, either). Johnson's way of acting is to pontificate clearly, as if he were making a speech in the town hall. This Disney drama, taken from S.E. Hinton's novel, is rather slow and fuzzy--and after an hour, the audience is still waiting for the plot to take shape. The rural locations are capably captured, but the drama inherent in the story of these two brothers lays flat. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Matt Dillon shines in the role he was made for-a troubled teen. Though not as effective as The Outsiders, Tex has a special charm all its own. Matt Dillon's excellent acting and the moving storyline bring the tale to life. Charming. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was filmed in my home town and my high school it is one of my favorite movies the actors really made the movie it is really strange to see you high school in a movie the school i went to is Bixby High School in Bixby Oklahoma its really nice to see how the town looked then and what it looks like today i have read all SE Hilton's books and watched all her movies Tex is got to be my all time favorite movies out of the all wish that they would make a remake of the movie to show where the characters are now in life thank you SE for all of your story lines they really get you into the story and make you cry with all the different scenarios "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the rough days of teen life trying to find where one belongs in relationship to one's self, family and friends and the need for change and breaking away.This movie portrays all of that with great care and fantastic acting by the entire cast.I highly recommend it. What a great film this was- there was good acting, a good script, unexpected moments of hilarity- and best of all this film stayed close to the book. Many of the characters' lines in the movie are directly from the book. If you are a fan of S.E. Hinton and her writings, you won't be disappointed by it. In my mind, Tex was even better than The Outsiders, at least in terms of the movies. Matt Dillon is superb as Texas McCormick, a quiet, somewhat immature teenager living in Oklahoma, the usual setting for Hinton's books. There are few moments in the film (don't worry, I won't give them away) that were extremely funny. However, not only is the humor entertaining in the movie, but the drama is well done too. Tex faces changes at home, with his friends Johnny and Jamie, and at school, and the result makes for a captivating story line. The selection for the supporting cast is right on in almost every case- Jim Metzler plays Tex's brother Mason, who has to tend for his younger brother while also looking ahead to college and his own future. Emilio Estevez is Tex's spunky friend Johnny and Meg Tilly is Johnny's independent-minded sister Jamie, the object of Tex's affections. Even the filming and quality of the movie is not bad, considering that it was made two decades ago. The music is usually fitting in each scene, and the script came off sounding realistic and genuine. All in all, this is a movie well worth checking out. I think the only thing wrong with this movie is the rating it received; there's probably enough swearing in this movie to have earned it a PG-13 rating. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Matt Dillon's cinematic S.E. Hinton trilogy begins","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I would rank Tex as the second best of the S.E. Hinton adaptations starring Matt Dillon (happy birthday, Matt!) behind The Outsiders; Rumble Fish was too weird to make any sense. This one casts him a young man trying to make his way in Oklahoma after his mother dies. Although its status as a Disney movie gives it kind of a strange feeling, it still comes out very well, with good performances by pretty much all the cast members. But I will say that he reached his apex with The Outsiders. In all these movies, he was showing the sort of talent that eventually earned him an Oscar nomination for Crash. Worth seeing. Also starring Meg Tilly, Frances Lee McCain (the Gremlins mom), Ben Johnson, Emilio Estevez and Zeljko Ivanek. "},{"Title":"BIXBY NOT Broken Arrow","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was not based in Broken Arrow it was based in Bixby Oklahoma it's a little ways aways from Broken Arrow. I grew up and went to school there and when they are eating in the cafeteria thats the art room this is a very good movie although I don't like the fact that all the Disney movies (with a few exceptions)one or more of the parents are gone. Why is this? Does anyone know? Tex is a good movie and the most of the landmarks that are in the movie are still there in Bixby and that little town is growing very quickly. If anyone has any questions I would love to answer them. I would recommend this movie to anyone living in the Bixby/Tulsa/Mounds area. Thank you "}]