[{"Title":"Still my favorite","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Shawshank is superb.  Roman Holiday is perfect.  Raiders is a blast.  But The Man from Snowy River has been, is, and always will be my favorite movie.  Some movies just match your personality more than others, trumping any technical deficiencies they may have.  No, Snowy River doesn't have the best acting, the best screenplay, the best direction.  But in all of them it's great, and the combination of the story, the cast, the scenery, and music (Bruce Rowland deserved an Oscar for his score) is much greater than the sum of its parts.  For me, it's everything a movie ought to be uplifting, heartwarming, optimistic, romantic, adventurous.  It swept me away when I was 13 and its magic hasn't dimmed at 34.  What a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies about cowboys just being cowboys","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Man from Snowy River is by far one of the best movies about cowboys I have seen. It shows cattle ranchers doing what they do best, riding their horses! But as it is with most of our favorite movies, we can find flaws in them. Kirk Douglas should not have played two characters, and the girl playing Jessica could not act to save her soul. But poor acting aside this movie has possibly the greatest horse chase sequences ever! The riders do things with their horses I never thought possible especially when Jim jumps over a cliff while on his horse. The movies musical score makes every sequence truly beautiful and accents the background of the Austrailan highlands perfectly. The music during the chase scene makes the sequence all the more inspirational. I would recommend this movie to any fan of westerns, young or old, American or Australian, this movie is for you! "},{"Title":"A Favorite","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Man from Snowy River is a family favorite. The cinematography of this film was breath-taking. The love story was convincing and the acting was superb. Kirk Douglas plays both the father and the brother and although the plot is somewhat contrived, it is set up extremely well. All of the elements work to make a good movie and one that I watch over and over. The scenes of the Australian mountains and the horses along with the musical score make this a very picturesque, romantic, and warm film. A romance and an action-adventure movie rolled into one which can charm a woman and still be a manly film. The 2nd movie Return to Snowy River was a worthy sequel and Tom Burlinson as Jim Craig does an excellent job in both films. If you are a horse lover, I would definitely recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"15 years later, the movie is still fresh","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  It is hard to believe that so many years has past since I first saw A Man from Snowy River.  I was young and borrowed it on Betamax (yes Betamax) from a friend. Although I wish that I could of seen a full screen version of it, I will have to settle with the still fantastic small screen version.The story is fairly simple.  After his father dies, a boy tries to prove he a man worthy enough to live on his beloved Snowy Mountain. In order achieve this prize, he finds work on lower ground on a big ranch. A sweet romance is set between Jim, the boy, and the Rancher's daughter, Jessica, who is a feisty and strong female.  There are wild horses, a sympathetic-but-bad-guy rancher, and beautiful scenery all which are an integral part of the story. (I don't want to give too much of the movie away).I recently saw this movie (this time on VHS)with my niece and nephew. I could not believe how much I enjoyed it again.  The thrilling horse riding scenes kept me at the edge of my seat. It is an ultimate family film one that has no foul language, gratuitous sex or violence.  Nothing is dumbed down, the viewers being treated with the respect we deserve. GO RENT IT NOW! "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Movie","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" My ONLY regret about this movie is that I didn't go with my wife and her brother to see it in the theater. Its magnificent scenery is paled on the small screen. As for the plot, it's the classic boy turns into a man tale. Jim Craig's father dies and Jim must move off the mountain until he's earned the right to live on the mountain.He's a prideful young man and falls in love with a powerful rancher's daughter who he has more in common with than he realizes. Rather than spoil the plot, take my word for it, this is a great movie. No, it does not have the best acting in the world; however, Sigrid Thornton is a noted Australian actress on a par with some our own American actresses. This movie is a must see and the soundtrack will stick in your mind for years...it's even used as the intro music for one of the network's golf broadcasts. "},{"Title":"Superb example of quality Australian film","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Man From Snowy River (1982) demonstrates the quality of the Australian film industry in recent years. The cinematography, the score, the quality of acting - all combine to make this film a romantic classic, a Gone With the Wind parallel.  Having grown up with this film, twelve years later, it is the still the most beautiful, most awesomely inspiring epic I have ever seen.  Clearly one of the best stories of love, life and horses ever filmed in one of the most astounding paradises on Earth. "},{"Title":"Snowy Mountains","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER....There was movement at the station......The Man From Snowy River tells it how it is. I go up in the snowy mountains on my horse to drive cattle and love going to the exact places the the movie was made. I have camped over in Craig's hut and camped in the snowy's. There are only a few brumbies left up there because of people shooting them but now and then you catch a glimpse of brown and black, dim shadow's on the grass. It is THE greatest place on earth. I hope everyone who see's this movie appreciate's the magic of the snowy mountains and the high country. "},{"Title":"Hot headed honcho and hillbilly horsemen hunt horses in high hill heath","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Horse lover are you? This will be the ticket for you because they were in abundance. Good tale of lost love, rejection, and romance set in the Austrailian outback truly magnificent scenery. Good acting and lots of action kept the pace quick and interesting in this story of life when men were men and so were women. "},{"Title":"Family Entertainment At Its Best","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER ***** An Australian western that centers its story on a coming-of-age mountain man (Tom Burlinson) who's father dies and must go to the lowlands to earn enough money to support the family farm. There, he finds work at a cattle ranch owned by Kirk Douglas, who wants to expand his success to something greater unmined gold in the mountains. As Burlinson comes to grips with his new work setting and first love (Sigrid Thornton), he evolves into the man he needs to be to follow in his father's footsteps back home. It's excellent family entertainment, with a story that is basic enough for everyone to comprehend, yet doesn't hold a corny or simpleton status because of it. Be sure to rent it. "},{"Title":"Australian saddle saga adventure  about an orphaned  young man coming of age in the mountains","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Fairly ordinary movie about a boy suddenly alone in the world . In 1880s Australia , Victoria Alps , when young Jim Craig's father (Terence Donovan) dies he becomes an orphan boy and he is seeking a life of his own . Meanwhile , a reclusive mountain man (a bearded Kirk Douglas) helps Jim overcome his sudden state as an orphan . Jim (Tom Burlison) takes a job at the Harrison cattle ranch and there the men challenge him and then he is forced to become a man . Jim falls in love with the well brought-up Jessica (young and beautiful lead Sigrid Thornton) . But her daddy (non-bearded Kirk Douglas, though Burt Lancaster and Robert Mitchum were also considered for the dual role) aims to keep the lovers apart . And a wild horse is a stunning highlight . This big hit entertaining adventure contains melodrama , thrills , action , a love story , spectacular outdoors and stunning photography highlights . More like Disney style than a John Ford Western , this Australian film takes its wake from ¨Wilderness family¨ saga . Being based on the poem by A.B. 'Banjo' Paterson , scripted by Fred Cullen and John Dixon . Very good acting by the great Kirk Douglas in a dual character -a cheap gimmick of casting- , as portraying two battling brothers , one a wealthy land-owner and the other an one-legged prospector . The starring couple , Tom Burlison and Sigrid Thornton , suffers through the inexperience and being newcomers actors . Tom Burlinson performed all his own horse riding stunts in the film . Colorful cinematography , as photography of horses in breathtaking . It was an Australian huge success and was one of fifty Australian films selected for preservation as part of the National Film and Sound Archive of Australia . It is continued by ¨Return to Snowy River¨ by Geoff Burrowes who produced first entry and also with spectacular scenarios . Following the lives of the previous ranch hand and the rich rancher's daughter ; Brian Dennehy takes over from from Kirk role as stubborn dad . This Down Under motion picture filled with enjoyable moments was professionally directed by George Miller , but with no originality because takes too many elements from former films . Not to be confused with another Australian director, George Miller, of the Mad Max movies . Miller is an Australian director usually working for television (Tidal wave , Journey to the center of the earth , Attack of the Sabretooth and many others) and occasionally for cinema (The man from Snowy river , Zeus and Roxanne , Robinson Crusoe ). Rating  6 . Acceptable and entertaining flick with glimmer cinematography making the whole film worthwhile watching . "}{"Title":"Sadly it just wasn't for me","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I won't write this review crapping all over a modern day classic like The Man From Snowy River. I know many adore this film and think of it fondly with great nostalgia. I waited a very long time to see it and finally decided to give it a try. I love westerns, 80's films and Disney classics but for some reason this didn't strike the right chord with me. Despite a promising concept, I found the film dawdles along without ever having a lot of chemistry between the key characters. The performances are good, in fact one in particular is excellent but its lacking depth when it comes to the relationships. The scenery is stunning and yet I felt like the film makers underused the breathtaking Australian outback. The film definitely shows a lot of beautiful horses so people that are looking for that will enjoy it. There is somehow a lack of significant emotion to a story that should be full of moving moments. The romance which should be a focal point in the latter part of the movie feels forced and rushed and very technical. There are some moments where it feels like they're actually bartering for the romantic lead.Tom Burlinson is our lead in the film. He is okay but he is also a key reason the characters lack emotion. He feels almost stoic at times and well he is always determined he wasn't necessarily the right choice for the lead of the movie. Kirk Douglas is literally the reason to watch this movie. He is amazing in a dual role as Harrison and Spur. Both characters are so different from each other and he just absolutely nails both. He is so obviously the seasoned professional and it shows. Sigrid Thornton is the object of Burlinson's affections but also causes one of the biggest issues with the movie. Thornton looks almost stunned throughout her entire performance and the chemistry between her and Burlinson is practically nil. Its almost painful to watch their so called romance unfold and yet I had heard what a classic love story this was but I didn't get it at all. Supporting cast is alright but no one really stands out as being noteworthy.Coming from a long history in Television director George Miller has done a lot of TV and a lot of straight to TV movies. I don't think he had the experience in movies to handle this and make it outstanding. Imagine this film in the hands of a truly amazing director who stuns with cinematography and could handle the script better. That being said, the script left a lot to be desired too. I suppose I was even more let down because this seems like the type of movie I would absolutely adore and I didn't. My expectations were high because so many people just rave about this and they love it and I respect that. I am not saying that its a terrible movie but it certainly didn't appeal to me at all. Someday I may watch the sequel but I'm not anxious to see it for sure. This was a miss in my books. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Favorite movie of all time for me","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I have watched this movie almost every time it has been shown on TV(have missed about 5 showings since the movie's release).I have trained & shown horses & judged horse shows for over 40 years. I felt a particular attachment to this movie because I also had a horse named Dan (his nickname).I loved to ride my Mustang(Buck) with the same attitude shown by the riders in the movie. Since I lost my best friend(Buck) after being together 32 years, this movie now helps me remember the thrill of riding like the wind. This was also my fathers' favorite movie. In fact, the night(march 14,2006) before he passed away, this was the last movie he watched. It is now bittersweet when I watch the movie because of this. The feelings shown by Jim when his father was killed are the same as mine. In Return to Snowy River, when Dan is shot out from under Jim, I feel again the pain of when I lost my own Dan & Buck. These movies have always made me want to visit Snowy River country and maybe someday my dream will come true. These movies tell wonderful stories about hard work,love for people & love for horses. Even my 23 year old daughter loves them-heck-she was raised watching them. They are like treasured parts of our lives. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!!","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Disregard the goofs, inconsistencies and any other flaws that are mentioned in the reviews. This movie is beautifully photographed; in many cases, I don't know how. Great horse riding....again, I don't know how and the music raises goose bumps. This movie is any frustrated cowboy's dream. It is unbelievable that anyone can stay on a horse in a controlled ride during the scenes. I would love to read more technical details about the filming of this movie......especially how Kirk Douglas was able to fold his leg at the knee and put it all in one pant leg. The camera set ups and shots had to be pure genius to think they actually worked. It is very easy as I said before to overlook, even if you recognize them, any flaws. "},{"Title":"A Celebration of Australia's History","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" We often think of the Western as being a characteristically American film genre, although there have been occasional attempts to adapt its conventions to stories set in other parts of the world. North-West Frontier, for example, is a British film set in British-ruled India, but the plot is essentially that of Stagecoach. Untamed transfers the standard waggon-train plot from the American prairies to the South African veldt, and The Sundowners, about Australian pioneer life, has similarities to many films set in the Old West. These two latter films, despite their ostensible setting, had an American leading man, Tyrone Power in Untamed and Robert Mitchum in The Sundowners. The Man from Snowy River is another Australian film with a plot which could be that of a Western. (One could call it a Southern). It also features a major American star, in this case Kirk Douglas, in a leading role. Or perhaps I should say that it features Kirk Douglas in two leading roles, the brothers Harrison, a wealthy cattle farmer, and Spur, a prospector. The action takes place in Victoria during the 1880s. Apart from the two brothers, the main character is Jim Craig, the Man from Snowy River himself. Jim is a young man orphaned by the death of his father in an accident, who goes to work on Harrison's station. The three main strands of the plot concern the relationship between the two brothers, who have been estranged for many years, the growing romance between Jim and Harrison's daughter Jessica, and the efforts to recapture a valuable stallion belonging to Harrison, which has escaped and is running with a herd of wild horses. There are a number of differences in terminology; the wild horses are referred to as brumbies rather than mustangs, Harrison's landholding is described as a station rather than a ranch and the reward for the recapture of the stallion is expressed in pounds rather than dollars. With those and a few other exceptions, however, the above synopsis could easily be that of a typical Western. And yet in some ways this is a very Australian film. The title and the story of the hunt for the escaped stallion derive from a narrative poem by the bush poet Banjo Paterson, although the other two strands of the plot are the inventions of the scriptwriters. Paterson himself appears as a character, as does Clancy of the Overflow, the hero of another of his poems. Paterson is something of a national icon in Australia, largely because his poetry helped to create the legend of the Australian bushman, the tough, individualistic inhabitant of the Outback who plays a role in the Australian national imagination similar to that played by the cowboy in the American one. Clancy himself- a real individual, not a fictitious character- has come to be seen as the archetypal bushman. The Man from Snowy River was made in 1982 during a decade when very few traditional Westerns were being made in America itself. (Perhaps the attraction of the film for Douglas was that it gave him a chance to star in one last Western). This was, however, a period when the Australian New Wave was starting to give that country its own cinematic identity with films about Australian history like Picnic at Hanging Rock and Breaker Morant. This film, therefore, can be seen, not as an attempt to imitate Hollywood, but rather as an attempt to celebrate Australia's own history and culture in the way that the Western celebrated American history and culture. That other great celebration of the bushman, Crocodile Dundee, a comedy with a contemporary setting, was to come shortly afterwards. There are no really great acting performances, although Douglas copes well with the challenge of playing two very different characters, the autocratic, patrician Harrison and the more free-spirited Spur, even if his accent does not always hold up. The film is shot against some attractive mountain scenery, and the action sequences, especially the hunt for the missing stallion, are well done. This is a film which will appeal to anyone with an interest in Australia's past, as well to all horse-lovers. 7/10 "},{"Title":"a part of Australia's culture","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is both perfect and imperfect. Perfect because it has amazing horse riding scenes, beautiful cinematography and music, wonderful acting from Jack Thompson who captures the quintessential Clancy of the Overflow of Australian legend, and a great performance from Tom Burlinson, and showcases the skills of the 'real deal' cattlemen of the high country who acted as extras in the horse chase scenes, and finally because it can bring a tear to the eye the way Banjo Paterson's poem has for 120 years. This film was clearly a work of love and that is wonderfully conveyed.However it's also imperfect because Kirk Douglas simply doesn't work in this context, and his two roles seem at times ridiculous. The storyline also meanders around at times, mostly in relation to one of Douglas's two characters, and it just seems a pity that an otherwise wonderful film has these flaws.This is a movie to stir the heart, and well worth watching, and the horse chase scenes in the movie are now as much a part of Australia's culture as the original poem. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is absolutely one of the best movies ever made. It is an excellent story, beautiful music, and lots of horses. The cinematography is excellent. The scenes of the horse chase, in my opinion, hasn't been equaled. The actors, for the most part are good,but no academy performances with the exception of Kirk Douglas, who does an excellent job playing a dual role.However, the story is good, and there is no foul language, nudity, or smuttiness. If you just want to sit down with a bowl of popcorn and spend a good evening watching a good movie, you won't go wrong here. I can watch it every time it's on. "},{"Title":"Grand and Timeless","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Clint Eastwood and Unforgiven be damned. This is by far the best western of the modern era. Its an Aussie tale, but that does not disqualify it in my books. Lonesome Dove has its group as does Unforgiven. But George Miller's The Man from Snowy River is downright majestic. There are no stagecoaches, revenge killings, poker games or joking jail hands. There isn't even a climactic standoff in a dusty old town. But there is the hand of a maiden to win and inner demons to slay. The climax isn't a shoot out with a band of criminals, but with a stallion and a lonely ride down a rocky mountain. Director George Miller draws clear characters and honest human situations. He understands what a camera can do. Scenes of great power play out not in a tired miasma of gunfire or hokey soliloquies, but in the striations of muscle from a horse powering through rock in slow motion. George Miler is a poet. And the Man from Snowy River is a story that will stand the test of time. See it. "},{"Title":"Tom is great","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Kirk Douglas is great in two roles and Jack Thompson is there as he is in just about every other Aussie film these two fine actors get star billing. Jack plays Clancy of the Overflow but its really a cameo. The real star of the film is a young Tom Burlinson and he not only looks great he gives the most heart warming natural performance. It is Tom's film. The producers felt there needed to be a love interest and poor Tom gets Sigrid Thornton who is the only disappointment in the film. Thornton delivers her dialogue quite stiffly almost as though she is reading. There is more romance and chemistry between Tom and the horse than there is with poor old Singrid. The scene of her rescue is however spectacular. But forget all that and feast your eyes on Tom and enjoy the glorious scenery, listen to a magnificent score. Some of the dialogue is rather twee especially when there are direct quotes from Patterson's brilliant poetry. The poem is a great classic and Banjo is one of the greatest writers of all time. "},{"Title":"True-blue Aussie Tale","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a great true-blue Aussie tale of the legendary bushman The Man From Snowy River and his fictional exploits in capturing the colt from Old Regret (as told of in the famous poem by A.B. Banjo Patterson).Bruce Rowland has provided a classic, at times rousing score while lenser Keith Wagstaff breathes life into some spectacular and exciting scenery from the Victorian high country. In fact the spectacular stunts (involving some daring, outlandish riding) and amazing cinematography are the definite highlights. John Dixon and Fred Cullen have developed a reasonable, though at times melodramatic, screenplay, however it is the eye catching horsemanship that's really worth waiting for.Tom Burlinson is well suited to the role of young Jim Craig, whose self belief is not at all misplaced, and Sigrid Thornton makes a fine feisty heroine. Good support comes from Lorraine Bayly and Chris Haywood, with especially enjoyable, though short, turns from Gus Mercurio and Jack Thompson - the latter as legendary Clancy of the Overflow. The star import is veteran American actor Kirk Douglas, who does well as twin brothers Harrison and Spur, two aging gents who had a terrible falling out several years ago. While he is convincing on screen, Douglas was apparently not very happy with the pressure of having just two or three takes to get things right. He reputedly changed some of his lines, and is even said to have stormed off on a nag at the completion of filming. Perhaps his failure to return for the sequel is confirmation of his dissatisfaction.Sunday, December 17, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Great movie made even better","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Just released on DVD in Australia it has been restored with 5.1 Dolby Digital, Widescreen format with colour correction after years of fading and neglect.  The result is truely amazing when compared to VHS version. The story is based on the classic poem by A.B. (Banjo) Paterson of the same name. This is a great yarn with breathtaking scenic and horse photography. The film introduces Tom Burlinson as the hero of the story (Jim Craig), Sigrid Thornton (Jessica Harrison) is the love interest, Kirk Douglas plays two roles (Harrison/Spur) estranged brothers with a long history. I have enjoyed this film as much now or perhaps even more than the first time I saw it in 1982. A Great family flick well worth viewing. "}{"Title":"a wonderful family movie","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Man from Snowy River may not be the best acting, the best directing or the most exciting movie around, but it is one of the most magical.  I loved it when I first saw it as a child and it is still one of my favourite movies at 31 years of age.  I think the thing which makes it so special is that it doesn't have violence, nudity or profanity that so many movies have now in order to make them exciting.  It is simply a nice old fashioned family movie that has a timelessness about it, like any of the classics.  They simply don't make them like this anymore - unfortunately. "},{"Title":"This is one of my all-time favourites","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie when I was little because of the horses.  Now I love it for what it is  a touching love story.  The location is absolutely beautiful.  Every time I see this movie, it makes me run out to the stables and jump up on my horse like I did when I was a kid.  And who can't love the round-up scene?   "},{"Title":"Favorite Aussie Western","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I won't give any details of this movie, but it is one of my favorites since I was a small kid.  When I first saw (Age 6), i loved it for the horses. Later (Age 10), I knew the plot well enough to enjoy that.  Hormones kicked in, and I understood the romance aspect.  Now (age 22), I still enjoy the movie for all of its elements.  True love in all its innocence, great horsemanship, chivalry western style, fun action, beautiful scenery/music, and a sweet ending.  This movie has them all. I recommend this movie to everyone, great for families.Side note Nearly 15 years after I first watched this movie, I finally realized what Curly said that caused the fight between Jim and Curly in the bunk.  Even after all the Tarantino films I have seen, I was still shocked by its innuendo. "},{"Title":"He's not a lad brother, he's a man.","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Midway through the film Mrs. Bailey confronts Harrison (Kirk Douglas) with the story of his wife, in love with two men and deciding to marry the first one to make his fortune. Harrison staked it all on a gamble and won. His brother Spur - He went looking for gold.Each character in their own way finds gold in The Man From Snowy River. For Jim Craig (Tim Burlinson) it's the pursuit of manhood and finding the confidence in himself to challenge an autocratic father. For Jessica (Sigrid Thornton) it's found in an ideal of being true to one's self against daunting odds. For mountain man Spur (Douglas in a dual role), it's a reuniting with family and a chance to mean something to someone else. Even Harrison finds his own gold, though it will take him some time after the movie's over to realize it.Filmed against a backdrop of a stunning Australian wilderness, the movie introduces new language to this fan of the Western genre. Until now I had never heard of a brumby (a wild horse), and found it interesting that they travel in mobs, rather than herds. The adventurous spirit in me was rather intrigued by the mention of wallaby stew, one of Spur's featured menu items. In a comedic moment though, he mentions to the Harrison cook his fondness for plump breast and tenderloin.It struck me that the film has a uniquely timeless appeal. Filmed in 1982, it doesn't feel dated and looks like it could have been made today even though the story itself takes place in 1888. Perhaps that's one of the hallmarks of a good film, a story that transcends it's chronological setting to carry on it's appeal for future viewers.There's only one troublesome thing though, and for a family film, it bothered me that more men joined Harrison to look for his runaway colt than for his missing daughter. Sadly, value placed on things often had more importance than value placed on people, even in the 1800's. "},{"Title":"Sensitive without being over-sentimental. (SPOILER ENCLOSED)","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The setting is the Australian frontier of the late 19th Century. When young Jim Craig's father dies in a freak accident, leaving him alone to maintain their remote mountain homestead, Jim must seek employment as a hired hand on the cattle ranch of the gruff, territorial, Harrison. Complicating his efforts are Harrison's estranged brother Spur, who has been an avuncular figure to Jim his entire life; Jessica, Harrison's beautiful and high spirited daughter; and a renegade stallion that leads a roving pack of wild horses across this bleak landscape.Beginning in the late 1970's and well into the 1980's, Australian films that made it to North America were wildly praised by critics and garnered box office to match. The Man From Snowy River is one of the better films of the period and has its own place in film history as a classic adventure.What makes the film remarkable is the skill with which the visuals are tied to the narrative. The sweeping and fluid cinematography by Keith Wagstaff (Diana and Me, 1997) is absolutely breathtaking. Coupled with exceptional editing by Adrian Carr (The Lighthorsemen, 1987), the film needs almost no dialogue to deliver the very best of its content. Particularly indicative is a scene that very neatly shows a large group of horsemen saddling up for a strenuous ride in pursuit of a valuable runaway colt. The precision of the editing and the authority of the camera capture the mood of the group and render the rough-around-the-edges flavour of the individual cowboys, with documentary like veracity.The script by Fred Cullen and John Dixon (Return to Snowy River, 1988) is really only fair but it manages to deliver charm throughout and never strays very far from the  `A man's got to do...' theme at its core. Characterization is rather bland, giving way to the high adventure that drives the film along. The archetypes of the western genre are all present. The writers clearly know the traditions well and the film shows their playfully irreverent affection for them.Kirk Douglas (Greedy, 1994) is fine in his dual role as Harrison and his addled prospecting brother, Spur. Tom Burlinson (Return to Snowy River, 1988) is perfect as the taciturn Jim Craig, the young mountain man trying to prove himself in a world that expects a man to rise to a challenge before he can really be considered a man.The film's climax is one that stands with the best in cinema, particularly Tom's slow-motion ride down an almost vertical drop. The last twenty minutes of the film generate a fabulous kinetic energy that builds up in the sweeping scenes of galloping horses, the hard editing and the thunderous soundtrack of hooves, cracking whips and stirring music.  "},{"Title":"Unimpressive compared to the best in Australian cinema","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw the film in the mistaken belief that this was a product of director George Miller of the Mad Max series and found that the director George Miller of The man from the snowy river was a totally different person with considerably less command of the medium than his namesake. In fact, this Miller cannot match the brilliant works of Peter Weir, Bruce Beresford (in their Australia period), Gillian Armstrong and cinematographer Russell Boyd. If you like Australian outdoor films Phar Lap (a horse film) and We of the never never are superior movies compared to The man from the snowy river particularly in direction, screenplay, photography and editing.What was good about the film? The sequences of wild galloping horses held your attention more because they great creatures to watch on screen rather than the brilliance of the camerawork. Kirk Douglas is a good actor when directed by good directors (Elia Kazan, for one) but this film gave you the feeling that you were watching a soap opera on TV!I am a great admirer of good Australian cinema but this film is certainly not one that represents the rich talent from Down Under. At best, it is an average family fare that ineffectively tries to imitate the American western.    "},{"Title":"I never tire of watching it","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I first saw this movie at a truck stop in Idaho in 92 and was hooked! The cinematography, the actors, and especially the sound track are breathtaking. The sound track is tremendous with softness of the piano and the excitement generated by the french horns. Absolutely Awesome!!!This is also a fun about someone that believes in himself and his principles. He fights for what he believes. That's rare these days. The female characters, Jessica and Mrs Hume carry themselves brilliantly and are a good balance against Tom and Kirk. I liked Kirk Douglas playing both parts. He was always one of my favorite actors.I've seen it so many times, I probably have the script memorized. I never get tired of the beauty of film. Highly Recommend it to anyone that likes horses! "},{"Title":"It's awful!","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" When I told people I would be looking for top of the range classics some misinterpreted and just recommended any old movie with the slightest critical or audience praise. The Man From Snowy River is a poem that is probably one of the most Australian stories ever written and there were 2 successful film adaptations and this is the first one and the other being it's sequel. There are many who enjoy this movie but by the end I was trying my best to stay awake.This movie's plot is awful. It's barely a story at all, the way it works is that something happens, then the set-up for something else happens and they follow through with that plot line only to resolve it to jump onto something else. Not only that but the 2 things that remain consistent being Jim's relationship with Sper, his relationship with Jessica and her angry parent father. The plot lines are so soap-opera like I'm seriously wondering if it was a sub-standard 30's romance. By the end I don't care, the thing tying it all together is a group of wild horses that has his father die in the process Jim works at a stable and falls in love with the daughter of the rich guy there, that's almost entirely it.I'm also going to say that these characters are awful. Jim basically starts out as being a male equivalent of a Mary Sue when it comes to horses and that's pretty much all you need for his character and Jessica is a character who goes against the societal norms of the 1880's. Usually when a feminist character in a non-feminist time is in something I watch, usually I like her - This is an exception simply because she says lines about gender equality and all that when it was almost 20 years before giving women the vote happened and they have out-of-nowhere 20th century reactions to the chauvinism of the time.Okay so the story and characters are terrible in my opinion, what do I like? The cinematography at times is outright beautiful. I'll also say as much as I complained about the characters and the plot(s) the actors are doing the best with what they're given. I also do like the sets and Art department that just adds to the cinematography at times. It isn't get this movie entirely for that but they're the good elements about the movie.Maybe it's for a lot of reasons but I don't think I'm really asking for much when it comes to a movie like this. Set up both characters, make them interesting, have them fall in love before the halfway point (yep... it's a romance where they don't romance until halfway through) and by the end finish as much conflict as possible in both their lives... This movie fails at that. I know there are fans of this movie but I personally think if someone attempted to remake this, I personally would like to see what happens as opposed to having this be one of Australia's most popular films amongst Australians. "},{"Title":"OK Australian Western in Need of a Charismatic Star","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A pleasant, low-key Australian western set in the 1880's, The Man from Snowy River modestly entertains, but fails to dazzle or fully engage. A young man, Jim Craig, loses his father and needs money to keep the family farm; he finds work on a ranch, where he does odd jobs, and becomes involved with the owner's daughter. Subsequent events test him, and eventually he reaches manhood. A simple universal tale of an everyman coming of age, based on a poem by Australian Banjo Paterson. The film is not strong on plot and is uneven on character development; however, occasional excitement erupts in conjunction with a herd of wild horses, which are beautiful to behold and lovingly photographed.The performances range from professional to competent to passable. Obviously cast for marquee value, Kirk Douglas plays two estranged twin brothers, although no camera trickery is utilized to place him in the same frame with himself; while always a pro, Douglas is more effective as the stern ranch owner than as the colorful peg-legged bearded prospector, which is more caricature than character. The film's nominal lead, Tom Burlinson, is colorless and bland; while somewhat pleasant looking and solidly built, he is not the young John Wayne that the film needs, and he lacks the charisma to carry such a slight film and engage the audience in his struggles. Burlinson fades into the background whenever veterans Douglas or Jack Thompson, wasted in a small thankless role, are on screen. However, Burlinson's love interest is played by Sigrid Thornton, a young actress with dark intense eyes, who bears a striking resemblance to Elizabeth McGovern; unfortunately, her looks are more memorable than her performance.The first feature film by director George Miller, The Man from Snowy River shows the director's roots in television; the budgetary constraints are evident, and the staging static. However, the scenic mountain locations of Victoria, Australia, are often breathtaking and reminiscent of the old American West. Bruce Rowland's music is a major asset, and Keith Wagstaff's photography of mountains and wild horses is excellent, although the camera work is at times self conscious; an upward zoom for a sweeping bird's eye view of the two young people on horseback dwarfed in a spectacular landscape does little but call attention to itself. The Man from Snowy River is uneven, leisurely paced, and demands patience; other than Douglas, the actors do not stand out. The film is an earnest effort by a new-to-film director, worth seeing, but ultimately it fails to make a lasting impression. "},{"Title":"Well shot, entertaining but Predictable","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Man from Snowing River has a lot to like about it - more so than to dislike really. Kirk Douglas has some good fun with his dual characters and perhaps an easy time with the stark contrasts. Tom Burlington does a fairly good job as the main hero, while most others are standard. One of the things that makes this movie better is the stunts and photography which really are first rate. We pretty much can guess most of the story after 15 min in, but despite the clichés there's still charm and homeliness. The movie sets up well (spoiler) throwing the audience a twist towards the beginning, but nonetheless the best scenes are actually between Spur and young Jim. They have a marvelous and genuine relationship. The romance is standard fare with Sigrid Thornton mostly unremarkable. The Man from Snowy River is horse enthusiasts dream to watch shot with lots of expansive shots; the music is average with some 80s coming through. A good show, and worth a look. "}{"Title":"One of the all-time great Westerns, to use the term loosely","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Calling this a western...well, it is and it ain't. Some say the Wild West ended when the last famous outlaw Harry Tracy ended his career a little over a century ago, his Boot Hill being in a field about 50 miles west of Spokane, Washington. This movie takes place in Australia, which true enough, is some 8,000 miles west of the Mississippi, but it's also in the Far East part of the Eastern Hemisphere. And it's not your typical shoot-em-up either. There are no bank-robbing bandits, no gunfights on Main Street, no cavalry fighting the natives. But you'll find here a great coming-of-age romantic tale, with some stirring action sequences never seen before on film, all in the midst of some gorgeous location footage of the Snowy Mountains, which John Ford would have envied for his western films. This area of Australia, if one superimposed the map of the continental U.S. over Australia, would place the Snowy River country in about the same place as our Florida Everglades and not too far from where the Smoky Mountains begin in Georgia. Besides similar sounding names (Snowy-Smoky) this highest part of Australia contains its highest peak with an altitude very nearly the same as the Smokys' highest one in Tennessee, and a landscape that could pass for the southern part of the Appalachian chain as mentioned. Despite recent droughts and wildfires Down Under, the Snowy Mountains have changed little since Banjo Paterson wrote the poem on which this film is based and the equally memorable Waltzing Matilda, unofficial national anthem of that nation, in the 1890s. Paterson, by the way, is such a famous person even today, that his face appears on the Aussie 10-dollar bill. In contrast, the American sawbuck only has a guy whose greatest fame was getting shot in a duel. Sad to say, this film never did as well at the U.S. box office as other Aussie films like the Mad Max trilogy, which launched Mel Gibson to super stardom, and the even bigger moneymaking franchise of the Crocodile Dundee films. TMFSR never rated a single Oscar nomination (not surprising for a non-Hollywood film), but amazingly enough only won a single AFI award (the Australian Oscar) for its musical score. The Golden Globes, however, gave it a Best Foreign Film nomination, won that year by GANDHI. Since its release, though, audiences worldwide have fallen in love with this gem of a movie, as did the folks at the Lidgerwood Presbyterian Church where we saw it last weekend. While not a true Western per se, it contains the same Judeo-Christian values that the best classic Hollywood westerns espouse. These values were embodied in the Code of the West, a liberal interpretation of the Ten Commandments Always fight fair, protect women and children, respect others' property, and honor God and country. If you've never seen this movie, you're in for a treat when you do. If you've seen it before, it's worth watching again. Movies as good as this are a rare find. Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"The music is what makes this movie good","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I would not like this movie if it weren't for the piano music and the orchestra music in the beginning.***Spoilers ahead*** The story is really well done. Jim Craig (Tom Burlinson) loses his father in an accident, and learns he will lose his home unless he proves he's a man He gets a job from Harrison, an old man with a daughter, Jessica. Spur is Harrison's brother. He has a missing leg, due to being shot by his brother. Kirk Douglas plays both roles as Harrison and Spur really well.Jim meets a wild stallion, and with the help of Jessica, breaks the horse. I won't give away anything else.This is one movie not to miss. The sequel, however, is another story.My Score 8/10. "},{"Title":"Forgotten favorite","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" As a child equine aficionado, I very nearly wore out my tape of The Man From Snowy River. On a whim, I grabbed the DVD a few days ago after a 10 year absence and was pleasantly surprised by both the quality of the script and the performances of the actors involved. This film ranks with The Black Stallion as my favorite 'horse movie' of all time, though (like that film) it very much transcends the genre. Definitely recommended for families-- although children will delight in the horse-rearing, whip-snapping action sequences, there's enough substance here to make it enjoyable for adults as well. My only grievance some of the directorial decisions haven't aged all that well. Jarring freeze frame shots aside, I'm keeping a copy of this on hand. With a classic score by Bruce Rowland and Tom Burlinson in some snazzy pants. "},{"Title":"Rich colors that draw you in...","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  While channel surfing, I stumbled across this movie. It was so good that I made a mental note to search for it again and found it.The earth tones, the rich colors, the story line all brought me into the movie and it was one that I had to see all the way through.The beautiful country sides, the action movies with the horses, the complex interaction between the characters was fascinating.I must admit, though, I had trouble suspending disbelief with the second Kirk Douglas. The beard was a bit much, but altogether it was a mild distraction. The two young characters were just great, however. What a beautiful girl!!And the story line--fascinating. A great movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the great cowboy shows.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of the great cowboy shows.  It's not set in the US, but rather Australia, but it's classic cowboy through and through.  What sets it apart is the lack of unnecessary violence, a natural plot, and excellent editing. The imagery of Australia, the plot, the editing, and the cinematography come together with great rhythm, to make this one of the most pleasing movies ever made.High praise, but the movie warrants it.  If you've not seen it, make it a point to do so. "},{"Title":"this movie tells the coming of age story of a young man, who is forced to leave the only home he's known for 18 years to prove that he deserves to live in the mountains. And the people he meets along the way","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The movie is based on a poem by A B Patterson (aka the Banjo), it truly is a great movie. Its grand setting, its honest performances and universal theme, touch a cord in all of us. It is a movie i have gone back to time and time again after i first saw it in 1981 in theatres. It reminds me that we all make our way in the world. that we chose our paths. Two critics at the time (I wont mention names thumbs down to them) of its theatrical release, didnt care too much for it (going so far as to say that there were too many horns in the music!) Its a sweeping film that lifts the spirit. And gives you the wings to imagine that you too can overcome the hardships that befall us. that we all have the strength of mind and the courage to withstand what ever life and people can put in our way to become the person we can be. watch this movie. i truly feel that you will enjoy it. i anticipate it release to DVD! "},{"Title":"An alright film.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Man from Snowy River has some magnificent horse riding and some action. It is a good family movie. It has just enough action for a teenage boy to not mind watching it. An Ideal film for a horse lover.It has a bit of a love story and a great film for its time. If you have young kids or you love horses or family films I recommend it. On the other hand if you like action films I would say watch it if you have nothing to do.I would rate it ******** out of ten for family. For Action lovers ****** . "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Superb film, excellent cast and a well done script.  What more can you ask for.Tom Burlinson and Sigrid Thornton do an excellent job, with riveting action scenes you will not find in any other movie.  Sigrid Thornton is a wonderful actress and one of the most beautiful women in the world.No wonder she was voted as having Australia's most beautiful face and eyes.  "},{"Title":"Please, please, please see this movie","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a truly wonderful, quiet picture. It runs up a goodly number of subplots without being muddled, and manages to make them pay off in the end. Will Jim earn the right to his father's farm? Will he win the respect of his fellow ranchers? These and about a half dozen other questions preside over most coming of age stories; what sets Snowy River apart is difficult to put one's finger upon. One certainly is the majesty of the Australian scenery, a supporting player in its own right. Respect certainly has to be paid to the considerable chemistry between Thornton and Burlinson (the leads). I don't know. In the end, perhaps its just like any other good character movie it's that we care about the characters and we want them to be happy.I rated this movie 10 out of 10, I heartily recommend this movie to anyone who's ever had to grow up too soon, fallen in love outside his station, or rode a horse. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The right amount of romance, drama, conflict, and action combined with better than excellent music make for a very enjoyable film.  A must see. "}{"Title":"I love the movie!!!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  As I love horses, I really enjoyed watching an excellent rider, ride an excellent horse. I also love the setting and the storyline. Tom Burlinson and Sigrid Thornton are just the right actors for this type of film. I think it would be excellent if there was a MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER III. I recommend anyone that hasn't seen it, see it at once, especially if you are a horse lover.  "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas Had Double Exposure","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Never viewed this great 1982 film with so many talented actors, especially Kirk Douglas who played a double role as Harrison, a cattle baron and Spur a mining prospector and also brother to Harrison. Tom Burlinson,(Jim Craig),Return to Snowy River,'88, plays a boy who's father dies and he has to find work at the Harrison Cattle Ranch and gets involved with Sigid Thornton,(Jessica Harrison), who loves horses and has problems getting along with her dad, because she never knew her mother and there was a dispute as to who really is her father throughout the picture. The photography and a great cast, makes this a movie you will not want to miss, especially if you liked Kirk Douglas in 1982. "},{"Title":"That's Mustangs to us Yanks","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I must confess that I watched this film because I am a Kirk Douglas fan and I certainly was not disappointed in the dual performance he gives as two brothers, one an owner of the Australian equivalent of the Ponderosa and his hermit brother who lives up in the mountains among the wild horses and befriends young Tom Burlinson who becomes the man from Snowy River.The film is a dramatization of a wild horse roundup such as you would have seen in the American West although American fans might be first thrown by use of the Aussie term 'brumbies'. What the origin of that idiom is I don't know, but for us Yanks just think 'mustang' and it will all become clear.In fact I just finished a book on Australian general Sir Thomas Blamey and it is mentioned that during his boyhood in Wagga Wagga, he broke and rode 'brumbies.'And of course the title and part of the plot is based on A.B. Banjo Patterson's poem. Patterson himself appears as a passing character in the film and presumably he was inspired by the incidents to write that poem.Patterson for Australians is sort of a combination of Bret Harte and Mark Twain for Americans. That poem has a nice style and hopefully the poem The Man From Snowy River will be come as known in the western world at large as say Tennyson's Charge of the Light Brigade or Kipling's Gunga Din. In fact like in this film, Rudyard Kipling appears as a passing character in George Stevens's Gunga Din and fulfilled the same function there.If the Australians felt they needed someone with the international star status of Kirk Douglas to open up the foreign market for this film, all well and good. I just hope Kirk's presence in the film did just that for this fine piece of entertainment.And this review is dedicated to a couple Australian bull riders from the Professional Bull Riders whom I happened to meet, champions from the land down under, Jared Farley and Brendan Clark. No doubt descendants of the men who rode and broke those brumbies back in the day. "},{"Title":"Great Movie to see!!!!!!!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Man From Snowy River is one of my most favorite movies. I watched this movie growing up, and it was by far the best love/life story I have seen. I love horses, and this movie shows a lot about them, and how they played a big part in people's life some time ago. Also, the site for the movie is just unbelievable! Australia has very picturesque nature, and in this movie you can enjoy the beauty of the mountains. The cast was good, they all did their job very well. It is actually nice to see some actors that can act, not only look good on the screen. The story line of this movie is not long and boring, but not too short either. It is very easy to point out what the movie was about, and I think lots of movies today lack that. This movie is very invigorating and uplifting for me. I watch it when I feel down, or sad. It is a great movie to watch with your boyfriend/girlfriend, cuddling up under the blanket with a cup of hot tea. I hope that my comments convinced you to watch it. "},{"Title":"Man from Snowy River - A brilliant Aussie Film","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  All I can say is Wow. Being Australian I am a fan of our local Australian Film Industry. My favorite Australian movie is Man from Snowy River. All the actors in the movie were the best people that you could have in the movie.listening to the poem read by Frank Holden it seems to me that the screen writers wrote the movie pretty much word for word from Banjo Pattersons poem.My other favorite Aussie Movies are- The Castle and Muriels Wedding.It amazes me all the time that the Australian Movie Industry can make really good movies on one tenth of a budget of a Hollywood Blockbuster  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and deeply moving","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" George Miller's The Man From Snowy River is an old-fashioned Western that features strong acting, stunning mountain vistas, a wonderful score by Bruce Rowland, and an involving coming-of-age-story with characters you can believe in and root for. Being a lover of horses and films about horses, this one had me at Whoa! The film is based on an 1890 poem by Banjo Paterson about the pursuit of a prizewinning racehorse that has escaped from its paddock and is living with the brumbies (wild horses) of the mountain ranges, although the issues it raises about feminism, ecology, and animal liberation seem more contemporary than historical.Young Jim Craig (Tom Burlinson) lives with his father near the Snowy River, a real river that flows along the eastern border between New South Wales and Victoria. After his father is killed trying to corral a herd of wild horses, Jim takes a job in the low country with a rancher named Harrison (Kirk Douglas) to prove himself worthy of living in Snowy River and earn the money to return to the mountains. When Harrison's men go off on a job to round up some cattle, Jim begins to develop a relationship with Harrison's daughter Jessica (Sigrid Thornton), a down-to-earth young woman who is more interested in horses and ranching than in becoming a proper lady.Miller shows the mountains as the most desirable place to be. Jim struggles to be worthy of them and Jessica wants to enter that world with him. Their relationship is innocent yet engenders Harrison's strong opposition because Jim is just a mountain boy and he lashes out at his daughter for not wanting to go to a French boarding school. At this point Harrison's twin brother Spur (also played by Kirk Douglas) reappears, a man who has been living in the mountains hunting gold for years, and nurturing a dark family secret. When Harrison's prime colt is let loose by some disgruntled workers and Jim is blamed, his honesty and courage plus his growing love for Jessica are put to the supreme test in a heart-pounding chase of wild stallions through mountainous terrain.The Man From Snowy River was the first Australian film to occupy the number one position in box office revenues in the Australian market and has not lost any popularity or commercial value since, having spawned a brand name of Western gear and numerous yearly bush festivals celebrating the heritage of the high country. Like the romanticizing of the cowboy of the American West, the film has an appeal to those seeking freedom, closeness to nature, and love of adventure, the life many city people dream about but cannot have. The mythologies that make the bush, horses, and western gear alluring to a large cross section of the population have been fully brought to life and given renewed support in a spectacle that is both entertaining and deeply moving. "},{"Title":"The start of a geat Era for Australian Film/TV","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" It was a holiday trip to Craig's hut that really opened my eyes to this film, this landmark alone brings thousands of tourist's a year to the Victorian High Country.One of the positive things about the movie is that I was allowed to watch it as a child, so it is universal and can be watched by anyone.As far as the Film goes, well the acting certainly isn't worthy of an academy award but you have to remember this was the start of a great era for Australian Film/TV, this was made up by a great soundtrack, actioned packed Horse scenes, and a love story. And the scene were Jim Craig jumps his horse off the cliff and cracks his stock whip has to be one of the most Fantastic scenes ever in a film.This movie proves to the world that Australians can make movies and there is Snow and Hills here, and helped remind us of our Folklore, and has stood the test of time very well, all though there was a couple of scenes that proved otherwise.It is a great film and worthy of buying on DVD, which contains the sequel, also worthy of a mention, a western we can call our own. "},{"Title":"Drama","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie 'The Man from Snowy River,' was good.   This was a dramatic movie about a young rancher named Jim Craig in Australia who moves to a rich bosses ranch to hold down the fort at his house, after his father dies. At the new ranch, he and his bosses daughter Jessica fall in love.   From that point the drama escalates, between the boss, his daughter, and Jim.   I recommend this movie to anyone who likes drama.     "},{"Title":"An absolutely awesome movie, especially for horse-lovers!!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Tom Burlinson does an excellent job, on and off the horse. The story in itself is great, obviously since it is based off of Banjo Paterson's poem. I highly recommend anyone who likes a good movie with horses to sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Wild Horses","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" After his widower father dies in a horsing accident, young Tom Burlinson (as Jim Craig) is left to manage his Australian Snowy River farm, with only wizened, peg-legged prospector Kirk Douglas (as Spur) to help. Times are hard, so Mr. Burlinson goes to work for Mr. Douglas' wealthy, silver-haired brother rancher Mr. Harrison (also played by Kirk Douglas). When a big job comes up, the silver-haired (older?) Douglas feels Burlinson is too young and inexperienced to go along; so, Burlinson stays behind, and falls in love with the boss' daughter, Sigrid Thornton (as Jessica Harrison).The least satisfactory aspect of director George Miller's The Man from Snowy River is a weak storyline. Observe, for example, the Jessica is lost sequence of events. The damsel gets lost in one of those freak storms, while running away. Her worried father rounds up a posses of drunk men to find her, after predicting bad weather. Damsel Jessica rolls herself on to the edge of a conveniently appearing cliff. Father and the suddenly sober men don't check Burlinson's farm. Hero Burlinson discovers the damsel. After building a fire, he decides to kiss her.The romance is played too innocently for as obvious an attracted man and woman as Burlinson and Ms. Thornton. To make matters worse, the Douglas brothers have a dark history which is revealed before any mystery is built up regarding the matter. The main attraction, herein, is the Australian scenery.**** The Man from Snowy River (3/25/82) George Miller ~ Tom Burlinson, Kirk Douglas, Sigrid Thornton "}{"Title":"Woooah!","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I am not sure what to say about this film, but I feel I must say something. Technically, in pretty much every single way possible, this is one of the worst, cheesiest, flagrantly lame movies ever made...BUT I found that it went SOOO far over the top, it was actually laugh-out-loud ridiculous and funny enough that I actually watched the whole flipping thing, all the way through. If it was just dumb that would be one thing, but I was actually seriously amused.I do not really mean to offend the obviously numerous people who wax sentimental over this film...I am coming at this from a mostly technical, post-post modern point of view. That said, this film is 100% cheese, completely derivative and unoriginal, pulling out every film cliché in the book. It is nothing but emotional fluff designed to shamelessly tug at the heart strings of young girls, and maybe older women, and show off some pretty horse flesh and scenery. The writing is ridiculous, the acting mostly totally flat and lame, the directing silly, and the editing seams to have been done completely at random by a five year old. Scenes are muddy and confused. The film starts out of nowhere in what seams to be an unintelligible conversation.But it really is such a bad movie that it is absolutely hilarious, much more so than most. This really does not seam to be intentional. The flagrant cliché's, the repetition of stock footage, the cheesy doom music every time the evil stallion makes an appearance, the horribly written and staged harassment of the main character, and the wonderful shot where the evil stallion rears up all crazy like, and the frame actually freezes, and zooms in on his crazy eye in stages with the dun dun dun! music! Yeah, they really went there, and we laughed so hard we had to rewind!) But all said, the crazy miner was a fun character and well acted. And I had a good time.I apologize again for everyone I am offending, I do not mean to hurt with the humor I feel in my heart.Peace. "},{"Title":"decent western","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" this is a decent western about a young man,living in the mountains of Australia who finds himself alone and must make his own way.it's a well done movie.i think it's suitable for the whole family.there is one mild swear word in the whole movie.Kirk Douglas plays the dual role of two brothers,one a mountain man,who has been searching for gold,the other a rich man,who appears to have everything he needs.Tom Burlinson plays the title character,while Sigrid Thornton plays the woman he loves.there's some beautiful scenery in this movie,and a great musical score.there are some exciting moments too.the only things i didn't like was that i felt the movie was a bit too melodramatic at times,and there were a few slow moments.for me,The Man From Snowy River is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Horse porn.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a very silly film. But it is a enormously successful aussie horsey romance.What makes it work? Well the musical score is a instant classic and the scenes of horses running through the fields are very dramatic and beautifully filmed. Combined with a pot-boiler romance and a ludicrous plot - Kirk Douglas plays two brothers estranged over a long lost love - the whole thing hits all the right spots for dewey eyed romantics.If you are a nostalgic Australian horse lover you will be in ecstacy. Others best stay away for fear of spoiling the magic with spontaneous laughter. "},{"Title":"One of the worst.","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  A terrible movie.  About half way through it I thought I finally figured out where it was going.  There is no direction; no main focus.  Kirk Douglas is almost comical in his two roles.  I couldn't take him seriously in playing these characters. There was one scene where the wild black stallion was suppose to be fierce with a close up of the animals face, but I bursted out laughing when I saw it.  Actually it reminded me of the scene from Animal House when the boys accidentally kill the ROTC's captains horse.  They should have called this movie, The Horse from Snowy River;  it's the only thing this plot could claim to wrap around. "},{"Title":"Not Like It's Advertised","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Boy, I expected a lot more from this than it delivered. I had read where it was spectacularly filmed. Well, it was pretty, but far less than spectacular.I read where it was a rousing adventure. Well, it was so-so in the adventure department.It was supposed to have nothing offensive, according to reviewers Porter & Martin, but it had two usages of the Lord's name in vain (both by Kirk Douglas) and a half-dozen other profanities. Mainlike critics such as them really are clueless. This is just one example of many I have discovered along these lines.Tom Burlinson is a likable Ethan Hawk-White Fang-type of hero in here. His female counterpart, Sigrid Thornton, is the opposite she spends most of the movie pouting because she doesn't always get what she wants. She just becomes too irritating after awhile and helps spoil the story.Some of the wild horse scenes are very nice and have good sound, too. I wish there were more them. Less language and less pouting from Thorton would have made this the nice film it was advertised to be, and wasn't. "},{"Title":"I didn't really enjoy the man from snowy river...","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I didn't really enjoy the movie. It may have something to to do with the fact that i'm young and impatient, but i think the acting and directing in this movie is quite poor. While i realise it was made in 1982 i still think it was bad-even to those standards. I think the romance in it was cliche` and wasn't really necessary to the story. It did a good job of trying to stay true to the poem but still the script wasn't spectacular. I'll give the movie credit for being a good-old-fashioned Aussie classic, and i know horse lovers will enjoy it! but on a scale of 1-10, i give it 3 stars because it's boring. *A real dissapointment for the wonderful poem. "}]