[{"Title":"Stupid plot, rubbish effects and almost no tension to speak of","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"48 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Mike Brody appears to be totally over the events that struck his family in his youth and now works in Florida's newest underwater attraction &#150; Seaworld. His brother, Sean is less sure and never goes in the water &#150; although a visit to see Mike and a new girlfriend help him confront his fear if not get over it. Meanwhile, something is picking off staff and swimmers getting Mike and the staff out on a shark hunt. They capture a small great white and take it into captivity, only for it to die when it is put in too small a tank. They think their problems are over until an examination of the bite marks on some bodies and they realize that the shark that did the killing is much, much bigger than the one they caught.I saw this film as a child but couldn't remember if it was any good or not &#150; my childish fears may have made it scary even if the film was poor, so I decided to give it a go again recently. The first thing that struck me was the sheer rubbishness of the effects. In the original Jaws, Spielberg had hidden the shark as much as he could because the effects didn't work (and also therefore upping the tension); however here the makers just decide to show anything &#150; a poorly superimposed image, a rubber shark, fake severed arms and so on &#150; none of them are concealed, they are all shown up in all their rubbish glory. I could forgive it this due to its age but two other films had already managed to handle this issue before this film so I don't see why they went this route when it so clearly didn't work. Some shots are so bad that they could have been mistaken for being a spoof (witness the shark swimming towards the control room).Of course, after the poor effects the second thing that hits you is the laughable plot. True it is not as bad as part 4 in terms of plausibility but it is still pretty thin. No attempt is made to really give the characters any sort of, well, character and the very basic sea world plot just about manages to give the shark enough high profile feeding scenes to keep the film moving &#150; just don't hold your breath for any logic or sense. In fact, the opposite is true and this film does deliver some moments that make you wonder what the writers were thinking when they conceived some of this stuff! The manner of Jaws' death here would be hilarious if it wasn't so darn pathetic. Even with the plot being poor the film should still have had at least a few moment of fear and tension &#150; many of us fear being eaten alive so it isn't hard to draw on that, but this fails to have any tension or excitement to speak of. The effects suck a lot of this out &#150; but a director who's name is listed in the dictionary alongside the work 'workmanlike' didn't do anything to stop the rot either.Without characters the cast are set adrift with nothing to do &#150; how Quaid must have envied Roy Schnieder in the first films, at least he was a good character. Quaid runs around the place, Armstrong screams, Putch broods, Thompson screams and Gossett tries to act tough in the middle of a script that gives him nothing to do. I don't blame the cast but I am disappointed that nobody mention how very bad taste it was to make a happy ending out of the dolphins surviving while so many other people had not!Overall this is just a bad film. I'm not a big one for lists so I'll not play that game here but it is pretty much without any value at all. The plot is poor, the effects are rubbish, the direction is weak, the script just a load of nonsense and there is a total lack of tension, thrills or excitement. The original is a classic and this film is further proof that sometimes classics should be just left alone.  "},{"Title":"Campy fun.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I actually like this Jaws ok.  I don't think it is a masterpiece or anything, but it is good if not taken to seriously.  This one focuses on the Brodie boys who really went through a growth spurt.  One (Dennis Quaid) works at a sea amusement park and this is where the shark attacks take place (this should alone tell you not to take the film to seriously).  I actually saw this one at the theater too, so that helps to enjoy the film more as it was rather cool in 3-D and it is the only 3-D movie I have ever seen at the theater so maybe that is why I will always somewhat enjoy it.  The plot is at a sea park like I said and first the team goes after this one shark that was rather puny, then you find out there is a bigger one out there.  There are a couple of pretty good shark attack scenes and I loved the subplot of the people stuck in that pod underwater.  This film isn't for everyone though seeing as how it is ranked as one of the worst so read other people's reviews before deciding to see it. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say!!!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"37 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First of all, the movie fails mainly due to the 3D effects (sorry for my English, I'm a Spaniard!) 'cause they wanna be more than they're. Sometimes, they look laughable, but the physical effects are awesome (the great great white). I appreciate this movie 'cause this is a movie of my childhood. I saw and recorded it on TV, and I grew with Mike and Kathryn, my right heroes!!!.Now, I'm conscious about the film's mistakes, but, for a third installment, the result ins't so bad. The plot couldn't innovate the genre, but the idea of a baby shark and his angry mother is... so childish and imaginative. Otherwise the idea of a shark attack in a aquatic park is fabulous. I think that if they made this movie without the 3D effect it looked better. Sometimes, the scales don't agree, and the lake looks deeper than it is, for example. The ending, with the mother breaking the control room's glass is... funny (and ridiculous) ...The characters are well performed, but I saw this film on the Spanish version, so the dubbing actors could act better than the original actors. Because of that, I don't understand why Louis Gosset Jr. was nominated for a Razzie award ¿?. The relationship of Mike-Kathryn and Sean-Kelly are convincing.This movie is far for being the worst of the series. it's clearly weaker than the first ones, but...worthy and entertaining. If the effects weren't 3D, the movie was totally fabulous. But, furthermore there was the 80s. It doesn't look so bad for being 80s. Isn't it? "},{"Title":"Mediocre, but Oscar worthy compared to part IV.","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Saw this one in all its 3D glory in the theater back in 1983, and it really scared the heck out of me. (I was ten) This film furthers the saga of the Brody family as sons Sean and Mike are now fully grown and moved away from Amity Island. Sean does something in Colorado if I recall, and Mike is (heh, heh, heh,) an underwater welder who just finished construction of an undersea kingdom at Sea World in Florida. Just when the park is about to have a grand opening, some uninvited guests show up. They being a 35-foot great white shark and her offspring. Needless to say, some people get eaten.This film was originally going to be made as spoof of the previous two films. I'm not sure if any type of a finished script to that effect exists, but it would be worth a look. Jaws 3D ends up being another serious monster movie with a disaster movie subplot. Not only does the shark eat a bunch of people, it also traps several others in the underwater part of the park. The race is on to save the people and kill the mother shark. Her baby dies midway through after it is captured and hastily put on display in the park. The conclusion is fairly exciting, and full of bloody carnage.The cast is one of the stronger points of the film. Dennis Quaid is the fearless Mike Brody. Bess Armstrong plays the park's head biologist and Quaid's love interest. (The real sparks were apparently flying between Quaid and Lea Thompson off camera, though!) Thompson plays a water skier at the park, and John Putch plays Sean Brody who falls for her. Simon MacCorkindale and P.H. Moriarity play a couple of Aussies who show up and help battle the sharks. By far the best performance is turned in by Louis Gossett Jr., fresh off his Oscar for An Officer and a Gentleman. He plays the owner/manager/president (I'm really not sure which) of the park. He has a terrific moment as he addresses the park guests in the underwater tunnels over the p.a. system. He turns on the fake executive public relations charm and asks them all to calmly exit the park just as the giant shark is bearing down on them.The individuals who play Dan and Liz left a lot to be desired. Since no other film credits are listed for them, one would have to conclude that they actually worked at Sea World and were given these roles since this is what they do on a daily basis. Maybe they still work there. Anyone know? The sharks look pretty good in most of the scenes. Except at the very end when the shark is lodged into the control room and its tail is sticking out. That looked incredibly fake. In addition, sharks must always stay moving in the water or they'll die. They can't just lay low in huge underwater structures waiting to pounce on their victims. They usually strike from directly underneath their victims in most attack scenarios. The big shark in this film also has the ability to growl and roar, but not as loudly as the one in part IV! The 3D effect looked very good in the theater, but films like this lose quite a bit of their luster on the TV screen. You're only left with a bunch of gag shots that were supposed to scare viewers in the theater, but now look ludicrous and forced.This film made some pretty decent $ in its theatrical run, and is still shown regularly on television. If nothing else is on, and you find yourself in front of a TV for an extended period, give this film a try. But be forewarned Part IV is perhaps the worst film ever made. Don't waste your time on that one! 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Not The Worst Of The Sequels, But Close","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"27 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had avoided seeing this film for fifteen years because of it's bad reputation and because I love the first Jaws as one of the greatest movies ever made.  Having survived the horror of Jaws The Revenge once, I decided to see if I could brave this one, though.About the only thing that surprised me was that the premise wasn't quite as dumb as Jaws The Revenge is.  And while there is a reference to the events of Jaws 2 at least they don't insult our intelligence with a shark pursuing one family etc. of any Brody curse. What sinks this film though is that it's dull in every sense.  The FX are cheap and terrible and too often it's hard to figure out what's going on here.  Scenes that could have been suspenseful with a competent director just plod along in a muddled fashion.  In the end, Jaws 3 comes off more as a glorified made for TV type disaster movie with none of the high quality that elevates the original Jaws above such fare.   "},{"Title":"My favourite sequel to the original.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"36 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Those poor Brody boys, no matter where they go or what they do they always run into a mammoth, flesh hungry shark that they literally have to put their life on the line to try & destroy. Set some fourteen years after the events of JAWS 2, Mike Brody now works as a marine biologist at Sea World, where a baby great white shark has managed to find it's way into the park through an open gate, where it subsequently dies. However as it turns out, this baby shark is not alone, as it's 35 foot mother has also entered through the gate & begins wrecking havoc on the guests attending the park.JAWS 3-D was the third instalment in the popular moneymaking JAWS series. Throughout the years JAWS 3-D has been given mostly a bad rap by fans, but in my opinion it's nowhere near as bad as many are saying. While far from a perfect film, JAWS 3-D does manage to be a fairly watchable & enjoyable time passer if you are in the right frame of mind. It's not the original, nor does it try to be & I think that is why I tend to see more in this sequel than most fans in the series do. It's a fun little movie, nothing more, nothing less. The plot for the most part is pretty fun & is the only sequel in the series that attempts to do something new with the plot rather than just have another shark on the shores of Amity Long Island run amok & it's also the only movie in the franchise where virtually none of the cast members of the first two return. The direction by JOE ALVES was pretty good, as he manages to capture the action at all the right angles & delivers several cool shots, in fact this would remain his only film, afterwards he went directly back into production designing, which is odd, since he was seemingly obsessed with having a directing career back in the late seventies/early eighties & when the baby sharks mother gets into the park & wrecks havoc, it's well worth the wait.On the downside however I will admit the film does have a few problems. While I did enjoy the direction by first & only time helmer JOE ALVES, he clearly isn't to polished when it comes to building up much tension or suspense in the film, in fact the film is severely lacking in the suspense & tension department & things aren't helped to much by the films 3D effects that are utterly lame, in fact even some of the corniest of 3D movies released during the 3D Birthquake that briefly re-visited screens back in the early 80's, at least took the time to create some interesting 3D images, even if they weren't very original. JAWS 3-D's effects are very poorly done, surprisingly so, considering the fact it was a big budget movie, released by a major studio. In fact the 3-D effects look utterly fake & are not very well done at all. Other 3D movies released during the era, at least took careful steps to separate the actors or objects from the backgrounds, because otherwise there is no real 3D, everything would just look like a cardboard cut out & that's precisely what's wrong with the effects work here! the objects being floated in front of the screen look like pieces of cardboard floating pass the screen or towards the audience (not much fun there) the films interesting plot about a shark getting past the gate & into Sea World is ripe with possibilities for endless shark carnage, but due to the films PG rating, the film never really does anything with it's interesting premise & the threat is never felt even, especially when things are supposed to pick up. Even the lower budgeted JAWS knock-off PIRANHA (1978) did far better things with the intended carnage on the innocent, by schools of deadly fish, both at a summer camp & at the grand opening of a new resort, where dozens of unaware visitors fell prey to deadly fish & the hero's of the story attempting to stop them. No terror ever really breaks loose resulting in an utter waste of something that would have really enlivened the film. Most of the characterization isn't fully fleshed out & the film wastes to much time on Sean Brody & a potential love interest in Lea Thompson, that does nothing for the story & goes absolutely nowhere, in fact I could have done without Mike's younger brother & Thompson's character, take them both out & you would still have a movie! & the film is practically over by the time the baby sharks mother breaks loose & wrecks havoc on the parks participants. A lot the the optical shots look silly & many of the 3D gags just don't work.All in all, I will admit that while JAWS 3-D may not be in & of itself a great movie, or even a good one, I don't hate it, at least not compared to some other reviewers who have heaped an unending amount of venom on the film. In fact it's actually my favourite sequel after the original (Yes I admit I'm probably one of five people walking this earth who thinks so & one of ten who actually enjoys this movie as a whole) maybe it's nostalgia talking here, since it was actually the very first JAWS movie I ever saw when I was really young & still remember the night my family rented it on VHS back in the mid 80's, I was terrified & it still holds a special place in my heart & instantly takes me back to that special night, making this film in an odd ball sort of way, like a time capsule every time I pop it in to watch it. Recommended! . Followed by JAWS THE REVENGE ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"It could have worked, but DOES NOT","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm certain if you read the screenplay for this third entry in the Jaws franchise you'd think it could amount to a solid sequel. There's nothing fundamentally wrong with the idea, it at least adds many new elements to the Jaws formula. Where it all goes wrong is in the execution. The acting, direction, and production values are way, way below what they should have been. The 3-D effects are ridiculous. They bring to mind a SCTV parody of 3-D films, with exaggerated tricks that add nothing to someone watching this in regular format. Compare this to something like The Creature From The Black Lagoon, or It Came From Outer Space- those films were 3-D but play perfectly well as flat films. But those were made by people with talent, this film is not.There's also the weird idea of using the Sea World park, but making it a fictitious one located near the ocean with completely different attractions- it's a strange bit of promotional advertising. The real Sea World is quite different, and yet it's shown with all these fantastic elements that are pure fantasy. A better idea would have been to name the marine attraction something original. The scenes somehow come off way more corny and trite than the actual theme park was at the time. The use of the dolphins is a great idea that is staged horribly. The old Flipper show had better shark vs. dolphin scenes.The effects are wretched. In fact, had they worked it would have helped save the whole film from being a waste, but they are totally amateurish, below that of a Roger Corman exploitation film from the 50s or 60s. One expects more from a major studio mounting a sequel to a mega-hit.The actors offer nothing here. Dennis Quaid and Louis Gosset have shown remarkable talent, but none of it is on display here. Bess Armstrong and Lea Thompson are both very attractive, but again they don't really add anything, and Thompson seems especially vapid here. Luckily all these actors are in a film so filled with incompetence that the music, effects, editing and overall storytelling distract from their work. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequel meets the 3-D fad.","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3-D (1983) was not only a sequel to the first two JAWS films, but it was also one of the few movies that took advantage of the rebirth of the 3-D fad that was sweeping Hollywood during the early 80's (see Amityville 3-D and Friday the 13th 3-D). When the film hit the video shelves, they scrapped the whole thing. Why make a 3-D movie in the first place if you're not going to take advantage of it when it's available for the home video market? The video looked bad when it was released as a rental. Many of the scenes that were shot didn't make any sense or were badly projected. The movie did poorly at the box office and after a couple of years, no more mainstream films were presented in 3-D. The movie itself is pretty bad. Only for die hard fans of the JAWS series.Not recommended, unless they re-release it in 3-D. other than that it's pretty much worthless. "},{"Title":"Would've been fine with an imposing monster","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws III is nowhere near as bad as it's been lead to believe it is.**SPOILERS**As Sea World is about to open a new attraction, Sean Brody, (John Putch) arrives to visit brother Michael Brody, (Dennis Quaid) and girlfriend Kathryn Morgan, (Bess Armstrong) when park owner Calvin Bouchard, (Louis Gossett Jr.) welcomes Phillip FitzRoyce, (Simon MacCorkindale) to the park. With strange accidents in the park becoming a routine occurrence, they dive into a lagoon on the grounds and find a shark in it. After capturing the shark and putting it on display, it dies in it's first show. Unsure of how to carry on, they find the shark's mother still living inside the park and attacking the facilities. Working against the possible disasters, they race to stop the fix the attractions and shark before it destroys the park.The Good News This one wasn't that bad and was actually pretty decent. The film's greatest factor is that the characterization scenes aren't all that aggravating to sit through. The bar scenes and the few shown with the couples on the job are decently done, giving off a nice sense that a normal couple could be involved in these types of affairs without being forced into them. This sticks out mostly from the uncharacteristic nature of them, and are handled quite nicely, and while they do go on a little bit long for some, they're not a complete time-waster and that's a nice thing to know. The action does come along at the end in all the right installments, featuring a lot of big action set-pieces that come off really well. The discovery of the mother promotes all this, and the film starts in earnest at the time when it crashes into the complex and floods it. The sight of the shark appearing out of nowhere in front of a panicked crowd of tourists and crashes into their structure has delightful possibilities, and they are somewhat played nicely here. It also has a neat shock, as the disembodied head of a victim floats on-screen in front of an unsuspecting child. It's a classic shock that never fails. The race to fix the problem of the stranded visitors is a nice suspense-builder, coming off in a very elegant manner and allowing for some really nail-biting scenes. The chase through the underwater ship is pretty nicely done, and comes off with a great air of urgency about it. The shark in here also looks the closest to a real shark, giving off a realistic shape that is really close to a great white rather than a demonic face with a shark's body. It also displays a realistic touch by moving it's upper lip to attack, something that none of the other sharks did. This wasn't all that terrible.The Bad News There actually isn't that much to really dislike in this one. Most of what's wrong with the film is that the effects are pretty abysmal. The 3-D effect isn't employed beyond poking objects into the camera for no reason, stopping the film cold to show those effects. Needless scenes, as having a needle make sure it'll eject properly or having a dolphin emerge out of the water in our faces being prime examples. The green-screen photography present also doesn't help matters, often times making them look worse. The miniature tub is the greatest example, although the young, lifeless shark comes really close. There's no believability at all in hardly anything in the film, and this really hurts the film. It's nearly impossible to have any fear or tension in a film where the main threat isn't imposing, and it's on display nearly every time there's a shark on-screen here. The stupidity inherent in so many situations is a major crime, especially in the first shark's capture and display to the public being quite obvious. The reasons why won't be revealed, but upon thinking of the circumstances surrounding it are mind-numbing and wouldn't play out in real life. The measure of taking out the creature also applies, as it really defies logic that it would be so, and in a scene full of nonsensical things, it's hard to pick one thing about the ending that really works. Just about everything, from the really bad 3-D effects to the shark effects and the eventual outcome all having some manner of involvement together really make it underwhelming. The shark itself deserves mention, as the body count in here is really unacceptable. For a giant shark to cause as much damage and mischief as it does, to be around as many thrashing bodies in the water as it always manages to be around, and the fact that it sneaks up on the victims isn't going to be left out. There should've been more kills in here, and with so many missed opportunities, it's a real shame. The number of times it manages to sneak up on the water-skies without managing so much as to nick them on the leg is a major misgiving, and it really does nothing to help inspire fear in the shark, and with it's appearance and failure to get at so many of it's potential victims, this really fails as a compelling killer shark. These are the main things involved with this that really bring it down.The Final Verdict While it's not a complete, utter and total catastrophe like others in the series, there is some fun in this being a total camp-fest. It's a fun, cheesy affair that doesn't really do anything other than be great at that, and that's not that bad for a film to be. If this appeals to you, take a shot, if not, stick to the first two of the sequels.Rated PG Graphic Violence and some mild Language "},{"Title":"Terrible special effects but I liked it anyway","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Jaws invades an underwater park. The idea was great.  The problem is the special effects were terrible. I missed it when it came out in theaters so I never got to experience the 3-D phenomenon.  Maybe that would have made a difference but I doubt it.A giant shark attacking a Sea World like park was a great starting point. But it's hard to get scared of Jaws when he looks like the shark at Universal Studios.  I mean he was one plastic shark. I need to believe Jaws is a real shark inflicting terror.  This time, I didn't.  He was definitely a big toy floating in the water.  The climax scene was the worst of all.SPOILER ON ENDINGJaws goes headfirst through the window of the control room. In 3-D, this might have been cool.  In the tape I saw, it looked awful.Although the effects were rotten, I still find myself enjoying this flick. Face it, all the Jaws sequels have a very high bar set for them.  They are not going to even get close to the original Jaws. For a B giant shark flick, it was pretty good.  Comparing it to Jaws is unfair but also unavoidable. Even though I know the effects were bad, I still liked it.  It was the best Jaws sequel.   "}{"Title":"Worse then part one, better then part two, better then part four. It's not that bad a film","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3 is a sequel with the return of the dreaded great white shark that sneaks into a water park after it's baby swims into the park and dies. I saw the film and yeah, the special affects are crap but the film was originally in 3-D. You can totally tell when they used the 3-D affects,after the shark explodes it's teeth coming flying at the viewer, the great white comes right at the audience even though it's not moving, times like that. Now I'm not saying this film is great, it lacks a lot. For one thing, Brody's kids grew up pretty fast!There's a lot of cool deaths, this one diver gets snapped and chewed whole only to have his hand holding a grenade out to a person to pull it's ring, two animal thieves get pulled underwater after they have a funny conversation, this one gate inspector gets mauled pretty badly and so on. So come on, give this film a break. It's not that bad of a film and you might enjoy a little of it. This gets the big 6, not good but not bad. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3, People 0 really would have been a fitting title for this weak and forgettable film","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When a series that starts out on top greatly declines in quality by the first or second sequel it's really too bad. In the early 1980s the 3-D gimmick was used for a few third installments in popular franchises, the first being 1982s 'Friday the 13th part 3.' In the case of this film it worked and it is liked by many fans. Not that the film is a contender for winning an Oscar, but it's very good for what it is. However in some cases it turned out that the 3-D thing was used to fill up the seats and bring in the bucks. Such is the case with the third 'Jaws' movie, which was preceded by a classic film and an above average first sequel. By this point it seemed that Universal and the makers of the film didn't care about quality because even on it's own 'Jaws 3' is a loser. It's a case of a decent concept poorly executed and the result is a film best forgotten.Pros A great new setting. Nice underwater photography. Cast does a decent job. Moves at an OK pace. The film finally comes to life in the last third with some action packed moments.Cons Poor screenplay. Lousy special effects. Mediocre score except for the use of John Williams' theme. Apart from one scene in the first half, the rest of the film lacks the tension of it's predecessors. Looks like a made for TV movie thanks to Joe Alves bland direction. The first two films have human drama too, but here it's poorly written and directed and just bogs the film down.Final thoughts Let's face it, we didn't need even one sequel to the first film, let alone more. The first film stands on it's own and is truly the best of the killer shark films. 'Jaws 2' is an unnecessary sequel, but the talent involved make it worth a look. This installment isn't even a guilty pleasure, it's just a waste of time. A shame because the water park setting had potential and in the right hands this could have been a treat. Unfortunately the studio didn't learn their lesson with this one and had to sink the series even further.My rating 2/5 "},{"Title":"Another inferior  and embarrassing sequel from  Spielberg classic","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Great White goes back into the cinema in this flawed sequel.This bone-chilling movie based on the Peter Benchley's novel and written by Richard Matheson and Carl Gottlieb (screenwriter of the trilogy) , it packs some exciting scenes, thrills, chills and lousy direction. The film is developed at Florida in a seaside park , while the previous entries are set at in New England in a shore community named Amity .There ,people is terrorized by a giant shark that attacks pacific tourists at the undersea kingdom during the preview week. An underwater world that contains restaurant, cafeteria, aquarium and several other things.The sons ( Dennis Quaid and John Putch) of Police chief Brody ( Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary Jaws I,II) attempt to convince the park owner (Louis Gossett Jr) who reluctantly listen them to close the attraction . Meanwhile the giant shark attacks and the victims run afoul and making a real carnage and those serving for lunch. Then, an adventurer named Phillip(Simon MacCorkindale) and his helper determine to track down and kill it. The protagonists are forced to fight for their lives in a mortal confrontation.It's an inferior following with average creation of tension,thrills,terror, emotions and brief gore. The story gets little relation to first two Jaws, except by father Sheriff Brody and sons relationship. The argument of this gratuitous following is partially similar to ¨Revenge of the creature¨(Jack Arnold) in which also a monster terrorizes a sea park. The shark attack images deliver the exciting united to creepy score composed and conducted by Alan Parker inspired on the classic soundtrack by the master John Williams (prized with an Oscar) who heightens the suspense. This below average movie features lousy interpretations of the quintet main star, Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong, Louis Gossett Jr, John Putch and Lea Thompson (formerly to ¨Back to the future¨) . Regular cinematography by James A Contner (subsequently filmmaker) and is badly directed by Joe Alves, producer designer of the original film. While the classic picture by Spielberg obtained three Oscars well deserved and today considered an authentic classic, its tree sequels are much worst, and were respectively directed by Jeannot Swarc,Joe Alves and Joseph Sargent in annoying direction. Rating Bottom of barrel, a real turkey. Only for theaters, its real asset are the 3D digital effects, for that reason in television lost their spectacular Tri-dimensional qualities. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3-D is a brilliant form of storytelling!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3-D tends to get a lot of bad press, when in actuality it is a very exciting script with excellent dialogue, excellent performances and some pretty neat special effects. What the viewer must remember is that this was intended to be seen in a 3-D format, if you are given a chance to see it this way, you are in for a pleasant surprise. This was the first film to use 3-D as a tool and not a gimmick. For this reason alone, its an important piece of film history. I realize that for some people its easier to criticize than to praise, I mean to hate sequels.....well thats just the thing to do, its a cliche. However, anyone with an open mind and a love for man vs nature will see this film as an exciting adventure. I urge everyone to give this film a second chance...it deserves it. "},{"Title":"A great BAD Movie of the last 30 years","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I am a sick, sick man. I love hokey, cheesy movies. And horror/thrillers never fail to turn out as such in basket loads. The Original Jaws is a classic in every sense of the word, a genuine edge of your seat thriller, that despite my having seen it 413 times never ceases to make me jump at just the right moments. The first sequel Jaws 2, was just your average, late-1970's rehash, Chief Brody is scared of Sharks, we get it, but not bad either, it had going for it a reasonable number of the original cast and enough of the shark to keep even the most slacked of jaws happy. Jaws The Revenge (the fourth one) is just trash, stupid and without redeeming value (except Michael Caine, but that is another review). But this little, almost lost gem, is just so great it blinds me as a shining example of how to make a great second sequel without any of the original cast, and being a sequel in name only, Halloween wishes it could the Jaws series, and Highlander, I laugh at you (and not in a good way). A quick rundown of the plot finds MIKE BRODY (son of Roy Scheider, is afflicted with the most interesting aging disease ever, as first he ages too fast, then starts to go backwards), played by Dennis Quaid, who was at the time, near the peak of his cocaine habit. Although to be fair, he keeps it hidden MOST of the time. He was something of a heart-throb in the 80's, and the years since have been kind to him, as he still turns out pretty decent fair and hasn't gotten too ugly with age. He, John Schneider, and Sean Connery should all do a film that compliments their superior genetics. Oh sorry...got off topic for a second. Brody is an UNDERWATER ENGINEER (real likely field of work, given his history, anybody with anything remotely approaching logical reasoning abilities would go and be a farmer in Kansas) who is the leading member of the construction crew finishing up a new addition to Sea World. Lou Gossett Jr. is Calvin Bouchard, an interesting millionaire who owns Sea World and is implied to have dragged himself up by his bootstraps, thus explaining his thick quasi-Cajun accent, and lack of refinement. A lot was made of his being in the film just after his win of a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for An Officer and a Gentleman, but he probably had most of this flick in the can before the awards ceremony (Shark Chow). Bess Armstrong is Brody's girlfriend (fiance) who is also a marine biologist, fortunately for both her and Brody, she has a strange power over dolphins, and that saves them. Simon (Manimal) MacCorkindale makes an appearance as the only person I have ever actually wanted to be eaten by a shark in a movie (and real life too), fortunately the movie doesn't disappoint. We get to see the most annoying member of the Brody men, Mike's brother Sean, who despite having a stated fear of water, spends quite a bit of the film in the water. Keep an eye open for a young Lea Thompson, she dated Quaid for a while after they met making this movie. Needless to say, a shark makes its way into the park, eats a few people (for the relatively few of us who have actually seen the movie in 3-D, it is a pretty neat special effect) and then has to be taken out by Brody. He uses a grenade, borrowed from MacCorkindale's corpse, as it has been decided that the only way for the shark's to go is to be blown to smithereens. Don't worry the dolphins rush Quaid and Armstrong to the surface after the coolest 3-d explosion ever, without worry or mention of the Bends. There is a very special place in my heart for this movie. For some reason I must be the only one, as the next film, just pretends this never happened. Which is sad because this one actually made money at the theaters, and has characters that are relatively easy to care about. Watch Jaws the Revenge, and you are hoping the entire Brody clan is taken out, not quite the heroes we were hoping for. But this little film is a great time waster. If you don't have a date for Friday night, or if like I once did, you do and she just wants to spend the night with the TV, some popcorn, the couch, a blanket, and you. You really can't go too wrong with this one. It's also a great flick to show the kiddies (I told you I am sick), I showed it to my then 5 year old nephew just before a trip to the beach, and a good time was had by all (although therapy bills are expensive). Get a copy, it's out on DVD (though not in 3-d), make a batch of popcorn, and enjoy your lovely Friday night. "},{"Title":"One reason you HAVE to watch this movie...","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is one reason you MUST watch this film - simply THE most comedy mechanical shark ever known to man.I'm sure it's very scary in 3D, but seen on a home TV (I'm not aware of any 3d cinemas who play this film on a regular basis. In fact, I'm not aware of any 3D cinemas outside of Disney World. And I'm not aware of any cinemas anywhere in the World that would play this film, 3D or not) it's just comedy.I won't spoil some of the plot by describing what the shark does, but it's just so unbelievably bad you can't help but laugh. I can't even imagine it looked vaguely believable when the film first came out.If not for the shark - watch it for the gorgeous Lea Thompson! "},{"Title":"3rd demension IS terror!","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"58 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"     By far, this is the most innovative of the whole series! I mean, come on! SEA WORLD! Terror at Sea World! You don't get any better than this, and I must say, the acting, the score, and the development, all written with intellect! I do not care what any one says, this film is a true piece of work. With the same type of opening, of a P.O.V. shot in the deep blue ocean, which was missed in Jaws 2, this one has a creepy feeling from the beginning. Admittingly, the first two films preceeding this have it beat in many areas, but not all! The very idea of not one, but TWO sharks in Sea World as its grand opening takes place...is just freaky! Special effects will suffer when viewed with out 3-D glasses, however, the film is still enjoyable to watch. Alan Parker povides the film with a new kind of shrieking score that makes the feel a little eerie as the original shark theme is put to the test, and brought to a new level of scary. What most call boring, is the intellectual discussions that the main characters speak of as they, being adults, must deal with the water crises in the most mature way they can. Different ideas of murder, explosions, and captivity are all the order of the evening as the exposition is revealed. Later, the film takes a plunge when hungry mamma is let out, and all hell breaks loose, literally. Not so much the scares, as the shocks, are what draws me to this film, and every minute is worth while. Never trust the ocean, it is always full of suprises, and in all the wrong ways. Yes, the 3rd demension is pure terror, and Jaws 3-D will not fail to serve audiences with a real bang and boom! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Hmmm","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3, I hated this film when i was younger but when i recently watched it, it wasn't that bad. Jaws 1 & 2 are two of my favourite film JAWS is my favourite film ever. JAWS 3 was released in 1983. I can understand why people had this movie, for it's cheesy graphics and the storyline but hey, it is an alright film. I can name many worse movies remember this is my opinion, so don't get upset or anything when reading this review.This film starred Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong and Lea Thompson The story is Mike Brody (Quaid) who know works at sea world must protect the visitors when a Great White Shark threatens to attack.***/***** Could have been worse. "},{"Title":"Okay It's horrible, but there are redeeming qualities","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lets get everything that is wrong with this movie out of the way The narrative is disjointed with the main story line of a giant shark in Sea World not gaining momentum until the last third of the movie; the editing is awful as there are two occasions where in one shot Bess Armstrong is above the water with her diving equipment off and in the very next shot under water in full scuba gear; the plausibility is laughable - no diver would utilize grenades as a safety device; and the special effects are on par with a Godzilla movie.But there are some things to like in this movie. The Production design specifically was entertaining. It helped that they showed a model of the undersea kingdom in the beginning to fill the gaps left by the crumbing special effects. But since almost the entire movie takes place inside the park, the filmmakers do a good job of making you feel like you are at an actual Sea World. Dennis Quaid demonstrates (for however brief) that he can fill a man of action role well. Bess Armstrong is hopelessly sincere even while spouting out ridiculous lines. Also the underwater photography is clearer and more fleshed out than is the norm.So if you are looking for a coherent, entertaining film - search elsewhere. But if you find yourself watching Jaws 3, there are some aesthetic features to enjoy. "},{"Title":"The best one around","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I liked Jaws and sort of like Jaws 2 but this one was my all time favorite. Not only was it suspenseful but I also like the beautiful Florida setting. Mike Brody son of Martin Brody is all grown up now. He works at a Water Amusement Park named Sea World, where his girlfriend Katherine Morgan works with dolphins. But they both find a baby shark swimming inside the park. They capture it and decide to use it for display for the visitors. But little do they know that the baby shark's mother came threw also and she is 35ft. long. And what happens next will become a deadly disaster. This should have been the last Jaws film but no it had to be a 4th one which was bloody awful. This one was the best. "}{"Title":"A Nice Addition","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A Nice Addition to One of the Best Series of Horror Films. The Problem is that it Takes Place off the Classic Island, but Just Deal with it. It is Most Certainly not the Best of the Series, As a Matter of Fact, Think it is the Worst one. But, It still is a Good Movie and Certainly worth seeing. 8 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"HOW CAN YOU INSULT A CLASSIC LINE OF MOVIES!!!!","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK... First of all the Jaws series doesnt need a plot. Who said all movies are supposed to make you think. I love all the Jaws movies. Given, the special effects in Jaws three were poorly done, thats the beauty of it all. Its an old movie. Just enjoy it!!! It has more of a plot and storyline than Jwas 2 did. And do you really want to question a killer shark. That was the only movie I had to close my eyes during, IT had more to do with my great fear of sharks and anything resembling them, but still. I thought the part where you are looking from inside his mouth was Exqusite. How many other older horror movies were good to you peoples standards??? (Directed at DAN GRANT and other people who hate this movie, for other reasons than not liking sharks) Why wouldnt Carl Gottleib want his name on this movie?!?! I would die to have made a jaws movie. Well maybe I will make JAWS 5... I mean how can there be like tons of the other horror movies and this one be bad. Can anyone really tell the difference between all the Screams and I know what you did last summer??? I dont think so. Well I better wrap this up i dont know how many words I have and I dont want to break 250... but might have so bye...  "},{"Title":"I'll try to think of something positive","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I liked the water-skiers. Not only did they look good, but it was fun to watch them do their stunts.Louis Gossett Jr. had some good moments, but he wasn't consistent enough considering his reputation.Bess Armstrong looked cute. I was so glad to see the Bess Armstrong I knew from many years ago. She did have one good scene where she seemed to be enjoying herself. Though other than that, I will say that from her performance, I would have been hard-pressed to think she was a college graduate, much less a Ph.D.I will say those guides who took visitors on tours of this place were cute, but one was obviously more than cute. When there was danger, she handled herself well.Lea Thompson LOOKED good, but I didn't know who she was. Nothing here would suggest she would go on to be a respected actress.Uh-oh, I seem to be focusing too much on negatives now. Well, I have to. That shark was so obviously fake. And most of the acting was pretty bad. And the writing wasn't a whole lot better. "},{"Title":"A deadly new attraction.","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yet another movie about a giant shark wreaking havoc. This time around it takes place at Sea World, and the main characters are the sons of the previous film's hero, Martin Brody. After several people are killed by a shark, the baby is accidentally captured, being mistaken for the culprit. Things take an exciting turn, when the culprit shark arrives to find it's baby and have a bite to eat. It's actually amazing that anybody in their right mind would be willing to take a risk making another Jaws movie, but I'm sure the 3-D effects helped it out a little. I'll admit that the cinematography was pretty nice in some spots, and the music could be pretty exciting, but it isn't as scary or as suspenseful as the incredible previous films. The acting in this movie is abysmal with a few exceptions, Dennis Quaid was okay as the hero, Louis Gossett Jr. helped to keep the movie afloat, no pun intended. And Lea Thompson wasn't all that bad either, she's mostly there for eye candy but whatever. The other actors were pretty lame, including the pompous Australian character who becomes dinner for the shark. The special effects can't even save the movie though, they are seriously some of the worst I have ever seen. There are several cheesy shots that were obviously for the three dimensional magic that simply doesn't exist without the glasses and the various super imposed images are extremely laughable, at one point you can actually see part of the little submarine get eaten up by the blue screen. The most gruesome scene in the movie is when despite his dull death scene, the shark's first victim's corpse floats in front of a glass tunnel and scaring everyone to death. It was funny when the corpse is right against the glass wall, right in front of a teenage girl, who is not only screaming in utter terror, but is pressed against the glass. I laughed so hard during this insanely goofy scene. On the other hand, it was gross seeing the corpse laid out on a table completely skinless from the neck down, and crabs crawling out of his mouth, pretty cool. I'm sure it must have been somewhat entertaining to see this movie in it's original cheesy 3-D glory, it's pretty horrible without it.The scene where the shark busts through glass and and floods a control room is unforgettable. The super imposed shark is motionlessly floating toward the camera, and there are various shots of the characters inside in slow motion. I watched this with my mom and she thought something was wrong with the video, she didn't realize it was for dramatic effect until halfway through the scene. When the shark busts through the glass, some glass shatters and falls, the shark is still floating there completely still. This can be excused thanks to the shark's death scene, which is still tainted by effects that would only be slightly cool in 3-D. Bottom line, this is mediocre movie and can only be fun because it's so awful that it's funny. The better parts of the movie, is the fast paced second half, Dennis Quaid, Louis Gossett Jr. and seeing Lea Thompson in a swimsuit, which was probably the saving grace of the movie. I don't really recommend this movie, but if you're just that curious to see how low the series was falling then knock yourself out. The first and original movie was a masterpiece that never needed a sequel, the second one was still pretty good, this one bites and bears no resemblance to anything the previous ones offered, but then there's a fourth one. "},{"Title":"A really good movie.","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yes, i give this a 8 out of 10 points because i like it. I liked it back in 83/84 and still like it today, thats a good thing. To me, the jaw is more scary in this third part then in the first part for example. You can nicely see his body and its just scary to see how big he is. The plot is also very interesting, about a water park that opens his doors for the first time with some nice people working their that gives the movie a lot of fun times to watch. No stupid characters and some moments are really good like when the shark attacks some of the underwater parts of the park or when the dolphins helps the people fight the jaw. Very nice movie. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3  It Bites&#133;","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Warning- Spoilers Contained Below&#151; Jaws 3 was the third film in Universal Studios' shark-thriller movie series. The first film, released in 1975, was a pioneering blockbuster directed by Steven Spielberg. He passed on a sequel, and so Jaws 2 was directed by Jeannot Swarc. Generally considered inferior to the first, it nonetheless made a modest profit at the box office in 1978. Five years would pass before another sequel was made&#151;but perhaps it shouldn't have. 1983 saw a brief revival of 3-D films at the box-office, with minimal results. It was likely presumed that a 3-D Jaws would have more 'bite' to offer filmgoers. It didn't work.This time (directed by Joe Alves), the action moves from the New England town of Amity to a coastal Florida Sea World amusement park. The film damages its thematic credibility early on by prematurely aging the Brody boys, sons of Chief Brody of the first two Jaws films. Now the 30-ish Mike (played by Dennis Quaid in his 80's zenith) is an engineer/designer of underwater tunnel systems, with Sean college-aged and visiting his big brother for the summer. Bess Armstrong is Kathryn Morgan, the park's head marine biologist and Mike's love interest. Lea Thompson is Kelly, a ski-show performer and Sean's would-be girlfriend.Louis Gossett, Jr. (who had recently won an Oscar for his role in An Officer and a Gentleman) plays the flamboyant Calvin Bouchard, a New Orleans-reared businessman who has just recently taken over as the manager of the park. Fishy things start to happen when a great white shark apparently mauls an unsuspecting worker near the park's storm drainage tunnels.Enter Philip FitzRoyce, played by Simon MacCorkindale (TV's Manimal) an Australian wildlife photographer/hunter who offers to capture the rogue predator. He is successful, and Bouchard orders that the shark be put on display to seize on the publicity. His decision is questioned by Kathryn and Mike, the latter of whom knows all too well that great whites aren't anything to trifle with.Soon, the shark specimen dies&#151;however, the recently discovered remains of another shark victim indicate that they couldn't have been killed by the shark in custody&#151;this one would have to be much bigger. Shortly afterwards, the park staff (and their clientele) are face to face with the shark's mother&#151;over 30 feet in length and apparently feeling a maternal revenge instinct. From there, shark mayhem starts happening in a major way, as the murderous predator mauls its way through a ski-show exhibition, the bumper boat lagoon, and floods an observation tunnel. The shark is contained only temporarily, setting up the climax where viewers get to see a slow-motion reaction shot from the protagonists as the shark apparently has the presence of mind to charge headlong into an underwater control room to get at those pesky humans.Quaid is decent enough as a lead and Gossett is always a pleasure to watch, but despite their acting pedigrees this film is still strictly B-grade at best. It is unintentionally humorous that Sea World would lend its brand name to be potentially marred as vulnerable to shark invasion (technically, there are no coastal-based Sea World parks). Perhaps the show dolphins prominently featured in the film (another real-life park attraction) had something to do with the enticement&#151;though it would have been great if at least one of them were sacrificed to the shark. The special effects here are dated, and rendered muter for the fact that the 3-D effect has been removed. Certain scenes show objects heading straight for the camera (like a hypodermic needle, a crossbow bolt, shattered glass&#151;oh yes, and 'Bruce'). Minus the 3-D effect, unknowing viewers may question the odd choice of angles. Everyone except a Jaws completist should only rent this film. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you mention this movie to people, they will usually respond with negative comments. This is a terrible shame, as it absolutely rocks.The whole thing is set in Sea World, and is a great advertisement for it, although it's been re-jigged to fit the plot- Sea World is in fact landlocked, so, sadly, there is no chance of any monster sharks getting in and mingling with the public.Mike Brody- the elder son of the Brody family- is visited by his younger brother Sean as he works at the park with his marine biologist girlfriend. Mike seems strangely unaffected by his bad experiences with sharks in Jaws 1 & 2, and is played by Dennis Quaid. Honestly, I think they could at least have given the guys dark hair to match them a little closer to the previous actors, but hey hey. Dennis was probably all like Don't mess with my highlights, man! There are shark attacks, and they catch a convenient scapegoat (scapeshark?) shark with the help of Simon MacCorkindale's arrogant wildlife photographer. This shark dies in captivity, and its mum comes to wreak revenge on the park- which it does in spectacular fashion. Does Mr MacCorkindale survive until the end of the movie? Well, he speaks of the shark with disrespect. Underestimates it. What do you think?Sean Brody is lucky enough to meet slutty waterski dolly Lea Thompson, but unlucky enough to be attacked by the water monster the minute he is persuaded to get into a boat.The whole film looks great, and moves fast- and the shark effects are terrific- they use a lot of real shark footage, and realistic models. In fact, this film out of the 4 probably has the best-looking sharks.The 3-D effects would probably be great if you got to see them properly, but unless you're lucky enough to catch a special viewing of the 3-D version, you're left wondering why so many things seem to point suggestively into the camera, and marvelling at the strange baroque effect of non-3-D 3-D, if you see what I mean. Things float around looking weird and disembodied- totally disconnected from the rest of the scene. But it's not altogether a bad thing.For me, this is a beautiful and exciting film- it's like a 70's disaster movie made in the 80's. "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool!!","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The plot of Jaws 3 can best be summed up in one sentence killer shark wrecks havoc at aquatic amusement park. I bet it sounded like a doozy of a pitch back when some studio exec and the writers were talking about a third installment in the series. Imagine it a brand new set of characters (less money to pay in salary after Schieder turned down a part), a major endorsement from a well-known attraction (Sea World), the idea of one shark in a confined space with lots of sea life and people and the gimmick of 3-D. What could be better?Let's start, albeit briefly, with the 3-D gimmick. That's all it is, a gimmick. Let's face it when you shoot in 3-D, any future viewing in anything but 3-D is going to look pretty bad. It's obvious no one stopped to think about that in 1983. As I sat transfixed to the television for the entire 99-minute running time, I couldn't help but notice when a 3-D effect came onto the screen. The opening credit sequence, the fish head in the credits, the shark exploding through the underwater control room at the end, shark dentures floating through the lagoon&#133;all right, I'll stop. The point is viewing a 3-D movie in 2-D doesn't work.As if those weren't enough, anyone remotely familiar with the Jaws franchise would be ill to see what it has become. Mike Brody, in the course of five years, has gone from teenager to the buff Dennis Quaid. In the same time frame, young Sean has grown from a lad to a rather strapping college man. How that happens in the space of a couple years is beyond me. And then there's the obligatory mention of why Sean doesn't like the water. Apparently, his adventure in the last film coupled with his father's exploits have made the guy a little paranoid. Wonderful, great, completely reasonable. But, think about it Mike was with Sean in Jaws 2. Why does he take the job at Sea World instead of staying on solid ground? (Funnily enough, in the next film, Sean will wind up being a cop in Amity, only to meet his fate at the hands&#133;er, teeth, of another shark on the water.)Then there's the little fact of these shark's seeking out the Brody clan after the events in the first film. At one point, I had which shark in the family died in which movie all worked out. That was back when I had more time on my hands than I care to remember. This movie revolves around the 10-foot-long kid shark and the 35-foot-long mother. Extrapolating just a little bit, if the first movie's villain was the father, and the second was a son/daughter, then who, exactly, is after Mama Brody in the fourth? The flipping grandparents? You've got to be joking me. A family of shark's following around a family of people no matter where they go is insanely insipid. I'm not even going to point out the folly of diving into the water where you know there's a shark in the middle of the night, putting the shark on attraction, having an undersea control center and the absurd idea a shark can swim backward&#133;wait a second, I think I just did. I think Louis Gossett, Jr.'s, character summed it up the best We're talking about some damn shark's motha? I couldn't have said it better myself. "},{"Title":"Quaid to the extreme!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    What do you do when the film-world's most notorious great whitedecides to invade the peace-ful sanctity of Sea World? If your name isDennis Quaid, you kick butt and take names later. In the thirdinstallment of cinema's most chilling aquatic franchise, Mr. Quaid isstanding confidently above his usual platform of excellence, as hevigorously battles the ocean's meanest set of dentures. With help fromLeah Thompson, Lou Gossett Jr, the mom from My So-called Life, a pairof super-intelligent dolphins, and a conveniently placed explosive,everyone's favorite cutter/Jerry Lee Lewis impersonator, succeeds inblasting, with authority, the blood-thirsty predator's charred remainsto the bottom of the food chain, further establishing the fact thatDennis Quaid is... the man!  Although most reviewers on here utterly despised this film, I found itto be quite entertaining. I'm not going to promise a Godfather orPulp Fiction, but it does considerably dwarf the contained exploits ofUnderworld and Bad Boys II. "},{"Title":"Best sequel of the Jaws series even ranks close behind the original.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 is certainly an improvement from Jaws 2 and ranks behind the original Jaws as the series best. This third installment finds a great white shark who wreaks havoc at a aquatic Florida amusement park. This Jaws features some great scenes that are very thrilling and chilling the music is great and the setting of this Jaws film is what makes it so good. The acting is at the very top of the scale with Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong let me also mention Lea Thompson all three at this time were very young making this work their earliest roles. As always Louis Gossett Jr. is great. Jaws 3 runs enough on cable at just anytime during the years and try the video store and add this great sequel to your video library collection. "}{"Title":"The best of the jaws films","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  That was the best jaws movie ever!I loved it.It was so chilling.Like the part with the glass tube.I was breathless.The 3-D was good two.The only thing bad about it was that it was to close to Revenge of the Creature.It was pretty darn cool.My My if there was oscar for scariest movie.It would win.It was very scary to me.    "},{"Title":"Oh How It Bites","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's hard to believe they actually managed to make a Jaws film worse than this.Several years after the Amity Island attacks that formed the original Jaws, we meet Sheriff Brody's two sons in full-on adulthood. Mike (Dennis Quaid) is a senior executive at Sea World, where Sean (John Putch) visits after college. No Brody family reunion would be complete without a big ole shark to remind the boys and us of their glory days. Forcing its way into Sea World though an unsecured gate, the shark snacks on staff and coral poachers while the Brodies and their babes frolic in temporary ignorance, until it all hits the fan at the park's big opening.The concept isn't that terrible. It's what the writers and director Joe Alves do with it that boggles the mind with sheer stupidity. Watching Quaid and the other actors utter weird inanities that supposedly pass for normal conversation is odd enough, without the wince-inducing performance by Bess Armstrong as the park's whale and dolphin manager and Mike's girlfriend. She seems to have raided Sandy Duncan's medicine cabinet and taken all her peppy pills. Then there's Lea Thompson as Sean's sudden new girlfriend, who thinks nothing of stripping down and enticing her new man to take a swim.I bet I can overcome your childhood fears, she says, wading into the water in just her bra and panties.OK, I admit, that does sound pretty good. But take it from me, it's not. All you do is watch these cutesy scenes and wait like Captain Ahab for that big fish to show up. When it comes, it's not worth the wait.The shark attacks are filmed in such a ridiculous fakey way you feel insulted rather than scared. You get a rush of bubbles, someone ducking their head underwater, stock footage of some shark filmed in Australia, and that's it. Oh, yeah, and a detached arm, pointing out at the screen to take advantage of something called Arrivision 3D. The compositions are so stiff it hardly matters.The big stiff is the shark itself, alternately a matte shot of a still image moving with glacial slowness toward the camera, or a rubberized model so fake it actually folds when it rams into something. At one point, we see Armstrong's character wading in a pool with the shark, pretending to nurse it while she actually pushes it around the water like Bela Legosi did that rubber octopus. Would anyone with any ocean sense get in a pool with a Great White? Well, I guess yes if it's more likely to capsize than bite someone, as the case is here.I'd be remiss if I didn't call out Simon MacCorkindale, who plays a roguish English adventurer and gives Jaws 3 its one source of true charm. He spends a lot of time bouncing around acting cocky and trading quips with Louis Gossett, Jr.'s park-owner character, but he is undeniable fun when he's on screen working his proto-Aaron Eckhart vibe so engagingly. He and Craig T. Nelson in The Osterman Weekend are my 1983 Doe Avedon nominees for giving the best performance in a bad film. But, oh, the thanks poor Simon gets&#x85;After devouring several people and 90 precious minutes of your life, the shark concludes matters by smashing into the viewscreen of an underwater control room. It's the most ridiculous shot in a movie full of bad shots, more so as Alves for some reason plays it in slow motion.I think it was slow motion; it was hard to be sure. Everything in this movie runs so slow time loses all meaning after a while. Jaws 3 is such a bad movie it becomes kind of fun in a warped way to see what nutty tricks they pull next, something you can't say of a lot of halfway-decent films held down by competent directors and logical plots. I guess Jaws The Revenge is actually worse than this, based as it is on the idea of an actual vengeance-seeking shark seeking out the Brody clan. The silly fish needn't have bothered; Jaws 3 did a better job finishing them off than he ever could. "},{"Title":"Not terrible at all","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3 is not that bad a movie apart from the fact that it is quite stupid. This time the plot is based around Sea World and while catching fish Jaws seems to get in and there becomes an eating spree. The movie does have many floors and is has a stupider plot then the others it is not all bad as it has cool gore in it which is nice and it was cool seeing a really young Dennis Quaid which is kinda nice. There may be lots of floors but it is a good movie so overall I would think that this movie may be stupid but it does not deserve the extremely low rating and low respect to it. So see this movie if you just wanna sit down and watch a low par Shark movie. I rate it 54% "},{"Title":"Aesthetically hideous but look beyond the 3D effects and the glaring errors and you have yourself an average monster film.","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" By this time, it was feeling like 'another day, another Jaws film' but this time, the hook was that the film was in 3D. I think the idea of having a Jaws film in 3D is a stroke of genius &#150; the idea of having a shark pop out at the cinema audience must've seemed as if it was on par with the discovery of gravity or the founding of new land after a six month boat journey. Alas, since I saw this film in its 2D cousin format; I didn't get the thrill I'm sure I would've got had it been in three dimensions. Given this information, I'll give my opinions based on a 2D viewing as it's only fair.I think a lot of people have a problem with the film's effects. True, having the bottom of a submarine disappear into the background and then reappear as it turns around is a sure fire way of completely zoning your audience out of the reality of the film but if it had been in 3D, I'm sure it would've created cheers instead of jeers. I've seen a 3D film at an IMAX cinema and I can tell you it's a joy to behold to see things pop out at you. These things supposedly happen in Jaws 3D at well spaced times. The shark charges at you and glass flies at the screen, dolphins do their jumping and water sprays everywhere and as I've mentioned, a one man submarine swims around on a clear blue, water background but when you're viewing them on a television, it just looks like an absolute abomination, graphics wise.What I liked is the way the action is moved away from the beach and the film goes down a new route; moving away from the cop-come-suspicion-come-convincing act in a refreshing way. What Jaws 3D does do differently that I'm sure it wishes it hadn't consists of numerous things. For one, you don't need to be a marine biologist to know that sharks can't swim backwards. They did so in Deep Blue Sea (1999) but we were given reason &#150; they were genetically altered; but here, the shark just seems to feel like it &#150; so it does so. Arguably the worst continuity error in a film of all time. Secondly, the film follows the previous Jaws instalments by having the character bicker and argue for a while; in this case the conflict is distinctly put across through the English characters and the Americans as they talk about what they'll do. The English want to kill it and the Americans want to save it; keeping it for their park. A bit of a misrepresentation, if you ask me.Although there are some glaring errors throughout this film such as the shark swimming backwards and the fact it managed to break through a pane of glass that was obviously too thick since it's pressurised for being underwater. Not to mention the annoying and cheesy way the dolphins attempt to 'save the day', the film remains as an average action adventure piece that doesn't have brain cells but doesn't need them. People mark the film down for its effects but that's premature since they probably saw it on a 2D screen anyway. I thinks it's fitting how one character says to the other when they're discussing the equipment they use at the sea world park 'You build it and I swim in it.' The same could be said for Spielberg, his original Jaws film success and its predecessors sequels &#150; you build in it and we'll swim in it. "},{"Title":"A bit of a low down","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 to me was a bit of a low down because i think that the makers of the Jaws movies had run out of fantastic ideas as i would think that they already used them in the other 2 movies. I did like this movie though and i would like to watch it again. I give thsi movie 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A must see for the true Jaws fans!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you are a true fan of the Jaws series, you cannot miss out on Jaws 3! Without Dad, Michael and Sean Brody have to fight a great white shark at a Sea World theme park in Florida. The great cast alone, comprised  of Dennis Quaid, Louis Gosset Jr, Bess Armstrong and Leah Thompson along with the great Simon MacCorkindale makes it worthy of seeing. Catch it! "},{"Title":"Best Movie of the Series, No question","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this movie is by far the best of the series. the cast, atmosphere and script are great. I used to watch this as a kid and still to this day this is the most enjoyable one to watch. I highly recommend you give it a try. Dennis Quiad is great, I love the tie in to Sea world and trying to bring a love great white to life inside the facility. trust me that this is the best one of the series. So many future stars are in this that it has to stand to good reason that this isn't a terrible movie. taking the killer shark out of Amity is something refreshing and new and unlike Jaws The revenge Jaws 3 packs an actual punch. there are a few surprises in this movie that I wont give away but the switch up from fisherman and a police chief chasing a giant killer shark in the ocean is very refreshing. If you can get the 3-D version its even better but the plan ol' part 3 will do the trick. if you like sharks this is the movie for you. Jaws 3 delivers. "},{"Title":"The third dimension is awfulness","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Oh dear is this film bad? Jaws is a classic, Jaws II is a strong, worthy sequel but this drek is just so pathetic. Though I must say it's nowhere near as bad as the notorious Jaws The Revenge.In the space of 5 years the Brody kids have gone from kids to total grown-ups. Dennis Quaid is Michael and he now works at Sea World (one would imagine he would have a fear of the water by now) in Florida. They've just opened up their Undersea Kingdom (y'know those glass tunnels) and ignorant park owner Calvin Bouchard (Academy Award winner Louis Gosset Jnr. at the start of his downward spiral) is so full of himself he doesn't even realise a massive Great White Shark has snuck into the lagoon and plans to munch on divers, swimmers, skiers etc. Luckily for them a renegade naturalist (Simon MacCorkindale from TV's Casuality-looking EX-ACT-LEE like Thomas Jane) is hanging around to convince everyone that getting in the water to torment/trap/catch the poor beast is the best idea. His fate is firmly sealed as soon as he opens his mouth. Which is a bit of rip-off considering he risks his life many times through-out the film and Calvin Bouchard jeopardises so many but escapes un-eaten.The shark coverage is down right terrible. The underwater photography sucks and is badly spliced with stock footage of sharks that look nothing like the clumsy foam rubber monster in the close-ups. The 3-D effects come off as the WORST you will ever see. Even in plain-old 2-D you can see that they were pretty much the most unimaginative and unsubtle attempts at reaching the audience ever. Even the 3-D tricks in Friday the 13th Part 3 were much more fun and natural than this.I first saw Jaws III on ITV years ago. It's best to see it on the new DVD as the 2.351 picture adds loads to the sides of the frame for those of you who suffered the pan and scan video. Plus there is a few extra gory shots that ITV and some video releases saw fit to censor. But the picture quality is real nasty with some dirty grainy scenes and annoyingly soft focus others. The sound is simple Dolby Stereo but don't expect any Oscar winning sound mixes this time. Even John Williams shark theme is all but vanished and some guy called Alan Parker's score is generic and unengaged.Extra feature(s) consist of a trailer (methinks originally in 3-D shown before Friday the 13 Part 3 began, in the previous summer). And then there's something Universal call 'Recommendations'. Click on it and what do you get? Still photos of the DVD covers of the other Jaws movies. Duh, thanks! The only interesting thing about this film is the fact that Sea World actually allowed their name and logo to be defamed in such a ludicrous way. Jaws may have been born into greatness but it died very, very quickly as a franchise. Now Jason Voorhees has lasted much, much, MUCH longer and the first Friday the 13th film was hardly a masterpiece.Never underestimate the underdog. "},{"Title":"Beyond awful","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Words cannot express just how bad this movie is. I love JAWS and I am also quite a fan of its camp sequel JAWS 2. But this 'film' contained NONE of the elements which made its two predecessors great movies. The first mistake made by the screenwriter has to be, his decision to move the story from the open sea to an amusement park of some description (but I for one was far from amused.)The thing that truly frightened me about the first two films was that it was out there lurking in the vast deep ocean I live by the sea so this was an extra terrifying notion for me. This element is sadly no longer present in the franchise by the time JAWS 3-D rolls around. The Director, clearly has no respect for Peter Benchley or Steven Spielberg, nor does he possess any real skill as a filmmaker, This is apparent in the fact that for a movie about a giant killer shark, there isn't exactly an abundance of shark attacks, in fact, there's about two! No director who respected Benchley/Spielberg's vision would subject his/her audience to endless scenes of meaningless dialogue between characters that we really do not care about. The 'climax' of the film is what really does it for me though, the visual effects are simply laughable as the barely manoeuvrable shark 'storms' the park by smashing a bunch of windows, surely it could have done this earlier and saved us a whole 90 minutes of drawn out waffle. Not only are the effects bad, but the scene itself is just plain stupid. The fact that people underwater appear to be running from a shark, and the man who is eaten does not surface once but somehow manages to scream! Priceless. Well, that's about it. In conclusion, JAWS 3-D is a Turkey worthy of the great Eric Roberts himself, so bad it's not even funny. "},{"Title":"Incredible!  Breathtaking!","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This may very well be the worst movie ever made with the possible exception of Man's Best Friend. The story is idiotic, the acting is unbelievably bad and the special effects look like a 7 year-old made them on a PC. For example, at one point the shark, which looks like a cardboard cut-out (and probably is!), smashes the plate glass to the viewing area as Sea World and then, as the water rushes through the broken panel, the shark just sits there! All in all, a hilarious movie. I wouldn't have believed that it was possible for anyone to make such a bad movie in this day and age. What amazes me is why Dennis Quaid consented to be in this travesty since he is not that bad of an actor. But I guess to be consistent with the rest of the film, he acted horribly himself. What were they thinking when they made this movie? That is the mystery. "}{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to rip into a Jaws sequel...","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ahh, Jaws &#x96; the franchise that began with the birth of the Hollywood blockbuster and resulted in three sequels legendary for bringing the Duh out in Duh-nuh. It's hard to imagine the second such ill-advised cash-in being the exception to the rule. Indeed, from the tackiness of its gimmicky premise (the film is begging for a midnight re-release now that 3D has eclipsed cinemas to an extent that would knock 1980s producers out of their seats) and value- judgment name-related puns being all too easy (3/10, or 'D' grade &#x96; take your pick), preconceptions of Jaws 3-D are inevitably more akin to a roast than a viewing. Surely, audiences are gonna need a bigger drink.At first, the film's notoriety doesn't disappoint. The hokey script and asinine dialogue (inconceivably penned by Richard Matheson and Carl Gottlieb, from Jaws The First) are barely audible due to the collective laziness of muddy sound mixing and the hilariously uncommitted performances of the cast. Audiences are forced to be so active in connecting the dots to make sense of character relationships, motivations, plot, and causality that it recalls that opacity of a neorealist art film, albeit with none of the artistry. There's also the odd sense that director Joe Alves (helming his first, and, wisely, last film here) has a hankering for the eerie surrealism of early Hammer horror cinema, as each shark attack, after a momentarily tense buildup, quickly devolves into a phantasmagoria of surreal red lights, choppy cinematography and editing, and distorted, echoing sound &#x96; a technique that is, unsurprisingly, far more bemusing than thrilling. So far 3/10 sounds about right. But then, roughly two thirds of the way through the film, there is a subtly discernible shift, as if cast and director groggily awoke from a drunken stupor and collective decided to start trying. Maybe the exhilaration of the film's (genuinely stirring) third act twist (there's always a bigger fish) was contagious, but, before you know it, the film's final third becomes a deceptively engaging thriller. The film's fairly clever shark in an enclosed theme park premise &#x96; oddly prophetic of Jurassic Park, of all things &#x96; is finally utilized towards thrills instead of an excuse to parade around pyramids of waterskiing girls in bikinis, and the blending of live shark footage and rickety animatronics is even vaguely commendable and seamless, adding to the cursory thrills. Alves' background as production designer definitively comes in handy, as the creative tapestry of underwater viewing tunnels makes for some surprisingly tense and engaging shark showdowns. We're still not even grasping at the gills of Spielberg's classic, but hey &#x96; at this point, we'll take it. Yes, the oooOOOOoohh 3D!! shots are about as forced and tacky as you'd imagine (as are the script's awkward attempts at positioning the film within the Jaws Brody lineage), but their antiquated clumsiness brings a certain kitschy pleasure of its own. It's also easy to leer at the film as a distasteful ad for Sea World (curiously, the Sea World of the film is a far more elaborate fictitious counterpart, so eager audiences would be disappointed seeking it out in real life). That said, there's something so gleefully subversive about promoting a theme park by advertising it as grounds for a disastrous bloodbath that it's easy to let this slide. For your 'spot the pre-fame star' viewing pleasure, Dennis Quaid is amiably noncommittal in the Roy Scheider 'charismatic blue-collar rogue' archetype, and fun to watch whether ironically or not. Bess Armstrong gives a surprisingly impressive performance as the passionate Sea World marine biologist (it's really a shame her career didn't gain more trajectory &#x96; if she shows this much promise here, imagine her working with a half-decent script). She and Quaid share a endearing, effectively playful chemistry, and by the end it's unexpectedly hard not to root for their romance to succeed in spite of workplace politics and shark massacres alike. Supporting them, Simon MacCorkindale's aping of Peter O'Toole as a cocky wildlife photographer is alternatively irritating and amusing, and Louis Gossett Jr. is fun throughout as Sea World's quirky CEO, while the excellently named P.H. Moriarty generates the film's most consistently genuine moments of emotion as MacCorkindale's grim DP. Don't be misled by the vaguely positive bent here Jaws 3-D's notoriety as a campsterpiece is merited, but it has a few tricks up its sleeve (fin...?) to boot, and it's effectively Oscar-worthy compared to the deliriously execrable part four. Jaws 3-D is without question worth watching for a laugh, and, if the third act results in becoming strangely invested and even the stray thrill here and there, all the better. (Shark-themed 3D glasses sold separately) -5/10 "},{"Title":"The third dimension is some cool stuff and a few (somewhat mild) scares","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Everyone seems to hate this movie, but it's usually just a few things giving off a crappy effect. Example Dennis Quaid is decent, and for the most part the other actors aren't too horrible, the plot is great (shark in sea world!!), and the set prices are creepy enough. But... The 3D is just ridiculously horrid in a few parts. I know some of them really just need the 3D treatment, but a few cuts were just unforgivable.And... 2/3ds of the camera-work look like TV movie/digital camera type Quality, which doesn't look at all as good as the great film quality of one and two. In both versions I've seen everything is blurry for a film in theaters (I've heard that last part is due to universal never releasing a correctly made non-3D version of the film)So those two combined really seem to screw up this film a little bit. Too bad, because this fun-but-not-great movie could have been much better. Jaws 3D might just get better rating if it was revised in HD with some of the 3D cuts removed (Or a 3D version- Yes!). Jaws 3D is also quite different in both tone and style from the other films. Both Jaws 1 and 2 seem to focus on being trapped on the open sea, Jaws 3D is more claustrophobic-based. And the style is also very different from 2 and 1, One is very thriller styled, whereas two is more showy. Surprisingly this film is not as showy as Jaws 2. It's style is just strait horror. And Jaws TR- It's tone and style are pretty much Watching jaws 2 while you're high In all I thought it was an okay film, but a mixed bag. (By the way I would give this a 6-7 if I could see the true 3D version of the film. "},{"Title":"Great idea, not done right","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3-D had so much potential, it could have been the best in the series if it had been done it right. The story is pure gold but unfortunately the scenes didn't go that far or break any rules. Not to mention that the 3D is awful, the dialog is bad, the acting is worse. If you want to see this movie, keep your expectations very low because you will likely be disappointed. Jaws 3-D as a whole is just mediocre but it does have some redeeming features. What's good about it are the shark attack scenes, and that the story is far more interesting than it's predecessors. Yet, it sucks. "},{"Title":"Sea World with a difference","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 35 feet of white teeth-gnashing terror finds itself on the wrong side of marine gates established to keep the sea from the lagoon of a Sea World resort in Florida. This third instalment in the Jaws family is entertaining, if somewhat tripe in its handling of the subject matter. Despite being an absurd looking shark imitation, the sight of the great dorsal fin breaking water beside oblivious skiers, together with the signature pulsating rhythm of the theme music, still manages to send shivers down the spine.The young Brody kids (Dennis Quaid and John Putch) from the first two episodes have returned, now adults enjoying some catch-up at the recently revamped Sea World Resort, where the older brother (Quaid) works alongside his love interest (Armstrong). However their merry reunion is short-lived when a young Great White shark is discovered in the waterpark's lagoon. After an attempt to catch and conserve the shark in captivity fails, they soon discover that mother is also in the park, and not at all pleased at the exploitation of junior.Despite some amateurish-looking performances in the minor roles, and the occasional inane dialogue, this remains a mostly suspenseful and exciting third entry in the quartet, still capable of invoking a primal fear of the water. And in case you were wondering, there's a particularly graphic attack scene and aftermath (check out the inventive make-up effects employed) that should impress. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment.","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First and last 30-minutes are enough good,to make better the whole film.Unfortunately the audience this time does not agreeing all the way,cause mostly only more than 3 out of 10 people agree with me.But today I can see disasters like Shrooms,Hostel 1-2,and originally for television made films,those far less entertaining for me,only that is why now I recommend this more like those absolute thrash films.3D-glass will help,but I just love when 80's comes to my room these times when,some director can not realize today computer made effects just can not solve the problem,what was more interesting to see in 1983.6/10-decent fun,for those love different.I mean good time capsule. "},{"Title":"A decent sequel to the Jaws series.","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As Florida's new underwater amusement park opens up, the people there are glad to announce the welcoming of a baby shark. Yet, after the baby shark has infiltrated the salty lagoon through a faulty sea gate, unsuspectingly the baby shark subsequently dies, and the shark's 35-foot mother soon begins to follow her offspring by creating chaos in the underwater lagoon. Smashing into glass windows and flooding the entire complex, it's up to Michael with the help of his girlfriend, and the new guy, Philip the Great to bring down and kill this mother shark at all costs. With the installment of visual 3-D effects and a taut, gripping storyline, this Jaws movie directed by original Jaws Production Designer, Joe Alves, will have you screaming for your life! Come to Mama! 6/10 "},{"Title":"A poor movie, but still worth watching","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are two main reasons why I can still watch this movie today, being that I am a true Jaws fan and more so that I saw it at the cinema back in 1983 when I was 9 years old, which has brought back so many fond memories.Yeah sure, the shark looks even more fake in this movie, but the thought of such a predator hunting man keeps you interested.A number of things keeps this movie going; it's a continuance on the first two Jaws movies that were highly successful, the story based on a shark hunting man and a different environment this time being a sea world theme park. These three factors do compensate for the poor acting and a poor script that this movie delivered.Jaws 3-D was always going to be a tough project especially knowing that the first Jaws was one of the best movies of all time and that Jaws 2 was a decent movie.Helpful Hint - try and watch the movie in 3-D, although it isn't as appealing these days as it was in the 80's!!! lol "},{"Title":"Not What We've Come To Expect, But Not As Bad As You've Heard.","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While this work is inferior to the first two installments, this is still enjoyable. The story line is a bit recycled, and the son of factor does detract a bit, but the entertainment quality is still present, and the atmosphere generated herein is above par.The effects were great, but the performances were of a B Movie-quality. That was the main detractor from this work, and was most contributory in the low numbers this work receives. In comparison to the first two installments, this is lacking, but it is still quite entertaining.If you're a Jaws fan, it is worth the time to view it.It rates a 6.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Good concept, BAD Special Effects","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sorry Jaws fans, but this installment of the Jaws saga failed to please. Let me say that I like the Jaws series. Sure, it's mindless gore associated with a killer shark (a stereotype which is wholly false), but it's still a classic series. However, it came down to one thing for me, the special effects.Maybe it's not as awful if you are a fan. But I must warn you, IF THE QUALITY OF SPECIAL EFFECTS IS IMPORTANT TO YOU, you will HATE this film. One of the big things I judge a film on is its showmanship. Jaws 3 would not have failed this. The acting was good, the storyline was good, even the exhibition was good.What absolutely KILLED this film was the special effects. The CG was very unrealistic, and you could clearly tell where it was inserted. The shark... well, I'd imagine that Bruce (the original shark for Jaws) is turning in his prop room grave, or wherever they decided to put him. The shark they built for this one didn't look much like a shark, and in several scenes, the shark was obviously the puppet. In the first Jaws film, it was harder to tell.Sorry fan boys and girls. Like I said, the concept of the movie was a good one. The exhibition, however, failed to live up to the Jaws name. "},{"Title":"In 3-D!! A great film to keep the spirit alive","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Okay so...the shark looks a wee bit fake in some scenes, but the film is overall well-made. One day if they ever do it justice and release it in it's field sequential 3-D format it would be that much better! The 3-D in this film was fantastic when this movie came out. I remember ducking a few times as a kid when I thought I was going to be harpooned. This isn't the CHEAP red/blue anaglyph 3-D. The film used the best technology available to put you right in the movie. Dennis Quaid, Louis Gossett Jr., and the other actors did a fine job. The cinematography is fantastic and shows great footage of Seaworld. 8 stars five for the film and three for the 3-D camera work. Nice one guys. "}{"Title":"A really good 80's movie ;)","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Dear everybody.. D I actually liked the film very much. It is okay entertainment in a holiday . The actors were really great in the film and it was filmed good.But I like all four movies, so yada yada.The movie got what a film shall have. Good actors, beautiful bag grounds and a fine story. This movie was supposed to be an thriller, and it surtantly is! Because that sharks is terrifying. I know that it looks awful.The shark is so fake, that you just cant believe it. BUT it scare the hell out of you. Especially when PF dies.. So sad. I wan't you all to know, that this movie is an great movie. And if you are not saying the same thing as I DO and SO MENY ELLS, then you're a snob! Or you got bad taste in the movie-category. See this movie, because it is a good movie. See it, because you want to! And you shall also see Jaws, Jaws 2 and Jaws  The Revenge . Because they are all good films. You feel like you get to know the Brody-family.Of course there is one bad thing in this movie. (Theres a bad thing in every movie) And it's the 3-D effects. It looks so false, that you don't really believe it. Without the 3-Dimension it would have gotten 8 stars from me.Best Wishes M.S.L "},{"Title":"OK movie, not the worst but not the best","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A shark so big 2 dimensions weren't enough. Well, the shark was pretty big being 35ft. But maybe they should have paid more for maybe a 20ft shark and the rest of money on better electronics. I liked the cast but it would have been better is it had been re-released in 3-d nowadays. I mean Spykids 3-d, Sharkboy and Lava girl 3-d why not re-release Jaws 3 (Except with a d at the end) I mean the reasons the animation looks so fake is because it was made for 3D effects. So overall its a OK movie if your faithful to the series or just bored on a Friday night. But with the cast they have it is real good I mean Mike Brody was very convincing.I give it a 7.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A gimmicky mess which tarnished a few respected names- Richard Matheson, Lois Gossett Jr and Dennis Quaid. Mike and Sean Brody have left Amity and now work at Sea World in Florida. A new Underwater theme park is being opened, full of glass tunnels to walk through. When a baby great white shark is found and brought back to the park, it dies. Soon a number of people vanish. When the body of one is found, it becomes apparent that another great white is on the loose, and it wants revenge for the death of its child. Soon everyone is in danger from the shark, and it is bigger and badder than all others.Poor acting, weak dialogue, pointless scenes (all the 3D stuff), dodgy effects (which embarrass the viewer-strange when we watch the original and the bad effects in it have little...effect on us), no scares or real laughs, and very few memorable moments. None of the actors are given a chance because of poor writing, strange because the idea behind the film could have worked, even if it did not have the same impact as the first. A shark attacking an underwater theme-park, the possibility of children, old and young people all being threatened, trapped under the sea by the animal, all their possible fears, prejudices coming out etc. Unfortunately the film avoids this, throws in some dolphins, a bit of stupid looking gore, and another hunt for the shark. A bad film, but watch it anyway if you're even a semi-completist.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Uh-oh.","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws was FAN(or should that be FIN)TASTIC.ha ha,did ya see what i did there yeah good ain't it!!.....Lets start again.Jaws was GREAT a modern masterpiece. Jaws 2, well lets be fair it had a hell of a lot to live up to but wasn't all that bad,at least it has Chief Brody. Then..............well then there was this.........but hey at least its in 3D right!!? God no, why, why do it, leave it at 2,don't do a third it ain't worth it. Louis, wasn't he at the Oscars a few years back.stick to Iron Eagle mate.Dennis,well son, your career is only just getting back on track (Flight of the Phoenix,ummm). The ONLY person to come out of this mess and can keep his head held high is Mr Simon MaCorkindale who camps it up big time as Fitzroyce. He went on to make the classic TV show Manimal that was cruelly axed after 1 season i think, and he is now on British TV screens again in Casualty,which has been on for years and SHOULD be axed!!!! All in all this was a BAD movie...........lets pray they don't try and make a 4th...wait a minute........NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOoooooooooooooooooooooooo!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very bad but not THAT bad.","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yes, Jaws 3 is a bad, bad movie. It's even a step down from the disastrous Jaws 2, and yet another insult to Spielberg's original, which remains one of the most enduring thrillers ever made. But the Bottom 100? At the time of this writing, Jaws 3 stands at #71 on the IMDb's list of the 100 worst movies ever made, as judged by us, the users. While the movie was certainly ridiculous, it is NOT the 71st worst movie ever made. Maybe this is just a numbers thing, but if movies like Nightmare Weekend and Graveyard Shift (1987) are not on that list, the Jaws 3 definitely does not deserve to be.What it DOES deserve, however, is a good shellacking for being such a mess. Jaws 3. interestingly enough, continues more on Jaws 2 than the original Jaws. Jaws 2 at least had the sense to go for creating some of the tension and atmosphere that made the original such a success, while things like the shark turning into a run-of-the-mill movie monster were merely by-products. Jaws 3 takes that descent of the shark from predator to monster and runs with THAT. You can see some of the budding ideas that led to Deep Blue Sea (another stupid shark movie) in Jaws 3, as the shark takes on abilities to roar, swim backwards, swim through the reinforced glass and into the underwater control room, hide itself, and basically hunt like a human. The shark acts so unnatural in this movie that by the end I wouldn't have been surprised if it pulled out a shotgun and started shooting at people.On the plus side, they at least avoided something stupid like have the shark smile, but then again they couldn't resist having a dolphin frantically shaking it's head 'no' while a couple of diving humans search the sunken Spanish Galleon, bringing themselves dangerously close to the shark. Please. It's things like this that earn the movie worse ratings from the people than it deserves. Indeed, at least one person has pointed out a goof that's not really a goof. When the tour guide is leading people out of the Undersea Kingdom, it's not the green screen set that you can clearly see, but simply the outline of the portion of the Kingdom that they had been standing in.What no one has pointed out, however, is that when they were loading up poison to shoot at the shark, one person fills a syringe and then squirts out probably half of the poison that had been pulled into the syringe, wasting half of it and promptly demonstrating a massive lack of understanding of why that's done in the first place. You point the syringe straight up, flick it to release any air bubbles from the sides, then squeeze until it squirts to make sure there is no air in it. In humans, a single air bubble could mean a stroke and death, in the shark, the more ways to kill it the merrier. Besides, the syringe was held at an angle, and you can clearly see a gigantic pocket of air in it. I've never given an injection in my life and even I know that.(spoilers) In the movie's defense, at least it had a mildly interesting premise. Mike Brody, from Jaws 2, has grown into a strapping young man and works, fittingly enough, at Sea World. He's got this girlfriend with whom he has a goofy movie relationship, she's the dolphin trainer. Much of the first half of the movie is dedicated to showing a couple of dolphins do a lot of jumps and flips, then they disappear completely from the film during the shark portion, and then are cheered at the end for still being alive. One no name dolphin is munched during the course of the movie, but it appears in the movie only long enough to be eaten so it doesn't matter.The movie is probably now best known for being the first, and only, Jaws movie released in 3-D, a cute effect which does not translate well to video. Given the logistics of providing a home video in 3-D, they had no choice but to remove the 3-D effects and release it as a normal film. I really would like to have seen it in 3-D, because it is clear that the filmmakers put more stock in this effect than anything else in the movie. The 3-D scenes stick out like sore thumbs, not just because the movie stops completely in its tracks every time one arrives so that it can linger on screen and audience members can reach out in front of them and try to touch things, but because these scenes on video are so badly computer generated that it's almost funny. And they were right to put a lot of stock into the 3-D effects, because as is now obvious, without them the movie falls on its face as soon as the opening credits. In theaters, these credits may have jumped off the screen and wowed audiences. On video, they do nothing but cover up the water ski pyramid that you're trying to watch. Initially meant to be the first oohs and aahs of the movie, now they simply get in the way of one of the only impressive things in the entire movie.Another stupid thing from Jaws 2 that is added upon here is that Jaws 2 was a stupid teen horror movie, and this one goes for the same cast of stupid teenagers. Granted, they're all older than the kids in the Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street movies, but consider the bar scene. They entertain themselves by getting drunk and then trying to push each other over in ludicrous games like Standoff, and even worse, consider the scene where Lea Thompson's character, Kelly, is wooed by Sean Brody, who tricks her in a game of Standoff, takes her back to his table, and proceeds to hit on her in the most stupefying way imaginable. The only thing more shocking about how un-charming he is is that Kelly just devours it. With flirting like that going on, we don't need a shark. Humans will go extinct on their own.On the plus side, the following morning provides the only truly funny line in the movie, when Mike Brody offers Sean a cup of coffee ('Just throw it in my eyes, it will work faster.'). Unfortunately, the movie cheapens itself by showing a badly decomposed (and pathetically fake-looking) body of a shark attack victim. Remember the autopsy scene from the original? Not a drop of blood and still leaps and bounds more effective than this. The ballasts attached to the shark are back for this installment, but the spirit of the movies is gone. It is nowhere near the classic thriller of the original, but simply a bad b-horror movie. And by the way, what ever happened to the music?? "},{"Title":"Jaws 3 a unique movie and not just a remake!!!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  JAWS 3 is one of my favorite childhood movies, I was so glad they did not make JAWS 3 take place on Amity Island where it would be just another remake of the first JAWS like JAWS 2 was, they went in an interesting direction, took a gamble and to some it worked and to some it did not the same can be said for HALLOWEEN III which is also a good movie. Joe Alves is a great director and his vision for the film works for me. If I were to complain about anything it would be the lack of people being eaten by the Great white Shark, especially during the water skiing scene where no one die I think at least one person should have gotten the big bite. The underwater scenes were done very well and in 3-D looked fantastic, I think a lot of the bad rap JAWS 3 gets are from those who have only seen the 2-D version, it is a shame that theaters can't do 3-D anymore it would be fun to have these classic 3-D movies pop up at your local Multiplex from time to time. On a final note The soundtrack to JAWS 3 by Alan Parker is outstanding.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable JAWS sequel. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this in 3-D when it released in UK cinemas at Christmas 1983. It was one of several released around the same time (SPACEHUNTER - ADVENTURES IN THE FORBIDDEN ZONE, METALSTORM - THE DESTRUCTION OF JARED-SYN, FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3-D and PARASITE) and probably was the last big-budget 3-D offering until the release of the current SPY KIDS 3-D GAME OVER (2003).Although not as successful as the previous two films in the series, it follows through the logic of the earlier films, with the main focus of the characters on the sons of Roy Scheider's character, who are now working at a Florida amusement park called Sea World. The owner of the park (Louis Gossett Jr) is preparing to open it when a shark is discovered trapped in the park. The marine biologists (played by Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong) discover it is a baby shark trapped and they aim to raise it in captivity. Unfortunately, they haven't counted on the mother of the shark....The 3-D does work OK and inevitably, there are some of the predictable dimensional shots that you can see a mile off, but it is passable entertainment and, as directed by JAWS production designer Joe Alves (coming off ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK) it is enjoyable enough.  "},{"Title":"DO NOT BLAME RICHARD MATHESON FOR THIS MESS","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Late Jack Arnold (Creature from the Black Lagoon, The Incredible Shrinking Man, an many other 50's classics)) said he read Matheson's version of the script, based on a story by someone else, and he said it was good; that they should have shot it.  Matheson also explained he wrote the Lou Gossett part for Mickey Rooney originally until Rooney backed out.  Then Carl Gottlieb and another writer stepped in and reworked this script until it became the mess that escaped to the movie theaters!  As Matheson himself said,(and I was at the seminar on horror in the movies that he was giving, and heard him say this) The final script was like a great 3-course meal with manure thrown on top of it; there's a taste of what it could have been, but it was ruined.So don't go asking how Carl Gottlieb could have his name on this mess, ask why Matheson didn't use his pseudonym to excuse himself from this mess. "},{"Title":"It`s not so bad","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I love the first Jaws-film. That is probably the best film ever done and this is the second sequel and I like it, some of the effects it`s very bad but the film is pretty entertainment. The acting is pretty good and the sharks looks great. This time is the biggest shark ever, a real monster. I hope I will see this film with 3D-effects sometime.Rating 6 "},{"Title":"the BEST so bad its good movie","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What can I say?  It has horrible acting, beyond amateurish dialogue, sub-par special effects and you know what.....I've seen it about 50 times!  It is so campy and awful that it is good!  I definitely think this ranks right up there with Showgirls as one of the all time so bad its good movies!  Special mention goes to Dennis Quaid, one of my favorite actors, for looking like he's in on the joke! "}{"Title":"I wish I could see it in 3-D","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    Part of the appeal of 3-D is that can lift a relatively boring movie to more than it should be. That is the case in Jaws #3. Having pretty much gotten all they could from the creature from the deep franchise the producers were left with no other choice than to attach a gimmick to this movie to draw an audience.   All I can remember about seeing Jaws 3-D in the theaters was that I had a lot fun. Being young I didn't care much for plot or characters. All that mattered was that I was entertained and I was.     I just saw the movie recently on tape and it was all I could do to stay awake. It was just a ripoff of the original and all it's clones. If the tape had been in 3-D I might have been more alert.   The only good thing that I can say for the film is that if you can't go to Sea World you can at least get an idea of what it is like from this movie.  "},{"Title":"Better than Jaws 4","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 is not a bad movie sure its a bit boring in some parts but the end is good.Sadly not many of the main characters get eaten accept for Simon Macorkindale that has a gross death.The shark looks scary but fake the characters are ok at least there better than  in Jaws 4 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"NOT BAD. GREAT CLIMAX.","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have to come to the rescue of this movie and save it from all the vultures that are tearing it apart on this internet site and say that I really liked this movie. Although not as effective as the first two, it does still deliver. -*** stars "},{"Title":"Lame and Silly","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is absolutely nothing that this movie has anything to redeem itself, and that is just really sad. So after we got the first two Jaws movies, we got to have another one as this franchise keeps milking itself and this time it has gone to a third dimension. Yes, this movie was entirely shot in 3D during the 80s, and I hate to tell you this, I have never saw this movie as it was originally shot. I only saw this in 2D only, and I don't think that Universal Studios wouldn't bother to reissue this movie on Blu Ray with the 3D version. Also, I don't know how good the 3D version is, and I really don't know if it makes the movie a little better. So, what do I know about? So speaking of 3D, the movie is about another great white shark attacking more people, but this time it is attacking at a theme park known as Sea World (I'll admit that I actually like having a shark attacking at Sea World, but that is not saying much). Also, we have Martin Brody's son working at Sea World as he tries to protect the tourist from getting attack by a shark. So, that is what the plot of the third movie is, and I think its really lame. The characters aren't really that interesting, and nothing much to their personalities. However, I do like some of the actors in this movie like Dennis Quad, Bess Armstrong and Lea Thompson but their performances don't save the movie. I really don't care much of the rest of the cast, and really don't have much comment of their acting. Heck, really don't care for the music at all. Joe Alves, who was the production designer of the first two Jaws movies was chosen to direct this movie, and I really don't think he is really that capable on making a good Jaws movie. Again, about the 3D, I don't know if that version is better than 2D, but I do say that the 3D effects are very cheesy looking. The shark itself looks fine as it was all done practical, but the real life footage is hardly used in this movie because of the use of 3D. Even that one part, where the shark comes to break the glass slowly which I find it laughable. The movie does have some laughable moments like some tourist push a girl to the glass, where there is a dead man outside underwater. Also, the British guy's buddy yelling so loud by how much he has been overreacting. One scene in the movie, where you have two thugs that are trying to steal coral, which I think it should have been cut out because its adds absolutely nothing to the movie. Very pointless, if you think about it. I don't have much comment about the pacing, but it is 99 minutes and really can't comment if this movie bores me or not. So I'll let you be the judge of that on your own views of the movie, but if you enjoy it for its silliness that is fine. To me, there is nothing much to recommend that this movie is so bad its good, so I say that its just bad. Jaws 3-D is lame and silly, and I personally give it a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jaws III","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, I have not seen the entire version of it but once I watched a little bit of this movie on TV and I have to say from what I saw was just boring and stupid. It was so bad that I turned off the TV. One of the worst movies ever. I have not seen Jaws 4The Revenge but I know it is worse then this and I will do a comment for it. This movie sucked. I have yet to see Jaws 2 but I will soon. Well, if you haven't seen this, then do not. Just stay away. That is how bad this movie was. It sucks man, it sucks. Horrible just horrible. Avoid this movie at all cost. Thank you. My overall rating for Jaws 3-D is 3-D out of 10 stars. Don't enjoy. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Another fabulous B-movie extravaganza","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As an ardent scholar of B-movies, I found particular delight when happening upon this little piece. Unintentional humor being the requisite hallmark of any good B-movie, this film has plenty of it. Dialogue and acting that borders on the truly comedic, ill-defined meandering characters, loads of unexplained shots, scenes, and material-this is not the best B-movie I have seen, but it is entertaining nonetheless. The effects are perhaps the most overtly amateurish aspect of the film, and sure to get the biggest laughs (especially the end). But a discerning viewer will find more humor in the dialogue and acting (read Gosset Jr.), vague characters (read the British/Australian/Whatever shark killers/photographers), and terribly edited action. So, for B-movie fans, I give this a 3 out of 5. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite top 5 films of all time!!","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of my top 5 favorite films of all time!! Truly a poster child for the so-bad-it's-good genre. Yes, the shark is completely fake and ridiculous. The acting not so great either. The 3-D effects fall flat. But c'mon- it's harmless rainy afternoon kind of fun.Dennis Quaid is hot in this film. As is John Putch. WOOF! Bess Armstrong is beyond annoying. Then again she always is. This film introduced me to Lea Thompson (one of my favorite actresses ever!!). Loved her ever since and have seen 99% of anything she has been in. Some Kind of Wonderful is another classic. Damn she was so fragile and beautiful in that film. You just want to protect her character from the crap around her.Jaws 3 has a female ski team, the co-ed ski team- all being attacked by the shark. Though very little chomping takes place. *SIGH* That was disappointing. They should have included a high body count in this one. Including a chomp on Louis Gossett Jr.'s character. Hated him. I love the original movie poster. Which I got from ebay. The covers for the DVD releases of 2 - 4 suck.Even though the real fun doesn't start until the moment that some shark's mutha!! starts attacking Sea World above and below the surface of the water- I will love this film forever!! "},{"Title":"i don't know about you, but...","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i first saw Jaws 3-D about five, seven years ago, and i really enjoyed it! but what i really want to know is what is it about this movie that everyone seems to hate? the shark looked kind of realistic (except for the roaring) and dennis quaid did some good acting in this film. but the DVD could've been better. Like the DVD of JTR, there are no features, just the trailer and some recommendations. it would be a nice touch to include the 1983 documentary Jaws III Sharks don't die on it, so we could get a lil insite on the film history! the 3D effects are kind of corny and fake on the DVD, but if u wear 3D glasses, you can sort of see some stuff popping out.BOTTOM LINE Jaws III was a great film in my opinion. if someone reading this thinks the movie sucks, well, would u prefer this film or Jaws The revenge? "},{"Title":"Cool Concept, Bad Delivery","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a movie I had always wanted to see, not because I'm a huge fan of the series, but because the concept sounded cool. A killer shark terrorizes an underwater park... awesome!Unfortunately, JAWS 3 fails to capitalize on its intriguing premise. There's so much wrong here, I would need all of the memory power on IMDb to list each fault. It's a dull, cheap, overlong mess which, on DVD, loses almost all of the appeal it may have carried without the 3-D effects to rely on. The acting is atrociously fake, with even the normally reliable Louis Gossett Jr. and Dennis Quaid looking embarrassingly unseasoned. The plot is overly convoluted and hazy, and it takes far too long to get to the shark; in fact, 15 minutes in you'll be praying for the big Great White to charge in and eat everyone in sight.Unless you thought JAWS THE REVENGE was a cinematic masterpiece, you won't want to waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3D","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" An underwater sea park is attacked by a great white with a bite radius of nearly a yard. When it attacks a underwater tunnel, with many civilians trapped inside, it's up to Dennis Quaid and crew to weld a plate in place of the breach . Simon MacCorkindale portrays a Brit photographer who likes the media spotlight, but courageously offers to be live bait(..and is in the film's best sequence as the shark chows down on him with the camera recording this inside the mouth, really a remarkable effect)as a distraction for Quaid to complete the welding task without harm. Bess Armstrong is Quaid's lady love who decides to go down and watch his back just in case the shark swims toward them. Louis Gossett Jr. is the head honcho of the theme park who watches in horror as his dream goes up in smoke thanks to the shark's desire to feed.The 3D effects just aren't very good..they might've worked in 1983 on the big screen, but just make the viewing experience now a burden. The 3D effects look like just that..separate from everything else. What hurts even more is that nothing really happens for nearly 1 hour and a half until the shark makes it's attack on people in the water(mainly Lea Thompson, the love interest of Dennis Quaid's brother John Putch). The shark effects range from good to awful..especially rotten is the scene where the shark breaks through the glass housing the control room with Gossett Jr and company. The cast, except Bess, are merely going through the motions and it's quite easy to see that the franchise was about finished off..JAWSTHE REVENGE would be the death nail on the coffin of the Jaws franchise. "}{"Title":"more 3-D coming to the Castro Theatre","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For those who live within travel distance of the famous Castro Theatre in San Francisc. The Castro is producing another 3-D festival this year on our giant silver screen! Starting in October on Friday the 13th with a triple feature we call Over/Under Fright Nite with JAWS 3-D, SPACEHUNTER 3-D, and Friday THE 13th, PART 3, 3-D (get to see JAWS 3-D again and make up your own mind, as far as my own taste, both 2 and 3 were bad, but #3 is bad in a great way and only because of the 3-D effects). Saturday the 14th is CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON DAY with Ben Chapman, Julie Adams in person with all 3 Creature movies, the first two in DUAL INTERLOCK 3-D The rest of the festival will include HOUSE of WAX, PHANTOM OF THE RUE MORGUE, IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE, CAT WOMEN OF THE MOON, GORILLA AT LARGE, ROBOT MONSTER, KISS ME KATE, PARDON MY BACKFIRE (Stooges), THE FRENCH LINE, SPOOKS (Stooges), THE STEWARDESSES all in DUAL INTERLOCK NATURALVISION 3-DKeep watching our website www.castrotheatre.com for updates "},{"Title":"What Is Wrong With You People?","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't get why people don't like this. People moan when sequels just re-invent the original, and they moan when they do something original! Film makers can't win! Most people said I can't believe i sat through this. Then why the hell did you? If you are one of those people who sit there and say, This wouldn't happen That wouldn't happen. Just turn the damn thing off and watch something else! This film works in so many ways, it distances it's self from the original further than the second one did. However, this is the worst of the quadrilology, only because it lacks the original characters, Chief Brody and his wife Ellen. This now focuses on the children, Mike and Sean. This is part of the problem though, if they had left the Brody family alone for this one, it would be a lot more successful.Don't forget.....IT'S ONLY A MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Jaws 3D (The D stands for Dumb....)","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yep, another guilty pleasure movie. This one is sooooo awful it's amazing. Just everything about it is so lame. The effects are terrible - they might have been better in 3D, but on a TV screen the plasticky-ness of it is all too apparent. The acting is well below par for the big names on show here, with some horrible dialogue thrown in just to make things worse.In fact, only the basic premise of the movie has any promise - a killer shark attacking an underwater theme/amusement park. But the idea, though good, is drowned (pun intended) by the terrible crapness of the other elements of the film.That said, the movie entertained me, but not in any traditional horror sense. Rather I found myself laughing so much at the lame effects, bad dialogue and the terrible liberties taken with physics and shark facts that the movie was a fantastic journey of delightful nonsense. Not so much the Hunting of the Snark, but the Hunting of the Shark! If you see what I mean.There is, in fact so much non-stop nonsense that it gets a bit overwhelming at times. The shark is about as lifelike as a rubber shark can get, but towards the end there are some especially dire effects of the shark with its head stuck in the control room window. The stop-motion animation of the tail is extremely bad - you'll see better on most kids animated puppet shows - and the tail doesn't so much sweep back and forth as just twitch inanely. Of course, how it got stuck in the window is almost as hilarious. In 3D it might have looked OK, but on a TV screen (no matter how big) the shark just seemed to drift up to window with all the menace (and realism) of a bath toy shark. This scene 's hilarity was compounded by the looks of absolute horror on the faces of the control room occupants. Priceless! No matter how much you want to turn off, it's worth waiting to see this scene alone.Of course, the general physics is just as abused as the shark info. A grenade goes off underwater, not twenty feet from a couple of divers and they're not even stunned a tiny amount - no burst eardrums at all. Bah! Who cares if water is virtually incompressible! It won't transmit the shock wave at all! No sir!If you fancy a terrifying journey into horror beneath the waves you'd be better off watching The Adventures of Captain Nemo (well, Burgess Meredith as Prof. Cunningham scared me, anyhow). But, if you fancy an awful, awful movie to laugh at with your mates and a crate of beer, this one is top notch stuff.  "},{"Title":"Agreeing with Dr. Gore, the special effects sucked horridly, but the movie wasn't THAT bad.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay, let's all face it. This film never lived up to the expectations that we had, only because the original JAWS was so good. The sequel, JAWS 2 wasn't that bad either, but still not as great. Then comes a movie like this. What do we do? See the crap anyway. If you like it, hey! If you don't, write an annonymous letter to the crew members and complain all you want. Well, judging by the quality of the video version of JAWS 3, there are probably a lot of angry people out there.The special effects sucked horridly, even for its time period. And since it was originally filmed in some 3-D format, it just makes it look worse on home video. Just think of it this way--- it's still better than JAWS THE REVENGE!Now, there will never be another JAWS. Never. No one will ever be able to recreate Speilberg's shark classic. This film is not all that worthy to his film, but it is still watchable. For some people, it is a movie that should have never even seen the light of day, but the plot wasn't too bad, and the later DEEP BLUE SEA has a plot that is eerily similar to this one. Possibly inspired by this film a little bit? I don't know. But, what I do know is that this movie is not as bad as some people make it out to be.Not a personal favorite, but this is still a movie that I can watch. I recommend this only to die-hard fans of the original. JAWS 3 gets 3/5. "},{"Title":"Memorable on the big screen; forgetable on the small screen","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When Jaws came out in 1975, it went on to become the highest grossing movie of all time (until Star Wars took that honor two years later). Three years after the film's release came Jaws 2 which wasn't as scary and effective as its predecessor. Nevertheless, it made money, and the franchise distributor Universal wanted to make another Jaws film. Five years after Jaws 2 came Jaws 3-D. This time the filmmakers did something different. They threw in 3-D effects to conjure up scares. Why did they do this? I think it was due to the success of Friday the 13th Part 3 which was released in 3-D a year earlier. That movie made money, and the makers of Jaws 3-D were hoping to cash in on the 3-D craze that was supposed to be big in 1983. During this particular year, a mess of 3-D movies came out. In addition to Jaws 3-D there was the sci-fi adventure Spacehunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone which starred Molly Ringwald (before Breakfast Club); Metalstorm The Destruction of Jared-Syn, another sci-fi movie featuring Richard Moll (before TV's Night Court) and Kelly Preston (before she became Mrs. John Travolta); the comedy The Man Who Wasn't There starring Steve Guttenberg (before the Police Academy and Cocoon movies); and Amityville 3-D, the third in the series about a haunted house which featured Meg Ryan in one of her early film roles. Jaws 3-D was the most successful movie of this bunch, but that didn't say much. The 3-D craze didn't go into 1984 like it was predicted. In fact, all these movies got horrible reviews from critics and people stayed away from them. However, I went to see Jaws 3-D when I was only 12 years old. I really didn't know a whole lot about 3-D at the time. I was told that it was a device in a movie where things come at you. When I was going to see Jaws 3-D I, along with my mother and a friend were given those special 3-D glasses which you had to wear if you wanted to see the 3-D effects. I put the glasses on, then the movie started. It was one of the most awesome experiences I ever had while seeing a movie on the big screen. I had never seen anything like it. But that was just a one time experience. They don't make movies like this anymore, so I haven't been able to experience a 3-D movie since. Jaws 3-D is the only movie I ever went to see that was filmed in 3-D. At that time I didn't care if the movie was critically bad and poorly made. I went to see it and had a good time. And on the basis of that one time movie going experience, I give Jaws 3-D three stars. But (and this is a big but), on home video and on TV the movie is knows simply as Jaws III. The 3-D effects don't come at you on the small screen as they did on the big screen. And that's disappointing. Jaws 3-D was only memorable for its 3-D effects, but since the effects don't come at you on the small screen, Jaws III is forgetable. And that's the version you'll be seeing of this movie from here on out. So I can only give Jaws III two stars.** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Just Boring","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are some good things to this film, like the kick-ass musical score, and the creative choice of having it take place at Sea World. Imagine Jaws at Sea World! That sounds awesome, but unfortunately, that premise falls flat on its face. We don't really get anything out of Jaws attacking Sea World, nor do we get Jaws at all. In fact, we barely get the shark. It's mostly just humans... doing stuff. When the shark shows up, you're like Wow! There's a shark in this movie?, since it's basically a Sea World training video featuring Jaws. The ending is pretty random. Okay, so Mike and his girl make it out okay, and what's the first thing on their mind? The dolphins! Are you serious? The dolphins? That's your main concern? How about wondering if your friends are still alive? Before I go, I'd like to say that the scene where the shark comes towards the workers probably looked cool in 3-D, but when you view it on the movie's 2-D home video release, it just looks silly. "},{"Title":"The better of the Jaws sequels.","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is Jaws' second sequel, which I think is the best of the three following the original movie. The sons of Roy Scheider's Chief Brody character, Mike and Sean, take center stage. Mike and girlfriend Kathryn Morgan are marine biologists at a Seaworld theme park. They discover a baby shark, which happened to be trapped inside the park, and later perishes. To their surprise, the scientists also discover that its 35-foot mother, a huge Great-White shark, is also trapped inside and is hungry; therefore, they try to evacuate Seaworld before any casualties strike.The special effects were bit of a downgrade from the first two movies, with the shark's execution being less realistic and horrific; in some scenes, you could hear the animatronics and machinery that the crew used to operate the animal. Alan Parker did a fine job on the music score, I think, and also incorporated John Williams' famous shark theme.While this film was pretty much slammed by many critics and viewers, even garnering several Razzie Award nominations, I actually thought the movie was exciting and more fun to watch than Jaws II. Having the setting inside a water theme park rather than the usual beaches in a small town is a neat idea, and seeing the Seaworld workers reacting to the idea that a huge Great White is inside the park, where thousands of visitors are, and trying desperately to find a plan to evacuate the park and capture the shark is suspenseful. The acting is descent and plot is fast-paced. Director Joe Alves did a pretty good job making the movie.There are more surprises and thrilling moments, I think, than in the previous movie. My favorite scene is the part where the Great White swims toward the viewing glass from the park's control room, puncturing the glass, letting water rush in and sending every person inside swimming for their lives.Overall, Jaws III doesn't match the original film in fright and shock value, but is what I think the better of the three sequels.Grade B "},{"Title":"Water thorn","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The sexy shark swam on by, catching me by the eye. A rose for it I had to buy. . . f*ck it. This movie is the dumbest, foulest, arse sponge that ever floated to the top of my urinal. It made me jump once, but with one swift bowel movement it sunk again where it belongs, at the bottom of the sea.P.S. Australian on a boat SHOULD be drinking. if on boats at all. . .infact forget the boat.Also, Open the hatch. is a guaranteed pick up line.This movie isn't worth ten lines.It isn't worth five. *padding out to ten lines COMPLETE* "},{"Title":"Worst 'special effects' ever","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So bad it's (nearly) funny. I heard a Spielberg interview about Jaws, in it he basically said that the shark was like a turd and that for most of the original movie John Williams was his shark, with his infamous score. Here in Jaws 3, they should have realised their limitations and not shown the shark as much, barely at all. Despite being years after the original the shark looks worse and to top it off there are some sequences that have been sped up and others that are in slow motion- it looks ridiculous and is an attempt to make up for a lack of quality shots or effects. The crowning (poor) moment is a shark towards the end that moves so slow and so fake towards our heroes that words fail me, just as all those who worked on this film failed their audience. The script is awful as well by the way, but it barely matters, you won't believe what you are seeing. Atrocious. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3 Audience 0.","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is about a man who is afraid of sharks. He decides to work in a marina so he can put himself in as much danger as possible with other marine life.One day, a gigantic rubber shark decides to enter the park to see the sights and stuff. Brody Junior realises this and spends the rest of the movie in the water.Anyway, after all the nerve biting tension and thrills, the shark is destroyed and they all live happily ever after in 3D.It's strange how a film can claim to have three dimensions when every character in it only has one...This trashy, thrown together mess is an embarrassment to the series. How far we have come from great dialogue, great performances and iconic thrills to this piece of nondescript tosh.Then again, it was directed by Alan Smithee's uncles cousins brother in law, twice removed. So the results were inevitable. "}{"Title":"Rubbish Rubbish Rubbish !!!!!!!!!","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film has nothing, no plot, no good acting, especially no good affects in fact the affects are so rubbish if you haven't seen it this is what to look out for.1) When Jaws is coming towards the control room at the end jaws looks like a photo because as it gets closer it doesn't move at all.2) All of the blood underwater is pink! 3) As the submarine is going past the control room the whole front underneath the bonnet thing disappears.In fact there are so many bad bits that the list would go on forever!!!!!!! Rubbish.1/10 "},{"Title":"Garbage in any dimension","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lame-brained! An awful movie that has no relation to the previous JAWS films save for the fact that Dennis Quaid is playing a character named Mike Brody. It was released with some of the feeblest 3-D effects imaginable...it managed only to make the shark appear to be a floating purple blob. Seen without 3-D, the film has a bunch of awkward scenes of people sticking things out toward the camera...from harpoon needles to pens. Regardless, with or without that effect, the script sinks this garbage. It's difficult to imagine that anyone associated with it actually read it. It's devoid of any suspense or excitement and is actually an insult to the viewer's intelligence...with it's smarmy eco-friendly message --- all the while exploiting people's unfounded fear of sharks! In addition to Quaid, the cast includes recent Oscar-winner Lou Gossett Jr. (he should have given his award back after this!), Simon McCorkindale and Bess Armstrong, who is absolutely atrocious as Quaid's firecracker love-interest. "},{"Title":"Not so Great White.","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Abysmal. Shockingly awful. Bottom of the barrel. Things can't get any worse than this stink-bomb. I still suffer severe depression when I think about this abomination. 3D!!! They announced. Well it didn't work. The only teeth coming at me in the cinema were the ones that a boy in the third row had stolen from his grandfather and thrown. The fish's head floating, pointlessly, at the start reminded me to buy some haddock on the way home from the cinema. The acting was so wooden that a carpenter in the audience got his tools out. I could feel the audience slipping away into some mass coma. It was heartbreaking. I remember my friend glancing at me, his eyes lifeless and sad. Special Jaws 3 counselling groups were set up in my local area and I attended regularly.This crime against cinema should be battered and fried. Absolutely disgraceful. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3 is dated dead and buried.","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I haven't seen Jaws 3 in about seven years. Its one of those movies whether sequel or original film dates very quickly. the last time i saw the movie i noticed how bad the print looked (mind you it was a twenty year old VHS copy i viewed) and how i could not care less for what happened to any of the characters.The Great White Shark when it finally appears (this time its around thirty feet long) is laugh out loud fake and cheap. Chunks of rubber is a better description for the whole movie.Awful.Bloody Awful. "},{"Title":"they should have stopped at two","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" and left the series where it was. This was made in the eighty's a few years after the second one (not as good as the first, but pretty good), the first two were made in the seventy's and the sound effects and shark effects were worse in this. The shark made in this looks like a piece of cardboard that floats through the water, they copied the original score from the first jaws film and if it wasn't for a brody descendant and the score this could've been named something else. It looked so damn fake when the shark went through the glass at the end of this ridiculously bad film. Even Dennis quaid did a bad job in this one, if they kept Roy Schneider it would be worth watching. I only gave this a two because it was suspenseful at parts. A part that bugs me is when they say they are going to bait the shark near the end they are saying they will use a live person as bait, but at the end nobody is used and all the shark does is swim at them and through a glass window and tries eating a bunch of people. I'm tired of great movies being ruined by bad sequels. Jaws 4 the revenge was worse though, its pretty far fetched how a shark would know the brody family and would be stalking them in the Caribbean (jaws 4 plot). Don't see this or part 4 because they both suck. Just watch the first two. "},{"Title":"This movie is a Boring Mess...","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I guess after the success of the first film and the underrated 2nd one like with every franchise Hollywood decided to turn Jaws into a freaking Friday the 13th series. Jaws 3-D now has Dennis Quaid as Brody's son who goes against a bigger shark inside a Theme Park. Now here is the problems with this movie the shark still looks fake but that is not a big of a deal the big deal is the way the movie moves because it's boring it takes more than 30 minutes to reach into the killings and the shark to appear and the 3D was god awful for a movie at that time. This is definitely the worst in the series in my mind at least Jaws 4 was dumb and it had some kind of an action this one was a big pile of crappy effects and 3-D. "},{"Title":"It Shouldn't Have Happened","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After Jaws 2, it should have ended. But no since the first two made mega millions, why not continue the good fortune? Why indeed! This film, or lack of could have used some good fortune. Abominable,cheesy,bad acting and completely poor cinematography add to the experience. I had the misfortune of going to the theater and seeing this in the summer of 1983. They handed out the cardboard 3-D glasses. OK, so I am a teenager experiencing the early 80's comeback fad of three dimensional movies that were popular in the 1950's. I sit in the theater with my popcorn,soda and a feeling of being a part of a resurgence in trend. How exciting right? Wrong. My first impression was that of how poorly this was shot - In a distorted and blurry way. My second impression was how bad the acting was. The dialogue is almost inane. Quite honestly it resembles the cheap b movie three dimensional films from an era it was trying to replicate. Unlike those films, the cheesiness and the kitsch charm is completely absent from Jaws 3. I had read an interview with Roy Scheider when asked what his response would have been if they had asked him to star in this mess. His reply was They knew better than to even ask me. If they had, I would have laughed in their face. "},{"Title":"Numbers don't lie ..people do","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Numbers don't lie folks..people do. This movie was a financial success, yet is was yanked by Universal after 4 weeks. It still finished 15th for the year of 1983. To put it in perspective the number 14 movie Scarface also was released threw Universal was allowed to run for 3 months, despite and X rating and only made slightly more money, and was a PR nightmare for the Studio. Why is this?First of all the producers of Jaws and Jaws 2 refused to get involved because they wanted this sequel to be a Comedy. Secondly Joe Alves the second unit director of 1 and 2 (the guy that does all the non dramatic hard work like stunts and sharks) was given this project as a debut. Most directors don't get a big budget debut, so this must have really ruffled the feathers of Alve's former bosses. So we know the rest, it was released, made a bunch of money, and to mend fences with the original Jaws hot Shots Universal yanked it. After all they just wanted the money.And it's really a shame because a lot of hard work went into this movie. I categorically dismiss the criticism about the special effects of anybody who didn't see this movie in 3D the way it was meant to be seen. The arguments that the brody boy's leap frog from kids in Jaws 2 (released in 78) to where they are in this movie (Released in 83) is equally idiotic. Nowhere is it stated or even implied that this movie actually takes place in the year it was released.The cast is Great with the exception of Quaid, who lacks chemistry with Bess armstrong who really nailed her role, so he should have been replaced. Alan Parkers re-scoring is great, and who can complain about getting to see a young Leah Thompson in a bikini.It's a shame politics get in the way of artistic expression, the critics are always there, but supply drives demand, a movie can't be successful if it get's yanked. Just ask Andrew Dice Clay "},{"Title":"Alright, OK","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Having on seen Jaws & Jaws 2 I heard there were 2 more sequels to follow that were badly received & not well done! Though I myself didn't think this film was great, it wasn't too bad!In this 3rd instalment Jaws attacks a water park, Sea World Orlando is terrorised by Jaws & the people in the park become victims to the veracious beast from the first 2 films! It is also one of the films of the 1980's to be in 3D, crap 3D before it became good! But OK for their first attempt being honest.The kills in this film were lacking, though a lot of scenes had some suspenseful moments in them the kills in this film were lacking & too much pointless story telling went into this film. About 40 minutes of this film was about this that but shark attacks & kills which the first 2 films had (Especially Jaws 2). But even then in this day & age I feel the Jaws films as a whole could do with some beefing up & be like Shark Night 3D or Piranha 3D.The title of the film suggests parody in on itself! With the cheesy poster, tag-line & the 3D Lettering which takes the cake! But it wasn't a terrible film! It just lacked a few things here & there. The ending was pretty good not as good as Jaws 2's ending but pretty good considering how crap the 3D effects were back then but it was decent enough!Overall, it was an OK film. Not the best & not as good as the first 2 (Jaws 2). But an alright film. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Dull, Predictable and Lacked the Necessary Suspense","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Calvin Bouchard (Louis Gossett Jr.) is the manager of SeaWorld of Orlando and he takes great pride in an incredible underwater glass tunnel which he believes will attract more tourists. What he doesn't know is that a great white shark has invaded the lagoon and everything in it suddenly becomes its next meal. In the meantime Mike Brody (Dennis Quaid) has migrated from Amity Island (where his father was the chief of police) and is now an assistant manager who has his hands full working for Calvin Bouchard. Needless to say, he becomes quite unsettled when his girlfriend Dr. Kathryn Morgan (Bess Armstrong) suggests capturing the great white for viewing purposes. Calvin approves of the idea but what he doesn't know is that its mother has also followed it into the lagoon--and she is much bigger. Now, as far as this particular Jaws sequel is concerned I have to say that it doesn't compare favorably to either of its two predecessors for the simple reasons that it was dull, predictable and lacked the necessary suspense. Additionally, this movie tried to capitalize on its 3D effect but unfortunately it doesn't translate to video or television. In short, unless a person really loves shark movies I would stay away from this particular one. Accordingly, I rate it as below average. "}{"Title":"The worst Jaws movie of them all","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is purely boring, dull, draining and not scary at all. The ending is like something off Flipper or Free Willy. The shark attacks were honestly terrible, boring and never seemed to show much detail. I cried when the baby shark died. I thought horror movies were meant to scare us not make us cry. A few scenes I was laughing my head off and when the shark smashes into one of the rooms, I was honestly laughing with tears. It was too funny at how bad and cheesy the acting and effects looked. The movie is simply garbage. My grandmother is more scarier than this. Honey Boo Boo is honestly more of a horror compared to this. This was an awful film. I would rather watch Sharknado. Save your money. There are far more better movies than this. "},{"Title":"Out Of The Water... Now in 3-D!!!","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've said this before and I'll say it again, most of the time when a film uses 3-D, it's a sign of desperation. The filmmakers know they've got a turkey on their hands, so they hope to jazz it up by lobbing something at the screen every so often. Filming-wise, it's a long, expensive, and arduous process that winds up making the rest of the movie look muddy. In JAWS 3 (alternatively called JAWS 3-D) the story shifts from Amity Island down to Sea World in Florida. They're just about to unveil a new addition to their water park when... you guessed it, a Great White shark swims in and messes up their plans. And it's up to Mike Brody (played expertly by Dennis Quaid) and a motley assortment of marine experts to stop it. While the story is compelling and exciting, everything just feels like a re-tread. Like a Xerox copy of a Xerox copy. The formula that worked so well the first time got faded a bit by JAWS 2 and faded even further with this one. As for the 3-D effects, many look so darn fake. The most laughable of which is the stationary image of the shark as it swims toward an underwater command center. It's so unfortunate, because there are genuinely good performances in this by not only Quaid, but also Bess Armstrong, Louis Gossett Jr, and a young Lea Thompson. With a little more thought and script revisions, perhaps even dropping the 3D idea, this film might've been better. But still, at least this movie's better than JAWS THE REVENGE! "},{"Title":"OK, no. That's were I draw the line. I liked it when I was 11, now it's just.... not.","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, so, before I start off on this review, I'm NOT saying that Jaws 3-D is bad. It's OK. It's just not Jaws though. It's a desperate attempt to try to trigger the audience with bigger suspense, 3-D, a new idea, because maybe it'd become another classic because after all Sea World is a popular public place and a unique setting, but too bad for them, their little plan didn't work out successfully at all, and it flopped. They should've ended it at 2. The first two were very good. This one wasn't. Truth. End of story. I'm out. Good bye! ( 5/10PG-13-Some Shark Attacks And Sequences. "},{"Title":"A decent movie ... but here's the problem!","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" All right, I know everyone bashes Jaws 3 but if you take a step back from the film it really isn't that bad. Here is the problem with Jaws 3 ... it's JAWS 3!!! Jaws 3 had a HUGE legacy to live up to and this sequel offered fundamental changes that just made it impossible.Jaws 3 was too far from the original and fans could accept that. It seemed that all ties to Jaws had been broken ... no Amity, no Brody, no mention of the other two films at all.This Jaws movie would have been comparable to what would have happened if they cut Sigourney Weaver from the Alien sequels ... it just wouldn't have been as good ... same premise but a completely different feel. Had the movie Jaws 3 NOT been tied to Jaws ... say they named the movie Seaworld Supershark ... then the high expectations wouldn't have been there and the movie may have been better remembered and reviewed.As you watch Jaws 3 try to watch it as JUST a movie ... not as a sequel but as its own unique film and you may have a higher opinion of it! "},{"Title":"As it was mean't to be - 3D","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Firstly, this film was directed and released as a 3D movie experience. It should never have been released in Flat 2D form.As 'Jaws 3' the film is practically unwatchable, its like going to see a musical without any songs or music. When watched in 3D this film really shines, i love it. The plot details are secondary, you are there to see a 3D movie and it delivers in every respect.Case in point, the 'horible fake arm floating underwater', when you see this in 3D it looks absolutely great, faultless, you can practically touch the two bones sticking out. The underwater sub, when it does a 'fly by' - wow, The skeletons arm - wow, Even the radio on the counter in the background behind Brody while hes having breakfast!! - wow!! The infamous shark coming at the control room window that does look horrible in 2D, as it looks like a cut out that stops dead as the window smashes. Watch it in 3D and it is seamless, the shark is perfectly integrated, shadows moving across its back, the slow motion creates a greater 3d effect and you can hardly tell the shark has stopped when the glass smashes (which also looks great).In summary this film is REALLY GOOD as a 3D movie the effects are seamless and brilliant, every shot is designed to be seen in 3D. To release this in flat 2D destroys the films intentions completely so please bear that in mind when proclaiming it as having 'the worst special effects ever' "},{"Title":"3-D was awful, still liked it.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I didn't hate this movie as so many did. I thought it was a decent movie...loads better than the fourth, though still not my favorite or second favorite...those go to Jaws and Jaws 2, respectively. The 3-D was terrible. Without it, the movie would have been better. The shark does unrealistic things, yes, but it is a Jaws movie, so it's not totally accurate. It centers around the two Brody sons, who are now working at SeaWorld. A baby great white gets into the park and dies. Its mother comes in and kills people, before*SPOILER**SPOILER* getting blown up by a grenade.In conclusion, although many hated Jaws 3, I still don't think it's as horrible as they think it is. My opinion. "},{"Title":"A square peg in a round hole.","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed the first two episodes, but this addition to the Jaws series was way too radical a departure from the style and casting of the 2 preceding Jaws movies for my liking. I had a hard time believing and feeling like this was a part of the Jaws series. Since the release of Jaws 4 it is more apparent that Jaws 3-D fits the collection like a square peg in a round hole. This is not to say that the movie itself was bad - I did like the story line - there was just nothing to really tie it to the series (no Martin or Ellen Brody, no Amity etc). May have done better as just another shark movie rather than the third installment in the series. I'm not too big a fan of the 3-D effects either (maybe they were better in the theater). As far as Peter Benchley's Jaws, this one is a good argument for mercy killings at birth. "},{"Title":"The worst except....","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lea Thompson is sooooo dreamy! She gets all the stars for this movie. 3-D aside, this is one of the worst flicks of the 1980's; I know, there are so many to choose from.Lea can't help it if it was a bad script. Besides, I was too mesmerized by her beautiful eyes, long hair, and wonderful smile. Wow, you gotta love those Minnesota women! Okay, back to the flick I'm trying to think of a movie I have seen that starred Louis Gossett Jr, that wasn't a bomb. Help here! Remember Iron Eagle? THAT movie stunk! Again, he picked a script that had no substance. All of the scare of the original Jaws was completely lost in this movie.And finally, the cinematography is horrible. I don't know if the 3-D had anything to do with that, but the whole film seems very grainy, like an early 70's film. Maybe it was old stock.To summarize Watch this film ONLY if you're in the Lea Thompson fan club, like myself. Otherwise, go outside; it's probably a nice day that's passing you by. "},{"Title":"Fairly watchable if you're a fan of these kinds of films.","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A baby shark is captured and taken to Seaworld, an underwater theme park run by one of the Brodie boys (now grown-up) from the first two films of this series. It isn't long before its much larger parent arrives on the scene looking for its offspring.This film isn't as bad as its reputation. The idea of the underwater theme park is interesting and makes for some tense scenes, like the one involving the people trapped in a corridor waist-deep in water. There are some likable characters.But the majority of the characters are irritating. The 3-D thing is just a pointless gimmick, and some of the special effects are terrible. The teeth flying towards the screen at the end of the film would be more at home in a cartoon. That said, this is still mostly entertaining. "},{"Title":"OK, but it isn't the first two movies","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 is watchable, but that is about it.  It lacks the suspense and sense of danger of the first two movies.  It is one thing to have a shark attack in the open water, but not at an underwater park.  A shark can be easily contained in a park like that.  This is one of Dennis Quaid's early movies and probably one he doesn't put on his resume.  He tries hard, but the movie is stale and dull in its first half.  It does liven up in the second half when the shark attacks the underwater park.  What these scenes lack in logic at least they work to some degree.  I have not seen the movie in its original 3-D but I doubt it would improve the movie much.  I think Jaws the Revenge is slightly better than this movie, which should tell you something.  5/10 "}{"Title":"POINTLESS SEQUEL!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Pointless sequel to an otherwise tension filled franchise. The film is pretty bad but it's not the worst film ever made. the suspense is pretty laughlable along with the effects and wannabe charachters.  Ths toryline is too silly too discuss but the film was obviously released as part of the 3d craze and it even fails on that level. but i guess on some obscure fraction it's entertaininmg. And the film still remains funny even if it's unintentional 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My Rating **1/2 out of ****. Many people hate this movie, they think it is unbelievably horrible. Lets just get this straight, no sequel was ever going to beat Jaws, especially without Spielberg. Jaws 3 doesnt come close at all but it is certainly better than most people say it is. Its kind of a guilty pleasure.The story is trying something new. Its moved away from Amity Island and put the shark in Sea World. Yes, it does sound a little bit dumb but its also kind of campish fun. Atleast, it didnt keep taking place on Amity Island.The acting is pretty much sub par. Dennis Quaid is the only one to do a passable job. Louis Gossett Jr. is adequate but the rest of the people are flat. The acting is not a strength but this film isnt about acting.Jaws 3 is enjoyable. It lacks the suspense and tension of the first film and even the second one. But this is campy fun. However, the complaint I have is the ending. The scene with the shark coming towards the glass. With today's modern technology that might not be a bad scene. Yet its completely laughable. Even in 3-D it would have been excellent. Its a joke here. This film might not be great but it certainly is better than most say. "},{"Title":"Do you enjoy life?","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If so, then avoid this travesty at all costs. Universal must have been  aiming this movie for the mentally impaired, for only an individual with some type of serious disorder could have enjoyed this insult to man's creative impulses. Whatever storyline this movie started out with must have been incredible by comparison, for it is clear that this was rewritten on a daily basis, and no script for this atrocious flick could have been as bad as what ended up on film (If  there was one, then I am frightened to think of how awful it was). However, if you're in a suicidal, self degrading rampage, and want to waste the last few hours of your life, then I highly recommend Jaws 3-D, for I can think of few movies which would encourage you to end it all even more. "},{"Title":"Something stinks like dead fish!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And its not coming from the garbage bin behind Long John Silver's. *(WARNING,THERE MAYBE POSSIBLE SPOILERS.DON'T READ UNLESS YOU'VE SEEN THE MOVIE ALREADY)*This movie got a low voting from me for a good reason.Everything is screwed up in this movie,including its facts about sharks.It's just really cheesy and stupid,with gross out special effects to make it look cool.Not to mention a thing called 3-D from the eighties,mainly used to doctor up movies with bad plotting,terrible acting,and a lame script.And this painful sequel is no exception.It opens up at night under the ocean,with theme song on cue.The unseen creature is stalking prey,but it's not a human.Instead it decides to go after a Moray eel,chasing it into rocks.Here is where the movie starts to mess up,letting us know it's going to be lame.It shows us a camera shot of the shark's POV,getting ready to snap off the eel's head.But,instead of the lower half of the eel floating away,it's the head even though we saw the it get bit off.And was this seen REALLY necessary,just for shock value?Couldn't the shark gone after bigger prey,like say an elephant seal?Why would something that large bother with something that's nothing more than a crumb?And I didn't know eels could bleed that much to dye the ocean red.Enough about that,now about our heroes.The story centers around Michael and Sean Brody(spelling correction),all grown up and working at Sea World now.Everything is fine for them,one is a dolphin trainer and the other I'm not sure what he does.Probably rehabilitating  animals or something.I'm sorry,I haven't seen the movie in a long time,so I don't remember every detail.I also remember that they're falling in love with two girls,one of which is an animal rehabilitater for sure.They are looking forward to the opening to a new attraction called Undersea Kingdom,which the tunnels go under water so tourists can see tropical fish and other animals. What they don't plan on is a greedy,Great White shark terrorizing the theme park,or menacing the people.Like I couldn't have figured that out by myself with the title.It's called Jaws 3-D isn't it?The first victim ends up being a guy who is repairing the dolphins' pens.He is suddenly attacked and pulled under water,and isn't seen again until much later.No one at Sea World bothers trying to find him or put out a search party,not that I can recall.A shark is seen trying to cause trouble,and attacks some people before it is captured.They put it on display,thinking they've stopped the attacks.But while the guy and girl are being lovey dovey and yaking,they forget to rehabilitate animal.The shark isn't used to being in a tank,so it starts to suffocate.Despite their attempts to save it,it turns over and drowns in front of a group of tourists.This was so stupid of them.If something like that happened in real life,the big cheeses at SW would've had their jobs.They soon discover that the shark that they had in captivity was a baby,and the mother is really mad they took it.A few days later,a badly decaying body swings side to side in front of a window,where tourists look at various wild, sea creatures.Upon examination of the decaying corpse,they discover the shark is twice the size of the one they caught.They assume it was the little shark's mother.They assume this from the way the skin and muscle was ripped cleanly off the front half of the body.First of all,how do you know that the killer shark is the mother,and not the big brother or sister?Second,if that had been a real decaying corpse,it would've been picked clean by scavengers; like crabs for instance.Third,the body would've been swept out to sea,and would've turned up on shore many months later.And the huge gaping wound doesn't even look right at all,it looks like something sawed off the flesh and muscle.Was the corpse/mannequin stolen from the set of Texas Chainsaw massacre 2 or 3?And since when did a mother shark ever cared for its baby?The shark pups are on their own after they're born.Did they get their information from a 4 year old?What a waste of film.The characters are never fully developed,so we don't have a reason to really care about them.The 3-D effects without the special glasses,look cheaply done.The scene where it is crashing through a large TV monitor,makes it look like a large, rubber shark head that smashes through;and stands still.It just looks so obvious that the shark is fake,and someone had tossed the glass right beside it.Not worth my time I wasted on this stupidity.Watch it for only the scene with the water skiers doing the pyramid,and the shark going after them.That,and the scene where the people get scared of the monstrosity, trying to ram shatter proof glass in a restaurant. "},{"Title":"Dead in the water","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  THIS REVIEW HAS SPOILERS. BY SPOILERS, I MEAN THINGS THAT WILL SPOIL THE MOVIE FOR YOU. LIKE TELLING YOU IT'S GOT A SHARK IN IT.Haha, that was sort of witty. I impress myself. Anyway, the 'Jaws' franchise needs no introduction. Like 'The Terminator' people just seem to be born with knowledge about it. So if I told you this film is about a killer fish, you wouldn't look at me like I'm some kind of wacko, right?Basically, a bunch of people put a shark in an aquarium. Now, before I watched this film I often wondered to myself, Why don't they put great white sharks in aquariums? After watching 'Jaws 3' I knew the answer. It's not because they die in captivity, it's because they always end up escaping and lots of people die. Oh, did I say lots? Because hardly anyone dies.'Jaws 3''s effects are, to put it bluntly, crappy. The film was originally presented in 3-D, which means you have several shots in which the shark model begins to move towards you on the screen. Now, effective this MIGHT have been in 3-D, watched on a normal television the whole thing looks hilarious. You have this completely UNMOVING model increasing in size on the screen and it's about as scary as 'Book of Shadows'. Ie not very.So should you watch 'Jaws 3'? Well, if you want a case study for the deteriorating effects sequels have, then by all means. If you want a decent film, steer clear. The acting is forgettable, the effects moreso. This is not a good B-Movie. A good B-Movie is 'Tremors'. 'Jaws 3' is to 'good movies' what 'Joss Whedon' is to 'talented.' Three out of ten. "},{"Title":"Oh, that's why the shark is coming at you!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first time that I saw this movie, I had no idea that it was originally filmed in 3-D. I just thought that they thought it would be scarier if they showed extended shots of different objects like the shark's fins or a tentacle from a fake octopus. But, now learning the truth, it all makes sense. Also, I think that I am the only person in the world that actually likes this movie.    "},{"Title":"Oh, that's why the shark is coming at you!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first time that I saw this movie, I had no idea that it was originally filmed in 3-D. I just thought that they thought it would be scarier if they showed extended shots of different objects like the shark's fins or a tentacle from a fake octopus. But, now learning the truth, it all makes sense. Also, I think that I am the only person in the world that actually likes this movie.    "},{"Title":"Oh boy...","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Originally intended to be an all-out spoof titled JAWS 3/PEOPLE 0, Universal apparently decided to play it straight and cash in on the 3-D boom of the early 80's.  The result is funnier than any comedy they could have produced.  Mike Brody (Dennis Quaid) just can't seem to take a hint and has grown up to become the head maintenance guy of Sea World.  After they capture a small Great White shark, it's gigantic mother (!) comes looking for it, and wreaks havoc on the park.  It's up to Quaid, his marine biologist girlfriend (Bess Armstrong) and a cocky underwater photographer (Simon MacCorkindale, from TV's Manimal) to stop it.  Decent performances are no match for a dreadful screenplay and some of the worst special effects ever seen in a major motion picture.  The 3-D effects are okay, but the video version is flat, thus removing that aspect.  Pretty terrible, but better than JAWS THE REVENGE.   "},{"Title":"Come to Sea World and get eaten by a shark!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Very weird Sea World promo film (this goes *way* beyond ordinary product placement), originally released to capitalize on the short-lived 3D revival of the early 80s (I even remember 3D television programs from that period). The original 3D effects are pretty obvious, except that in the non-3D version, the ones that were filmed as bluescreen shots look absolutely horrible, while the non-bluescreen ones just look silly. In one shot, a chunk of a submersible boat actually disappears before our eyes. I can only assume it didn't look that way in the 3D version, or they never would have left the shot in.Criticizing the plot seems almost beside the point. I mean, yet another huge killer shark (this makes number 3!) shows up, this time in Florida, where former two-time huge-killer-shark-attack victim Mike Brody just happens to be working at Sea World? Give me a break.I can't imagine why the Sea World people thought this was a good idea. The movie is atrocious, and makes Sea World look just awful in every possible way. On the other hand, if the movie had been really good, it would have made Sea World look like a terrifying place where visitors can easily become a shark's dinner. The idea behind this truly escapes me.I have to admit that the cable-TV version I watched was even worse than it had any right to be, since the filmmakers' incompetence was at least tripled by a horrible videotape transfer, appalling sound, and perhaps the worst pan-and-scan I have ever encountered. "},{"Title":"Fairly descent sequel.","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film could have been better. The special effects were pretty bad, Especially when it came to the shark in a few scenes. The suspence pretty much kept it together. And Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong acted pretty well that carried most of the film. Son of Martin Brody, who is all grown up. Mike Brody(Dennis Quaid) and girlfriend Kathryn Morgan(Bess Armstrong) run an Water Amusment Park. But Mike soon discover that the another great white shark causes terror in the park. An okay film. Which the francise should have with this sequel. "}{"Title":"More Terror From the Ocean!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        Our story begins in Florida at Sea World, the world's largest marine park. Everybody was very excited because soon Sea World's newest attraction, Undersea Kingdom, which were four plexiglass tunnels that go 40 feet under the water so tourists can get a look at marine life up close, would be opening soon. The park's owner, Calvin Bouchard, was also excited that Australian governor Philip Fitzroyce was visiting. The only problem was a faulty sea gate in back and foreman Michael Brody (the son of former Amity police chief Martin Brody) looked on. His girlfriend, Kathryn Morgan, was Shamu's trainer. Later, Mike's brother Sean came in to help. Mike introduced him to one of his friends, Kelly, and the two just hit it off. That night, a crew member, Shelby Overman, went under the water to try and fix the gate when suddenly he was attacked by...Yes, a shark! Two bumbling coral thieves were also attacked by the shark.       In the morning, Mike Brody, along with Mrs. Overman wonder what became of Shelby so Mike and Kathryn take a small submarine down to look for him and are nearly attacked by a shark. Luckily, it was two dolphins to the rescue. When they surface, Mike and Kathryn tell Calvin about the shark. Kathryn thought they should capture it and put it in captivity but Philip thought they should kill it on camera and get media attention. Calvin sided with Kathryn so they successfully caught the shark!       Next day marked the opening of Undersea Kingdom! Tourists from all around came to see it. They also came to see the shark, who soon died. That shark was actually a baby Great White, which meant it's mother, Mama Jaws, 35 feet of terror, was close by. She found her way into the park and proceeded to attack every human she could get her jaws on. She even tried to get the people in the Undersea Kingdom, so when they tried to escape, the safety doors closed, trapping them down there with limited air. Philip tried to get Mama Jaws to go out the gate, but he was sadly attacked. Mike and Kathryn worked hard to free the trapped people and all seemed well again, until Mama Jaws actually crashed through the glass window to the control room, flooding it. Just then, Mike and Kathryn noticed Philip's corpse sticking out Mama Jaws' mouth, so thinking quick, Mike managed to pull the pin on the grenade Philip was holding and KABOOM! In an explosion of blood and body parts, Mama Jaws was gone for good. Mike and Kathryn surface in triumph.        What can I say? Jaws 3 is the worst in the series. It was a real groaner! I liked Jaws 1. I liked Jaws 2 even better, but Jaws 3, ugh! It was a good idea, though, but it just didn't play well. Bad acting from all except Louis Gossett Jr., he was pretty good and Lea Thompson was a real hottie! I hear Jaws 3's sequel, Jaws The Revenge, was even worse, although I haven't seen it yet. Jaws 3 was originally in 3-D, so the 3-D effects look stupid now that it's pressed down to 2-D video version. Anyway, in conclusion, even diehard Jaws fans should skip this one! I don't strongly recommend Jaws 3!- "},{"Title":"A good Jaws sequel","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  No you're not seeing things. That's right I said this film was a good Jaws sequel.The 3D effects? What was the point in this crap? This film would have been better without this 3D crap!What surprised me about this film was that is had good suspense and had a few good jump scares. Like the part when they're in the tunnel or the glass smashing bit(obviously the influence for a scene in Deep Blue Sea (1999))!The rubber shark actually looked good for a film in the 80's.The plot is a baby shark is captured by Sea World and it dies. Then it's 40 foot mother comes along! Things then start going bad!I liked this film but even if I didn't I would have been thankful this film was made because certain films I like wouldn't have been made such as Shark Attack 2 and Deep Blue Sea. 6 or 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Oh no!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  * 1/2Starring Dennis Quaid, Lea Thompson, and Louis Gossett Jr.Another big shark decides its her trun to start terrorizing Seaworld and Superquaid comes to save the day.  The movie series has sloped downhill ever since Jaws 2 and now this is a real stinker. "},{"Title":"I liked it very much!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was very cool to me when i saw it for the first time,as a matter of fact my dad bought me the soundtrack of it and loved it too,at the time i was like 6 or 7 and we saw it on 3-d on a movie theater,I wa sreally amazed at some scenes and some others i just quite did´t understood them. I´ve watched jaws 3-d now as an adult and i still love some scenes and it´s soundtrack that as a matter of fact is very rare to find,some guy recorded it to me,and i´ll thank him all my life,See Jaws 3-d and have a good time with it,it´s worth a look,not scary but entertaining,The bad thig is that Roy Scheider is not in it and as a matter of fact there´s no one from the last 2 movies,Louis Gosset Jr. does a great job and the rest of the cast is o.k,Dennis Quaid is o.k but too young to take the lead on this movie,it was just too much for him. I´ll give it a fair 9 out of 10 on JAWS sequels.  "},{"Title":"Blaaagghhhh","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"        (contains spoilers) After seeing the first Jaws film, I personally wondered who would be stupid enough to not see it. After seeing the second one, I was a little disappointed, but I still enjoyed better than other films I'd seen.      Then I saw this movie-if you want to call it that. What I would call this piece of garbage is a waste of film and a major waste of a good idea. Deep Blue Sea illustrates the idea of sharks attacking an underwater facility much better than Jaws 3-and I hated Deep Blue Sea anyway.     Here's what happens. A huge theme park is about to open, and its main attraction is an undersea kingdom where people go to see fish and reefs (Like we've never heard that before). Soon, though, the doors to the undersea kingdom are mysteriously opened, and guess what happens to be in the area and swim inside? A harmless little sea otter? No. A shark! Soon afterward (after skipping sensual activity involving mike and shawn brody with their girlfriends) the shark is killing everybody in sight, but then mike's girl decides to capture the thing and keep it in captivity. Sounds great, huh? NOT! Soon, the shark somehow dies (go figure) and then before we're aware of anything else, another one (the first shark's mother) is attacking the undersea kingdom and destroying everything!     There are three major things that I thought could have made this movie much better the story, the characters, and the shark itself. The story was amazingly lame. It doesn't even take us back to Amity, and that was the highlight of the first two films. Even though it was probably a good idea to change the story and not just keep having the same plot over and over and over that the shark comes in, kills people, then Martin Brody (who was mysteriously absent from this film) destroys it, they shouldn't have started a whole new setting with new characters. And that leads me into the second part the characters. The first film had three stars playing great roles Robert Shaw, Richard Dreyfuss, and Roy Scheider as Quint, Hooper and Brody. As the second Jaws came about, only Scheider returned in the trio of great actors. And by the third movie he was gone. The only good actor in this movie was Dennis Quaid as Mike Brody. Tchh...and the last part was the rubber-I mean great white shark. But seriously, it looked so stupid I couldn't believe it. The bad shark in the first Jaws was ok, because they didn't have the special effects that we do today. But eight years later, technology had improved, but they still only used the same shark robot. Horrible. My lowest recommendations * out of *****. "},{"Title":"Jaws at seaworld","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok its like this; i love Jaws and i am a big fan of the movies so of course i was pleased with the third movie.If you are going to watch this movie make sure you dont watch the newer version of the VHS, because the movie actually got some cool 3d scenes but they are not longer there in the newer version of the VHS. I am not sure about the DVD edition actually. So whats the plot then? Well its the basics, a great white gets into seaworld (which is kind of strange because Sea World is a competitor of Universal Studios Florida....) And Mike Brody happends to work as an marine biologist at Seaworld, and together with his brother the Brody's comes face to face with just another great white again.... And when the shark is chought and used as a tourist attraction at Sea world, its mother (a huge great white) is there for revenge. How about the effects then? It's still another good old bruce back again! And as i told you some 3d effects are pretty cool. But i have to actually warn you that the grand-finale is... bad... D well watch for yourself then. "},{"Title":"The good and the bad","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 is a case of the good and the bad.The good is decent performances from Dennis Quaid,Bess Armstrong,Louis Gossett Jr,John Putch,Lea Thompson,and Simon MacCorkindale.The bad is the direction,which should have been better from Joe Alves;the script,which was strangly crummy,from the likes of Gottlieb and Matheson;some of the special effects,which were cheesy at times;the music,which sounds as though it were transplanted from a nad '70s AIP or Corman flick;MINOR SPOILER-and MacCorkindale still in the shark's mouth for Quaid to pull the pin on his grenade.It's still fairly watchable,though. 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but not good","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 (aka Jaws 3-D) was best viewed in the theater in 1983 with a pair of 3D glasses.  Having not seen this movie on the big screen, I try and watch this film without picking on its poor visual FX.  Jaws 3 could have been a good movie had more time been spent on the script instead of 3D effects. But the sad looks (and sound, is it burping?) of the shark (which doesnt have much of a role until the end) and poorly put together cast made this movie a low in the series.  Not as bad as Jaws The Revenge, but not as good as Jaws 2. "},{"Title":"STAY OUT OF THE WATER","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I REPEAT, STAY OUT OF THE WATERExcuse my expression of sarcasm here. JAWS 3-D is just another sad sequel which brings deep shame to the first. The shark looks like a toy shark made from piles of scrap from a nearby junk yard. The acting is terrible. The shark rampages in a Sea World park. It lacks the hero Officer Brody from the original and the second. It also lacks a decent plot. Why on Earth did these screen writers ever come up with such garbage for a movie?4/10 "},{"Title":"3 for Third-Dimensional Effort","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I give this one 2 points for its narrative attempt at trying to make it real, and one point for the filmmakers' truly laudable 'Efforts.'Four generations of special-effects technology have already passed since J3 was made (maybe more... it was first released in theaters almost twenty-years ago), and the viewer simply can't get over its bad chroma-key mini-sub, cheesy 3-D props, et al.However, like most badly executed thrillers with substandard eye-candy, J3 has a worthy message for all of us Try to bottle Nature in an attractive Theme Park package, and nature will get back at you in a deadly, often gruesome way.Most interesting here are the two-dimensional, stock characters.  They surprise us in how they eventually evolve as the story comes to its inevitable conclusions...What we may initially perceive as the secondary Villain (the manager of this aquatic theme park, Calvin), turns out to be just an ordinary person at a loss for words, and tries his best to save the endangered tourists trapped underwater.  Unlike the previous two films (in which we're subjected to the pig-headed-ness of one dollar-hungry Mayor), Calvin made me laugh when I realized his character was just all attitude and 'talk.'  He is speechless when everybody realizes they have a serious situation on their hands 35 feet of man-eating death!The heroes (God save what's left of their present acting careers!) also prove brave and honorable.My favorite character, however, was the calm and rational female tour guide that succeeded in 'tranquilizing' the trapped visitors until rescue divers could successfully bail them out.  Here you have this short lady telling the much taller adults and children to conserve their energy and air, so that escape seems all the more possible.Brief Review J2 was pretty much along the same lines as its original... except here we have a regatta of mostly teens and twenty-somethings trying to stay afloat, and the shark in question keeps getting bigger by the time we reach J4.J4 stinks and sinks!  Pray that someday we'll all be allowed to go back to our beaches without the likes of Michael Caine and Lorraine Gary polluting our oceans.  These landlubbers belong either on the Broadway stage or beside their mogul husbands, sitting quietly counting their box-office money.See Jaws 3.  If anything, it's great watching this truly unique aquatic show, where 'red popcorn' goes flying off into the audience. "}{"Title":"Just because it was in 3-D doesn't mean it was very good","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The second sequel to Spielberg's 1975 horror/suspense masterpiece JAWS, JAWS 3 shifts the mayhem away from Amity Island to the Sea World resort in Florida.  But in the tradition of a lot of Hollywood sequels, this third big fish entry is even more ludicrous than the second, and of course nowhere near as believably frightening as the first.Dennis Quaid stars as Mike Brody, who is now employed at Florida's Undersea Kingdom.  His younger brother Sean (John Putch) has the same problems with hydrophobia that their father once had, a fear that is amply justified when he goes to visit Quaid in Florida, and a shark enters the park's submarine tubes, killing three employees before being anaesthetized by Quaid and the park's chief itchycologist (Bess Armstrong).  What neither they nor the park's manager (Louis Gossett Jr.) know is that its mother is coming for its young one.  The result is the expected panic and a shark destruction scene that tops the one in JAWS 2 by leaps and bounds for its sheer ludicrousness.Even though it was originally shown in 3-D, JAWS 3 still isn't very good.  Sure, it has Quaid, Armstrong, Gossett, and even an early appearance by Lea Thompson.  But all of that goes for naught because of the stiff direction of Joe Alves (the production designer on the first two films, and associate producer on JAWS 2) and the unusually lame script by Richard Matheson (of DUEL and Twilight Zone fame) and Carl Gottlieb (who co-wrote the first two movies).  Many of the effects are pretty good, and the acting is fair.  Otherwise, however, JAWS 3 is a watchable film and nothing more than that. "},{"Title":"cheese","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I like this film..however more from a personal perspective...the shark looks pretty bad in this film......but the story isnt too bad...I wish I could have seen this one in 3-d when it came out...but was only able to see it on video....this doesnt have the luster of the two previous films..but the setting was cool, in the park! Jurassic Park with Sharks!!!this one is good, if you look at it as a fun movie...simple "},{"Title":"Like a car wreck... Horrible, but you have to look!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was pleased that I saw this film on television and didn't have to pay for it.  I want to know how he swallowed Simon McKorkindale, washed him down with Lou Gossett's nephew, but kept Simon lodged in his teeth with a hand grenade clutched in his cold, dead hand. What, was he a piece of spinach? (1/10) "},{"Title":"I Liked it...","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't understand why people attack this movie. The acting was fine. The SFX and directing are obviously not going to be as great as the original because there is no Spielburg. The shark in my opinion looked good enough. Too many people watched this movie expecting it to by like Jaws (1975). If you lower your standards, this movie is very entertaining. 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Worst of the Jaws'","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  To any other Jaws fans out there who haven't seen this film - don't waste your time! After all the accurate details of the first Jaws, this film is pathetic in comparison. For some reason the shark has the ability to swim backwards, among other things. I'm glad Roy Sheider got out while he could, as after Jaws 2 they just go down. See how long you can last through this film before turning it off! "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The third installment of Jaws which was titled Jaws 3-D contains some errors.  First of all I cannot understand why it is called 3-D I heard that the movie was 3-D only in theaters which is stupid the movie is only out in theaters for about a month or so.  I was not alive to see it in theaters so I bought the video 10 years after it came out and I was convinced that it was a 3-D film.  However the movie wasn't bad it continues the adventure of a family that is attacked by a fatal shark.  The plot was good and the casting was fair but I began to laugh when I heard a shark roar under water like something from Jurrasic Park.  This film is a complete joke compared to the first and second but is definitely worth watching if you like these movies.  Most people should pretend that there are only three Jaws films instead of four because the next sequel is mostly a spoof of the others. "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie had quite a few bads parts, but it also had quite a few good parts. This movie had good music. I admired the way they did the music. Pretty good. I liked the part of the movie where the shark is inches away from a group of girls water skiing. That's something you wouldn't expect. But the thing that bothered me about that part was, why didn't the shark kill any of them? The shark is inches away from them and he doesn't kill them? I don't understand that. Anyway, the movie wasn't terribly good. I mean, you don't often see Dennis Quaid in a role like this. He did quite good as Mike Brody. There are many parts of this movie that could've been better though. I can say one thing, very bad ending! Sheesh! It would've been better if the shark came through the front door or something! "},{"Title":"The title should have need kept as Jaws 3 People 0","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie once, and it did seem more of a parody of Jaws. While not in sequence with everything else, I thought the ending was far too cheesy and happy for a monster movie. The film ends with a dolphin flying over some one's head, much like Free Willy. The special effects were rather sad. In one scene an underwater observatory of some sort bursts open when the fake looking shark bumps into it. In my opinion, that just perfectly proves my point. "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Even as a kid when you can watch crap and not notice I still was bored with Jaws 3. There's somewhat of a plot involving Sea World and a killer shark terrorizing that. Something floods and tons of people are trapped and it's up to Dennis Quaid and Louis Gosset Jr. to save the day. Absolutely lame. no stars "},{"Title":"Good but not great sequel that is far too often maligned","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 is not an awful movie as so many snobbish would-be critics contend. For an awful movie try something like Plan 9 From Outer Space or Howling 2. Certainly, it isn't a great film like the original Jaws, but it is what I consider a decent sequel and an enjoyable movie that works and that is much better than much of what passes for good movies, presently.Although the basic premise of a monster eating people is extremely old, I think the plot formed around this idea is rather clever and intriguing - a great white breaking into Sea World.Many of the film's critics bash the film for the unrealistic scenario of having a mother Great White follow its baby and seek revenge for the baby's death, and by criticizing it thus, they are showing their own stupidity.If such critics actually spent some time paying attention to the film instead of trying to feel superior, they would realize that the mother shark breaks into Sea World and gives birth there. Also, the mother completely ignores the baby (realistically). It isn't the baby's capture and death that sets the mother off - it's the decision to shut off the water pumps that provide it with its oxygen supply in the place where it was lurking that causes it to finally start exploring the park.Also, the special effects are damn good for an 80's flick and are much better than lame CGI in modern films. Sure, CGI has the capability of being realistic, but that capability hasn't been reached yet.This is a fine film that deserves more credit than it is given. I only hope that its poor reputation doesn't prevent Universal from giving it a good DVD release. "}{"Title":"Shark threatens sea world.","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, right everyone seems to hate this film, but personally I loved it! Compared to 2 and 4 it had a really good plotline.  The shark was FAR more realistic than in jaws the revenge! It behaved like a real shark, it looked like a real shark. You can all say what you like but I myself know a great deal about sharks and I liked this movie alot.  Dennis Quaid was excellent.  It payed plenty of attention to the other Jaws movies unlike the revenge which to no notice what so ever of the other two sequels.I loved this film, especially after visiting sea world!!! I think that this is a great film, realistic and it makes you jump! Think what you like, but I'd recommend this to anyone! "},{"Title":"At least Bess Armstrong looks cute...","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  *  (of ****)In the summer of 1983 I was 21 and I was at a lousy job with only one day off for a vacation! Guess what I did? I went to see the new JAWS film...JAWS 3-D (and let me tell you, the movie was just as poor in three dimensions).Bess Armstrong was sure cute, and I had recently liked Louis Gossett, Jr. in AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN so I figured he might add something to the mix. No such luck. Was he the same man who won the Academy Award?I was shocked to discover that legendary sci-fi master Richard Matheson had a hand in this story! It looked more like he used his feet.Seriously, this movie is a badly scripted piece of nothing that comes off as stupid and inane, and the shark effects get worse with every installment. JAWS is one of those great films which never should have had a sequel at all. It's hard to decide if this film is worse than JAWS THE REVENGE. Maybe...maybe not...If you want to see a similar and more worthy movie, take a look at 1955's REVENGE OF THE CREATURE.  "},{"Title":"Suggested by the novel by Peter Benchley(!!!)","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3-D is a trashy second sequel to Jaws that's more likely to turn viewers' stomachs over rather than keep them on the edge of their seat. The premise sees biologists Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong capturing a great white shark to hold at Florida's Seaworld.  However, the manager (Louis Gosset Jr.) makes a careless decision and the shark dies.  Within hours, the shark's mammoth-sized mother has arrived on the scene for bloodthristy revenge.  Dan, on the previous page, clearly stated the mystery of Carl Gottleib, co-writer of Jaws and Jaws II, coming up with this idea.  Actually, it probably seemed a good idea at the time which explains the presence of such established stars like Quaid and Gosset Jr.  But, it turned out to be a thumbs-down.  The film is daft and unexciting and relies more on blood and guts coming out of the screen than on suspense.  The shark is bigger but no match for the two that took residence at Amity, it looks fake, roars and swims (or rather crawls) at a snails-pace and misses out on most of its potential-victims due to its clumsiness.  But, of course, its just a model and so the direction is really to blame.  Fortuanately, its quite fast-paced so watching it doesn't really do any harm.  Its just a big shame that Joe Alves has taken things so far off the rails.  "},{"Title":"very gruesome","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I keep seeing all these reviews about how this movie sucks. Well first of all, grow up people. Or at least try to use some semblance of punctuation.Anyway, I just thought I would point out some good points about this movie. First off all, its just a shark movie, so let's not take it too seriously anyway. And secondly, the scene where the cocky shark photographer gets eaten whole in the filtration pipe was about the nastiest death scene in any shark film I have ever seen. We get to see him chewed up from inside the shark. Just hearing the sound of grinding bone and his moans of pain... it gives me chills. So despite being a silly movie, I give it credit for being delightfully disgusting.  "},{"Title":"Hard to take seriously, but still fun.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Here is where the Jaws franchise takes a downward plunge. The story in this one is that Dennis Quaid plays the now adult son of Roy Scheider, whom played the police chief in the first two films. Quaid takes a job working at Sea World in Orlando, and begins to strike up a romance with Bess Armstrong, a dolphin trainer and biologist at the water park. A maintenance worker gets mangled and killed in a late night attack by a baby great white. When the young shark is discovered, it is captured with plans to exploit it for more tourist dollars. Then the baby dies. And momma gets ticked. Very ticked. When Momma shows up, I have to say that the deaths are done well. Especially the poor guy whom gets chewed up, and we see (and hear) the carnage from WITHIN momma shark's mouth.The rest of the movie follows Quaid, Armstrong, and a few other noteworthy thespians such as Lou Gosset Jr., and Lea Thompson, as they try to outwit the momma shark's vengeful streak. This movie was released in the middle of the 3-D revival of 1983, and several scenes are effective (the floating arm comes to mind), but many are just window dressing (the submersibles), or just painfully goofy (the shark approaches the camera head on, but DOES NOT swish it's tail back and forth as it swims. The shark looks like a plastic toy moving on a track!)Just forget the earlier two films, and just turn your brain on auto-pilot, and you'll enjoy this film just fine. I just have one question, to anybody whom may know... When I first saw the film in the mid 80's on BETAMAX (!!!), the title logo of JAWS III was animated in a cool red and yellow 1950's scifi lettering style, and they chomped at the viewer to the accompaniment of a rocket-like swooshing sound and a loud CHOMP!!! Viewing a videocassette made in the mid 90's, the swooshing sound is there, the CHOMP sound effect is there, but the cool 3-D animated logo is gone. It is replaced by a still frame of Jaws III. That opening gripped me when I was a kid... where did it go?     "},{"Title":"not another one!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The shark is back. This time in Sea World. Its Dennis Quaid and Lea Thompson to the rescue! This film really lacks the drama featured in the first two films. It tries hard, but falls flat on its face. And the shark! It could really use another paint job. Try burning half its face off.  "},{"Title":"I (sadly) enjoy watching all four Jaws Movies","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws is the best movie ever made.  Jaws was good because it had a great story, a great director, a great cast who portrayed real 3-Dimensional characters. Jaws 3 had some nice actors, but that's where it ends.  Jaws attacking Sea World is a cute Idea but it wasn't executed too well.  I have to admit though, that I love to watch all four of the Jaws movies.   Some one please explain to me why the newer the Jaws movie the worse the shark looked.  The shark in Jaws 3 looked liked it was carved out of oak, it didn't move much it just rammed things.   However the part where the shark chases Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong on the dolphins was priceless.  "},{"Title":"Love those death scenes","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, so the script was laughable at times, but the story had some consistency. Let's ignore the behavior of the shark. This is Jaws. The shark always does strange things in these movies. But what made me buy this movie is the graphic nature of the deaths in this movie. Especially when the load mouth science guy in the red diving suit gets eaten whole. The way we were inside the shark as the guy gets chewed up, and the sounds of him being eaten alive... that still makes me cringe every time I see it. That's what keeps me coming back to these kind of movies, the violence. Call me shallow, but I like it.  "},{"Title":"A terrible disappointment","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My first thought watching this movie was, Where on earth is Roy Scheider (Captain Brody) and the Brody family?  I mean come on guys, the whole theme of Jaws is about a shark who is bent on an evil nerve and terrorizes a specific family - the Brody.  None of them appear in this movie.  And what's with the water park?  Even the supposed 3-D effect didn't reach most audiences since no one has the glasses anymore.  The movie brought in some good talent like Lea Thompson - but sorry producers, it wasn't enough in considering you missed the whole point of what Jaws is all about! "},{"Title":"I for one, liked it.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although this film is on the 100 bottom list, I believe it has many enjoyable features. True, some stuff is old but the effects are very good. And there's not as much down time as there is in the first two. This time, the shark is at a place like Sea World and wreaks havoc. Sounds dull, but I admit, this film is quite entertaining. 8 out of 10 stars for me. "}{"Title":"I for one, liked it.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although this film is on the 100 bottom list, I believe it has many enjoyable features. True, some stuff is old but the effects are very good. And there's not as much down time as there is in the first two. This time, the shark is at a place like Sea World and wreaks havoc. Sounds dull, but I admit, this film is quite entertaining. 8 out of 10 stars for me. "},{"Title":"A big shark. A bad movie in the series.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The shark in this movie was pretty big. Pretty much as big as the shark in Jaws. When the shark was about to bust through the glass at the end you could easily tell that the shark was fake. EASILY. Why couldn't the mother shark have been the main shark the whole time?! The baby shark didn't have much to do with the killings in this movie. Why couldn't we have seen the mother shark more?!! Why couldn't this movie take place in Amity?! Why couldn't this movie have had Chief Brody?! Not quite a good sequel after Jaws 2. Although this movie would've been a good movie if it wasn't in the Jaws series and didn't have any of the characters from the other Jaws movies in it. Not a bad movie, but not a good sequel.  "},{"Title":"What a pile","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You wanna see a movie that is the equivalent of being broad sided across the head by an ironing board? Look no further. This movie is such a chock that you won't believe that the creators weren't dragged out into the street and gunned down after premiere night. Still, Quaid is cool and he does what he can with the little that he's given to work with. My personal favorite scene here is when Simon So British MaCorkindale is given the stepchild treatment by Mr. Tiburon. I'll bet you've never seen anything so preposterous. This guy's bones crackle like a stepped-on bag of chips. I'm not even gonna give a rating to this mahoganous chock of (insert sound of x-treme diahrrea here). "},{"Title":"Exhilarating trash!  A gaudy mess with a great finale!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Despite the ignorant rant proclaiming 3-D as a horrible concept that is now laughed upon, a cleverly executed 3-D film is not only one of the most exciting cinematic experiences ever, but also one of the most popular. Note the meteoric increase in the usage of 3-D in theme parks.  Jaws 3-D, while not the best 3-D presentation, was an amazing sight to behold theatrically as every object imaginable, from viscera to killer whales, was thrust at the audience in widescreen.  Youngsters in the audience even tried to push away an approaching fish-head and inadvertently hit the patrons in front of them. The impact of Jaws 3-D has been greatly diminished by home video and the film's strengths are all but lost as the 3-D cinematography has been converted for regular viewing and cropped to fit the TV screen.  All that remains is the worst aspects of the film and Jaws 3-D is indeed horrible. A hideous mix of appalling dialogue, torturous music, and garish special-effects that would not appear even remotely real to a toddler. Yet, the film is a triumph.  A trash masterwork of misguided imagination, heedless financing, and erroneous melodrama.  If a film could ever be obnoxiously over-the-top and enjoyable for just that reason, Jaws 3-D is that film!  The film's entire premise is shockingly weak, unbelievable and laughable.  The music is pretentious and annoyingly repetitive, with the same basic theme duplicated throughout the entire film with little or no alteration.  The special-effects are flamboyant, fake, and insanely inconsistent.  The shark changes size whenever it's convenient for the filmmakers, varying from a plausible size of 20-feet to a ridiculous size of 35-feet.  The shark is extremely slow moving, growls, and has a large fleshy appendage in its mouth that appears to be a tongue. All this despite the fact that sharks don't have vocal cords or tongues.  In the film, a character somehow eludes the shark's oversized plastic teeth and is subsequently pulsated to death with the tongue.  We see this scene alongside the victim from inside the shark's mouth while the soundtrack plays a strange cacophony of music, crunching noises, intestinal bellows and what sounds like moans of orgasm.  If this moronic scene sounds tolerable, Jaws 3-D is a film to be enjoyed.  A film filled with many more inane, crass visual gags optimized by the 3-D medium, such as floating severed extremities, spear-guns, hypodermic needles, or mechanical eels.  The dialogue - whether uttered by white-trash or first-class performers such as Louis Gossett Jr. or Bess Armstrong - is always painful and most of the actors deserve better.  The film does however, pull out all the stops for an impossible finale that is not only the most competent scene in the film but also, dare I say, inspired.  Jaws 3-D is pure kitsch, a howlingly bad 98 minutes of absurd action sequences, shoddy special-effects and tawdry scenery.  If the preceding sentence exemplifies all that you enjoy about trash cinema, then by all means see Jaws 3-D! "},{"Title":"Flaws 2-D","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have to admit that when I was about nine this film scared me to death. But now, lacking a nine-year-old's vivid imagination and high susceptibility to being scared, I can't see anything special here.  The scene where the shark is lured into the filtration pipe and crunches Simon MacCorkindale is still fun to watch if only for the lovely sound effects.The strong cast is seriously let down by a script that goes far too far beyond the realms of suspension of disbelief.  A 25-foot Great White in the first film is conceivable, but a slow-moving 35-footer takes all the scariness away from being a Great White.  Also, a death count of 3 (4 including the pre-credits fish) is a bit disappointing for 'New depths of terror'.The 3-D effects inevitably look rubbish on the small screen and the stop motion miniatures are shocking (The final explosion is still satisfying despite the slightly naff re-formation of the jaws).  It was nice of the shark creators to try and get the protruding jaws effect of a real great white but it just doesn't work and simply looks like they forgot to attach the teeth to the shark.As far as the series goes, the film's a real disappointment but it's not frustratingly unwatchable.  To experience true cinematic torture  along the lines of Batman and Robin, see the sequel. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3D was great....but as Jaws 3 it ain't....","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  JUST like the Batman movies, I love the Jaws movies simply because they are Jaws movies, no matter how bad they are. The original is a masterpiece, the fourth is very underrated if not a classic by any means, the second is very enjoyable if you only watch the bits set at sea or on the beach, but this one is by far the worst. I can't believe any movie with that music and a shark could not be scary in the least. The Jaws great white is the most terrifying monster in cinema history - even worse tahn the xenomoprhs from the Aliens films and The Predator from Predator (1987)  - but it just doesn't scare here. But since this was made for 3D cinemas, the normal TV and video version can't really be criticised. It's like recording a video game and then showing it in the cinema - it's in the wrong place where it was never intended to be. Therefore, Jaws 3 doesn't work. But you can't blame the makers. Jaws 3D worked in the cinema, and that's what they made it for. If you're a Jaws fan like me, you'll have to get it. At least you can imagine how good it was in the 3D cinemas. And the awesome video cover art is the best of all the Jaws films. "},{"Title":"Geez....","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One would like to think that 8 years after the first Jaws (obviously a great movie) that advances in movie-making and special effects technology would mean that the sharks in Jaws 3-D would look even more real than those in the first two films.  Unfortunately... didn't happen.  Aside from the fact that talented actors and actresses like Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong and Louis Gossett Jr. appear to be desperately trying to make a really bad movie at least average, the horribly cheap special effects (i.e. the sharks) just make this one stink on ice.  It's really too bad.  This could have been (and should have been) a really fun movie. "},{"Title":"It'll never be good again","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK, this movie really does suck, but I have to stick up for the 3-D effects. I actually saw this in the theater with 3-D glasses. This was back when 3-D was making a minor comeback... Friday 13 part 3, mailstrom, etc. had come out, and Jaws 3-D probably had the best effects of them all. During the underwater scenes with fish swimming around it looked like the whole theater was an aquarium. The water splashes were awesome. My favorite part was when they blew the shark up, part of his guts flew close to your face, spun around a while, then flew over your head. I wouldn't rent this one or even watch it on TV, but it was cool in the theater. These days, though, you would be better off going to an 3-D IMAX movie.  "},{"Title":"Laughs vs. Screams  Laughs win","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There is something inherently terrifying about sharks that make even the worse shark movie yield a few horror moments.  And there are some spooky moments in Jaws 3-D.  But there's just so much goofy plotting, bad characters, and the whole intrusive 3-d gimmick that those few moments are overwhelmed and you just can't take the whole thing seriously enough to get involved, much less get scared.  At best, you're reacting to the occasional, Ooh got you! jump-out-and-scare stuff.  I'll be glad to stop by your house and jump out at you with a knife and a mask  you'll be just as impressed. This is the kind of movie friends of actors Dennis Quaid, Louis Gossett Jr., and Lea Thompson probably show at parties to mercilessly tease them.  Bess Armstrong (High Road to China) and Simon McCorkindale (Manimal - 'nuff said?) probably consider Jaws 3-D a high point in their careers, though. "},{"Title":"Where's Brody when we needed him?","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Just when you thought it was safe to go to Sea World.... Oh, never mind! JAWS was an excellent franchise that had one thing in common a shark eating people! The tradition remains in this third installment, but something is terribly wrong here! Universal had a bad pre-Y2K glitch when they released HALLOWEEN 3 with different elements not pertaining to the original series. Later, the new JAWS movie was put out only to convince folks that it wasn't the same thing again. The result probably was beyond disappointment.Here's what I believe happened to JAWS 3. Alan Landsburg Productions actually created a killer shark movie not relating to the JAWS theme. Universal had a past history of suing film studios in releasing rip-offs similar to their patented work. Letting the giant movie studio release ALP's production was obviously the safest bet in avoiding a lawsuit. A few people may have remembered a poverty row studio called Film Ventures International, who released a movie in '82 called GREAT WHITE for about a single weekend, only to have banned future showings as a result of a court order involving plagiarism.My advice to movie buffs is to remain committed to the original JAWS film released in 1975. The sequels bare no resemblance to Steven Spielberg's art of moviemaking.  "}{"Title":"What a laugh!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I get a huge kick out of watching this ode to bad filmmaking.  The funniest parts are the floating fish head at the beginning (never fails to elicit laughter from me), and the shark teeth at the end.  Also funny are the ultra-cheesy special effects.  And one can't help thinking what was going through the minds of the cast as they were making this stink bomb.  "},{"Title":"Cornball at its best","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is the farthest thing from scary that you can get. It's absolutely hilarious. The best part is when the tour guide is leading the tourists out of the doomed underwater tunnels. A little girl says, Daddy look at the big fish! To which he replies, Holy Sh-t! The special effects are extremely fake. But the movie is a good laugh.  "},{"Title":"Fittingly for a shark film, this bites the big one.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When a film's only redeeming feature is that it stars the lovely Lea Thompson, you know it's going to be terrible. Discarding with such fripperies as subtlety, nuance or characterization, the film meanders along from one shark-chomping sequence to the next, much like a submerged version of a really bad knife-kill flick parody (the scene where MacCorkindale is throbbed to death after being swallowed whole by the beastie is particularly laughable). The fact that the 3D effects were abysmal didn't help matters much. Overall, worse than any flick seen on MST3K...but not as bad as Forrest Gump. Now *there* a film that gives me the creeps... "},{"Title":"Some Bad CGI","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The sons of police chief Brody must protect civilians at a Sea World theme park after a 35-foot shark becomes trapped in the park with them.Not surprisingly, the third installment is a far cry from the first film. You can use back special effects, terrible 3D, and even cast Dennis Quaid (a good choice), but you simply cannot turn a dud into a great film.Now, you know, it is still entertaining in its own way, and is no worse than the dozens (hundreds?) of shark films that have been made since. So I would not write it off completely. But by using the Jaws characters (very loosely) rather than starting from scratch does nothing to really help set this film apart. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3D 4/10","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This might be the first movie from the 1980's that I've seen use the 3D effect because when I watched Friday the 13th Part 3 it must have been a different version without it. Needless to say the 3D gimmick back then was even more of a hacky trick than it is today. At least in today's 2D versions, I can't tell where the 3D effects would be, unlike the corny scenes in Jaws 3 that are obviously filmed for 3D effect. I may have liked this film much better if this wasn't the case since it had loads of potential. Dennis Quaid as Michael Brody was tremendous and stood out in the film as a great lead actor. Bess Armstrong was pretty good too, otherwise the remaining supporting cast was bland.The plot was fair but the whole branding of SeaWorld kind of left a bad taste in my mouth. Considering SeaWorld is a corporation that at the time in the 1980's had a very likely chance of treating animals poorly. Just like in Part 2 with the sailing scenes, there was a lot of fluff scenes that was basically performances by the SeaWorld staff. A lot of the plot premises were too unbelievable and some of the decision making by the characters didn't make a whole lot of sense. The ending was by far the worst part of the movie, not because of the storyline but from the 3D filmmaking and terribly fake looking death scenes. If the film didn't have the 3D effect and let Dennis Quaid guide the movie through I'm sure it would have been as good as Jaws 2. "},{"Title":"Dead air- now in movie form!","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's amazing how tired a film series can become. Well, seeing as how this film is the third in a series all about the same exact thing, I'm surprised anyone decided to OK this one at all. Anyhow, a mere 8 years after the original Jaws scared the living you-know-what out of moviegoers, this bore fest was tossed in to theaters to milk the series of a few more bucks. The plot is exactly the same, only it takes place at Sea World, so we'll skip it. Not one of the cast members from the first two films showed up, but this was scripted by Carl Gottlieb, (original Jaws Screenwriter) ,and, for some peculiar reason, Richard Matheson. Dennis Quaid plays Michael Brody, the kid from the other movies (people age faster in sequel-land, I guess), and he is no substitute for Roy Scheider. Really, he's dweeby, unimposing, and an all around nice guy. The coolest stunt he does in the film is crash a golf cart. None of the other characters really left much of an impression on me either.The mechanical shark is as bad as in the first two films, but this time the film makers were dumb enough to show it all the time, showing just how fakey it is. At one point, it even crashes through the control room at Sea World, kind of like the Airplane in 1980's Airplane, only even funnier. There's a lot of showing the shark swimming around, but not much action, making it very tedious and boring. I only gave it 2 instead of one star because the make up effects on the mutilated dead guy they fish out of the tank, as well as a few of the 3-D effects looked pretty cool. Other than that, there's no reason to recommend this one. Stick with the classics. This ain't one of 'em. "},{"Title":"jaws 3","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Randy Quaid takes the lead this time,, Lea Thompson plays a supporting role along with Lou Gosset Jr.. as the sleezy owner of the Water Park. Both kids are all grown up now one works somewhere nowhere near water,, hmmm wonder why,, and the other, works in it all the time,, the dad now played by Randy Quaid is at it again hunting sharks,, as the greedy Water Park owner decides to have not 1 ladies and gentleman, but 2,, yes you heard me 2 great whites in captivity,, well they escape,, mate breed, and well you guessed it,, babies,, well one of the babies is killed and is put on display for everyone to see, well mommy and daddy great white don't take kindly to this,, and decide to go on a rampage and eat everything in site,,, go sharks. "},{"Title":"More sharks, more terror, almost all of it underwater than the original Jaws","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Actually, of course, this movie set up what I probably think an offspring of it not related to Jaws...Deep Blue Sea. Deep Blue Sea of course focuses on several ocean stowaways on a research lagoon where three captured sharks eventually go awry and end up as man-eating killers almost in the style of all of the Jaws movies. Jaws III is almost like that.It was of course the original Jaws where those who loved Jaws had seen how the movie ended....with a shark being blown up as a bullet pierces a compressed-air scuba canister thanks to Chief Brody's hail of bullets from a rifle from an Orca boat that was about to be completely sunk into nothing.Jaws III has a slight give-away in the middle of the movie where a visiting character with a UK accent shows how a rogue shark could be killed....by a nose bomb. Definitely this refers to how the original Jaws ended...with an explosion. I found out that this explosive device has a power nearly similar to an explosive force as a classic depth charge. Louis Gossett Jr. tells that guy never to attempt to set off such explosives in the lagoon that was going to be terrorized by a baby rogue shark (a 13-footer) which dies in captivity in the lagoon, hence infuriating the rogue shark's mother that enters the lagoon through a faulty gate; this shark, a 28- to 32-footer (definitely a Great White class), chases the path where the already-dead shark went inside the lagoon and terrorizes the lagoon for another meal and some more victims.Louis Gossett Jr. counters that these shark-killing explosives could destroy the acrylic material in the lagoon and destroy the lagoon itself. But of course, when the shark hits the windows of the main control room of the lagoon, flooding it, using the nose bomb was a last resort because before the last shark was bloodied to death by the explosion, it already ate up one of the main control employees of the lagoon.I had seen that one of the other actors was a marine biologist who had tried to care for the shark that was killed in captivity. She also had the difficult task to figure out one of the shark victims (the mother shark) who was floating lifelessly underwater in the lagoon...and had to identify it in the makeshift morgue as the dead body was revealed...in full view...with shark cut marks and, cut-off skin. I can remember the famous line she said...It was a shark! It was a shark...with a bite radius of about...a yard across! "},{"Title":"Jaws 3 mummy's gonna get ya","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3 good idea badly done i knew this film was Going to be bad when the opening music started seeing an eel get his tail bitten off just about said it allwe have a Baby Shark that gets in to sea world is caught dies in captivety and its mother seeks revenge now why they did not call this jaws 3 the Revenge now the cast Dennis Quaid as Michael Brody an o.k.Choice the rest very poor this is the reason why we do not need sequel after sequel it just gets ott "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Michael Brody and Sean Brody, the sons of former Amity police chief Martin Brody, work at Florida's Sea World, a seaside park run by Calvin Bouchard. Sean befriends Kelly Ann Bukowski, and Michael's girlfriend Kathryn Morgan is Sea World's head scientist who always works with Sea World's dolphins Cindy and Sandy. In its man-made lagoon, about 40 feet under the water, Sea World opens the Undersea Kingdom, a new set of underwater glass tunnels that have their own control room, and Calvin's friend Philip FitzRoyce is there to do some filming. When Sea World diver Shelby Overman vanishes, everyone is worried. Michael and Kathryn head into the water, where they find a baby great white shark and decide to bring it to Sea World to put it on display, but at Sea World, the baby shark dies. When Overman's body is found, Michael vomits when he sees it. Kathryn looks at the body and knows that the baby shark could not have been the shark that killed Overman, because the baby shark's bite radius is too small its 35-foot-long mother killed Overman. When Kathryn and Michael tell Calvin and Philip about the shark, they all try to evacuate the park, including the park's beach, as they try their best to protect Sea World's visitors from the shark.The series is starting to get a little silly now. I mean, the acting is messed up and the screenplay just is bad enough, however, the special effects of the shark are a little better than expected.Rated PG for Graphic Violence and Profanity. "}{"Title":"Don't bother buying any 3-D glasses","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A small resurgence in the popularity of three dimensional special effects prompted the release of this tame underwater adventure, the third in the Jaws series of films.Joe Alves stepped in as director and brought with him a whole new cast which included Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong, Lou Gosset Jnr and débutant Lea Thompson. This time the story revolved around a grown up Mike Brody, son of the Amity police chief who dealt with the terror in the first two films. Young Mike's love for the water has led him to create a huge underwater sea world which will be totally unsurpassed around the world. Things don't start off so good however, when a baby shark dies in captivity and its vengeful mom comes looking for justice.Yes the plot is completely lame and the end product likewise in a fishy tale that just isn't scary. The awful special effects don't help, and even the 3-D images on the big screen wouldn't have made much difference. Even the new faces don't add any spark.Don't bother buying any three-D glasses, Jaws 3-D is a real wash-up.Monday, June 27, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"A muddled, campy sequel.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My Take Suffers from horrible 3-D effects, this lame-brained sequel was actually quite amusing. (This is an extended version of the review I wrote on February 2007)JAWS goes from classic to just plain camp. JAWS 3-D is actually entertaining for more than just its campiness, but that's just generally why its mildly entertaining. Although this dreary series slowly hitting the dump, this one is actually quite a guilty pleasure. I've heard some pretty bad reviews about this sequel. That's simply too bad, I quite enjoyed this one, depending on how you view it. It has a real twist from the first two. This shark doesn't terrorize Amity like the first two. This one takes place in Sea World (not the one in Florida which we know and love). The shark is bigger than the usual and is wrecking havoc on a grand opening ceremony when her infant, who was captured and kept in the park, died recently. Now throw in some ridiculous scare tactics and it's an amusing film, granted not a great one, but certainly deserves even a little bit of merit. By the looks of it, it hardly bears resemblance to its predecessors, except that it features Mike Brody, played by Dennis Quaid. The film co-stars Louis Gossett Jr. giving an over-the-top performance, but as far as I can see he is the only good performer. The special-effects are terrible (not good then, just plain laughable now) but there are some really good moments and the ending with the shark is superb (even if the effects are amateurish even for 80's standards).Not as bad as they say, if only for its camp value. Watch out for that fake shark crashing through the glass! Rating ** out of 5. "},{"Title":"I'm a shark,hear my roar","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is like when National Geographic goes bad. There are just some things a shark can't do. And apparently, swimming is one of them. I suppose they made the shark out of rubber and put some wires on it or something. Yeah, like these actors would be missed.The story revolves around a couple of Brodys hanging out at Sea World (why do all these people keep getting jobs near water?). One day, the staff catches a shark and things begin to take a turn for the worse. The boss actually decides to just show this great white to everyone in some kind of pool surrounded with an ankle-high wall. I see nothing wrong with that apart from the fact that the shark still doesn't manage to kill anyone. A problem he suffers from the entire movie actually, you'd think giant sharks can outswim people but apparently not. This shark is pretty goddamn lazy. A bunch of people fall into the water right in front of him, they all make it. Unbelievable.Okay, I can't really be fair about this movie because I never watched the movie in 3D. But then again, I don't think it would have made much of a difference. Of course, seeing parts of sharks flying in your face is amusing but it gets old really fast. However, I still think this is the best Jaws-sequel, for the simple fact that I hated the others even more. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Sea World. And on the menu today is our guests!","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Michael Brody is all grown up and is now a park worker at Florida's Sea World with his marine biologist girlfriend Kathryn. The new man-made lagoon with its maze of underwater tunnels called the Undersea Kingdom is shortly to open, but before doing so a great white shark is caught in the lagoon and with some convincing; owner Calvin Bouchard sees it as an opportunity to generate some business for the park. So on the opening day a dead body of a missing worker is found, but Kathryn realises that it wasn't their great white which killed the man. It was it's mother who is approximately 35-foot long and is living unknowingly in the lagoon.Wow, what crap! Yeah it's bad, but despite the negative flack that this film always seems to cop; at least it's watchable trite. For me this is one big guilty pleasure and it's actually my favourite 'Jaws' sequel&#133; oh my! I think it was the last one I saw in the series (and Jaws the Revenge being the first&#133; ugh!) Well, the sequels are simply stinkers with the franchise turning into somewhat of a joke (thankyou Jaws The Revenge). But I thoroughly enjoyed this scratchy and quite corny flick. Actually, the concept for the film isn't too bad, but it's just the execution where it goes awry and the script is a bit of a groaner too. Well really, the rotten to the core special effects is what sticks out like a sore thumb, though it made it even more amusing in it's ineptness. That's because originally the film was released in 3D, but since the images are in 2D is looks quite bad and flat. Who knows the gimmick might have blown me away&#133; eh, probably not, but I still think that I would get a good laugh out of it. Well it would add more to the factor since the film is simply an unintentional comedy&#133; yeah comedy, because there isn't too much in the way of thrills. It was just too goofy to be effective with only one or two suspenseful spurts that will raise a sweat, but more so it's plain cringe-worthy and simply implausible.The useless screenplay is pretty thin and dramatically flat across the board, but I give them points for a change of scenery. The film's setting is perfect and it's a real change of pace. I don't know if you can actually call it Jaws' show, since it basically took every opportunity to promote Florida's Sea World, even if there was a shark on the loose eating guests. But it centres more about the park and disaster this whole mayhem plays on it, which in doing so makes us want more bang for our buck. The hysteria and shark attack scenes are reasonably quick flashes and just lacking the killer blow. But I didn't find it too much of a problem.But good gawd the shark looked terrifyingly&#133; horrid! Seeing a shark close up would be petrifying, but here that's not the case because this rubber, robotic clap-trap was totally unconvincing and incredibly overdone. We just see too much of it and I never knew sharks growl. Oh well, if you can't scare the audience at least you got to amaze them in some shape. It also surprisingly builds up an atmosphere when the uninvited guests go munching and the underwater scenes are done quite well. The time goes by quick enough even with some irreverent padding. But for some people I can see why think its dull and that's because of the lack of horrific terror. The slow-motion sequences were horrifying, though! The music score is simply unspectacular with the trivial main theme making the only progress. The acting seems to be torn to shreds by people, but I thought Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong, Louis Gossett Jr. and Simon MacCorkindale gave modest performances with weak characters.An entertaining B-flick that's not that particularly exciting, but it tried to be different and I still I don't think its that dire as a lot people make it out to be. I don't know if it would make the film any better being in 3D, but the novelty of it would have been interesting. "},{"Title":"What can I say I'm a Jaws junkie!","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3, the second sequel to a movie that didn't even need one. In theatres it was presented in glorious 3-D, but not for home video, nor is it shown in its original 2.351 aspect ratio, which sort of takes the fun out of this movie. But it still has its assets. Besides having a big cast, I can easily say that the mechanical shark in this installment is the best yet! First off, I liked how the eyes of this shark realistically rolled back white whenever it attacked its prey, just as real sharks' do. A very nice touch.I also noticed that the shark in this movie had a lot more attention paid to the working mechanics of its jaws. For instance, when a shark opens its mouth, its gums lower to the point that they look like they're going to fall right out of its mouth. You'd think something so noticeable would've been incorperated into the design of the mechanical shark in the the first Jaws movie. But it wasn't until Jaws 3 when that effect finally came into play. It was the first and only mechanical shark in the series that did that. It was also the only shark in the series that never stuck its head out of the water for more than a couple of seconds, which was more realistic than having a shark throw itself onto a boat, and stay there until someone slides into its mouth.Lastly, the shark's skin seems to have been perfected. It wasn't rubbery like the sharks in the first and second movie, and wasn't as rough as sandpaper like the one in the fourth Jaws. Its skin actually looked fleshy! Apart from the shark's super-slow speed, and the several instinces where we were obviously meant to see it in 3-D, this shark looked more real than all the other sharks in the series put together! The one thing that I couldn't get past with the shark in this movie was its size. Though it's true that all the sharks in the Jaws series were guilty of being overly large, 35 feet is ridiculous! And what better way to see this big female shark demonstrate her freakish size than by scooping a full grown man completely into her mouth, where he's repeatedly squeezed between her massive tongue and the roof of her mouth until he explodes! Though it was interesting to watch, and maybe even a little funny, it was clearly impossible.All in all, this movie just served to be campy fun, and will appeal to you if you enjoy movies like Anaconda, Lake Placid, Piranha, and Deep Blue Sea. However, if you're hoping for a movie that recaptures the fear of the original Jaws, than don't look any further than Jaws 2.......... "},{"Title":"Well, it was fun, but...","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I just watched this movie last night.I must say, the first hour of it is somewhat compelling. But the fact of the matter remains, I have been a big fan of sharks since I was about three years old, and what this film does is retain the shark physics very well. Shark behavior, on the other hand, is completely reversed (great whites only tend to go in for hit-and-run attacks) but that's really not the point of this film.What this movie is made for is purely entertainment. While the first Jaws had a tremendous amount of psychological tension, this film provides only death, death, death. More people are killed in this film than any other Jaws film. Not to mention that they made the shark the largest it could possibly be (35 ft). The 35 foot great white is as rare as fist-sized diamonds, but we see one in this film--thank God, though, for the size of the shark does save the film ever so slightly.The first hour of the film consists of tension regarding a smaller, ten foot long baby shark that is kept in captivity, being the only great white in such a state. Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong provide the leading roles here, and they are both incredibly good actors that have been given an incredibly mundane script. However, as a shark fan, I recommend this film for its scientific accuracy in the first half.Once the information is relayed to Louis Gosset Jr.'s character, Calvin, the story begins to turn sour. At first, the shark appears among a group of black-tips and sand tigers (less dangerous and smaller aquarium-type sharks) outside of SeaWorld's more expensive dining area, and it really scares the living hell out of the tourists (imagine a 35-foot black-eyed monster suddenly appearing around sharks no larger than perhaps six feet right in front of you).From there on, the whole movie turns to trash. It's like Godzilla underwater. The shark looks claymated (seriously) and it's vile and malicious. Sharks really aren't that smart. I don't believe any shark would ever smash its way into an undersea control room, but this one does. Also, I recall reading that sharks need to keep moving through the sea to survive (other than the sleeper shark), but this one has no trouble camping out for ten minutes to claim several victims. Also, I realize that this shark needs quite a bit of food to sustain itself (hello, 35 friggin' FEET!!!) but the fact is, it eats a few people, and yet the first of the people it eats in the second half of the film is not even swallowed, even after another victim is (see the film, you will understand what I mean by this).The best part of this film is the part in which a diver is trapped inside the mouth of the beast. For about three minutes we watch as this diver is chewed up (and really empathetically feel his tension). The camera angles for this time frame all appear inside the monster's mouth and the whole experience is coupled with a sense of intense claustrophobia that cannot be replicated in any other film.This movie was overall a hunk of garbage, but to fans of sharks like myself, a few shots of vodka can make Jaws III very interesting, but further than that, I would call it utter crap. "},{"Title":"Poor Graphics","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Along with poor graphics, poor acting and very poor directing this isn't a movie to pop into a VHS player.Michael Brody(Dennis Quaid)has been working at a sea world park. His boss is Calvin Bouchard(Louis Gossett Jr.). He is dating a girl by the name of Kathryn Morgan(Bess Armstrong). This installment kinda follows in his steps. In comes a 35 foot mother Great White and her baby. Here's where you get the poor graphics. Look closely at the tower. When the sub goes past you can tell that it's not real. Neither is the shark when it comes up to get the tower people.Don't watch this. It's a waist of time and space. "},{"Title":"BEYOND THE ODDS","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was given ten months, as producer, to pull this film together. Nobody knew whether 3-D would work underwater, there was no shooting tank, no cast, no crew, no script. But, we waded in and made a movie that works. Of course, the previous critic can complain that the compositing was awful. He also states he waited fifteen years to view the film. What we did back then was revolutionary, both in 3-D and in video compositing. It had never been done before. Sometimes, we should sit back, as armchair critics and do what I do ... applaud the fact that the bloody thing got made. It also was a box office success, and as the say in the business, show business is just that. "},{"Title":"Would someone think of the Dolphins?!@","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Possible Plot Spoilers! Jaws 3 (or Jaws 3-D) carries on the story from Part 2.  Both Brady sons are mature and one works in a Sea World amusement park (geezs - I bet you can't see where this is going).  Of course - a couple of sharks go on a rampage - killing workers and guests alike. This movie is terrible in a very cheesy E grade movie way - the acting is horrible - Bess Armstrong couldn't act her way out of a underwater funnel if she had to!  Simon MacCorkindale couldn't act his way out of a set of shark jaws if he had to! I haven't had the pleasure in watching this film in all of its 3D glory - but it does have all those obligatory shots of dolphins / shark bits aiming for the camera (aeeeeieiii!). Pure E grade trash!  "},{"Title":"It could have been better, but it also could have been worse","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Below average sequel about yet another, and larger, great white shark that seeks terror. But this time in a new Marine Park in Florida, and it is up to Chief Brody's son, Mike, to put an end to it.How could this have been better? Well, let's see. The special effects, the direction, the three sharks that are meant to be used for one, the production. The story and the cast are the only things that I cannot complain about. I did like the final 5 minutes (right after the shark busts into the underwater tower, but that was laughable). This entry hurt the series. Unfortunately, the series got worse with Jaws The Revenge.2 out of 5. "}{"Title":"Stay away. Stay far, far, far away.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  	Jaws 3 is arguably the worst movie I've ever seen. Even worse than Plan 9 From Outer Space- at least that one had some unintentional laughs (not that this one didn't, they were just so few and far between, thus not worth the effort). Even John Williams' theme (first used nearly a decade earlier) seems out of place in this utter drivel, (tip for filmmakers, never use suspenseful music during a bright, crowded summer afternoon when nothing's gone wrong). The 'Jaws' series has since become somewhat of a joke, mostly due to Richard Dreyfuss leaving after the first film, and Roy Scheider after the second (excellent career moves by them, though neither of them have much of a career any more).	There isn't a single scare, bit of suspense, or interesting part in the entire 98 minute time burner, or 70 minute for me- I did the smart thing by shutting it off part way through. The talented Louis Gossett Jr. can't even help the film, both him and Dennis Quaid (who likely wouldn't watch the movie if his life depended on it) are given parts written so poorly you just have to stop and wonder what the writers were smoking.	My advice is to steer clear from this mess, if you had any brains in the first place you wouldn't even be looking at this comment.Really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really bad. AVOID!0/10 (If you could imagine that) "},{"Title":"Real shark, fake people....","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Just when you thought it was safe to order the fish....This time, it's pathetic....I think we're gonna need a bigger budget....Whatever tagline you choose, it will fit this fish tale that any self-respecting fisherman would throw back.  Let's face facts Jaws 3D is no contender when compared to the original (or even to Jaws 2).What it lacks in assets such as script, special effects and believable situations, it makes up for in actors.  Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong, Louis Gossett Jr., Simon MacCorkindale, Lea Thompson....  At one time or another, these actors have been associated with great things (heck, Gossett Jr. won an OSCAR!).  Everyone has a dry spell, I guess.Oh, but the humor!  You'd think this was written by the guys at SCTV or the Groundlings.  If the sharks could write a movie about the people that hunted them, it would be this one.There are two kinds of people in this film pompous asses and dumb hicks. And those that fall in-between tend to have the bad qualities of both.  But there are two scenes that keep this one just THIS FAR out of the gutter.SCENE ONE I'm sure you know about the scene where the tour group is walking through the underwater tube and a little girl tells her Daddy, Daddy, look at the big fish!  Daddy looks up, there's the shark.  HOLY (EXPLETIVE), Daddy yells, the whole group starts running.Love it.SCENE TWO Bess Armstrong and Dennis Quaid are informed that one of the victims of the shark has been discovered.  They go to see him; Dennis checks him out first.  The victim is in a pretty bad state of decay, judging from the stripped flesh and worms crawling over the carcass (aren't they supposed to clean the corpses off once they've been found, just for description purposes?). Dennis retches, runs off, vomits in a corner.  Bess steps up, surveys the body, solemnly whispers Oh, my God.  No retching.  Nothing.Guess which one's seen more Friday the 13th movies?Bottom line you want a good laugh?  See Jaws 3D right now.  No matter the cost, the toll on your body, your family, your life.  If you have aisles in your home, this one will have you rolling in them.Five stars.  Let's hear it for the sharks!     "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is no spoiler in this review, there is no storyline to spoil.I have seen many lists supposedly giving the top 10 worst films ever made but why is Jaws 3 not in there? There is nothing special about the effects, they are dreadful. The acting is so poor it can hardly be called acting and everyone in the cast is over shadowed by the dolphins. How several of the cast members went on to have good careers is amazing.There is no tension at all in any of the scenes.This film has no right to be associated with Jaws or Jaws 2. If you're a fan of these first two films don't waste your time or eyesight on this one. "},{"Title":"An insult to original and even second movie; but what to say about fourth one then","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws is cult movie and the only movie about sharks that I liked entirely. It was obvious that they are gonna make sequels after big success of the first movie. While second one is bearable, third one is idiotic for numerous reasons.Jaws 3 offers us two well known actors - Dennis Quaid and Louis Gossett Jr. and one of the worst sharks on the movie. This shark in Jaws 3 barks, have you noticed that?; and he is incredibly slow, just like this movie. After first 10-15 minutes this movie sinks deeper and deeper and no one can rescue it. Thanks to heavens that this is one and only movie directed by Joe Alves and I don't know what screenplay writers were thinking or the actors. All I can say that this is an insult to original movie and even second one, and also an insult to viewers intelligent. But what is there to say about fourth one then??? "},{"Title":"another bad sequel","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING this movie is so boring and ridiculous that it can actually make you laugh.......it's just out of place......first, the shark AGAIN attacks on the same family members of the first two movies.......please, give THEM a brake!!!.........second, the idea of the mother shark attacking this time is just too funny(in the film the mother shark takes revenge on the killers of her baby!!!).......third, the special effects are too terrible.......so this is just another one that ruins the original Jaws movie.......see how very good movies like Jaws can be ruined???................. * out of 5 "},{"Title":"Just pathetic","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wasn't Jaws 2 bad enough? This was made (quickly) to cash in on the 3-D movie stampede of the early 1980s. This one concentrates on Shreiff Brody's boys--Mike (Dennis Quaid!!) and Sean (John Putch). Mike is working at Sea World--a strange choice considering what happened to him in the first two movies. His girlfriend Kat (Bess Armstrong) also works there. They accidentally (don't ask) capture a great white shark in their man-made lagoon--and it takes a few DAYS before they figure it out! Good thing shark hunter Phillip FitzRoyce (Simon McCorkindale) is on hand. And wouldn't you know that Sean just happens to visit the park at that time? And let's not forget the head of the park played by Louis Gossett Jr. with the WORST foreign accent I've ever heard.There are so many things wrong with this movie that it's hard to know where to start. I did see this in 3-D up a theatre in 1983 (I still have the glasses). The 3-D didn't work at all. The image was dark, objects swam in and out of focus and there was a LOT of annoying double vision. The story itself is just silly. I mean it takes them a few DAYS to locate a great white in a lagoon??? Come on! Also the special effects in this are atrocious--the submersible sequence has got to be some of the worst blue screen work I've ever seen. And wait till you see the shark dummy at the end that isn't even moving! Also these sharks move lightning quick (speeded up film), move backwards (sharks can't do that) and ROAR (sharks have no vocal cords)! And I wanted those two cute dolphins in the movie eaten so BADLY!There are only a few bright lights here. Armstrong and McCorkindale are actually excellent in their roles. Quaid, Putch and Lea Thompson are OK. The attack on Sea World at the end is actually pretty suspenseful (crappy effects aside) and fun. This gets a 3 only for those things. But you can wisely skip this one. I heard Jaws The Revenge is even worse than this but I find that hard to believe. "},{"Title":"The 3rd one is scarier then the first 2","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a very scary movie. Like most horror movie sequels it is underrated. 3.5 and it is a true horror classic. It has to be one of the scariest movies ever made. The first two Jaws movie are very scary. But this one is scarier. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. All the Jaws movie are must sees. This movie is very intense. If you do not get scared of this movie then no movie will scary you. It is true that Steven Spielberg did a great job on the first Jaws movie. It is also true that Jennot Szwarc did a great job on Jaws 2. But Joe Alves did a great job with this movie. Dennis Quaid is a great actor. John Putch is a great actor. Ignore what people say. See this movie. "},{"Title":"Oh dear!","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The story (screenplay) behind Jaws 3 isn't actually a bad one, but the execution, acting, directing and special effects are all bad. Laughingly bad. It's not even a so bad it's good type of situation, like Sharknado. Thankfully Dennis Quaid got better as a lead actor, what a waste of Louis Gossett Jr. A cute Leah Thompson is the only bright spot.Set 14 years after the events of Jaws 2, Sean Brody will not go anywhere near the water, however Mike Brody (Quaid) seems to have totally forgotten the events of the first two movies, as when he first sees the shark he says what the hell is that?? "},{"Title":"I just watched Jaws What?","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The opening credits read suggested by the novel, Jaws, by Peter Benchley. Exactly what part of his novel inspired this low rent monster flick? Anyway, despite being written by the original screenwriters of the first two films, Carl Gottlieb and Howard Sackler, this has nothing to do with Jaws I or II. It is largely a mediocre throwback to 1950s monster movies, even released originally in 3D, which only makes it seem even more like a 1950s B-movie. One gets the feeling, however, that even in cinemas, in 3D, the effects were largely unnoticeable; I forgot that it was originally filmed in 3D, except for when Jaws' jaws come flying at the screen during the climax, and two or three times dolphins are shown jumping out of the water toward the camera, in an incredibly cheesy, 1970s greeting card type of montage. Shark and mommy shark on the loose at Sea World(!) and a cast of soon- to-be-famous people have to do battle with them, blandly and boringly. Lea Thompson is cute in this, her first film role, but apparently the filmmakers didn't think much of her, because after receiving a bad cut on her leg at the climax, her character is never mentioned again. Simon MacCorkindale was clearly unfamiliar with his lines of dialogue, as he obviously stutters and stammers his way through them several times. The plot is only mediocre, in a campy, so-bad-it's-good way; the same can be said about the effects. The climax is a low rent rip off of the first film's ending instead of large yellow barrels, and a canister of compressed air exploding to kill the shark, this time we get tiny yellow grenades to explode and kill the shark, and wake up the dozing audience members. Truthfully though, this isn't quite as awful as its reputation has it. I probably prefer this film to Jaws II, slightly. It's lame, but at least they didn't just try to copy the first film as closely as possible, like they did with part 2. And again, it is slightly amusing, in a 1950s monster movie/ so-bad-it's good type of way. But unless you're into that sort of thing, you'll quickly be bored to tears. "},{"Title":"Decent in its last third, but script and characters are bland and silly.","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3-D, of course, is not the worst sequel in this franchise; that dubious honour goes to the spectacularly dumb Jaws The Revenge, but it's still pretty uninspired compared to the original masterpiece and even the first sequel. A better movie probably could have been made utilizing the basic premise, but these filmmakers aren't up to that challenge. The dialogue and the characters are just not that interesting, and the movie doesn't start to cook until past the hour mark. It may be unique for this franchise in its attempt to cash in on the resurgence in 3-D cinema during this time, but the effects are pretty damn laughable most of the time. Debuting first unit director Joe Alves, the production designer and second unit director on the first two movies, proves to be out of his depth here, and thereafter returned to what he did best.Police Chief Brody's eldest son Mike, now played by Dennis Quaid, is currently working at Florida's Sea World where he's romancing head biologist Kathryn Morgan (Bess Armstrong). As he is visited by his baby brother Sean (John Putch), an enormous shark slips inside the park gates, nibbling on an occasional victim before eventually making her presence known to the public.Co-written by Carl Gottlieb, who also co-wrote the first two movies, and none other than Richard Matheson (based on a story idea by Guerdon Trueblood), although Matheson would later charge that script doctors ruined his original premise. The actors are all reasonably likable, with a lovely and adorable Lea Thompson making her feature film debut and Louis Gossett Jr. offering a very amusing take on the entrepreneur character Calvin Bouchard. Simon MacCorkindale is likewise a hoot as the somewhat smarmy documentarian. John Williams's iconic score is appropriately utilized once again, with new compositions courtesy of Alan Parker.If there is one nice touch here, it's the added threat of Sea World customers trapped in underwater tunnels that have been weakened by the sharks' rampages.This kills time agreeably enough, if the viewer isn't too demanding.Five out of 10. "}{"Title":"A Mockery To The 'Jaws' Name","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3 has to be the worst movie I've ever seen in my whole life. If I could rate it 0 stars then I would. How they can actually call this movie 'Jaws', not 'The Haunted Surfboard', I don't know. Poor, poor, Spielberg.I didn't believe one bit that there was a shark in the waters, even though I did in Jaws 1 and 2. Firstly, the special effects were so out of date. In the dolphin scene, where they first saw the shark, when you see the Great White for the first time, I found that they just stole the footage from an old National Geographic Documentary. Secondly, this movie was full of sexual references. For example, Sean Brody says to his older brother Michael Brody, I was so close to doing it in the water last night. after doing something inappropriate at the beach the previous night. Finally, the amount of shark facts they got wrong was just tremendous. I completely lost count. Overall, if you want to watch all of the 'Jaws' movies, I advise you skip this to 'Jaws The Revenge' for nothing important happens in this movie. So, under no circumstances (except for a good laugh) watch this movie EVER. Or else you'll find yourself being sick. "},{"Title":"Jaws for Kids!!!","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although it features more gore than Jaws 2, Jaws 3 is in many respects a children's film, dropping much of the tension and horror that characterized the first film. Whereas the first two films were set in a New England sea resort and focused on the struggle of an everyman police chief against a force of nature, this entry gives us an amusement park, a dolphin trainer, and her dolphins.The change is most apparent when one listens to the soundtrack. Whereas John Williams's soundtrack was full of menace, the Jaws 3-D soundtrack is full of celebratory cues meant to show off Sea World. (Indeed, at times the film comes across as an advertisement for Sea World.) Even the shark cues come across as adventurous rather than suspenseful. Although it's a good score, it doesn't really fit a horror movie.The horror is further diminished by the lack of characters to care about. The performances are too broad to care about any of the main characters, particularly Louis Gossett Jr. doing Murray Hamilton-lite as the owner of Sea World. Moreover, most of the shark attack victims are depicted as unlikeable, eliminating any real sense of empathy.The only reason I gave this film four rather than three stars is that I loved it as a child. It's mainly good for nostalgia or showing younger children to introduce them to the Jaws series. "},{"Title":"So bad its good","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When i first saw Jaws 3 many years back, i pretty much summed it up by calling it a Stupid movie. Now looking back, though i still think its a stupid movie, i have less harsh feelings towards this movie. I find it to be truly campy and hilarious, but in a good, remember able way. Its much better than most modern day shark movies ( Open Water, Shark Attack, Deep Blue Sea), but its definitely lacking the suspense that the first 2 movies brought to the series, as mostly everything in this movie is predictable and easy to figure out how it ends, especially the events at the end of the film. So to sum it all up, its a dumb film, but its entertaining to watch and if you're into campy and cheesy B movie style films, then consider this film your best friend. "},{"Title":"I understand why this looks bad...","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When Florida opens Sea World, it becomes home to more than just dolphins and turtles. An angry great white shark breaks in to the lagoon to search for its killed baby, however it rages up attacking tourists and disrupting the parks opening day.The film had a great set to work from and a great story but there's no chemistry with bad actors and lame special effects. Compared to the second film its a huge step up, I don't know whether anyone expected another story set ashore in Amity village, its nice to see the writers thought up some fresh ideas.The underwater sequences at the start and towards the end where the sharks swimming through the gate into the lagoon, i was pretty freaked out despite the fact it looked freakishly fake. I can understand it might have been a huge it in the 80's, especially because it was in 3-D, but today its definitely lost its appeal..however I recommend this to every Jaws fan. "},{"Title":"A bad storyline and terrible effects makes it laughable!","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wow. I thought I'd seen everything, but this surely took some of the happiness away from my life. A third Jaws movie! Of course, when it comes to horror movies you aren't that surprised when they do follow-up after follow-up. But if they could make a good one for once, I would be more than happy to buy it. But yet another time, they make a follow-up that bites the dust.The storyline itself isn't that bad, but they could have tried a lot harder to make it seem more realistic when they put it together with the landscapes and surroundings in the film. (Believe me, I've seen worse!)The actors are actually O.K. for this kind of movie. In horror films such as this they usually act so bad that you wonder how they got their role in the first place. But here, they actually do their job pretty well and I don't have any real complains!Now to the star of the movie, the shark. You might expect it to look as real as Bruce in the first movie, but that was thanks to Steven Spielberg being the director. Here, it looks like something you would do for a project in elementary school! I could count all the mistakes they did with the Great White in this film, but here's my biggest complainsWhy would a shark attack a sunken ship with its mouth wide open?, the dolphins are a little too smart and worst of all The effects are terrible!But on the plus side you will at least walk away from this truly awful film with a good laugh, thanks to the not-so scary effects! "},{"Title":"What?!","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3-D continues the story of the shark who terrorizes Amity Island. This time, it is Michael Brody, the son of Chief Brody, who must protect Amity Island.So you understand how series I am about what I'm going to say, I'm going to say it in kindly Noooooo! How can you guys do this? 3-D is NOT for sharks, especially Jaws! And all the teenage horniness going on? Leave that to Freddy and Jason! Don't put it in something as sophisticated as Jaws! Oh, God! I thought I was going to die watching this! It's absolutely disgraceful to Steven Spielberg's classic! Do not, I repeat NOT see this! Not seeing this will set you free! "},{"Title":"Jaws 3-D? What could they think of now?","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Let me begin to tell you that 3-D glasses aren't what they are. It's just another way for idiot consumers to go for this sort of thing just to make more money. With or without the glasses, Jaws 3-D is just a goofy mess after another.Jaws 3 (I'm not gonna call it 3-D) takes place after the events in Jaws 2 where Chief Brody (the memorable Roy Schinder) defeated the shark, but instead of the chief's presence, the oldest son Michael (Dennis Quaid) works at a fictional Sea World aquarium where he attends the sea animals including two dolphins. Somehow another shark manages to be a family curse to the Brody's and goes after Michael where lots of people get eaten including his first black victim.Jaws 3 also stars Louis Gossett Jr. and Lea Thompson. "},{"Title":"Completely Risible Automaton Pisces","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is in the running for my all time worst film ever. Despite a respectable cast, an impenetrable screenplay and a rubber shark that would have failed an audition for Spitting Image, combined to produce a film that made me feel angry at Spielberg for kicking the whole franchise off.The main attraction of the film, the screening in 3-D, turned out to be the final nail in the coffin as after 1/2 an hour with the specs perched on the end of my nose, I had a headache so bad that I started to wimper.Determined to see it through, before passing judgement, I sat through an hour and 45 minutes of fuzzy images, wooly scripts and leaden direction only to discover that 1st impressions definately are right. It is a truly bad film, I haven't seen it since but I doubt it has aged well.  "},{"Title":"The third dimension is terror, the movie is at least!","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A great cast can only do so much to save a movie, here it wasn't enough. It's a case of going to the sequel well once to often.  The plot would have been better served as a stand alone story, instead of involving the same family as the first two movies.  I guess it would have made an OK made for TV movie, but unfortunately I paid to see it.  However, if you liked this movie, then by all means get you a copy of Jaws The Revenge.  "},{"Title":"A tuna fish commercial is more entertaining than this bomb","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Having been one of the unlucky people who saw this movie in 3D on it's original release, thought I would take a moment to comment on it after seeing it on the worst films list.  At this writing, it ranks number 49, but is probably worst than that.  Believe me, even the 3D effects such as they were didn't help this turkey and it's amazing that the career of any of the actors involved survived it. Well, some of their careers didn't, as Bess Armstrong and Simon MacCorkindale went on to do bad television series and/or miniseries.  Though you may never have a chance to experience the film in 3D take my word for it when I tell you that you didn't miss anything.  The 3D effects were minimal, for example, in most scenes the shark was too big for the 3d effect to work, and other than some splashing water, and one floating fish head, there wasn't any sense in even bothering with filming it in 3D.  On top of this, never has the audio in a film been as bad as this one.  There are times when you have to strain to hear any of the dialogue.  Then again, you probably wouldn't want to hear it so you're better off.   I suppose I could talk about the acting, but there isn't any.  The worst offender here is Louis Gossett Jr. who should have known better.  He spends most of the film shouting mumbled dialogue which is totally unintelligible, as if he were in a hurry to get his part over with so he could leave the studio lot as quickly as possible without being seen.  He must have had some foresight into the big stinkeroo this legendary dead fish tale would become.The film must have made some money though.  That's why we were next subjected to Jaws IV, which goes onto prove that Carp is Carp, no matter what number you put behind it.  As for any excitement and suspense, my advice is for you to open a can of Star Kist.  That would be more thrilling than this mess, and take up a whole lot less of your time.  Or better yet, just watch a Charlie Tuna commercial if you want to be entertained.  Till Next timeNext Class Please   "}{"Title":"watch only with friends with intentions to laugh","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie, right from the get-go, is obviously supposed to be viewed in 3D. TONS of pointless camera shots that would look interesting in 3D but otherwise constitute BORING and LAME.  Haha, the story begins waaay too slow!  If you're watching Jaws 3, there's only two reasons you are to see sharks and to see gore.  For the main part this movie lacks both really. I think I saw more friggin' dolphins than I did sharks. The best character is the black Seaworld park director...I dunno what about him makes his performance total comedy, but I just couldn't take him seriously at all throughout the entire film.  In fact, I couldn't take ANYTHING in this film serious!  The damn shark doesn't even move it's fins while it's swimming!!!  I just coasts along like some dead fish caught in an ocean current! I laughed throughout the entire flick.  10 minutes after the movie ended I forgot I had even watched it--it was that forgettable!Definitely worth some laughs if you're into cheaply-made, stupid B movies! "},{"Title":"Only Worthy for Diehard Fans of the Series.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  JAWS 3-D has the two sons of the Brody family, Mike and Sean, working at Sea World in Florida.  They, along with their girlfriends, have to deal with another shark and destroy it.  Though it has some neat 3-D effects, JAWS 3-D is anything but neat.  The plot is predictable and the movie is laughable, and is even a waste for future stars Dennis Quaid (as Mike) and Lea Thompson (as Sean's girlfriend).  Not the worst of the series, but still pretty bad.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Gloriously, wonderfully, entertainly awful!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Make no mistake Jaws 3D is a terrible, terrible film.  However, it is also an extremely entertaining film, hilarious and mesmerising in its very ineptitude.  Everyone delivers their performance tongue-in-cheek, because they all knew they were making a turkey.  Still, it's a really fun turkey.  There are two classes of bad films those that are bad, boring, and unwatchable; and those that are hilarious and entertaining.  This one is a perfect example of the latter. "},{"Title":"It gets worse","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  jaws 3D- 3.5/10Jaws(9.5/10) is my favorite flick ever. This is just a weak sequel. It is boring, and has bad effects.positive things? The acting is fine. This is better than JawsThe Revenge(3.5/10) "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel - a terrible one!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has to rank as one of the worst movie sequels ever consigned to a film reel.The plot has more holes in it than the shark's victims, while the acting is lame and the 3-D effects add very little.The shark itself does not look real and is too over-exposed from an early stage. Moreover, it seems to have a perfect set of dentures of which any dental surgeon would be proud.This movie also clearly misses the acting abilities of Roy Scheider (as the convincing Chief Brody) who presumably had seen the script.All in all, a true stinker of a picture (2/10). Almost incredibly, however, worse was to follow in the form of Jaws The Revenge "},{"Title":"awful!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For all those people that did not like Jaws 2, this third installment makes the second look as good as the original! Not worth writing about!!! STAY AWAY AT ALL COSTS!!!Grade F "},{"Title":"For the love of God. . . . .","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 is testament to the unwritten rule of Hollywood that nearly all sequels must be pale cheap imitations of the first picture. The Jaws series has been the benchmark for this rule, and this one if no exception. Carl Gottlieb, the skilled co-writer of Spielberg's classic (and incidentally my favourite film of all time)must have written this on a 20 minute train journey. The plot and the setting make absoultely NO sense whatsoever, why is the name of all that is holy, have an aquarium IN THE MIDDLE OF THE SEA? Isn't that 1)not possible and 2)ridiculous? The cast, which in closer examination are really rather accomplished (Dennis Quaid, Louis Gossett Jr) clearly seem to be under the impression that the film they are making is a bit nifty, but it is obvious that Joe Alves, the director, did not show them dailies of the effects shots. The 3D gimmick seems to have been cooked up one night over  beer and pretzels at Universal Studios, and Alves clearly has no idea what to do with it. Lingering shots of coral, pointy objects and fish heads fill the screen and show 3D for what it truly is. Rubbish. The worst idea that the film employs is making the shark 3D too, turning it from a lean mean killing machine into a floating, etheral blue turd. Alves tries his best with what he has been given, but ulitmately fails to deliver the goods required. Dennis Quaid should thank his lucky stars he came out of this one unscathed. Lou Gossett Jr however....Iron Eagle 3 anyone? I think at this juncture it's best we simply avoid Jaws The Revenge.... "},{"Title":"Wow! What Total Trash!","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You know, they should make a DVD boxset consisting of Jaws 2, Jaws 4 and - Jesus - this crap that is Jaws 3. Why? Well, in simple terms it could be used as an extreme torture device, DVD quality making the pain even worse. I won't say anything about the plot (even though there is not one) but I will say something about the dazzling, state-of-the-art special effects, the only thing that salvages the movie. Basically there is some underwater sea life park and some folks go down to check it out in a little orange diving machine. Unbelievable! You wouldn't think for one minute that they were using a miniature centre made from yogurt pots, or a diving machine so super-imposed one side of it totally disappears in one scene! Nah, great SFX. They could even be compared to the might of the Doctor Who films made in the sixties, with flying saucers on strings etc. Oh sorry, I forgot - they weren't actually made from yogurt pots.You can probably figure out that I dislike this movie a lot, and you'd be right. But please, take note from this review - when Carl Gottleib put pen to toilet paper we thought we'd have on OK movie. It turns out that looking at a dog turd for 90 minutes would give you more adrenaline rushes than this total tosh. "},{"Title":"One word -WHY?","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Why follow a bad sequel with another even worse one ? GREED!! 3d was lame .. Only relation to JAWS are Chief Brodys sons. Mike now works at Seaworld and Sean shows up to visit his brother. No references to Amity or their mother or father . No originals appear in this movie which is a blessing . And once again as in Jaws 2 is continuity problem , Mike and Sean are considerably older than what they should be . This movie is supposed to take place 8 years after Jaws . That means they should be 13 and 18 . Instead actors Dennis Quaid and John Putch are in their twenties . Oh well , lousy movie anyway. "},{"Title":"","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "}{"Title":"Check Your Brain at the Box-office......","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  DUM,DUM,DUM,DUM.....Just when you thought you were safe from sequels... Comes this second dreadful,horrid,and poorly acted film.Louis Gosset Jr. sports a terrible ghetto accent thoughout the film,probably hoping he won't be recongnized.James Bond Hopeful(at the time)Simon McQuade plays a Costeuo-like Documentary filmaker,Mr.Fritz-Royce who*spoilers ahead* gets swallowed whole by Mrs. Bruce.Bess Armstrong(High Road to China) plays the love interest,but hey, at least she's better than Karen Young in Jaws the Revenge.Dennis Quaid(The Parent Trap,The Right Stuff,Dreamscape) is the now grown up Mike Brody,who with Martin Brody out of the film,is the hero.John Putch is Shawn still afraid of the Deep Blue Sea(get it?)In case your wondering the *cough* plot is set at SEA WORLD FLORIDA,not AMITY ISLAND,like in first two and the revenge. A major plot point from the british sci-fi classic Gorgo is reused. What this film needs the most is to be released in Widescreen at it's 235.1 aspect ratio(plus with the 3-D process)on DVD. Hopefully if the Jaws 2 Special Collecter's Edition released this coming summer is a success,we might just see that,until then,avoid the atrocias video and Television Versions,Catch this fish at your nearest revival theater and enjoy some cheap thrills in 3-D. "},{"Title":"FAKE, FAKE, FAKE, FAKE!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The shark looked totally fake, especially right before it crashed into the glass window under water. The film, characters, and dialogue were boring and uninteresting. But no matter how bad it got, I still liked the Under Water kindom idea and when the shark was swimming around it and scaring all the people. A particularly funny(that's right funny) part was when the shark trapped a group of people and they were all moaning and crying. Jaws was good. Jaws 2 was somewhere between horrible, painful movie and OK movie, but closer to horrible, painful movie, this was OK, as for Jaws 4 let's not even go there. "},{"Title":"Let the degrading begin!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Oh my. When I first saw this movie I thought, well if I had seen it in 3-D rather than in 2-D, it would have been better. Then My theater hosted a 3-D showing of the show and I saw it in 3-D. It was worse than I thought. The other two films were fine, they didn't need a third one. But nooooo Hollywood had to get that stupid mechanical shark to go out there and terrorize Sea World. Sea World????????? At least have Disney make an underwater park and have the shark terrorize that will ya? But instead of that idea, the shark went to Sea World. Did you know the movie people actually got the shark to eat it's own career by making this movie? It was semi-poorly shot, a very bad plot, and some likeable character that you still want to see eaten. It could have been so much more than what it was. oh well, live and learn.  "},{"Title":"Going a little overboard...","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  3-D in 1983 was a big concept and another money making gimmick but it just doesn't stand the test of time.  With todays studios turning out computer animated effects and creatures, this movie is just plain cheesey by millenium standards.  Mostly it's just one of those movies you would watch on cable when reruns are in season-and the reruns suck would you watch it.  "},{"Title":"A MST 3000 WAITING TO HAPPEN!","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I gave this movie a 2 rating and that is only because of the abortion that followed it deserves a lower mark.  The shark looked fake, the actors looked embalmed...even Sea World looked stupid.  I remember when this movie came out and my parents took me to Sea World because they had all the props out used in the movie...I was embarrassed to even be in a picture with that stupid looking shark.  I saw it in the theater with my sister when it came out and the only thing that was worth the money was the 3-D effects...this crap was on TV and I feel the need to vent because it's 2 hours of my life that are gone forever.  I'm waiting for Crow and the MST 3000 gang to light into this... "},{"Title":"Don't watch this movie.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Garbage.The word fits this film to a tee.Jaws was the cinematic masterpiece.Then you look at this film.I watched it often as a teenager.Same goes for all the Jaws movies.I see the trouble with all the sequels in this genre and hollyland.YOU CAN NEVER REPLICATE THE ORGINAL FEARS,SUCCESS,AWARDS.Jaws3 misses the boat for these reasonsNo plot,no action,no directions.Jaws3 and Jaws4 are two films they should never have made period.I am of the firm opinion Jaws and Jaws2 are the only Jaws films every made.Hollyworld less is sometimes MORE.-33 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a horrible film. The story is pathetic and the shark looks so fake! It's all just a cheap rip off and a stupid attempt to cash in on the success of the first film. The story isn't original, it's just the first one at a water park. Oh well, at least it isn't as bad as Jaws The Revenge. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3 The Boring","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sea World is getting ready to open up but they got one problem Jaws is back. Sound exciting well actually it is not that exciting at all. Too much is wasted on developing its pointless characters and the romances between. The brother of the main character is afraid of the water the reason why was poorly explained. It has something to do with sharks though what exactly it is about them is never explained. The weak story continues in this fashion. Some worker guy gets ate by jaws which leads us baby jaws that they capture. Poor baby jaws didn't last that long due to poor cage conditions and the shock of a lot staring at it. For some reason they a couple teens show up who are there to steal choral well you pretty much predict what happens to those guys. Nothing happens until the end of movie but the apparent exciting ending isn't that exciting at all. The underwater special effects in this movie were bad and look so dated. Jaws concept can only work the first time around after that it's awful. Good cast but poor acting during the Jaws sequences. Dennis Quid must be trying hard to forget this movie. Followed by the far worse Jaws 4.  "},{"Title":"Laughably Bad","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 (a.k.a. Jaws 3-D) ties with Jaws The Revenge as being the worst sequel and I must say, this one is pretty bad. Ok, first the plot. A baby great white shark sneaks into Sea World in Florida, followed by it's 35-foot mommy who wreaks havoc at the park. Michael Brody (Sheriff Brody's son) is an adult now who works at the park and soon discovers, along with his girlfriend Kathryn, that this shark is loose and will kill anyone. Also along for the ride is Michael's younger brother, Sean, who was almost killed by a great white years earlier when he was a kid (see Jaws 2). Ok, now my opinion. Terrible. This film trashes all of the suspense of Jaws 1 and 2 and replaces it with shoddy 3-D effects and some bad acting as well. They totally changed the setting from Amity to Sea World and not one of the cast members from the earlier films appears. The 3-D effects! Woah! What can I say about the 3-D effects? Here goes. Everytime I see the shark heading for the underwater control center it makes me laugh. No movement, the fins don't move, the mouth doesn't even move and the expressions on the people's faces are hysterical. If you ever need a good laugh one night be sure to rent this movie, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"I didn't know that sharks could roar.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Thanks to this piece of floating garbage (in 3D), I cannot see an image of a shark without mentally hearing a roar.  I guess that the film makers didn't think that a 3D, water-skier eating shark was scary enough with out a roaring sound.  By the end of the movie I was roaring along with this tin shark as it popped out of the screen to yell Boo! in it's own 3D sharky way.  God, this sucked!  "}{"Title":"This time it's boring.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can hardly believe this is any part of the same series which includes the masterpiece which is the original 'Jaws' and the highly entertaining 'Jaws 2'.This third film of the series abandons the characters from the first two films, apart from Chief Brody's two sons, and concerns an undersea theme park.  The first half an hour of the film is filled with Friday the 13th-grade teenagers faffing about, and when something finally does start to happen any suspense or terror is ruined by laughable special effects a 50's B-movie director would be ashamed of.  The plot is just a rip-off of a film called 'Gorgo' (baby is captured and put on show, mother comes to rescue her little darling) and there are very few, if any, interesting characters.Tacky, pointlessly gory waste of time.  Oh, and did I mention the 3-D effects?  No?  Well I won't bother seeing as they're nothing but a gimmick and add nothing to the film. "},{"Title":"Not the worst Jaws film, but definitely not the best.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jaws 3 was the last Jaws film that I saw, and I thought it was funny.The snark has drawn on teeth (well 1 of the sharks has anyway) and it always has a smile on her face.The story line was bogus and the actors were completely 80`s style,the only appealing actress was Lea Thompson, boy does she look young there.Like I said this is not the worst Jaws film, and there was a mistake in this film, when the shark was inside the pump it swam backwards, sharks cannot swim backwards! Also the shark is waiting in the pump and it is just floating there, in order to breathe sharks need to swim!I give this a 4 out of 10 this Bites! ha ha ha ha ha ha "},{"Title":"The Third Dimension is Terrible!","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It used to be so simple to point out the bad shark movies&#x85;. There was Jaws 3 and Jaws 4 The Revenge, and that was it pretty much! But then, as per the late nineties approximately, we literally received an overflow of inferior and quite often downright retarded killer shark flicks. And now all of a sudden, the aforementioned Jaws sequels actually don't look too terrible anymore. It started in the late 90's with the still traditional but totally inept Deep Blue Sea and Shark Attack, but then since the new Millennium things really got out of control with murderous sharks popping up in the most illogical of places (like the rivers in Venice, in Tsunami infested areas, swamps, etc&#x85;) and &#x96; worse even &#x96; all kinds of ridiculous hybrids and genetically altered species, like dinosaur sharks, octopus-sharks and two-headed sharks. Sigh &#x85; whatever happened to good-old fashioned massively over-sized Great Whites, like in our classic early 80's stinker Jaws 3-D? Now, please don't misunderstand me, the third installment in the Jaws franchise is still a very lousy film, but at least it's not bad in a frustrating or annoying way. The underdeveloped screenplay, the laughable attempt to bring depth to the main characters, the hilarious 3D effects and all the totally irrelevant padding footage &#x85; It almost feels cheesy and charming in a positive sort of way now. Interesting detail here is that Universal Studios, the mastodon production company behind the Jaws franchise, sued the creators of an obscure Italian imitation for being too reminiscent, but then they were hypocrite enough to steal ideas from the movie they accused of stealing from them! That's Hollywood for you, I guess. The script attempts, poorly I may add, to build a bridge between the previous two movies by depicting the Brody boys (the sons of Roy Scheider) as pivot characters in the grand opening of a brand new Florida Ocean theme park. Mike, the oldest one, works there as the head engineer and his younger brother Sean &#x96; supposedly still suffering from his childhood trauma even though he blindly follows the first cute girl he meets straight in the water for a nightly swimming session &#x96; comes to visit him for the ceremony. Due to malfunctioning underwater fences and unreliable technical staff, the park quickly receives unforeseen visitors in the shape of a great white shark and its offspring. Also in good old Jaws tradition, the park's senior executive initially hopes to exploit the baby shark as a unique special attraction without realizing he puts the lives of hundreds of guests and personnel in danger. When Junior White dies in front of many spectators, mommy goes on a relentless killing and destruction spree. The body count is intolerably low for a shark movie, but that's probably because all the action is concentrated in the last twenty minutes of the film. Throughout more than an hour, we're only exposed to uninteresting relationship issues, dull family conversations and a whole lot of random waterskiing footage. Most of the supportive characters are embarrassing stereotypes (an Australian outback hunter?) and the effects are hysterical even by early 80's standards. Especially the shark's ultimate attack is legendary, as he approaches the underwater control room in slow motion while the people inside just pull stupid faces. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Honestly, Jaws 3 is in my top 5 least favorite movies ever list, and I can't believe I stayed up to 500am in the morning to watch it all. (it was a Jaws marathon) Not to say that I don't like the Jaws series, on the contrary Jaws (1) was a great movie. Jaws 2... could do without it, but not the worst ever. I haven't seen Jaws 4 yet, but it didn't look to bad. But Jaws 3, ... I'll probably never watch it (willingly) again. The basic problem too much people, and not enough shark. (however big it was, not the point) Also, the special FX made the original Donkey Kong game look good. If you really want to, then fine, but this is one of a very VERY few movies that I absolutely hate.But that's just me... "},{"Title":"Jaws invades Sea World film at eleven.","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well Jaws 3-D is a bad film that really tarnished the series for good, followed by possibly an even worse film. The film focuses on Sea World in Florida where a Great White of some sort has snuck into the giant lagoon that they have at the park. So working at the park are Mike Brody (Quaid), son of the chief of course from part one and Katharine Morgan (Armstrong) chief biologist and girlfriend of his. Both do things with dolphins and eventually his brother Sean comes down as well. Well things start to go down hill as some beefy guy (grant) is missing, some divers among others and they find out there is a great white in the lagoon. So the owner Calvin Bouchard (Gossett Jr.) hires his pal Fitzroy (Mackcorkindale), some playboy esc adventure type to kill the shark and on live TV! Yea I bet that would fly. After some talking with Morgan he realizes they would make more cash if they could capture it (obviously). They manage to capture it and put it on display, but of course as in real life sharks, especially whites don't do to well in captivity and it dies. Funny how they gave the shark a pen that could barley hold small fish let alone a ten foot white. But meanwhile in one of the tunnels people can view from underwater a body has been found floating. It's the beef cake. What's left of him and Katherine determines that it must have been done by a far larger shark...lets say the mother, about 35 feet long. Soon the mom starts killing, reeking havoc, breaking the tunnels and stuff. Fitzroy and his pal go down to trap it, while Mike fixes something under water. Fitzroy gets swallowed and then it goes after mike. In a very stupid scene the shark smashes through the underwater glass, but is killed by the grenade still attached to what's left of Fitzroy's arm in the shark's mouth and it blows up...wow right out of the screen! Bad movie, but at least the dolphins live.OK anyone that knows anything about the series knows this is a bad film. Just about everything about it is bad. Everything! Even the setting isn't that great. I'm surprised that sea world would want publicity from this film about a killer shark, maybe that's why it didn't kill that many people. The acting is terrible, even from Jr. who I like. What the hell script did they give the man that you can barley understand what he is saying? There were more than a few parts where the sound is off and the mouths don't match. And it's not just Jr., its all badly acted to the point where you don't care what happens to any of the people. The first 2 movies I actually felt bad for most of the people, but from hence forth....no. You will beg for the shark to kill them. The setting may have been the only redeemable part in this film as in Revenge. But still the shark barley even kills anyone in this and it's been highly toned down to where the shark is now slow and very inefficient. The shark itself is huge, but very fake, not as bad as Revenge but very close. For the young shark they use almost all shots of a real great white sped up on film which looked very poor. And most of the film the creature is apparently stuck in some vent shaft and manages to swim backwards&#133;OK did anyone read a book on sharks? And of course the 3-D aspect. It dose look very bad, but why is it that Friday the 13th part 3 it didn't look nearly as bad as the shots they made here? The dumbest being Jaws coming at the glass underwater at the end. Seriously if you haven't seen this it was a one peace prop just coming straight at the camera and didn't even move it was so bad. Then it blows up and peaces of the jaw come at the viewer. Now granted it probably looked cool on screen with the glasses so I'm going easy, but even at that, they made it look so fake. And there are plenty of total goofs, like when Jaws is behind the water skiers, being a 35ft shark with its dorsal fin so close the mouth would have been under the skiers already. One part that stood out was when they get the corpse of the guy it really looked nasty and stripped away. However since it had been there for a number of days all the fish would have stripped it, so even that was silly. Overall I think this is slightly better then Revenge, but just barley. It may come down just to which one you prefer rather then the specifics. Let's say 2 and half out of ten stars, don't forget to look out for McFly's mom. "},{"Title":"pretty tedious(painfully at times)","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" before anything else,i should mention that this movie was originally in 3d,but on this disk,the movie is not in 3d.the Jaws series falters quite a bit,with this entry.i found the story too hokey for my taste.this movie also strays from the formula of the first two,opting for me spectacle and noise than anything.Dennis Quaid,Louis Gossett Jr,and Simon MacCorkindale are in this one.Lea Thompson also has a small role.i feel pretty confident in saying this movie was not a shining moment in any of their careers.most of the film is a stinker and very tedious.the only saving grace is the last 35 minutes or so,where there is some action and a tiny amount of intensity,along with a twist of sorts,i guess.otherwise,there is not much to recommend here.it's nowhere near the worst movie i have seen to date.that title belongs to Dracula 3000,which i don't see being dethroned any time soon.but,back to Jaws 3i don't think i can muster more than 4/10 for this one. "},{"Title":"Crap! Crap! Crap!","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I hired this DVD because it was the only Jaws I hadn't seen. I'd heard it was incredibly crap but I figured it would be a laugh anyway. Well, it was worse than I ever could have anticipated and it was funny, but not even funny enough to keep me watching til the end.Why this was ever made into a film is beyond me. It should have been abandoned when it was a mere concept. Alas, time and money were put into making it and now poor suckers like me will waste their time and money on watching it. The story-line is moronic at the best of times. It seems strange to me that a supposedly brand-new, technologically advanced water-park would have such weak, rusty fences, prone to breaking and letting in Great White Sharks of monstrous proportions. And why are the Brody kids involved? It's implausible to the extreme to suggest that a third shark would follow members of one family all around in order to seek revenge for dead sharks it is unlikely to have come across. Considering the poor story, I'm surprised the shark didn't follow the family into the middle of the desert. And Florida? Really, Greak White's prefer cooler waters!And when the Shark gets stuck in the vents to the underwater lagoon, how does it survive in knee-deep water with the oxygen cut off for about 10 minutes? Even surviving long enough to kill a man (who also had his vital supply of oxygen cut off for 10 minutes) and manage to smash through the metal? I wonder.The shark attack scenes, well they were terrible. In an attempt to look more realistic they've gone with doco-style shots of a real shark (much smaller than the one supposedly in the park) sped up so that the shark's natural movements make it look more like it's having a seizure than attacking. And to be honest, I couldn't see half of what was going on anyway because of how dark it all was. Some parts of the movie were spent with me watching a black screen and trying to piece together what was going on through the poor dialogue. Needless to say, I could hardly keep up and I'm not sure whether that was due to the constantly changing story-line or the fact that I couldn't see anything. I could go on and on about how crap this movie was and how much I don't recommend it, (even as a bit of a laugh) but frankly, I think I've wasted enough time on this movie. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3 moves away from Amity Island and goes to Sea World where Michael Brody, the son of the now deceased Martin Brody, is now a marine biologist. Sea world has just opened up an underwater walk through so people can view marine life, and the new attraction is a baby Great White Shark. Unfortunately, the shark's mommy comes looking for it and wreaks all kinds of havoc in the process. Now it's up to Michael to stop the shark. With astoundingly bad special effects and acting, Jaws 3 makes the second film look like Ben Hur.Even what remains of John Williams' score couldn't make this movie the least bit chilling. The makers of this film decided to switch it up from the first one and show the shark any chance they get. Unfortunately, the special effects are so bad in this movie that the shark looks like a cartoon among reality. The tail doesn't even move as it swims through the water. They even make the shark roar like a lion, even though that's impossible. The plot of this movie is too simple. Mommy shark looks for baby shark. Kills people. Michael Brody must stop it. Anything beyond that is useless filler. The second film was understandable because it took place in the same area where it would be more likely to see another shark. Now we're at Sea World where Michael Brody works, and another killer shark shows up! Michael's gotta think there's a curse on him. When he was 12, the first shark swam right by him after killing somebody. When he was 16, he was attacked on a sailboat by another shark. Now he's grown up working at Sea World and another one attacks him! That's a 1 in a billion chance, but whatever.Dennis Quaid plays the role of Michael Brody to the best of his ability at the time, but it's not that good. Louis Gosset Jr. is okay, but he was always kind of a B actor. All of the other actors in this movie aren't worthy of being called actors.Overall, Jaws 3 completely ruins the impact the first film had, and is a waste of everyone's time.3/10 "},{"Title":"I don't understand why this movie was made","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now, I still haven't seen the two first movies, Jaws and Jaws 2. But from what I've heard, they're just so much better than this crappy entry into the series. I have no reason to believe something else myself, because this movie is very bad. Even Jaws 4 (which I have seen, by the way) is much better. There is nothing at all that can save this movie. The story is dull and not interesting at all. You never get excited at all. The big shark hasn't got much screen time, and most of it is horrible too. Some moments near the end of the movie are the only ones where I got a little interested in it, the rest was just torture to sit through and watch. And the special effects are, well, pretty bad 80's garbage. "},{"Title":"Jaws 3-D (1983) *","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw JAWS 3-D (as it was called once upon a time) in the theatre back in 1983. It was lousy then, and it's even worse now on home video. It absolutely blows my mind to fathom that the classic science fiction author Richard Matheson was somehow involved in co-writing this exercise in extreme tedium. The so-called story is a failed attempt at changing the locale to an aquatic theme park called Sea World where Chief Brody's now-grown son Michael works. Rather conveniently, two sharks (mother and child?) manage to gain access to the underwater kingdom to wreak havoc.Sounds like it has potential? Forget it. The new shark scenes are sillier than ever, the level of tension and suspense is nil, and the characters are completely uninteresting. The worst served here is actor Lou Gossett Jr., who was so excellent in the previous year's AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN. What a waste. Dennis Quaid plays Mike without much to do, and while his love interest Bess Armstrong is cute in a girl-next-door sort of way, she leaves no impression either. The selling point of the film in 1983 was its 3-D effects, and these look absolutely pathetic on your 2-D home screen.A really, really bad and muddled movie and easily one of the very worst sequels to a classic motion picture ever made. This was followed by JAWS THE REVENGE in 1987, and as maligned as that next film is by fans and critics, the truth is it turned out a little better than Number Three. * out of **** "}{"Title":"It tarnishes what has gone before","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jesus, what a terrible, terrible movie. I hadn't seen it for a long time, but it was on the other night so decided to watch it. I love the original Jaws, It's at the pinnacle of suspense and horror, and even the sequel, Jaws 2, provides good entertainment.Whether a third instalment was required or not, despite obvious clichés, it could have worked. With this one they tried to give it a new spin by making it 3-D. Unfortunately, this completely works against it as the effects are awful.And without decent shark effects, the movie has taken a massive nose-dive already. But coupled in with an utterly uninteresting script, awful characters and lack of suspense and scares, it fails on every level.Avoid like the plague, even Revenge (The hideous sequel) is more passable IMO. "},{"Title":"I was actually cheering on the shark","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Good cast, silly premise, overdrawn plot, really bad fake shark. Lame attempt to use exposition to induce meaningful character relationships. Yeah, don't care, not interested in getting to know the menu better. I don't watch Jaws flicks because they're light hearted feel good movies. I watch them because they're supposed to be edgy thrillers about anti-social sharks with a taste for pale, thrashing, snacks.I do have to say that something about this one MIGHT have worked better for another shark film or one about some other undersea psychopathic mammal. As a Jaws flick, though, lets just say this is an excellent example of a film franchise which should have quit while it was ahead. This one just sucks. Although it does get better with beer. "},{"Title":"What is it with roaring sharks?!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched Jaws 3 years ago, but I was just viewing the bottom list for IMDb users and noticed that this was there. This is not quite as bad as the criminal Jaws  The revenge, but it's still utter, utter crap. The shark in this one roars but this time it's underwater so it's more muffled, unlike in the sequel to this when the rubber great white stands up on it's tail and roars like a t-rex.Yes, fair enough this was meant to be a flick that came out at a time when 3-D was a new and exciting, but the effects are so pants that even Mr. Spielberg wouldn't have been able to save this one. What made me laugh is the end sequence when the 'shark' is 'swimming' towards the underwater control room. It would have been more realistic for someones hand to be present gliding the shark along, it just looks like a great white turd.Then, when the shark explodes, a perfectly formed set of teeth fly and stop right in front of the camera. Yeah, really scary and realistic.Do not watch this film, its utter pants.Rating 1/10. Dung. "},{"Title":"One of the most silly movies ever","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" JAWS 3-D is a fabulously bad movie in the Jaws series. It's pity that the first, original masterpiece often is known as a bad movie because of the three other, horrible ones.Dennis Quaid stars in this one, and he really aren't a positive edge to the movie, he acts just as bad as all the others. And the movie is terrifying! The 3D effects from hell just makes it all worse, and with a excitement level so low that you don't even notice it this movie is simply one, big piece of shark-crap.Jaws 3-D just disappears in it's own water. And with gruesome directing and editing this movie doesn't get any help from any distance, and it makes Jaws 3-D simply enough a bad movie! And; typical in bad movies there are sort of totally obvious bloopers and realistic failures - as when a woman is attacked by this big creature she simply gets a small cut on her inside hip, and that jaws must be much bigger than that little cut! The movie never gets into any excitement or drama cause it's way too slow and way to caught in telling the very uninteresting stories of the characters. And with this ugly shark just lying around being way too fat and slow to do that much harm, this movie is one big gasp. Although JAWS was a movie masterpiece, and the sequel at least got as to see a shark attacking folks - this is just nothing of anything! There's a shark there somewhere, but it's so ugly and way too big for it's cause so.. STARS 1/5 "},{"Title":"good god this was unbearable WARNING MINOR SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  good god this was one of the most BORING horror movies i have ever seen in my life it has no redeeming factors what so ever the acting may be okay Dennis Quaid gives a good performance and is likable too bad he's in such a crappy movie Bess Armstrong does so so and has tons of dumb dialog as well Louis Gosset Jr is amusing but tends to get annoying in parts as well the effects are lousy and the finale is boring why i even rented this i don't know i guess i expected a mildly entertaining flick but what i got was a piece of cow dung thats awfully made and written and has way too much romantic stuff and focuses a bit too much on the love relationship of Armstrong and Quaid anyway enough is enough i am done!!! AVOID!!!!!! BOMB Out of 5 sorry that this review is so short but i don't wanna talk about this piece of dung anymore  "},{"Title":"Worst effort of the four (beware MAJOR spoilers ahead if you have not seen movie do not read review","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Oh dear.  After the effective first two movies, we have this inept and gratuitous third effort.  Unbelievably, unforgivably bad in nearly every way, the film wastes a really good premise (the eponymous killer shark loose in a Florida water park) through poor scripting, atrocious special effects and forgettable characters.The action has moved from Amity island to Florida's water park where the sons of Police Chief Brody (the Roy Scheider character from the first two, who does not appear here) are working away quietly.  Mike (Dennis Quaid) is a diver and engineer and kid brother Mike (John Putch) is tagging along, whilst going out with a local water-skiier (a pre-Back to the Future Lea Thompson).  The new underwater theme park is preparing to open and proprietor Calvin Bouchard (Louis Gossett Jr) is keen to up the publicity for maximum profit.  Lo and behold, a Great White and it's baby spawn appear, to cause the predictable havoc......The scripting for this is quite dire.  There is too much in the way of technical detail (explaining the how the whole park works, filtration pipes, explosives and what not) therefore the whole story becomes lost and merely a means to serve the audience with shark attacks.The acting for this film is largely forgettable.  Dennis Quaid, Lea Thompson, John Putch and Louis Gossett Jr (excellent in An Officer and a Gentleman) turn in unmemorable performances.  There is no depth, no humour and thus absolutely no sympathy with any of the characters.Much was made of the fact this film was shot in 3-D, so we're treated to a series of totally pointless shots, including the lingering, gory aftermath of several shark attacks and a shot of the shark closing in for the kill, getting no bigger as it moves closer...The shark announces itself right from the start, homing in on a bunch of water-skiers practising outside the lagoon.  Later appearances are oomphed up slightly through a couple of jump-scares, and when the mother shark eventually goes on the rampage, the initial sight of its massive tail thumping on the underwater plexiglass is quite intimidating. The film could have made more use of live action shark shots and John Williams music, as the shark model itself, when eventually revealed, is nothing more than a clunky, toothless lump of grey-brown plastic.  It's final scenes with a sight of a victim being devoured from inside the shark, and the shark dying from an explosion set off from another character trapped in it's maw, are almost laughably bad.Clearly the lamest of the Jaws series, it was followed by Jaws The Revenge which improved on this effort while bringing an effective sense of closure to the by-now worn-out franchise.  "},{"Title":"A total yawner.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Most of the comments here will give you the impression that this movie, bad as it is, still offers (unintentional) laughs. But you can laugh only when you're awake, and staying awake while you are watching this INCREDIBLY BORING movie is a real challenge. Poorly produced, directed and edited, this is an abysmal sequel, and the only total yawner in the series. "},{"Title":"Show any cheek and you'll be back shoveling French fries.","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Abysmal Jaws sequel that I can't recommend to anyone except connoisseurs of bad movies. This sequel sees the series move to Florida. Jaws goes to SeaWorld. Yes, you read that right. Beyond stupid. Facing off against the great white shark this time is Dennis Quaid as the son of Martin Brody, Roy Scheider's character from the first two movies. Also in the cast are Bess Armstrong, Lea Thompson, Simon MacCorkindale (Manimal himself), and Lou Gossett, Jr. This was the only movie directed by Joe Alves and it's easy to see why. Some truly terrible 3D effects are among the many lowlights. If this movie was a person, I would spit in its face. "},{"Title":"Really, really, stupefyingly awful...one of the greatest gut-churners ever","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't know how to explain what it is about Jaws 3 that I really, really don't like. The bad special effects, acting, direction, writing, etc. have all been mentioned to death. And yes, it was a really big dumb mistake to go all 3-D gimmicky. That's probably why they picked Joe Alves, the production designer from the first Jaws movie as well as others (Escape From New York, for example, another very grimy-dark and somewhat shoddy looking movie) to direct--the guy was obviously better with everything other than the human portions of the scenery. Or maybe not. The whole movie looks very flat and colorless...lifeless. It's strange.No, I think what really kills this movie for me is that seems very...I don't know...UNPLEASANT. There are ways to take even the most misanthropic horror, the silliest and most glaringly fake special effects, and make it compelling, interesting, and somehow cool to watch. It's a very subtle thing which I can't put my finger on. Jaws 3 doesn't come close. As ridiculous as the movie is, it tries to be relentlessly dark, and there are hints of a kind of nastiness or something which doesn't scare me, or even horrify me, but just make me feel very uncomfortable instead, like I need to take a shower afterwards. Perhaps it tries to be too literal when it begs to be stylized. Perhaps it's too dead serious when it's obviously claptrap. There some kind of jarring collision going on, something isn't working right. Basically the thing is the visual equivalent of indigestion.I will admit that certain things like sound effects work almost too well--the crunching as another vapid Floridian becomes fish food, the muffled underwater groans and shouts. But it's not horrifying in a good, entertaining way, you know? There is one very inventive shot, I also have to admit--the one prick cameraman diver gets eaten, and you watch the poor bastard getting chewed from INSIDE the shark's gullet.I think I may have an answer. It seems like unlike many horror movies, which simply like to show off gore effects and photogenic ways to kill people, Jaws 3 seems to revel specifically in helpless suffering, prolonging people's pain while they die. Even that poor fish at the beginning doesn't just get eaten...the severed head floats there half-alive for half a minute, uselessly working its mouth, just to drive the point home. It's a distinctly sadistic movie. Perhaps we need to coin a new movie genre for films like this loathing movies. As such Jaws 3 would probably rank up there with The Passion Of The Christ or something as one of the all-time greats. It's a crappie (pun intended), extremely unpleasant movie to watch overall, but it does achieve its dubious goal unnervingly well. I will give it that. "},{"Title":"Fun in a B-movie kind of way.","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The low rating here is understandable but it doesn't do the movie justice. It's understandable because of course compared to Jaws and in a way also Jaws 2 this movie is totally ridiculous. However if you look at this movie as an individual movie instead as a part of the Jaws franchise, you'll have to admit that this movie is entertaining to watch.This really is a B-monster movie with B-movie characters, awful dialog, silly special effects and laughable moments. Yes, fans of B-movies will truly be delighted by this movie. It really is a entertaining campy movie.Still of course as a movie this is not a very good one. The story is just completely ridiculous and the dialog is laughable at times. The movie its beginning really isn't that bad but as the movie progresses the movie becomes more and more ridicules and unbelievable. Towards the ending the movie even manages to turn into one of those typical '70's s disaster flicks, despite the fact that this movie was released in '83. The shark himself also never looked worse. The silly looking '3-D' effects also don't do much good to the movie. Still none of this takes away the entertainment value of the movie. It's certainly fun to watch and it's obvious at times that the makers and cast also didn't took the movie itself very serious. It even at fist was originally going to be a spoof of the original.Very bad as a part of the Jaws franchise, very entertaining as an individual (B)movie.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Jaws 3, Audience 0","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It took three screenwriters (Carl Gottlieb, Michael Kane, and the estimable Richard Matheson) to concoct what is surely the lamest suspense movie in history. Chief Brody's oldest son has grown up and become Dennis Quaid, working as a manager at Sea World Florida; after receiving a visit from his sea-shy brother, Quaid, girlfriend Bess Armstrong (who resembles Lorraine Gary, the original Mrs. Brody), and other park employees capture a Great White shark--a feat they will live to regret! Originally shown in 3-D, the movie-monster is mainly seen via underwater stock footage. When an actual Jaws is required, director Joe Alves unveils nothing more than a rubberized dummy. Alves has fun foisting severed limbs (not to mention the head of a fish!) at the camera in an attempt to raise chills, but any audience worth their salt won't be rooting for the swimmers. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"My God! It really is that bad!","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have to say, you know, it has been my sequel weekend. Despite repeated warnings from my family and IMDb users to skip this Jaws flick, if you even want to really call it that, but I ignored it and figured maybe it's just getting a bad rep because it would be compared to the first and ultimate classic Jaws. In the words of Nancy Karogan Oh, why?! Why?!. That was the only way I could describe the film and sitting throw it.Wither it was the cheesy cheesy cheesy effects, I mean did every horror movie in the 80's have to be 3-D? It's rather, well, cheesy! The plot? Was there a plot I even ask? There was no main story or line for us to follow and I felt the story kept on forgetting to telling us the sub-plot. The acting was horrible, I'm surprised Dennis could even get a career after this. I'm just telling you, please do not be as stupid as me and ignore the warnings! Be afraid! Be very afraid! Of the actual movie that is.1/10 "},{"Title":"The third...","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3-D is the third movie of Jaws and in this one we have the sons of police chief Bordy who have to protect the citizens at Sea World theme park in which a 35-feet shark trapped in this one with all of them.I did not like this movie because I believe that it had to be ended before the second movie, Jaws was not a trilogy movie not a series, it had to be only the first movie and nothing more. Although I think that the interpretation of Dennis Quaid who played as Mike Brody was nice such John Putch's who played as Sean Brody also was.Finally I want to tell you that if you have seen the previous two movies then you will be really let down by this one and I am sure about that. The first one was outstanding, the second was simply watcable and this third was just not good. "},{"Title":"The legend continues&#x85;once again.","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 8 years on the legend of Jaws continues. I understand that this film was made in the '83, and advancements in 3D technology weren't as good and crisp as they are today, but I believe that the film should never have been in 3D in the first place due to the rubbish looking CGI which they try to full off, but fail badly.For around $20 million they could have used the money for a better screen writer as the plot wasn't as good as it could have been. Based in a sea world that has just opened they attempt to get a shark enclosed into the sea world, once the shark is in the sea world that's when the bad effects begin to kick in.Overall, the film is 3.5/10 (I have rounded it down as I don't believe that the film is worthy of a 4.) "},{"Title":"3-D This Time!","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Set several years after the events of Part II, Chief Brody's sons Mike & Sean(Roy Scheider did not return) are now young adults at Sea World in Florida, where yet another killer great white shark emerges, trying to track down its baby, who is being kept there and studied. Scientists and hunters must team up to defeat this menace before it kills the incoming tourists...Now in(shoddy) 3-D, this film is just inept, with a ridiculous, uninspired plot, poor science regarding sharks, and no story involvement whatsoever. Utterly devoid of a point, just a blatant cash-in on the title and resurgent popularity of 3-D(Third Jaws film in 3-D, clever no?) A bust. "},{"Title":"What, Not Again!","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now Jaws 2 was a totally unnecessary sequel as I have said, however this film, Jaws 3-D is even more foul and pestilent, for starters, it lacks, and I mean it lacks, the signature shark theme from all the other films, this is what made Jaws so powerful and startling, that iconic theme. They have removed the power of the monster by replacing its theme with some bullshit merry melody, and here we barely even get to see the shark at all, I mean not like in the first, I mean in a bad way, and it kills very few people, it poses barely any threat at all, and for Christ's sake, its baby dies, and it wants revenge, sharks will eat their babies if they don't mature and scamper off quick enough, I mean seriously those idiots got even more dumb. Sharks don't have bonds, sharks are cold and emotionless, they don't take mates, and they don't care for their children a whole awful lot, they are just brainless instinctual fish, that must keep moving or they will die, this is why the geniuses in the movie put the baby in a cramped little tank, and shocked it shitless with a whole crowd of gawking people. Now this movie is very pointless, and very bad, and the way they kill the shark is pathetic, it can't swallow a guy whole for some reason when it can all those other times, and somehow he doesn't let go of his grenade, and they are able to pull the pin, I mean it just sounds utterly ridiculous. This film is horrifying and stupid in every single way, and I want to never defile my eyes by viewing it again, oh wait I just did, and saw that they used the shark theme, but still....... "},{"Title":"Just okay, no matter how many dimensions you see it in","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Even aside from the timely numerical designation of this sequel, the Jaws franchise seems like a natural for the realm of 3-D. The requisite underwater terrain alone is a perfect medium for textured dimensional rendering, and the idea of a terrifying, relentless killing machine swimming off-screen into audiences' laps is inherently awesome in and of itself. Sadly, this uneven offering never takes full advantage of its technology or its subject matter, and while it's nowhere near as bad as the truly abysmal Jaws The Revenge (few things are), it's also nowhere near as good as the flawless original or the excellent and unfairly dismissed follow-up.Even without its potentially interesting visual ploy, Jaws 3-D has all of the ingredients to be a great sequel on paper a stellar cast, a fresh concept, and, of course, a toothy behemoth that had already generated some of the scariest moments in screen history. These assets are ultimately squandered however. The seasoned ensemble is given very little to do, so the character studies at the heart of Jaws and Jaws 2 are bypassed entirely. The Sea World setting is woefully underused, and instead of giving our beast a novel killing ground, the park mostly functions as merely another mass of water for the action to unfold in. Worse, the shark itself isn't ever used in a suspenseful fashion, and the handful of deaths attributed to the monster are blatantly telegraphed and largely ineffective.Like many 3-D films that are stripped of their visual device for the home market, this one contains multiple scenes that may have been fun to behold on theater screens, but become utterly silly here. Floating fish heads and severed limbs bobbing with the tide might have provided cheap thrills for the opening weekend audience, but in a flat DVD representation, they simply function as camera shots that linger for far too long.The shark effects range from serviceable to downright awful, and since footage of actual sharks is utilized rather extensively, the titular titan more clearly resembles a synthetic puppet when we're seeing it at work. A couple of scenes of the creature slamming into gates and boats seem to have been created by using a plastic mock-up instead the sophisticated robotic construct that populated the first two Jaws outings, and since little effort is made to sell these moments, you can actually see the rubber shark bounce off its targets upon collision. When these flashes are integrated alongside the graceful maneuvering of real great whites, there is little symmetry between the two versions and the complete suspension of disbelief required to make a scenario like this pay off is rarely achieved.Apart from its obviousness as a prop, the shark in Jaws 3-D just isn't all that frightening because the meager body count doesn't allow it to prove itself as an insatiable murder machine. A couple of random victims are thrown in early on, but when the shark finally makes its way into the water park, where a virtual smörgåsbord of flailing legs awaits, every single person the shark pursues easily escapes its titular Jaws. Only one of the major characters gets bit during this extended sequence, and she gets away with little more than a few scratches on her leg.There are a few solid jump scares peppered throughout the film, but while the tension seems to be mounting every step of the way, the movie invariably pulls back before anything all that spectacular or horrifying occurs. Even the promising climax goes flaccid when the absolute dumbest false 3-D moment occurs, and any menace our finned antagonist has generated along the way is readily diffused by a protracted shot of her slowly floating toward the camera and breaking through a plainly animated sheet of glass. The way the shark is dispatched is particularly hard to swallow (this is actually a pretty good pun if you've seen the film), and yet another silly extended in your face moment caps off a tremendously underwhelming resolution.Savvy collectors will easily be able to track down readily available bootleg DVDs that retain the original 3-D presentation, but even the cleanest transfer available on the secondary market is still high-generation and extremely murky, a state which naturally strips away the potency of the visual effects. Watching my copy gave me a headache, and I had to stop about every thirty minutes or so to take off the glasses and give my eyes a rest. I eventually made it through, but when I did, all I discovered was that Jaws 3-D isn't much more impressive in its original form. The obsessive collector in me knows that if this offering ever gets a proper Blu-Ray release I will have to add it to my collection and give the film at least one more go, but the realist in me is guessing that even digitized 3-D effects won't make up for the numerous other weaknesses on hand here.There are a few effective moments here that will hold the attention of admirers of the series, but the film as a whole is a missed opportunity that can only be rightfully recommended to the most forgiving killer fish fans. An even better recommendation for those who have digested every frame of the unmatchable original and simply must have more is to skip this one entirely and give Jaws 2 another look instead. "},{"Title":"Please Tap on This Glass. Repeatedly.","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Oy vey. I actually defended Jaws 2. Did that come back to bite me on the ass for the horror Jaws 3D was? And just to clear up my last statement I meant horror as in HORRIBLE MOVIE and not a suspenseful scarefest.At any rate, Jaws 3D is so bad, so full of its gimmick of 3D &#x96; which was NO WHERE NEAR new in 1983, by the way &#x96; that they actually turned the one-hit-wonder (the original, 1975's Jaws) into a jokefest. Sad.The one positive thing I can say about it, is that they really paved the way for Piranha 3D&#x85;TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS LATER in 2010&#x85;as there's a lot here that they held back on &#x96; it was Rated PG for some strange reason &#x96; that Piranha 3D took to the next level, or twenty.Seaworld's under attack by not one, but TWO sharks this time. Way to step it up from the previous wimpy films in the franchise that only involved one shark each. Somehow, without any investigation, its deemed the two sharks are parent and child. But, that's neither here, nor there. It's all about the fake 3D carnage.Really, I don't want to waste too much more time on this mess. I can even safely say, the Director and Writer feels the same way they made a mess of poo and continuously wrote themselves into corners.There is no redeemable reasons to see this movie. Nothing that stands out, such as the Okay, it's bad, but you gotta see this scene.Of course, that makes me conclude with You think this is bad? Wait until the next installment &#x96; I mean, who the *BLEEP* believed so deeply in this series, by this point, that they green lit the abomination that was to follow? "},{"Title":"Toothless sequel...","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" JAWS 3 is probably one of the worst shark movie ever made. Even taking in cosndieration shark documentals!The dialogue, acting, direction, and f/x are mediocre. Dennis Quaid and Louis Gossett Jr. deserved a better script. The use of 3-D is very forced that it's ridiculous; for example, when the shark crashes the underwater installations you can't help but laugh. I can't believe Louis Gosset Jr. was forced to act scared in that scene. For example, the 3-D system used in Friday the 13th part 3 (1982) is way better than this and that's something to say!JAWS 3 is another unnecessary sequel that only demonstrates how big movie companies got rich because of the popularity of the Horror genre.There is nothing good to say about this one expect for some cheesy shark action. Please, avoid it. "},{"Title":"About As Interesting As Watching a Goldfish in a Bowl.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The 3-D effects were the gimmick to get people in the theaters for this watery sleeping pill and naturally many took the bait as Jaws 3-D was nearly as successful as the first two financially, but critically it pales even to the first sequel (not an easy feat). The two sons (Dennis Quaid and John Putch) of the Roy Scheider character are now working at a Sea World (huge surprise) and naturally having trouble with another shark. Love interests Bess Armstrong and Lea Thompson are also along for the ride as well as Louis Gossett, Jr. (fresh off an Oscar win for An Officer and a Gentleman). The visual effects just look terrible away from a theater and without those silly glasses they don't look too good in the movie house. A major mistake that somehow would do enough business to spawn one more unwanted installment. 2 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"To bad the cast was not in 3d ( ok well only one)","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not much to add that has not already been said. I saw this film in the theaters in 1983, because all the rest of the kids in the neighborhood said go see it its cool. So being a Jaws fan that I was I went & paid the $3 (what ever the cost was back then) Boy were they wrong even at a young age I could tell a pile of junk in a second. The only good thing about this film THE ONLY THING... It introduced me to my fav actress of all time...Lea Thompson I fell for her the second I saw her fall into the water in the first 30 seconds of the masterpiece. The best part was her in her tiny blue bikini. Thats it! Its a shame that she was not in 3D!  "},{"Title":"How can Carl Gottleib make such a horribly written film?","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Carl Gottleib worked dilligently day and night on re-writes to tighten up the script for Jaws.  He would literally write the scenes that were going to be filmed the next day on his typewriter the night before.  He has talent. But how on earth could he put his name after this piece of garbage.  This is a cheap attempt to capitalize on the good name that was Jaws.  The first changed cinema and it changed people's lives.  The second was very scary and continued a good story.  The last was laughable and this one is close behind.  I'm not even going any further with this because just trust me and every other viewer when we say that it is a terrible film.  Really really bad.Not a bad cast though.  Gossett Jr. Quaid and Lea Thompson.  Too bad they all didn't get eaten. "},{"Title":"What went wrong???","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the only movie I have ever walked out on in my life.  I think whoever titled this movie gave it too much credit - this movie was 1 dimensional (at best).  The plot?  Shark kills somebody in a bedlam of blood and gore, shark kills someone else, then someone else, ad nauseum.I really can't figure out what went wrong here.  The director and writers were part of the original Jaws, so it would seem they are capable of creating something of value.  What happened?  Let's take a closer look  It seems that this is the only film Joe Alves has EVER directed!  Well, thank goodness he won't be releasing anymore of this toxic sludge upon the world of film.  Writer Peter Benchley, writer of the original Jaws, was a writer on this film as well.  A closer look at his writing history reveals him as a writer on Jaws, The Deep, Cruel Jaws, The Beast, Creature (White Shark)... Hmmm, I detect a theme here.  Peter Benchley is the Mario Puzo of shark movies.  Another writer on this film was Carl Gottlieb.  It seems like 1983 was a bad year for Mr. Gottlieb, because the same year this sludge was written, he also wrote the bomb known as Dr. Detroit.  This director of Amazon Women on the Moon seems to actually have a better career as an actor than a director, appearing in such films as Johnny Dangerously and Clueless.  Aside from the Jaws films he only wrote on 4 movies.This overwhelming evidence seems to prove only one thing.  Stephen Spielberg was the only production talent on Jaws, and without him and the high-caliber actors of the original film, hacks like Peter Benchley and his band of cronies will never create another watchable film again. "},{"Title":"Disaster","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I recently watched this film again and straight afterwards I wished I hadn't. I had fond memories of this one going back some 15 years or so. I have no idea what grabbed me about the film initially. It's a total disaster.The filmmakers tried something new with the story, so one star for trying something new. It's just that the execution is laughable. There's no suspense here at all. Every character is uninteresting and badly written. Since it was filmed with 3-D effects in mind the results on DVD look horrible, Mars Needs Women is on par with this one. The film drags incredibly, the story just isn't there, virtually nothing happens for the first 70 minutes or so. Ahh, this movie just completely stinks.The other star I give for it's stars. Though this a definite low point for everyone concerned they do their jobs well. Dennis Quaid is always likable and I've always liked Simon MacCorkindale somewhat, got used to seeing him in Falcon Crest, I recall. Or was it Dallas?, hell, I don't know. And finally Louis Gossett Jr. plays his ridiculous role well, only one year after picking up the Oscar for An Officer and a Gentleman. This would be like Russell Crowe going from A Beautiful Mind to Dude, Where's My Car. "},{"Title":"And I thought Jaws The Revenge was bad!","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 3D films have something of a dubious reputation for being bereft of creative energy or merit. How long they have had this reputation for, I do not know. If they did not have such a reputation before 1983, they certainly earned it then. After Friday The 13th Part 3, all the 3D film needed was another crapfest to give it a reputation as being a cover for a bad story or script. They got it in the form of Jaws 3-D, which not only ranks as one of the worst films I have seen to date, it also ranks as one of the worst 3D films I can remember. And I include 3D shorts from theme parks in that list.As with all films that have 3D photography, the big make-or-break point is the 3D effects. Where Friday The 13th Part 3 did at least a reasonable job with this effect, Jaws 3-D is a spectacular crapfest with its effects, too. Given that both films were shot using the same process, ArriVision 3D, the blame for this lies solely with the director. Underwater shots are hideous in appearance, with enough grain and diminished focus to leave the audience wondering what in the blazes is going on. A lack of detail in dark spots of the picture is often characteristic of films that were shot in the early 1980s and previous, but many of the underwater shots show no effort at all to alleviate this problem. Those who have seen Blade Runner will know this is not impossible. In fact, a few stage lights in the right places could have worked miracles during the underwater/nighttime shots.The acting is thoroughly wooden, but I cannot help blaming the director for this, too. Given that the cast includes such B-list dependables as Dennis Quaid and Louis Gossett Jr., one would at least expect to be able to coax a halfway decent performance out of them. Especially considering that the things they are reacting to existed right on the set with them. Sadly, Quaid looks like he is ready to ask if he is meant to be scared yet, and Gossett Jr. looks like he's ingested too many painkillers. Mind you, these are the best performances that the film has to offer. You will be hard pressed to name two other actors from the film or the characters they portrayed.To the film's credit, there are no ridiculous scenes where the shark roars or explodes for no readily apparent reason. While the photography does much to make the equivalent scenes in Jaws 3-D nonsensical, they do make sense if you pay attention. Unfortunately, the ridiculous 3D effects will also leave you chuckling. The moment when the shark explodes, and its teeth come flying at the screen, is a priceless moment of unintentional comedy.This is where it all comes crashing down, unfortunately. The original Jaws was made on a very tight budget, and its director realised that he could not rely on effects to carry the day. He therefore decided to focus upon the human element, and filled his cast with the best cheap talent he could get his hands upon. Whether it was his direction or their ability, the performances manage to keep the viewer focused upon something other than the cheapness of the effects. Although you might forget the name of the characters, you won't forget the men who played them in a real hurry. Which is exactly the problem here. As in Alien 3, the characters are unmemorable because they don't have anything remotely approaching a second dimension.I gave Jaws 3-D a one out of ten. As a serious horror or drama, it sucks dead bunnies through a straw. As a comedy, it works better than the Marx Brothers at times. Jaws The Revenge was so bad it was incredible. Jaws 3-D was so bad that it is legendary. "},{"Title":"The rubber shark in 3D","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Five years after the weak Jaws 2 in 1978, first sequel of a terrible franchise spawned from the superb original Jaws(1975), it came Jaws 3D (1983) filmed in not so glorious 3D effects with a terrible screenplay that not even odorama could have save.The greedy executives from Universal Studios, not satisfied with being already millionaire thanks to the huge worldwide success of E.T. The Extraterrestrial the previous year, decide to milk yet another Spielberg property the big rubber shark, trying to cash with the short lived 3D movie trend of the early 80s, in attempt to distract the audience at looking at the screen for the 3D effects and trying to ignore the shoddy movie.Originally planned as a comedic turn for the franchise (the original screenplay was titled Jaws 3 People 0 go figure) but it was scrapped at the last moment but somehow they managed to turn it in an unintentional comedy anyway, full of ridiculous situations and stupid characters. It feels more like a actual parody, a la Airplane, of the previous Jaws movies and their countless imitators that you keep waiting for Leslie Nielsen to appear. We follow the two sons of Chief Brody, who somehow managed to become full grown up men only in a few years, both ended in Florida working in Miami's Sea World and thanks to a plot contrivance stolen from Orca (already a clone from the original Jaws) they meet again with the now female shark, all rusty and wear out. And unintentional 3D hilarity ensue and the splash, screaming, hysteria, bad acting and fake gore starts. I imagine that Dennis Quaid and Louis Gossett Jr are still trying to erase this one from their resumes.It's crap on three dimensions but fun crap if you like so bad it's good movies type of films. If not, stay with the first and original Jaws2D/10(Only two because Jaws The Revenge is even worst that this one!) "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3DThe best thing about seeing a Great White Shark in 3D is that you'll look so stupid wearing those 3D glasses that it'll be too busy laughing at you to attack.However, no comical-looking headgear could keep the aquatic killer in this horror movie from ravaging you.A juvenile shark infiltrates the gates separating SeaWorld from the sea. Inside the underwater attraction, the finned-intruder begins preying on the animals and their trainers.When employees (Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong) go to the park manager (Louis Gossett, Jr.) with this news, he decides to profit off it.But when the mother comes looking for her pup, visitors trapped in the park's submerged tunnel system become its victims.The second sequel to Jaws, Jaws 3D is a lackluster contribution to the seafaring series that jumps the shark with this installment.Besides, SeaWorld doesn't need any outside help in killing their captive animal population. (Red Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Everything, 3D gimmicks excepted, kindles the impression that it was made for television, not the big-screen.","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The brilliance of Steven Spielberg's 1975 film Jaws was that it took the premise for what was essentially a B-grade monster movie and pumped it up with so much thrills and so much escapist joy (and added some very interesting characters) that it excelled to a first-class work of art. Jaws 2 was a production whose rushed schedule showed clearly in every frame, but at least it made a noble effort to be good and still capture not only the same thrills, but the same charm as the original. So it wasn't dismal when it failed. However, with the revival of the wildly over-hyped and unnecessary 3D format of movies came the third installment, Jaws III also known as Jaws 3D. A little time has passed since the second movie. Martin Brody's (Roy Scheider from the first two movies) sons have grown up and one of them (a young Dennis Quaid) is a maintenance manager at Sea World. During his brother's (John Putch) visit, a great white shark busts through the underwater gates and begins to snack on people who venture into the park's waters. Eventually, the shark is captured, which leads to a jaw-dropping discovery the shark is a baby. So ignoring the fact that in reality sharks do *not* care for their offspring, the cardboard cut-out characters declare that its 35-foot-long mother must also be on the loose on opening day, of all times.Gone are the thrills and gone are the great characters. Looking back on the original Jaws and having the chance to see it in a theater for the first time (and meeting its screenwriter, the knowledgeable Carl Gottlieb) I am only further reminded of how strongly that movie succeeded because of three sharply-written, characteristic-packed characters who we believe in as human beings. They were essentially cutouts (a police chief, a mad hunter, a biologist) expanded into personalities we could relate to, people we liked, so that we rooted for the humans and condemned the sharks. Well, the characters here are more cutouts, but they remain so. Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong do what they can, but they have nothing to expand their characters upon. Their motives and scenarios are flat, their passion nonexistent. The same applies for the supporting cast, with nobody standing out.For the record, I have only seen the two-dimensional format of this picture. Reportedly the movie is no longer available for 3D viewing because it was so cheaply done and looking at the film, I can see why. Because even if the optical hocus pocus were handled well, it would not excuse the incredibly cheap visual effects. Oftentimes when the shark attacks, it uses the same gimmick. First of all, the tracking point-of-view shot which was so terrifying in the original movie and so redundant in the sequels. The camera zooms in on the victim, in a close-up so extreme that we can hardly see anything, the screen goes red, and then out of plume of over-lit blood we see a digital image meant to be a severed head or leg float toward the screen. If it jumped out at you, it would only increase the stultifying reality of how fake it is. Sometimes the movie even throws in cheap gimmicks for a 3D shot for no reason at all, such as a ludicrous shot where the camera zooms in upon a masthead-like sculpture protruding over the entrance to an exhibit. Does the object have any plot relevance or does it even look particularly good? No. So why include this track-in shot? So the filmmakers could make a thing stand out for no particular reason.There are a great many horrid effects shots in the movie. Bad underwater sculpture and set design, including a submersible that was all too obviously a toy tricked into the shot. Effects like this had been done better twenty years before. As for the shark, the filmmakers make the dumb decision of using live shark footage for most of the scenes. As with the second movie, we see a lot of the shark this time around and by showing so much live shark footage and so few animatronics (which aren't too good this time around) the comparison is only more jarring. Sometimes the shark is also a digital effect, including an infamous shot where it rams through an aquarium glass, also not-so-convincing. And then there is a cheap rubber model used for the baby shark, which looks like something taken out of a TV movie.Actually, the whole movie seems like something taken out of a TV movie. It was directed by Joe Alves, the production designer for the previous two movies and unfortunately his directing talents are far below his ability to create models, animatronics, and sets. With many logical errors (such as a shark out-swimming a motorboat), lackluster character development, horrid special effects, and a distinct lack of joy, Jaws III results in being a very forgettable production. I guess that's the best I can say about it. That although it bored me as I watched it, I found no difficulty in forgetting the experience the following morning. "},{"Title":"By the time I saw a shark, I just wanted the entire film to end","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's the early 1980's. Horror cinema is beginning to see a new light, in particular, the slasher film movement, where iconic franchises such as Friday the 13th, A Nightmare on Elm Street, and Halloween are being born. According to the documentary Going to Pieces The Rise and Fall of the Slasher Film, every studio, big or small, was pressing their luck on the silver screen when it came to slasher films. They were a huge attraction for young teens who needed a good scare on a Friday night. Consequently, many random slasher films came out (IE April Fools Day Happy Birthday to Me) and many sequels to other horror films came out.This is where Jaws 3 comes in. I only make note about slashers because Jaws 3, in particular, reminds me more of a slasher film than anything else. For one, its pacing is reminiscent of one of the early Friday the 13th films in terms of being very slow (only this time, it doesn't amount to anything remotely frightening), and, to compare it to Friday the 13t Part 3 - the infamous 3D chapter of the series - it's one gigantic gimmick to showcase its 3D effects. So what happens when you take away that gimmick, like when Jaws 3 was down-converted in the process of its home video release? At the time, VHS and Betamax, the two formats during the film's release, couldn't manage 3D capability, so as a result, the medium that made Jaws 3 different from many horror films was suddenly taken away and what was left was nothing but a bland, interchangeable affair, with poor special effects, little pacing, and the power to be forgotten hours after being viewed.The story, for the first time, takes place away from Amity Island and is now at SeaWorld, where underwater tunnels are being constructed for a new exhibit. Employees, including marine biologist Kay Morgan (Bess Armstrong) and Michael Brody (Dennis Quaid), discover that a baby shark has slipped through one of the underwater tunnels and may be responsible for several disappearances in the park. Upon being captured, more still disappear, and it becomes clear the real killer was the mother great white shark and not her offspring. This sends the SeaWorld staff into a panicking frenzy, unsure of what exactly to do about their shark problem.The one common criticism I have for all of the Jaws sequels is their slowness in progression. In the first film, the shark didn't appear until roughly the hour mark, giving us time to acquaint ourselves with the staff of the beach, the area of Amity Island, and be smitten with Spielberg's clear direction and Verna Fields' priceless editing. In the sequels, the time between the opening credits and the first time we saw the shark is nothing but bloated filler; the film giving us an illusion that it has characters to care about, places to go, suspense to have us experience, and tension in its scenes. They have nothing. Even when they look like they do, they still flounder under the emptiness of their own screenplays. The times the shark wasn't on screen, I wanted to see one. The times they came on screen, I simply wanted the film to end.Jaws 3's most fascinating feature, however, is not its inclusion of 3D, or its release history. It's that the man credited for the story is a man by the name of Guerdon Trueblood. Starring Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong. Directed by Joe Alves. "},{"Title":"I quite liked Jaws 3 actually, with a strong emphasis on the word 'quite'...","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3 starts with lots of point-of-view shots as the killer Great White Shark swims along eventually biting a fish in half which sends it's decapitated head slowly sinking to the bottom of the sea, during this sequence the title credits appear which are obviously meant to incorporate the 3-D process & look a little silly & somewhat overdone playing flat. Anyway, once Jaws 3 starts proper we are introduced to Micheal 'Mike' Brody (Dennis Quaid), the son of police chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider, who does not appear in Jaws 3) from Jaws (1975) & Jaws 2 (1978). Mike works as the chief underwater engineer at a marine amusement park called Sea World which is dubbed 'The World's Largest Marine Park', somewhere in Florida, as coincidence would have it his girlfriend Dr. Kathryn 'Kathy' Morgan (Bess Armstrong) also works there as a marine biologist. A new attraction called the Undersea Kingdom, which is an enclosed lagoon with transparent underwater corridors that people can walk through, is being shown off to the press & public in a preview weekend. One of the parks workers named Shelby Overman (Harry Grant) dives into the Undersea Kingdom to try & repair some damaged gates, while down there he is viciously attacked by a Great White Shark. Shelby's girlfriend turns up at Seaworld the next day & complains to Mike that he didn't come home the previous night, concerned for his safety Mike & Kathy dive into Undersea Kingdom's lagoon to look for him. While conducting their search they are attacked by a Great White Shark but both manage to escape unharmed. Back on dry land a cocky adventurer named Philip FitzRoyce (Simon MacCorkindale) wants to destroy the Shark & film it, but Kathy wants to capture it & persuades Sea Worlds owner Calvin Bouchard (Louis Gossett Jr.) that it would be good for business to have a Great White Shark as an attraction. They successfully capture the Shark but it dies soon after & that makes it's enormous 35 foot plus Mother very unhappy. With an entire amusement park & lots of people to terrorise no one in the water is safe as she seeks revenge...Directed by Joe Alves who was the production designer on the first two Jaws films I quite liked Jaws 3 even if going by some of the reviews & comments most people seem to think that it's just about the worst film ever, well forget about that as it's nowhere near. I will openly admit that the script by Carl Gottlieb, Micheal Kane & Richard Matheson isn't the best ever but it moves along at a fair pace & I liked the setting & overall story even if it's complete total & utter nonsense in a factual & scientific sense. Sharks don't swim backwards, they definitely don't growl or roar & have no maternal instincts towards their young. I suppose you have to take the good with the bad if you know what I mean, & it is just at heart a horror film after all isn't it? Director Alves unfortunately fails to create much tension, excitement or atmosphere during the infrequent Shark attacks although I love the way FitzRoyce was eaten/crushed with the camera placed in the back of the Sharks mouth showing us what we would see if we were being eaten, a really cool & memorable scene that's probably worth an extra star or two on it's own. Alves also fails somewhat when it comes to the dramatics out of the water with the human cast, the relationships & characters aren't that interesting. The shots which are supposed to use the 3-D effects are fairly obvious & as a result I felt one or two bits here & there looked a little out of place, having said that I quite liked the odd strange shot especially when the Shark was blown to pieces at the end & it's teeth & gums shoot towards to camera! The special effects in Jaws 3 are pretty poor, some of the optical effects are absolutely awful in particular the mini submarine underwater & the Shark 'gliding' towards the control room at the end as it breaks the glass in another obvious 3-D shot. Surprisingly there are a few good gore scenes in Jaws 3, a severed arm & some quite graphic shots of a mutilated body complete with a sea creature sliding out of it's mouth. The huge mechanical Shark looks good for the most part, especially it's mouth & teeth. Technically Jaws 3 is OK apart from those poor optical effects, nothing outstanding but nothing too bad either. John Williams unforgettable theme is used at times but the rest of the music by Alan Parker simply can't come anywhere near to matching it. The acting is OK by all involved even if they don't seem to be putting too much effort into it. Overall I quite liked Jaws 3, it moves along at a fair pace & kept me entertained for it's 100 odd minute running time without too much trouble. So what if it's all rather silly, it's only a film after all right? In my humble opinion Jaws 3 definitely doesn't deserve to be in the IMDb's bottom 100 & is certainly worth watching if you can bag a cheap copy from somewhere or catch it on T.V. for free. "}{"Title":"re reviewing it sucks!","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this was one of the most boring dull and headache inducing sequels i have ever seen it has lousy effects so so acting not all that much gore dumb dialog but good photography and a good performance by Dennis Quaid can't save this one it is juts terrible Bess Armstrong does okay but i just didn't care for the characters all that much and it was boring as hell i would rather watch static all day that's how boring it is folks overall please avoid this stinker not worth your precious time. BOMB out of 5 my other review of this should be coming shortly the other review is better  "},{"Title":"20+ years later, two memories","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this film first run, in 3-D!!! I think it was the second film in 3-D that I ever saw (Friday the 13th, Part 3 was the year before). I have only two memories of it that stand out after 20+ years (besides the fact that it was pretty lousy) 1) Dennis Quaid chain smoking through the whole film, and 2) The audience booing when the dolphins leaped out of the water at the end. It was a pretty rowdy group that wanted and waited to be entertained by Jaws 3-D that opening weekend. By the end of the film everyone was so disappointed that they jeered when it was revealed that the lovable sea creatures had NOT been horribly eaten by the shark. That audience reaction was the most enjoyable part of the evening. "},{"Title":"Bad but not as bad as one fears","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Michael Brody (Dennis Quaid) is working at Florida Sea World with his senior biologist girlfriend Dr. Kathryn Morgan (Bess Armstrong). Land loving cowboy brother Sean Brody (John Putch) comes for a visit and befriends water ski performer Kelly Ann Bukowski (Lea Thompson). Unbeknownst to everybody, a shark sneaks into the lagoon. First it kills a worker fixing the gate. Then it kills two trespassers trying to steal coral. Calvin Bouchard (Louis Gossett Jr.) is about to open up his new man-made lagoon park. Calvin's buddy Philip FitzRoyce (Simon MacCorkindale) suggests filming the kill, but Morgan wants to capture the shark instead.Filmed in 3-D, things are coming at the camera in several scenes. I didn't have the pleasure of seeing this in 3-D. In 2-D, those scenes look very cheesy. It's a big joke now and a source of ridicule for the movie. The underwater scenes are confused and boring. There are a couple of really bad effects scenes with the shark.Other than the effects, I actually like the characters and the actors. The story is lacking and the dialog is bland. There are worst movies in the world. Heck, there are worst Jaws movies. This is a simple fail. "},{"Title":"Smell that? It's rotting fish carcass.","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3 is directed by Joe Alves and features a screenplay written by Carl Gottlieb & Richard Matheson from a story by Guerdon Trueblood. It stars Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong, Simon MacCorkindale, Louis Gossett Jr, John Putch & Leah Thompson. The second sequel to Steven Spielberg's Jaws, this was originally released in the 3D format that had a brief rebirth in the early to mid 1980s. Plot centres around a WaterTheme Park coming under attack from a great white shark.It was originally mooted to have been a spoof movie, along the lines of Airplane et al, now that could have worked you feel, what we actually get is an unintentional spoof movie that was made in appallingly bad 3D. Yet the 3D gimmick was enough to get the punters into the cinema and keep those tills kerchinging to the point where Universal Pictures were rather happy. Happy enough to green light another sequel, the god awful Jaws The Revenge in 1987. As I was one of those punters who shelled out for the 3D Jaws experience back in the day, I feel partly responsible for part 4 assaulting the eyes of everyone who has ever seen it.Watching it now over 25 years later in 2D, the film is actually worse than I originally remember it being. Of course now in this internet age we can find out about the numerous script tamperings that went on with it, and subsequently look at the non directing career of Alves post this fishy garbage and fully understand why. Perhaps the biggest mystery of all is how Messrs Quaid, Gossett Jr & Thompson survived to have careers afterwards? But the reality is it's not their fault, Quaid is badly underwritten and a bit too fresh faced to carry the male lead role this early in his career, Gossett Jr actually does OK in the role of SeaWorld park manager Calvin Bouchard, showing the only moments of acting gravitas as he tries to keep things under control. While Thompson is a third arc character called on to look pretty and say a couple of lines whilst trying to keep a straight face.Even if we shy away from the poor effects work, that were, yes, poor effects even in 1983, Jaws 3 has an amateurishness about it that is laughably bad. The shark sequences look like they were filmed in a bath tub with some kiddies drawing used to scale, while the dialogue, too, seems to have been lifted from a 4 year old's memoirs. Then there is the performances from the likes of Armstrong and MacCorkindale, the former is bland beyond compare, the latter is, if you pardon the pun, wetter than a fish's blanket. There's some decent choreography on show for some water skiing sequences, but even these are countered by the ineffective use of the shark. Don't believe anyone who tells you that this is still fun in a popcorn no brain kind of way, it isn't. It's as bad as its reputation says it is and it's only saving graces are Gossett Jr and that it isn't as bad as part 4. 2/10 "},{"Title":"A big mess","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3-D is not as bad as JawsThe Revenge, which for me is one of the worst sequels ever, but it is the complete anti-thesis of the masterpiece that is Spielberg's original film. Even the second film was better, and while I would hardly call that film a masterpiece, it was watchable.One major problem with this film is that it's dull, in my opinion that is. I wouldn't have minded so much the sluggish pace if the suspense and plot were up to par. Sadly, neither are. The plot is both unoriginal and close to being a non-event.The suspense, tension and thrills were what made the original so memorable, there is next to none of that here. The music and direction do not help. The music feels very predictably placed sometimes which spoils the mood of the scene, and the direction feels pedestrian and tired.The locations are pretty good, they're not what makes the film so dull and cheap visually. That's the fault of the slip-shod editing and the rubbish effects, with the shark completely lacking menace and feeling incredibly gimmicky. Jaws 3-D also has some cheesy and trite dialogue and superficial characters that you don't care for at all.The acting is poor. Dennis Quaid has a badly-written character, and sadly in his performance he lets that show. The other actors are either bland or annoying.So overall, while not as bad as Revenge the film is a big mess. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Ten reasons to see JAWS 3-D","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 1. It has a huge rubber shark in it 2. It has Dennis Quaid in it - and he gets eaten by the shark 3. Dennis Quaid does not actually get eaten by the shark, but it would be fun if he was eaten by it as it would seriously shorten the length of the movie 4. Arnold Schwarzenegger's hilarious cameo as Bruno the Killer Shark - classic stuff! 5. Danny DeVito as his Twin brother!! 6. Arnie and Danny joining Dennis Quaid in a musical rendition of Born to Be Wild, followed by lots of back-slapping and bestiality with the killer shark 7. A Great White Shark managing to infiltrate a remote and highly guarded sea park in an effort to seek vengeance on...umm...one guy related to a guy who killed its mother/brother/sister/etc in the first film.8. The movie is so wandering and pointless that half of it has nothing to do with the rest of it - it starts as a cheesy I got my arm bit off by a shark help me!!! movie and then turns into a promotion for a Beach Boys musical (don't ask) 9. Product placement - how subtle! 10. If you do not support this movie, there will be no JAWS 5 - and we all know we want it to be made as soon as possible! Oh, and a bonus 11th reason Steven Spielberg's cameo as the tourist who runs up to the camera yelling Stop the awfulness! They've sold out! They've denied my artistic vision of this series! before getting devoured by a shark.Oh, wait, that wasn't part of the movie - it really happened. "},{"Title":"Jaws III","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first film was the successful Steven Spielberg thriller, the sequel brought back Roy Scheider, and this third film does neither, it just wastes my time. Basically the Brody brothers, Michael 'Mike' (Dennis Quaid) and Sean (John Putch), sons of Amity Police Chief Brody, are working at seaside park Sea World with its aquarium based attractions, and run by Calvin Bouchard (An Officer and a Gentleman's Razzie nominated Louis Gossett Jr.). Sean meets Kelly Ann Bukowski (Back to the Future's Lea Thompson) and Michael's girlfriend Kathryn Morgan (Bess Armstrong) who work with the two dolphins Cindy and Sandy (Razzie winning Shrieking Dolphins), and do their parts to keep the place going. Soon enough Sea World, with its new underwater glass tunnels is endangered by a baby great white shark and decide to catch it to put on display, but it soon dies after not great treatment. They realise that the recent attacks in the open, caused by a shark, couldn't have been made by this baby, they are now on the lookout for the large mother that killed Shelby Overman (Harry Grant). It soon shows up and traps many visitors and the water park staff inside the leaking underwater dome, and the only way to kill the shark is to do the same as the previous film, electrocute him and have his jaws come towards us. Also starring Simon MacCorkindale as Philip FitzRoyce and Lock, Stock and Two Barrels' P.H. Moriarty as Jack Tate. Once again the shark, the rubber one nicknamed Bruce, doesn't scare you anymore, and even with the tell-tell signs that this film sued to be in 3D, like the shark crashing into the glass with shards coming towards you, it is just stupid. It was nominated the Razzies for Worst Director for Joe Alves, Worst New Star for Worst Screenplay, Worst Picture and there was a Worst Career Achievement Award for Bruce the rubber shark from all three films. Adequate! "},{"Title":"The Weakest in the Series","Date":"18 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jaws 3 (1983) * 1/2 (out of 4) Silly and poorly executed sequel takes us to Sea World where Mike Brody (Dennis Quaid) is now working with his girlfriend (Bess Armstrong). Park creator (Louis Gossett, Jr.) is about to open a new attraction when a Great White shark gets into the park and begins its destruction. It's pretty clear that the only reason this movie was made was to cash in on the title as well as the 3-D effects, which were becoming popular again. I've heard from countless people that this film was one of the worst looking 3-D movies and that's pretty easy to see even when viewing it in 2-D. I was surprised to see how poorly this film was shot and at times how dark the footage actually is. Just take a look at the sequence where they're trying to lure the shark into the tunnel. This entire sequence is so dark that you'd think someone dropped some ink on the film print. The actual story of a shark entering Sea World just doesn't work for a number of reasons. For starters, there's really no epic feel of an ocean going on here. Having everything taking place in the park just gives the film a very small feel to it. It also doesn't help that the shark really doesn't get to attack very many people here. The film really doesn't have any guts as no one we care about every gets attacked and for the most part we get poorly constructed characters who are going to be the obvious bait. The shark here is also rather mixed. We get some footage of a real shark thrown in yet this ends up being a major goof because when the shark is actually captured and brought into a tank, it's obviously a lot smaller than the one we see used in the real footage. The shark itself looks okay but I can't say it was better than the previous two. It's certainly the biggest of the three but this is pretty much wasted as she (yes, it's a girl) doesn't get to do too much. I'm really not sure why'd they'd spend the money to build this thing and then not do much with it. What's most shocking about this film is the fact that the performances are probably the best thing. Both Quaid and Armstrong are good but they're obviously drowning in a bad screenplay. Lea Thompson is cute in her few moments here but Gossett is pretty much wasted. He turns in a fine performance but there's just not much he can do with the character. As far as the attacks go, we get one great one where we see the killing from inside the shark's mouth. This scene is worth sitting through everything else. The ending with the shark breaking through the glass is just silly and pretty much sums up everything you need to know about this movie. I'm not sure if the original idea of having a spoof would have worked any better but this here is certainly the least in the series and one that can easily be forgotten. It should be noted however that Universal pulled the plug on the 1981 Italian rip-off GREAT WHITE, which borrowed dialogue, scenes and stories from the first two films in the series. Universal got GREAT WHITE pulled from theaters yet they in return rip that movie off with plenty of stuff that ended up in this film. My advice would be to track down a copy of that movie. "},{"Title":"Three D . One Bad Movie","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gawd what a terrible script. For the first 40 minutes we`re subjected to lots of scenes with cute dolphins . This might appeal to children but because there`s some bad language and some scenes of gore this means a 15 certificate meaning young children can`t see this movie and the target audience will be bored by the mawkishness of it all . And what`s with the dialogue  Go tell him to take a leap at a flying donut  Good grief words are weapons , not even THE SOPRANOS  or OZ would include this as an insult , mainly because if they did the HBO viewers would cancel their subscriptions to the station  . Why is it the only British characters in American films are either former public schoolboys with no brains or chirpy cockney geezers ? Oh hold on here comes a couple of Brits sailing into this film , ones a brainless idiot with a public school accent and the other is a chirpy cockney geezer,  Cor blimey guv leave it out . And there`s a geeky guy and a bimbo who are in lurve with each other , I`m only guessing here but might I be right in guessing one of them will end up as lunch ? Without doubt the most unforgivable thing about this pitiful script is the fact it was written by the highly regarded Richard Matheson author of I AM LEGENDThe cast are disappointing to say the least but they`re not helped by the director . It should be remembered JAWS 3 was made in 3-D so instead of trying to get the best out of his cast director Joe Alves concentrates on the 3-D gimmick , sharks , dolphins , flames and other objects come right through the screen at you but paying audiences must have felt stupid sitting in a cinema with their 3-D glasses on . Come to think of it a paying audience must have felt silly watching this rubbish even if it wasn`t in 3-D  "}]