[{"Title":"Why you MUST give Krull a second look.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"95 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  'Fantasy', in the traditional 'Dungeons & Dragons' sense, in the movies is often seen by the general public as a warning sign (and often rightly so).  On the surface, Krull does seem like standard fantasy cliche.  Prince must rescue princess from monster.  Not very promising so far, is it?  Already starting to lose interest?  YOU FOOLS!  Consider these additional elements An orchestral soundtrack by the mighty James Horner (Titanic), which is possibly the best score he has ever written, possibly even THE best score ever written; A brilliant mostly-British cast, including Liam Neeson, Robbie Coltrane, Tucker Jenkins ) and a host of other distinguished actors; A script which is so corny that it cannot fail to be fantastic when delivered with such hammed-up enthusiasm by the actors; and finally a few brilliant touches such as the boyhood-dream-weapon the Glave - a giant mind-controlled shuriken.  This film falls in to the same category as Flash Gordon which was released a few years before -  epic, brit-centric, totally entertaining masterpieces of camp grandeur.  Don't write it off until you've seen it enough to appreciate its subtleties.   "},{"Title":"Serious film criticism has no place here!","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"75 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Krull recently on the HBO family channel (Comcast 304), of all channels.  What's really funny is that Krull is rated PG for adult content!  I believe the content of Krull wouldn't interest most adults, and diehard fantasy fans like myself aren't adults in the proper sense of the word anyway.Krull offers the sheer pleasure of watching medieval men (Englishmen?), armed mostly with swords and spears, fighting seemingly unstoppable alien warriors with laser guns.  The guns appear to have only one or two shots apiece, though, because most of the aliens turn their weapons over in combat to reveal blades for close-quarters fighting.  If the aliens had infinite shots, that would be just too unfair for the hard-pressed good guys.There is a story linking the action sequences together, which clearly draws its inspiration from Tolkien, Star Wars, and the Arthurian Legends.  I can understand why someone wouldn't like Krull, because its similarities to Star Wars are so obvious that the movie seems derivative and formulaic even though it deserves credit for presenting its familiar fantasy elements in a somewhat unique manner. The Krull plot concerns a young hero (no, not Luke Skywalker) with an old mentor (not Obi-Wan Kenobi), who must rescue a princess (not Leia) from an impregnable fortress (which is not the Death Star); otherwise, however, Krull bears no resemblance to Star Wars.  Except for the massive spaceship/fortress that glides slowly by during the opening credits, of course.One reason I like Krull is that the whole production has a distinctly British flavor yes, the cast and the scenery are obviously British, even if some of it was filmed in Italy, but the movie is unmistakably British in more subtle ways.  The movie has bleak moments when all the good guys seem to be dying at once and their cause appears hopeless, but it also doesn't hesitate to be silly and poke fun at itself in quintessentially British fashion.  The Ergo character provides comic relief with his transformations into various animals, which are all the more amusing because they are consistently unintentional.  His fussiness and insistence upon his dignity are reminiscent of C-3PO from the Star Wars movies, except that C-3PO never expressed a desire for gooseberry pie.The hero, his mentor and Ergo are waylaid by thieves, but rather than robbing them the criminals agree to join their quest in an enjoyable Robin Hood-type scene; not only do the thieves respect the hero when they learn that he's the future king, but at least one of them (Alun Armstrong) refuses to have his old shackles removed until the quest is complete.  Armstrong's character is my favorite of the movie because I can't help liking a criminal who wants to redeem himself with heroism...like Han Solo (sorry, yet another Star Wars parallel).Some comments have complained that Ken Marshall lacks charisma as the hero, but since he looks like Errol Flynn with a beard he certainly has the perfect appearance for a fantasy swashbuckler.  He also runs the gamut of emotions well, bursting with youthful arrogance in the early scenes and seeming near the movie's end like someone who has actually been changed by experience and may grow into a great leader.  At least one comment complained that Marshall doesn't display enough grief for the deaths of his men, but since the good guys drop like flies in this movie (dying words are reserved for the developed characters) I don't blame him for not stopping to cry while alien laser beams fly past his head.At least two subplots add mythological or religious connotations to the story first, the Cyclops (Yes, there's a Cyclops in this movie, and it doesn't look believable at all.  But who can hate a movie with a Cyclops?), whose ancestors made a bargain with the Beast for the gift of foresight, but were cheated so that they could only see their own deaths.  Interesting.  I think the Cyclops character was well developed in the movie, and his actions offer an interesting exploration of the issue of free will versus destiny.Second, and my favorite sequence of the movie, is the visit to the Widow of the Web, because nothing could be more symbolic of a person consumed by hate and despair than someone who allows everyone who approaches to be ensnared in a web and devoured by a giant spider the scene in which one character dares to approach the widow has the power of real myth. Even if the spider's cheesy stop-motion animation renders it less than believably real, the sequence is so effectively creepy that it couldn't be improved today except by updating the special effects perhaps the Shelob sequence in the third Lord of the Rings movie (for which the Krull sequence will provide an interesting precursor) will be better.Peter Yates' direction is competent, though it's hardly the equal of Bullitt (the only other work of his that I've seen).  The supporting cast is also more noteworthy than the leads, since it includes not only Freddie Jones and Francesca Annis from Dune but Robbie Coltrane, the aforementioned Alun Armstrong AND Liam Neeson!  Any film that brings such a cast together deserves some credit.  I'm a huge Tolkien fan and fantasy fan overall, so I'm sure that I like this movie more than the typical viewer does.  It has its fair share of problems, such as the fact that it goes on too long and doesn't go out of its way to engage an emotional response from the viewer, but I definitely believe that its sense of fun compensates for its flaws.  When a movie shows me Errol Flynn killing alien warriors with a mystical boomerang, I cease to be a critic because serious film analysis has no place here!At the very least, Krull is the kind of movie that will give you and your friends plenty to talk about afterward, supposing that they're willing to watch it with you.Rating 7 (A good fantasy-adventure.)  "},{"Title":"I might regret saying this some time down the road, but Krull is a really fun 80s sci-fi/fantasy adventure.","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"61 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rating *** out of **** Enough people have tried comparing to Krull to Star Wars that I won't even bother emphasizing the similarities aside from the fact that Krull's mythology isn't half as well thought out, but it's just as fun as anything in George Lucas' space opus, and that's good enough to earn a recommendation from me; at the very least, this is easily among the best of its respective genre (better than, say The Sword and the Sorcerer or Willow), and it is to these standards one will immediately realize if this movie is up their alley or not. It probably isn't.Set on a faraway world known as Krull, the film opens with the oncoming invasion of the Slayers, a fearsome, planet-conquering army led by the Beast, whose lair is a spacecraft shaped like a large mountain called the Black Fortress. They've clearly got the sword-wielding residents of Krull outmatched, as the Slayers are armed with laser, though they curiously still use horses as a means of transportation.Knowing the only way to stave off the invaders is to unite, the planet's two warring kingdoms set aside their differences so that Prince Colwyn (Ken Marshall) and Princess Lyssa (Lysette Anthony) may be wed. In the middle of the wedding ceremony, the Slayers storm the palace, killing everyone except for Colwyn, and they take Lyssa back to the Fortress as a gift to the Beast. If this was really the extent of both kingdoms' armies, then I don't see how they could have stood even the slightest chance in a full-on war with the Slayers.Anyway, the Beast has apparently chosen Lyssa to be his bride because he's aware of the prophecy that whomever she chooses to be her husband (and consequently the king), their eventual son will become ruler of the galaxy. Logically, I could only see this working if she chose the Beast, considering Colwyn has no means of interplanetary travel, which would make galaxy-ruling a bit of a tough task.Determined to save his bride, Colwyn retrieves the five-bladed throwing star (think Alien vs. Predator) called the Glaive and recruits loyal followers during his journey (namely a band of criminals, including Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane). Hindering their quest is the fact that the Fortress automatically transports to a new location during every sunrise. This does beg the question why the Beast doesn't just blast off the planet with his bride-to-be than risk the slightest chance of Colwyn finding her...but I digress.For all the moments of cheese (no moment unintentionally funnier than when Colwyn is able to recognize one of his men by a blood trail), unconvincing blue-screens, and occasional subpar effects, Krull still works dandily as a rollicking adventure. The cast is much better than usual for this kind of material, with Ken Marshall making for a charismatic and likable hero and lovable rogues like Neeson, Coltrane, and Alun Armstrong (whom I'll always remember as the traitorous Mornay in Braveheart) providing solid support. Lysette Anthony radiates beauty as Lyssa, she's easily one of the most drop-dead gorgeous princesses in cinema history. There's no question I'd go through the same trouble to rescue her as well.Despite running a little over two hours, Krull moves at a consistently excellent pace, delivering good production values (loved the exterior and interior sets of the Black Fortress), beautiful locations (and thus, some lovely cinematography), and a number of exciting action sequences. The battle scenes are surprisingly well-choreographed; whatever the sword fights may lack in gritty violence is made up for by pure swashbuckling fun. Other terrific scenes include Colwyn's solo rock-climbing, the trek through the swamps, the adventurous ride on the Firemares, and the battle/chase within the Fortress. The action and adventure is given a great boost from James Horner's rousing score, one of the composer's personal best. Director Peter Yates strictly adheres to fantasy formula, so there are no surprises to be found. The plot is occasionally baffling, essentially making up a lot of its own rules as it goes along (the old mentor telling Colwyn he can't use the Glaive until the right moment, a character staying behind because his time is up only to come to the rescue later, etc.). But it's all in good fun, and the movie is pieced together with moderate coherency and consistent momentum. Recommended to fans of 80s fantasy, Krull delivers the goods for those into this sort of thing. "},{"Title":"A superb classic that should be more revered..","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"63 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love these sorts of films; attempts at fantasy which diverge from the usual sort of run of the mill stuff. Krull remains original even now. Where computerised effects are mainstream today, in this film they are rarely used and the crew get round it with more hands on methods; making the entire piece look far more realistic.Granted the plot could be a little cliched, but the way in which the story tackles it is good, and you won't be bored by the various chapters that are presented. You get whisked away and there is enough background and adventure to substantiate the film and you aren't left wondering if there could have been more to it, but rather, you are immersed *in* the film and finish watching it with a sentimental 'Aww.. that was brilliant, is that it? I want more..' The various characters that the protagonist meets throughout the story is cool, and really lends to the effectiveness of the developing background. It all becomes entwined, and makes for a fulfilling plot.If you liked Legend (Tom Cruise, Mia Sara) for its different direction or Dragonslayer for its dynamic special effects, then you'll probably like this similarly-aged colleague of that era. "},{"Title":"A gem from the Fantasy Boom of the 80's","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This has always been one of my favorite movies for some reason. That doesn't necessarily mean that it's good; just that I like watching it.I highly recommend this movie to anyone searching for a good fantasy title from the 80's. I would put Krull right up there with Ladyhawke, both Conan's, Willow, and the Dark Crystal. What separates this fantasy film from the others is a plot involving a more science fiction- type element. Visitors from somewhere in space have landed on a planet named Krull to wreak havoc. After they snag up our hero, Prince Colwyn's bride-to-be, he goes on a quest to save her with the help of a star-shaped boomerang with knives called the Glaive and a band of strange characters including a cyclops and a goofy guy who can change into animals.Good time fun worth the rental price. What else do you need here?For film buffs, check out early performances by Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane. "},{"Title":"A very, very, very good fantasy movie.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"41 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember that when i saw this for the first time i wasn´t very impressed. I remember that i didn´t like the laser beams that came out of the bad guys weapons. I remember thinking KRULL wanted to be a STAR WARS but it wasn´t very good at it.Then as the years passed, i got to watch KRULL on video, and somehow i started realy to like this movie. By this time i had read a couple of fantasy books and i started to appreciate the attention to details in KRULL and the way the whole concept was organized as a movie.Since then, each time i see it, i realy enjoy it more. Ok, it´s not the perfect fantasy movie, but compared to the usual more recent unimaginative excuses for movies that come out of Hollywood, (see Neverending Story III or Warriors of Virtue), this movie KRULL is a brilliant fantasy masterpiece.KRULL has an excelent and different atmosphere, a much, much better script than WILLOW, excellent characters, a fantastic magic weapon, a good set design and it follows the Dungeon and Dragons formula in a very imaginative way, compared to the more recent movies.The actors do their jobs well, (try to spot Leam Neeson) the situations are imaginative and the soundtrack is realy good and very atmospheric also.The only minor fault in this production, is the way in wich we can immediately tell, when the outdoor scenes are filmed in indoor studios, because there is immediately a big contrast between the natural magnificent landscapes and the ones that are built in the studio. Which is a shame because sometimes it spoils the movie atmosphere. Anyway, who cares! KRULL is an excellent fantasy movie, and someone should make a directors cut from it and re-release it, because it might teach many hollywood executives how a good fantasy movie should be made. Even with its flaws !A fantastic High Fantasy movie ! Go see it. It´s a shame this movie is so forgotten. Excelent stuff.  "},{"Title":"Great adventure film!!","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The creature was a bit too cheesy, but the story was enthralling, the score is beautiful, and the acting was surprisingly good.It's very much like a fairy tale, but futuristic at the same time. It begins in a castle that is part medieval, part sci-fi. There is a prophecy that the beast and his slayers (the evil force of the movie) will be brought down by the union of these two families that have previously been enemies (somewhat Romeo and Juliet). The fighting family theme doesn't last long. The slayers delay the wedding by kidnapping the bride, Lyssa and taking her to the black fortress. The black fortress appears in new locations every 24 hours, and finding it will take the groom, Colwyn, on many different paths. I won't spoil the film, but the adventure that unfolds as Colwyn tries to rescue her was incredible, and at times scary. Be on the lookout for a cyclops, flying horses, giant spiders, and many more wonderful surprises.This is definitely a movie for those who enjoyed Willow or The Princess Bride.Added bonus seeing Liam Neeson before anyone knew who he was. "},{"Title":"Destined to be remembered with fondness for years to come.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"48 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is half way between being so bad, it's good and being so good, it's er...good. It's neither too camp, nor badly acted, nor does it have any really dire special effects. But then again, the acting isn't brilliant nor are the effects stunning (except for the spider, which is pretty good).In short, it's OK.The hero's main weapon is a kind of giant shuriken-thing which slices through almost anything. It's also under his mental control, which is nice, but as he's non-too bright we don't get to see any of the really wicked things you COULD do with a flying circular saw if you had an imagination.The cast has a few well-known names in it. Liam Neeson, for example, in his early years. The things actors do before they become famous.There's also my fave bad actor, Bernard Bresslaw. Sadly, his bad acting is hampered by a dodgy facial prosthetic which hides half his face. So we are not treated to his usual silliness and clown-like mugging. Instead we have to endure the presence of his cyclop's prosthetic throughout the movie. And trust me, it ain't very convincing. Imagine a one-eyed giant whose face has been frozen through Botox abuse and you'll get the idea.And there's the evil Beast, which the cast are trying to destroy. Apparently it doesn't have legs, and is trapped inside it's fortress. All it can do is blow fireballs at the hero, which are pretty ineffectual. I actually felt a bit sorry for it. The final fight scene was rather like watching someone beat up a disabled person.But on the whole this movie is alright and destined to be remembered with fondness for years to come. "},{"Title":"Much underrated gem","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A much underrated gem this terrific children's fantasy picture boasts several fantastic performances from it then unknown cast, several of whom used it as a springboard to go on to become major Hollywood and TV stars later in their careers. Excellent special effects for the time in hindsight and with beautiful art direction, this film truly deserves to be dug out and dusted off and shown the respect it deserves. Admittedly the damsel in distress running away endlessly from the evil baddie is a bit tiring but the battle sequences are genuinely rousing and brilliantly directed. A true British classic! "},{"Title":"Nothing here you haven't seen already, but competently done.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"31 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   In the wake of Star Wars, fantasy films about brave heroes trying to rescue kidnapped princesses were suddenly in demand. Krull was one such film to jump aboard the band-wagon. There are also elements here of Robin Hood (the costumes look like they've been borrowed from natives of Sherwood Forest, and the hero is aided by a rogue's gallery of merry men) and Perseus and Andromeda (the hero has to complete several mini-tasks before he can get on with his main quest). Prince Colwyn (Ken Marshall) has just married the beautiful Princess Lyssa (Lysette Anthony) when their city is raided and the princess is kidnapped. She is taken away to a heavily defended citadel. Colwyn sets off to rescue her, and during the course of his quest he picks up additional companions, including a bumbling magician (David Battley), a courageous cyclops (Bernard Bresslaw), and a gang of honourable bandits (which includes Alun Armstrong, Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane). Krull is highly derivative, but reasonably entertaining. The special effects are decent for the time, but probably look a little primitive to over-spoilt modern eyes. Marshall's leading performance is extraordinarily bland, but his unashamed earnestness actually becomes part of the fun once you get used to the fact that he's trying desperately to play it seriously (without a shred of success!) The supporting characters are more interesting and are fairly well-played (despite the hopelessly hokey dialogue they have to contend with). In general, Krull is a likable movie which tries to keep up its lively pace, and manages to provide a fair number of thrills for youngsters and sci-fi afficianados. If you don't expect too much from it, you'll come away satisfied. "}{"Title":"Superb fantasy adventure","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I had commented on an earlier post that there was a relative lack of good fantasy adventure movies in the early to mid 80s, when the genre was in its Golden Age of sorts. But I keep finding more great contributions, and Krull is most certainly one of them.The storyline sounds very familiar, even cliché - a great evil scourge is upon the land and it's up to the descendant of a royal and honorable line to destroy the villains. Fortunately, that's where the similarities with so many other of these films ends.The villains in particular are fairly original, although as many other reviewers have noted, the inspiration is clearly from Star Wars. They are certainly more menacing and effective (i.e., much better shots) than Stormtroopers. BEGIN SPOILER And in one particularly tense and poignant scene, we find that the villains are not all one-sided, when an assassin (an alien no less) sent to kill the hero claims she could not complete her task because she had fallen in love with him. END SPOILER The acting is well done, with the cast consisting primarily of unknown British actors. It's always easier for me to buy a fantastic story when the actors are not familiar. And the comic relief actor is not only excellent, but does not truly distract from the storyline or completely lighten the rather dark mood of the film.The only reason I did not give this a perfect score is because of the somewhat disappointing ending. I felt it was a little anti-climatic, especially considering the tremendous build up to the final showdown. It seemed almost like the budget was running out and they needed something to wrap it up more quickly.The flaw was minor, and did not detract from what was an otherwise spectacular adventure. This sort of film is hard to find nowadays, and should please any seeking a grand, epic story. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"DVD is a must, great storyline and ideas, just not quite fulfilled.","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film as a kid, and then recently I bought the DVD. The main attraction to me was the music (possibly THE finest film score ever), but the film itself is entertaining.Plus side Great plot, fantastic support acting (with many now-famous faces) and acceptable SFX. Music (of course) and the general air of fantasy help to make the viewer think they are somewhere off this world. DVD is fantastic with a great commentary and extras.Minus side The two main characters are completely anonymous - if they weren't there you wouldn't miss them. There are continuity issues too (the enemy are space traveler's and teleportation specialists, yet are incredibly crude in their combat methods, and the main weapon is under-used and doesn't work in the end anyway), and the ending is twee.OK it's blown out of the water by 21st century films such as Lord of the Rings but it is great fun - worthy of a repeat watch.  "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated Genre Cornfest","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a terrific film in the Star Wars, Battle Beyond the Stars oeuvre. The plot makes little sense and is hardly original, but there is so much energy and love poured into every aspect of the production that you can't help but enjoy it in spite (and probably because) of the cheesiness.A few other users have been critical of the acting, but I entirely disagree. Unlike the Star Wars repertory, this is obviously a group of classically trained, Shakespearean thespians. That means they lay on the the ham in thick slices, but never too thick they can't chew them (or the beautiful scenery, for that matter. Where *was* this shot, by the way?)The effects are dated, but still exciting and laden with craft. The production design excels at creating a marvelous and original world. And it goes without saying that James Horner's score (one of his earliest and best) is rousing and bombastic, making otherwise dull sequences burst with energy.For some reason I missed this one when I was a kid, and just caught it for the first time the other night on HDNet (and I'm glad I was delayed until the awesome HD transfer). After watching the grossly overrated Little Miss Sunshine, a supposed comedy where I scarcely chuckled, I watched all of Krull grinning from ear to ear.Seriously, they don't make 'em like this any more. "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi/Fantasy movie that is not only creative, but captivating","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember the first time I saw this movie.  I was a little boy with my dad in a movie rental store in Bayfield, Colorado.  I asked my dad to rent it and he did.  I fell in love with the movie.  I ended up asking my parents if I could watch it on my birthday every year after that.  I now own it and love it!  It's too bad other people don't give Krull the credit it deserves.  "},{"Title":"Good Fantasy film with possibly....","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  the GREATEST SCORE in cinema history.The film is quite good with some British actors in early roles (Robbie Coltrane,Liam Neeson,Alun Armstrong)and has plenty of action and one eyed bloke who gets crushed inbetween rocks.But the only 2 things that stand out in this movie are 1 The Glave!! Some kind of spiked boomerangand 2 James Horners Ride Of the Firemares This film is worth watching for the music alone possibly the greatest score in movie history!!!In short  Better than Legend not as good as Willow or Neverendingstory "},{"Title":"Much better then it's given credit for","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Like many of the other user's writing comments, this movie is something that I treasured from my childhood. I must have seen this on HBO when I was younger like 50 times. I remember reading the Maltin review on this (he slam's it as a Star Wars clone) and I was thinking Gee, it was probably only good cos I was a stupid kid... I must take that back however because I watched last night on digital cable, and it was MUCH cooler then I remembered!!.. (it's been 15years).. The score was so powerful I was actually getting goosebump's watching it! (the last movie to give me goosebumps was watching the 5th Element in theatres). Yes the plot is a little cliched, but the characters and their chemistry is great. It's an over the top movie that never fails. I really love the special effects (I'll take it over CGI any day!), and it truly is a visually stunning piece.. People complain about the mountain climbing scenes and horseback scenes, but damn.. Those are really cool scenes. Probably the coolest mountain climbing scene's ever filmed. I mean come on, they have awesome visuals of Ken Marshall (or stuntman) just dangling on those awesome huge mountains. I could watch 5 hours of that cos it is really thrilling. The horseback scenes are great and really add tenfold to the fantasy element. Every shot and scene of this movie is tantalizing and this is one of the few movies that your eyes will wander around the entire screen in awe. This is not a bad movie in any sense (come on, now Pearl Harbor/Armageddon/Mission to Mars/Charlies Angels those are bad movies..) This is one of the great 80's adventure movies! "},{"Title":"great Brit fantasy","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The planet Krull has been invaded by a great evil The Beast. Two kingdoms have joined through the planned marriage of Princess Lyssa (Lysette Anthony) and Prince Colwyn (Ken Marshall). At the wedding, the forces of The Beast attack, kidnapping the princess, and massacring everyone else. Sole survivor Colwyn joins with a band of disparate characters on a quest to kill The Beast and rescue the princess.This is a very simple good versus evil storyline. It's a quest road movie. David Battley is especially funny as the incompetent magician Ergo. All the iconic characters are there including the great Alun Armstrong as the bandit leader Torquil. And sharp eyes will see a younger Liam Neeson.This along with Dragonslayer is my favorite British fantasy of that era. The stories are original and yet comfortably familiar. It had the FX but CG would soon make the miniature models and real sets old school. It didn't help that Return of the Jedi came out right before this. This movie has great cheese appeal, but is outclassed in production value by Jedi. "},{"Title":"Great Fantasy Tale","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Quite a gripping adventure story, Krull tells the story of alien invaders with futuristic outfits (armor) that have landed on the planet Krull and seek planetary domination.  A being of awesome power known as the Beast is the leader of these invaders and it successfully kidnaps a princess meant to marry Prince Colwyn (Ken Marshall).  Colwyn sets out to initially secure a weapon known as the Glaive and then to rescue his princess.  Along the way, he forms a band of adventurers of varying talents and backgrounds (robbers, a magician, a cyclops, a boy and a wise man).  Good writing and characterizations!  Impressive to look at - they don't make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Solid Fantasy Movie","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull has been a guilty pleasure of mine since it first came out in '83. I call it a guilty pleasure because the plot is cliche - but it is not pretentiously executed (i.e., the film is not pretending to be ground-breaking on the plot front).  On the other hand, the characters are fun, the Beast is truly hideous, and the idea of the Glaive I always found captivating.  I also like Freddie Jones (whom I always think of as Thufir Hawat from Dune!) and Francesca Annis (whom I always think of as Jessica from Dune!) who share the screen together once again here.  If you like fantasy as a rule (do you like Tolkein?  did you / do you play D&D?) then you'll get a kick out this film.Enjoy.Chris "},{"Title":"a great film in a genre where few have excelled","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i will limit my comments in my reaction to the DVD. the special features included on the dvd added much to the enjoyment of the film. peter yates's comments(along with the cast and crew) were quite insightful and fun. i have found recent directorial comments on dvd's to be self-serving. also, for those of you enjoy soundtracks this was one of the first by James Horner; rousing to say the least. and the least is all i have to say.  "}{"Title":"I still remember it after 16 years","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen this one some 16 years ago, when I was just a little kid. But it left such an inspirational mark on me, I still remember scenes from it. Perhaps it's this film that caused me to love fantasy type of films. I think, though the film has an ordinary plot, the details do make it interesting. That great mind controlled blade for example, I still remember that. This one's a classic for me. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time greats","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Nowadays the fantasy-sci-fi genre has fallen somewhat into decline.  If not for the present day Star Wars film, 'Phantom Menace', and others like 'The Princess Bride', the genre would be almost non-existent.Krull delivers itself similar to the way in which we are presented Star Wars. On the one hand we have all these lavish charcaters, creatures, and landscapes; giving a ripe fantasy apeal to it, and then there is the electrifying special effects (the enemy soldiers are black horned creatures whose weapons fire blades out of (lightsabre-looking) rods, giving off bursts of blue energy when they impact).But differing from Star Wars, Krull makes more room for accentuating the death scenes.  In Star Wars we are presented with storm troopers who don't bleed, and old Jedis who just vanish when they have a searing electric sword cut them in two.  In Krull, we have the bad guys' heads split open and squid-like creatures fly out and bury themselves in the ground.  We also have a morbid quicksand sinking victim, a man who is impaled by a spike that moves at about a half inch per second to slowly embed itself through his chest, and not to mention, where Leia, Han and Luke are saved from the crushing walls of a grabage compactor, the same cannot be said for one unfortunate man in Krull.All in all a very enjoyable movie (Where do I get one of those shuriken's from), with Liam Neeson performing a minor role as one of the brigands who helps Prince Colwyn search for his missing bride. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Movies Of All Time","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie didn't get that many good reviews when it first came out but who cares about reviews not me. This movie ROCKS!!!! It has really good special effects most of it when they arrive at the Black Fortress and also in the quicksand scenes. It also has a really good story to it kind of different than other sci-fi movies. I think it also has a good cast including Liam Neesen from the new Star Wars Phantom Menace, Alun Armstrong, Sain with Val Kilmer, Robbie Coletrane, Goldeneye. Anyways it's a great movie to watch and it will be great when it comes to DVD.  "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC MOVIE","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  THIS MOVIE RANKS NEXT TO THE STAR WARS TRILOGY. YOU HAVE TO BE A SCI-FI OR FANTASY FAN TO LIKE IT. IT ALSO HAS A LOT OF ENGLISH ACTORS INCLUDING LIAM NEESON(STAR WARS 1999,ROB ROY) ALUN ARMSTRONG(THE SAINT) ROBBIE COLETRANE(GOLDENEYE).  "},{"Title":"Fun movie that packs fantasy , action and adventures in marvelous exteriors","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A sword-and-sorcery fantasy about a young man named Colwynn , a mythic and valiant hero fighting heinous forces of evil. A world light-years beyond your imagination. This is a tale of magic , death , blood and fights ; set in a mythical primitive world and wild age . A good sword and sorcery story dealing with a prince (Ken Marshall) and a fellowship of companions set out to rescue his bride (Lysette Anthony) from a fortress of alien invaders who have arrived on their home planet. , He wanders the ancient lands, seeking out his beloved Kira , and pitting his might against various sorcerers and tyrants . Armed with supernatural powers, the handsome hero and his friends wage war against weird enemies .This fantasy picture packs thrills , imagination , impressive fights , a love story , fantastic creatures and special effects galore . This amusing movie packs witchery, wizardly, necromancy, brutality, magnificent production values and lots of adventures and action. In the wake of Robert E. Howard's Conan (John Milius) , Conan the Destroyer (Richard Fleischer) and Beastmaster (Don Coscarelli) it's a sort of comic-strip and one of the best from ¨Sword and Sorcery¨ genre . Thrills, action and adventures are brilliantly presented and edited to offer the maximum impact . Enjoyable main cast as Ken Marsall and Lysette Anthony , though both of didn't have a notorious career . Marshall is perfect cast as classic fantasy-hero and Lysette is attractive as valiant heroine . Sympathetic support cast with prestigious secondaries such as Robbie Coltrane , Alun Armstrung , Francesca Annis , Liam Neeson and last film of John Welsh. . Thilling and imaginative musical score by James Horner , though it is based on the score he did the previous year for Star Trek II - wrath of Khan . Glamorous and luxurious cinematography by Peter Suschitzky .This entertaining film was well directed by Peter Yates, appointing the accent on the adventures and struggles . Peter was a good craftsman , being mostly known for ¨Bullit¨ , the success of this venture prompted Yates to remain in America, adapting himself to a variety of other genres, though continuing to be preoccupied with action subjects . Never a prolific director, Yates subsequently made only a few more films . His best films include the stylish and ingenious caper comedy Hot Rock (1972); the underwater adventure Deep (1977), based on the novel and screenplay by Peter Benchley; and the quirky coming-of-age comedy Breaking away (1979). For the latter, Yates received simultaneous Oscar nominations as Best Director and Best Producer and the enjoyably old-fashioned comedy Curtain call (1998), starring Michael Caine and Maggie Smith as a couple of theatrical ghosts. He was nominated again for a more cerebral 'actor's piece', The dresser (1983), starring Albert Finney and Tom Courtenay , based on a play about an ageing stage actor and his long-standing assistant. It was followed by a flop titled Eleni (1985) with John Malkovich . Most memorable, perhaps, were the courtroom thriller Suspect (1987), the political drama House de Carroll Street (1988) . "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw Krull in the theatre when it came out in the U.S.A. It has been my favourite film ever since. There are times when something so special comes along, there is no denying it's majesty.To watch this film correctly, one must have an open mind and no pretense. This is for people of all ages.Actors of this calibre only come together when the harmonics of the universe are aligned; this is God's grace.The writing is superb, something truly timeless. The story is a triumphant tale of good against evil. We know who wins.The timing is without error.The music of Horner is magnificent. Simply put, this is beyond a doubt the most powerful soundtrack ever released. I recommend this movie to all. It is not perfect, largely due to time constraints, but it is as close as we have gotten. "},{"Title":"Still every bit  as good!","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember thoroughly enjoying Krull when it was first released over twenty-five years ago and so, when I saw a DVD of it on my son's shelf, I couldn't wait to have another look at it. I should mention that I have done this before and, in most cases been pretty disappointed. After all, digital special effects technology has advanced beyond anything we ever dreamt of in 1983 but, in the case of Krull, the experience after all that time was just as great as when I first watched it.Of course, bearing in mind those technological advances, I was reasonably prepared to be disappointed. I needn't have been! Yes, the special effect WERE pretty basic as other reviewers (possibly younger than me) have pointed out. Maybe I was better prepared for that than I would have been if I had never heard of Krull and seen it for the first time in 2010 and that was an distinct advantage.Another source of great enjoyment for me was seeing so many actors who are now either retired or dead or, in the case of Liam Neeson and Robbie Coletrain, a lot more famous that when they made only the fifth and ninth movies (respectively) of their now glittering careers. Back then, both died rather unspectacular deaths that probably wouldn't happen today. For me, Krull was a wonderful sort of reprise for many actors that I had long forgotten (Oh! How fickle we viewers can be!). And how wonderful IMDb is where we can simply click on the actors' names in the cast list and learn what has happened to them.John Welsh - dead 25 years ago, Bernard Bresslaw (Oh, how we loved him as a sort of Lurch type) - dead 17 years and Bernard Archard who made it to 92! All great reminders of days gone by.I suppose that some of todays youngsters will be a bit blasé about Krul but, if they have the presence of mind to view it as what it is - a 1983 fantasy movie, I honestly believe they'll thoroughly enjoy it! "},{"Title":"KRULL is just superb !!","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" what else can i say??? i bought this movie a few days ago and i realized that old fashion movie with simple techniques are far much more better than nowadays movies!! this movie really proves it!! to my opinion, this movie should be rated higher than 7 stars..this movie is much3 more better than the stupid matrix, blade runner and many others...the cast provided here are not that popular...except for Freddie Jones.. but all the cast here have performed a very good acting..this movie is definitely not an Oscar material...but it is far more better than an Oscar nominated movie!!for example Excalibur(1981)...this movie is not very good..but it won some Oscars...i really think that krull is far much more better than Excalibur...anyway...go and buy this movie if possible... surely you won't regret it!!!!10/10**** "},{"Title":"Each to his own taste.","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull died at the box-office and in the years that followed it's death went unwailed and mourned. Many believe Krull to be Fantasy at it's worst . I to sported that opinion, when I was a pretentious teen, in the secure delusion that Fantasy epics should feature great battles and a lot of archaic pompous words, preferably in fictitious dull languages. But folly is the custom of the young. Now in my late 20's, I love this film. Krull has a disarming charm to it, like one critic once said It's almost a chivalrous film and I agree. The film is light-hearted and devoid of any gravy-thick delusions of Grandeur like some Fantasy epics that give me heartburn. Krull is wonderfully free from ceremoniousness and there leaves room for playfulness, like it's script and the inherent interaction between the characters. Thereby I love the design of the film; the usage of uniform colors for clothing with vibrant accents, the armor of the slayers, the beautiful sets and of course that most awesome of weapons; the glaive.The characters are delightful with nice quirks though a little vapid, but not more than other characters in any other fantasy-film. Over the course of the film I cared for many of them because of their little human flaws that made them interesting. Freddie Jones as the wise Ynyr is a pleasure to watch, like Freddie Jones always is.The special effect are decent, though not impressive. But the landscapes and elaborate sets compensate for this flaw. But what most impressed me, was the screen-play by Stanford Sherman. Krull's script is usually condemned as corny and ill-written,to which I vehemently protest. (Guess, there weren't enough expressions like The Dark Lord craves power!, I feel it in the earth...and Give up the Halfling she-elf, to appeal to the unjudicious who probably believe that using the word Potency instead of Power is good screen-writing. But I'm ranting now) I love the script of Krull. It has many charming light-hearted conversations between character that make them warm and friendly. I still believe the discourse between Ynyr and the widow of the web is a wonderfully delicate love-scene, with some simple philosophy that makes me smile and nod. Sherman doesn't result in to simply using the most declamatory or academic words, but crafts a script that surrounds the characters and paints their personalities with a few lines. (like the comically boastful speech of Ergo.) I for one welcome a script that plays with what the characters ARE, rather than what character are saying.Krull does have some flaws. Kenneth Marshall is adequate for the role of Colwyn but does not make a hero with stage-presence and the final battle in the Black Fortress is rather boring and too long.But if you like innocent fantastical fun with delightful characters for which you care, because they are as familiar as your friends and free from the overbearing self-importance that is usually the core of Fantasy, than Krull will entertain you and might become a pleasure to watch over and over again, although perhaps a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Fantasy at it's very best","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one timeless film which I saw in the '80s and never forgot. I have seen so many of these type of films like The Dark Crystal, Willow and Labyrinth but none have come close to this! When the bride to be, Lyssa is captured by the Beast and taken to the Black Fortress, Colwyn is left with a murdered family and begins a search for her with only The Old One to help him, a magical and truly wonderful adventure begins. Colwyn meets an array of strange people en route and amasses a most unusual band of followers to help him locate the Black Fortress. With a brilliant cast and hugely over the top acting and dialog, this is pure magic. If you like the aforementioned type of films you will love this. Great British cast with early gigs for the like of Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane. "}{"Title":"Fantasy Films Of The 80's Krull","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull (1983) Starring Ken Marshall, Lysette Anthony, Freddie Jones, Liam Neeson, Alun Armstrong, David Battley, Bernard Bresslaw, John Welsh, Bernard Archard, Dicken Ashworth, Tony Church, Belinda Mayne, Todd Carty, Clare McIntyre, Robbie Coltrane, Bronco McLoughlin, Andy Bradford, Gerard Naprous, Bill Weston, Lindsay Crouse, Derek Lyons, Nosher Powell, Dinny Powell....Director Peter Yates, Screenplay Stanford Sherman.When Director Peter Yates' Krull was released in 1983, it was not entirely well received by audiences, though the fantasy film is quite exceptional, because it clearly faded in the light of the bigger sci-fi/fantasy film that year- George Luca's wrap-up to his Star Wars trilogy- Return of the Jedi. The early 80's saw many well-made fantasy films, which have either acquired a distinct cult fandom or stood the test of time. The 1981 Clash of the Titans preceded this film, as well as John Boorman's epic Excalibur, the sci-fi masterpiece The Lathe of Heaven. In 1984, another fantasy classic was released- The Neverending Story. Later in the 80's, George Lucas would again direct a fantasy classic Willow. Krull has been called a miniature Star Wars, and quite frankly, there are some similarities but this film is no pale imitation of Star Wars. It represents a time in the first half of the 80's that nearly factory-produced fantasy films for a hungry young audience. Yes, the film has its faults, not the least being the bad script, poor special effects, cheesy sets and costumes and its general campiness. But this movie has a kind of magic that sneaks up on you. I forget how primitive the special effects are, and instead enjoy the fantasy quality of such elements as the planet's beautiful scenic landscapes of forests, mountains and swamps, castle fortresses both earth-bound and floating, fire, caverns, spider web labyrinths, and the spirit of a noble quest to save the land from doom, the classic staple of any great fantasy. Add to that the archetypal villain, hero and damsel in distress, a beautiful, powerful and dramatic musical score by James Horner (possibly doing his best work) and lush cinematography by Peter Suschitzky, who filmed on fresh, outdoor locations far more so than inside tacky sets. The look of the film is a clear mixture of sword-and-sorcerer fantasy and space opera, like a harmonic concoction of Battlestar Galactica and Lord of the Rings. The little-known handsome actor Ken Marshall portrays the heroic warrior prince Colywn, who has consented to marry the beautiful princess Lyssa( Lysette Anthony), of an ancient ruling family from another kingdom not only to ensure peace through an alliance but to fulfill a prophecy. Lyssa and Colwyn's heir will rule the galaxy and bring back the lost peace and prosperity, taken from the universe by the destructive and power-hungry Beast and his Slayers. Lysette Anthony did not speak in this film for some reason (my guess is she was foreign, European) and her voice was actually that of Lindsay Crouse who is not credited. The chemistry between Lysette Anthony and Ken Marshall is terrific considering they are not together for most of the film. The Beast kidnaps her on the night of the wedding ceremony and Colwyn must journey to the flying black fortress in order to rescue her and slay the Beast with the magic (and anachronistic) ninja star thingie. Along the way, he meets both traitors and allies, and fights his way into the Beast's fortress. Look for Liam Neeson in a minor role, Kegan, and see how, even in this small role, he is already displaying the fire of a great actor. Liam Neeson had, prior to this film, worked on John Boorman's Excalibur in 1981, which, to my eyes, ranks as the finest fantasy films of this period in the early 80's. This is a film that, despite any weakness you can point out, is filled with the old, nostalgic longing for adventure that we all had as children, but it's really something appreciated by children of the 80's. Take a trip back to 1983, to another world light years away from our own world, and journey along with Colwyn on a quest that is larger than life. Two thumbs way up. "},{"Title":"The Greatest movie ever...?","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull...wow, what a film. It has to be one of the greatest fantasy epics of motion picture history (although I think Lord of the Rings was pretty cool, I'd rather watch Krull any day). It has so much to offer a solid cast, fast-moving story, a spectacular score, wizard special effects (for its time, obviously) and some grand locations. I know it is clichéd and full of corny dialogue but you could say exactly the same things about Star Wars. I think I discovered it at the right age, which is probably what propels it into my top ten movies of all time. I was ten and my parents had just bought our first VCR and it happened to be on television that Christmas. As I was into that sword-n-sorcery stuff at the time it was duly taped and I loved it instantly. Now that my son is ten we've sat down together and he was glued to it, and he's pretty picky! The cast is excellent and the acting is without fault - Peter Yates certainly made the right choices as each actor brings their character to life so wonderfully. The only downside is that I later learnt from the DVD commentary that Lysette Anthony (Lyssa) had her voice dubbed by an older actress as Yates felt she sounded too young (and probably too British for American audiences). James Horner's soundtrack, I think, is one of the best around, and certainly the best he has ever done. Who can forget the sweeping music when the titles roll? Or the triumphant hero theme of Colwyn's? Or even Lyssa's tender love theme...gets me every time (maybe because I'm married, I suppose). And those locations...whoever found those should have been given an Oscar. The forbidding mountain where Colwyn finds the Glaive...that lush meadow at the end...great stuff! In conclusion, I have to say...YOU'VE GOT TO SEE THIS FILM BEFORE YOU DIE or you'll regret it! "},{"Title":"Great fantasy classic","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've always loved this movie. And with the success of the Lord of the Ring trilogy, perhaps some of these fantasy classics - Krull, Conan the Barbarian, Sword and the Sorcerer, Willow and Excalibur - will again be discovered and recognized for their places in fantasy movie history.With great battles, nice swordplay, a centaur, a giant spider (what is it with fantasy movies and spiders, from this one with a musical web to big bad Shelob?), and yes, the ever important glaive. The premise of the movie is unique - an alien invasion from space of a fantasy world and a heir to power must first find his courage and then the weapons to defeat the evil. One of my favorite scenes from the entire movie is when the heroes capture and take flight in the air with thunder horses, who can run so fast they cause flames to spew from their feet and can take to the air. I know, it sounds cheesy - words can't justify it without seeing it with your own eyes. Suffice to say, it's a beautiful moment, especially with an outstanding score sweeping you along with the flying steeds - much in the same vein as the riders of Rohan thundering down the hill to meet the black army at Helm's Deep at the end of Two Towers. Both are truly moving, emotional scenes.I've looked for years to find the soundtrack to this movie and, sadly, haven't been able to find it.This is one of the best fantasy movies made. Definintely worth a look.8-of-10 "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!!!!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie ever since i saw it for the first time when i was young. But to those who compare this movie to Star wars??? This movie is nothing like Star Wars at all.  Alot of the actors you will see in this film are British...Robbie Coltrane(Rhun) Liam Neesen(Kegan) Alun Armstrong(Torquil) and the wonderful Lysette Anthony(Lyssa) I did think they should have had a better leading actor then Ken Marshall as Colwyn. Best scenes in the movie are the fighting scenes with the slayers in the quicksand scenes, and where they are gathering up the Clydesdale horses...those were some awesome horses...and then the scenes at the Black Fortress were great as well.4 stars ****!!! and a great movie!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Best movie of 1983!!!","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie rocks!! Yes it will never be as good as The Star Wars Trilogy because I think that it is better than Krull but it is a very good movie.  And it also as a cool kind of storyline to it. Good acting better than a lot of others films out there.  "},{"Title":"A great fantasy movie!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull is an excellent Sci-Fi action fantasy adventure! Ken Marshall was a good choice to play the hero! Lysette Anthony was good. Alun Armstrong and Liam Neeson were really good! In My opinion I think Neeson would have done a good performance as the hero if he was chosen to be the hero! There is a lot of action and the special effects are spectacular! The evil soldier or slayers were really cool and when they got killed they yelled similar like the ones in Flash Gordon! The beast was awesome! Beautiful music by James Horner! I wouldn't say it is the all time greatest in cinema history but it is one of the greatest! This is a fantastic and classic film of the 1980s! If you like fantasy action movies check out Krull!Movie Nuttball's note If you like Krull check out the following movies Flash Gordon, Clash of the Titans, Legend, The NeverEnding Story, Willow, The Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers!  "},{"Title":"Beyond time, beyond existence, lies the ultimate adventure","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You must see this movie.  It combines classic fantasy story telling with super cool action sequences and characterization.  i saw this movie in the theater back in 1983 and was blown away by it.  Wonderful acting combined with excellent storytelling, combined with a cool musical score gives you a modern classic.  This is the kind of fantasy movie which reminds you how powerful love is.  This is a wonderful date movie to watch because it reminds us that love is the most powerful emotion and experience on the planet.   Add to this wonderful mix, liam niesson who always delivers an awsome performance and you have a movie that will excite and thrill.  And once you see the glave, the ultimate weapon, you'll agree with me that this movie is number one in the cool books.     "},{"Title":"A movie that can be watched again and again","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a great movie which stands the test of time. Well written and with an array of well known actors such as Alun Armstrong, Bernard Bresslaw and Todd Carty not to mention Liam Neeson and Francesca Annis. The story centres around the pending marriage of two opposing families on a planet much like our own that is to be invaded not by men from another land but by a fearful creature from another world dark and hard His home is much more than his castle. He abducts the princess and her consort must find his beloved and so goes on a quest, picking up an assortment of men on his journey that are considered outlaws but are strong faithful and true. Something we could all aspire to. The slayers are scary but not too scary to limit its sociability. I have watched this very often since its release and will continue to do so, maybe even wearing out my second tape (must buy the DVD lol). It is a classic and far outweighs some of the stuff churned out today. Marvel at the magical cobs, the kindly Ergo the Magnificent and the puppy. Enjoy the atmosphere and allow the web of intrigue wrap you in this tale for the telling "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The people that dislike this movie and use the words clichéd or cheesy, miss out on the abundance of characterization that works and will always work. An intrepid hero, a pretty heroine, the fool with a heart, the quiet giant, entertaining rogues, a sweet boy, seers, mystics, monsters, all with distinct personalities the real world can relate to. They aren't supposed to be twisted and complicated. I have enjoyed this movie for years and it isn't s(l)ick with Matrix garbage (although The Matrix is good for what it is). Krull just oozes personality (which The Matrix couldn't do because the actors are too busy with their Dick Tracy dialogue and harness belts).My favorite scene is when Ynyr confronts the Widow of the Web and we find a deep and dark story within a story, briefly told. Relax and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good early-80's fantasy","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw this one at the movies and really enjoyed it.For a non-CG  picture,I thought the effects were quite good.Of course,I'm not a hard -to-please Gen-X whiner,so cheesy effects don't bother me too much.And why don't you MST3K wannabes come up with another word besides cheesy?Anyway,I got just as much enjoyment from Krull as I did Lord of the Rings trilogy,and my butt did'nt get as tired from sitting.Krullhad a better music score,too,so there. "}{"Title":"My Absolute Favorites","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantastic, marvelous, awe-inspiring, and brilliant are some of the words that come to mind when KRULL is the topic of conversation.  This epic movie is the best use of film in the past century.  It is storytelling at its finest. "},{"Title":"a movie to be remembered of the 80's","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" the performances in this movie are top notch. the world of krull is vividly brought to life by peter Yates fantastic portrayal of a neo-medieval dystopian world. this is quite possibly one of Liam neeson's best films ever. i am aware that this movie was set to be remade and was later canceled. i am glad that they did not tarnish this movie's good name. it was set to be directed by, in my opinion, a less talented director, the late Stanley Kubrick. this stunning visionary is meant to be kept in your heart as a touching yet action packed thrill ride through this not so distant past realm. this film helped me find who i was in high school and convinced me to tell my former gym partner (now life partner) that i was a homosexual. anyway, now can see the true excitement, and emotional intensity that peels this masterpiece straight off the screen and delivers it in an action heavy, romantic edge of your seat wrapped package. KRULL IS A SENSATION *P.S. krull has quite a large following out here in Zion, Utah, where my partner and child hold monthly screenings and meetings in my cousins home theater. so thanks for reading and if you haven't seen krull yet, go view this fantastical adventureNARDDOG......OUT "},{"Title":"Magic, charming and utterly utterly fantastic","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is nowhere near as bad as some would have you believe. The effects aren't that bad and are quite impressive when you actually watch the wide-screen version as opposed to the pan-and-scan of TV. The story has been done a thousand times before but so what, its how its done here that matters. The James Horner soundtrack is great (especially the angelic sounding choir) and its not THAT familiar to The Wrath of Khan (the blaring trumpets in the spider sequence excepted). Ken Marshall is as athletic a hero as i've ever seen in a movie. If hes not swinging from ropes, brandishing swords or throwing fire-balls then he's climbing a huge mountain range to find the powerful glaive weapon. Whomever said that the glaive is useless misses the point - everyone BELIEVES it to be the key to destroying the beast yet it is actually the joining of the two main kingdoms of Krull - ie the Prince and Princess, that will prove the Beast's undoing hence why the two are to be married in the first place. And its not like the glaive is not used at all - how else would Colwyn have wounded the beast, killed those SIX slayers at the end plus break in to the Beast's central lair without it? The robbers are an interesting bunch even if only three of them have any real screen-time. Liam Neeson is great in the film and he puts plenty of charm in to the role despite it being a secondary part to the main leads - his death is one of the saddest momemts in the film as hes one of those you didn't want to see killed. The films the main flaw for me is where the hell are all the slayers in the Black Fortress? There were tons at the start of the movie but only a handful appear as the heroes penetrate the castle. Still its a great movie and one i will always love watching "},{"Title":"A great piece of fantasy/science fiction that doesn't get the credit it deserves","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The first glimpse of this film I caught was when I was about five years old in 1989 (the film was still common on TV by then)and a few bits went into my memory. The thing that really stuck with me was the guy with one eye in the film.Sixteen years later, I found the movie for rent and the images from then came flooding back to me. This had to be that movie that I saw part of all that time ago! The movie is almost perfect. It had a cast that included soon-to-famous actors in it such as Liam Neesan and Robby Coltrain. The film manages to bring in sci-fi, fantasy, swashbuckling, and adventure into one story. I could tell it would be some special when I saw the black fortress floating through space towards Krull.Ken Marshal plays Colwyn and does a pretty good job in the role, really taking on the daunting physical aspects of it. The female lead, Lysette Anthony does well enough in the role and can be forgiven as she spends most of her time in places that are added on in blue screen.Freddy Jones is good as the old man and it was a real treat to find Bernard Bresslaw in the cast as the Cyclops. Well versed fans will know him also as the lead Ice Warrior from the 1967 Doctor Who story. Liam Neeson's character is very well played, as well as Robby Coltrain's part. The nice thing about this movie is that almost every single character has a name and dialog.What else can I say it has an evil space fortress controlled by a intergalactic demon, an army of slayers with lances that fire lasers, a large cast of memorable characters, an array of unique landscapes, and a timeless theme of good versus evil. It's never pretentious and sarcastic about it's own genre.The only downside at all is it sometimes seems that there was just so much material to cover that somethings didn't get the attention they deserve. But still, it's a great film.Where else would get get to see a prince fight a space demon/living fortress-spaceship with fire balls and a spinning magic disc? 9.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Classic fantasy film","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The first thing I have to say to get it off my chest is all the comments about Krull's likeness to Star Wars. Stop it!!! Until I read these comments and from all the times I have watched this film (I am now 30 but still a kid) I never saw Krull as a Star Wars rip off - still don't. If you really wanted too you could spend a couple of weeks linking every film ever done to another. You could say Krull is like the magnificent seven - small group of hero's versus certain death from larger force or that Star Wars is indeed a rip-off of Robin Hood.But why do comparisons? do reviewers want to be seen as intellectuals because they can spot mistakes or see links to other films. I am going to simply comment on this films positives and how it has not lost its charm even after all this time.I will keep all this to a paragraph (but maybe a big one if I get too excited). The atmosphere this film protrudes is great and you feel sad every time a 'goodie' got killed. Marshall is fine but the film is stolen by the motley crew of criminals that tag along - Coltrane is almost unrecognisable because he is thinner (not thin) but Neeson is as angry looking as ever. Who criticised the cyclops? who better to have as a 8 foot one-eyed beast than the 2 eyed beast Bernard carry-on Breslaw. He must have liked the fantasy genre as he is seen again in Hawk the Slayer, he surprisingly plays a giant in it!!! back to the film, the slayers are cool and EVIL, well they may be smiling but the visors were misted out. One of the best bits is when the four hero's are stuck in a garbage unit and the walls close in to try and kill them - oh . .. oh I mean the bit where the 3 criminals are in the white rooms and the spikes move in to try and kill them . . oh tried !!!! Enjoy the film for what it is (no not a Star Wars rip-off) a good light hearted fantasy. "},{"Title":"KRULL is a gem of fantasy film-making","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Going to see KRULL as a 13 year old boy is one of my fondest memories at the theater with all my friends from the neighborhood. Over 20 years later it has stood the test of time. Of course the VFX are outdated but I'll take REAL LOCATIONS over CGI backgrounds any day. The acting is solid and the story is very well written. This is one of Liam Neesons first movies although he meets his demise in the Black Fortress. Wonderful sword and sorcery type stuff. When first released critics panned it saying it was a cheap rip-off of Star Wars. Being an avid Star Wars fan I never agreed with that comparison. KRULL is easily in the top 10 maybe top 5 all-time best Fantasy movies. An incredible cast is complimented with a beautiful soundtrack done by the famous James Horner. Peter Suschitsky, who was the DP for Empire Strikes Back, Rocky Horror Picture Show, and Red Planet, is the Cinematographer and does a fantastic job of lighting and setting the mood for the film. The Slayers are some of the coolest bad guys ever. In my opinion better than Orcs and Goblins. The Beast is genuinely scary. The narrator eludes to possible sequels which I would still love to see, considering how popular the genre is right now. Who knows, maybe they will make a couple of sequels. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Krull is Good S**t!!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Good s**t really!!  This ´83 film. I remember seeing it with my older sister. I was afraid they would not let me in the theater cause in Sweden it was rated 11, meaning underages could not see it. I was 10.  Anyway, I got in and what I remember the most was the horrific design of the Creature, the Beast, he looks AWESOME!! Could easily scare the guts out of kids watching it now. But we never got to see it very clearly.  Next thing I remember is the music! Beautiful, haunting, epic! Looked for the soundtrack for years with no luck.  Also, the nice costume design for the Slayers, the Beasts´s army with their laser....sticks!! They rock!' I loved the back story for the Cyclops, beautiful, how they got cheated by The Beast to turn over one of their eyes in order to see the future. But all they where allowed to see was the day of their death. So cruel.  Great story with a bunch of not so great actors, and not so great sets makes a pretty good movie. Very romantic somehow. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"THAT FLYING STAR KNIFE WEAPON WAS PRETTY AWESOME","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think nostalgia is the primary reason I like his movie so much.  I remember seeing it as a kid and thinking I want to shoot fire out of my hands like that dude.  Now, let me put my critic mask on. Sure, a lot of the effects seem dated and the story is some kind of sci-fi fantasy amalgam that is just plain bizarre sometimes; however, this movie is original and there really are very few movies comparable to it.  Its a grand adventure, swords and sorcery AND lasers AND aliens.  Sweet.  If you're a fantasy fan, you'll probably like it because you really don't have much to chose from.  Maybe the LOTR movies will instill a new interest in people for these sort of films.  Cheers.  "},{"Title":"old school goodness","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's tempting to compare this against modern fantasy films, but that would be unfair.To modern fantasy films.Krull has a--better cast (the actors look like this job was keeping them alive, and it probably was)--better story (well, similar story to a lot of movies today, but they got there first)--better monster (the slayers transformation to banana slugs after being killed is well done)--better weapon (ok, this matters less to me now, but in 1983, the ninja star-esque monster-killer, the Glave, was the dream weapon of 9 year olds everywhere)The rating on this movie (at the time of this review it was a 5.3) doesn't do it justice.  Trust me--get through the man-in-leather-tights-goes-rock-climbing scene--and you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Adventure, Love, Suspense, Sci-fi","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really don't know what it is about Krull that makes me watch it each time it is on tv. I guess it's the battle between good and evil, the power of love over hate, the sci-fi features and the good performances. Perhaps the movie is not appealing to all, but whoever likes the above bits will find it interesting. "}{"Title":"Awesome, memorable fantasy/sci-fi","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull stands out as a classic because of the sheer creativity of the various elements in the story.  It's one of the few films that I've seen that successfully blends fantasy and science fiction together.  It's true that the basic plotline is just that - basic.  But the peripherals are what makes this movie exciting - there are so many cool ideas in the film!  The acting and casting are great, the music is fantastic, and the movie overall is just a blast to watch.  The ending is a bit cheesy, but overall Krull really delivers.   "},{"Title":"Magical Action Fantasy","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you haven't seen this film, or even if you have, try and get hold of the 2001 DVD release from Columbia Pictures (Sony Pictures Entertainment). It seems to have got better with age - more charming and impressive than I remember. A must have DVD for me. "},{"Title":"2000 Wishes","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wouldn't it be great to see this movie with a Digital 5.1 audio upgrade on DVD fully restored!!!  I'm crossing my fingers!   Great movie! "},{"Title":"A top-notch fantasy/adventure story.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a highly entertaining fantasy film, which any fan of J.R.R. Tolkien should love, as well as fantasy fans in general.  The acting leaves something to be desired, at least in the starring roles, but the story is terrific and the movie is just plain fun.  Also noteworthy for one of Irish actor, Liam Neeson's early roles.  "},{"Title":"Well-made, with a dashing title character","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First, for all those who have bemoaned the fact that Sean Connery was in this film and that it is below him, I invite you to watch Zardoz, Highlander II, Medicene Man, First Knight, The Rock, The Avengers, etc. Next, how much Ken Marshall is in this movie? Ken Marshall!(Sorry Joel, Tom Servo and all the gang.) This movie is a gem. Equal parts camp and fantasy, this movie charms the viewer in a way that few movies do today. Is it equal to Excaliber? Yes.There is also something to be said about the historical accuracy of the language used in this film versus that in Braveheart. Yes, Braveheart uses a number of modern expressions that are incongruous; but the accents, particularly Gibson's, are fairly good. We have a cousin whose Scottish wife was born and raised in Edinburgh, I've been listening to music by Scottish vocalists for twenty years, and I recently spent two weeks touring the country and speaking with Scots in all corners. Gibson's accent may not be perfect in every instance, but it is a good representation. However, Krull and Neeson's is no less effective, and perhaps more so considering the movie's idiomatic purity. "},{"Title":"Gotta get one of those glaives","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  That's all I thought about when I saw this in the theater when I was ten.  Other cool elements The cyclops, the changeling, the horses, the spider, the wise man.  Not cool or annoying the aliens with the irritating death scream, the beast and his lair were a little too fake, the lead actor was a little too vanilla, the dumb magician guy was a little too lame, the ending was too easy and formulaic.BUT, I'd still say this is one movie that escaped a lot of what is wrong with Hollywood AND what is wrong with the diehard movie critics (unlike other movies like Willow, Phantom Menace).  Case in point the kid role.  Look at most big hollywood movies and kids come off incredibly annoying or incredibly unrealistic.  Here the kid is completely normal and relatable to the audience, although admittedly all of the characters could have used more background and development.  Point 2 original blending of interesting story elements.  Instead of 6 separate plots smartly brought together, disparate elements work in unison in this story.  An exception to this is the ending, where everyone ends up all over the place for no reason and then the beast is killed and it's over.  If they could have created a real monster rather than a Vincent Price / drive-in movie monster then the ending could have been developed better.I know people complained about the length of the movie, although I'm not sure why because 2 hours isn't much longer than average, I actually think this movie would have worked better (especially for developing the background and characters) if it were 3 hours long.Who knows, if they had done that, it may have been up there in the ranks of one of those classic, epic movies.  "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" And I just can't understand how someone can't or is even able to hate it. For me, it has all a good movie should beautiful visuals and music, action and tension and the ability to transport you to another world. And what a world that is here A mysterious, fascinating foreign planet with a unique creepy look that creates a wonderful beautiful-uncanny atmosphere. I've never seen anything before or after and therefore it is a riddle to me how people can say this movie is generic and copied. I mean In what other fantasy story the hero fights with a five blade-shuriken, is there a blind prophet all in green, alien warriors who lose a parasite-like beings from their head when dying, a fortress that looks organic from the inside, inclusive mobile walls, and super-fast horses with flames around their hooves? There are no dwarfs, elves, unicorns or any other fantasy clichés in here.The only things I dislike are the beginning with the fortress that flies like a space ship what looks quite ridiculous, imho and the thing with the fire in the hand. "},{"Title":"This Movie Would Be Awesome On LSD!","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull was released in 1983. It is one of many fantasy themed films of that decade. I love the eighties and films like Willow, He Man, and now Krull. I had never seen or heard of this movie before. Totally awesome film with amazing visual effects that weren't done on a computer. They made many super trippy films in the eighties with stage props and set design. Labyrinth with David Bowie is another amazing film. In this movie there is a young prince who sets out to rescue his princess which he is supposed to marry. Meanwhile, she's locked away in the Tower Of Darkness. Ohhhhhhh, and it's insane with walls moving and weird patterned walls. I swear I had an Acid flashback. There is a cyclops guy that rocks and a shape shifter who at one point tuns into a huge beautiful Tiger while the characters are trapped in the tower of darkness. This young boy just sits in this round white tubed hallway right beside a Tiger and he is just petting the Tiger. The Tiger had to be totally trained to stay neutral for the camera and was used to humans and being pet as potentially you can train huge wild animals to an extent. But they would still be wild animals and it just blew my mind to watch this small child playing with the Tiger as it was a family pet. It was absolutely amazing. This film has a crazy widow queen who hides in a mountain with a deadly spider guarding it. It's got horses that fly and Liam Neesan is in it. This film is so ahead of it's time especially since it's mid evil dressed people who look like there from Lord Of The Rings but it's set in the Galaxy. Wow, when The Tower Of Darkness blows up at the end it's so wacked out with tons of white light bursts. This film gets a ten because it has a great story, great actors, awesome costumes and visual effects and the princess is hot. "},{"Title":"A Bad Movie Lover's Dream","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There is no shortage of talent behind the camera of Krull, a goofy (unintentionally so) fantasy extravaganza from 1983. Director Peter Yates was a four-time Oscar-nominated director and producer -- in fact, the very year of Krull's release he was nominated for directing and producing the superb The Dresser. Cinematographer Peter Suschitzky lit the gorgeous The Empire Strikes Back, Ray Lovejoy would score an Oscar nomination three years later for editing Aliens, James Horner has gone on to become one of the most prolific and acclaimed composers in film. Odd then that the end result in this case looks like an episode of the original Dr. Who television series.In Krull, a young woman is kidnapped and her lover, the soon-to-be- king of a fictional kingdom, sets out to get her back. There's your story, and it plays out over a series of incompetently staged action sequences on what look like papier mache sets. It's a bad movie lover's dream, bad in a wildly entertaining way. Everyone involved takes the thing very seriously, which makes it much more enjoyable than if they had realized they were making a cornball movie and had played it tongue in cheek. Grade B- "},{"Title":"As a kid I liked it, as an adult, its a mess!","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sometimes, the stuff you liked as a kid, you really shouldn't watch it again after a 30year hiatus.Some movies of the 80's i've watched over and over, but Krull I only ever watched it once on VHS (ooh, get my age!).I watched the Blu-ray rip with my seven year old son, and to be frank, Krull is an absolute mess.Firstly, if you actually pay attention to the narration given by Freddie Jones (the guy who plays The Old One in the movie), much of what he says is patent nonsense.He says something along the lines of when Colwyn and Lyssa get together they will rule the planet of Krull, and their son will rule the galaxy.Sounds great when you're a kid, but when you're an adult and actually try to find evidence of that claim, you need to remember that their 'technology' hasn't progressed beyond Horses!!!!! I'm not sure how they think their child will rule the galaxy when its apparent that traversing great distances on their own planet involve riding an animal!! Coupled with the fact that Colwyns family and Lyssas family have been at war with each other for a long time, and its only the arrival of the Black Fortress that gets them to change their minds, and rather conveniently, Colwyn and Lyssa can't get enough of each other.So much rivalry forgotten so quickly! To be fair, Lyssa (played by Lysette Anthony) was an absolutely stunning looking woman in Krull, a pity then that she was dubbed for the entirety of the movie with some ridiculously breathy American who seemed determined to over pronounce every word..... Col.....Wyn! Great to see the likes of Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane in earlier roles.VFX for the time were pretty good, OK, it looks a little clunky now, but this wasn't a cheap movie and they didn't skimp on the visuals.So what else? Well as a kid, I thought the Glaive was the coolest looking weapon ever, much cooler than a lightsabre.... upon watching it as an adult, I don't remember it hardly being used until the end of the movie! Considering the lengthy rock climbing, lava dipping scene to get the damned thing, it was barely used.And what of the main bad guy.. the Beast? Looked kind of OK until it moved. Clearly someone dressed up in a costume with liberal amounts of Vaseline smeared over the camera lense to obscure it, the entire time the Beast moved, it just looked.... not scary.Doing weird things with its arms as its firing stuff at Colwyn, moving too fast when being attacked by the Glaive, and the worst thing...... not being quite sure how big the Beast was.Any time you saw it, you assumed it was massive, then something would happen to put something you knew the size of into shot and the Beast all of a sudden looked a lot smaller.And yes, Lyssa was stunning, beautiful, even as a child I thought yeah, if I was older, I would so put my Rubiks Cube down for that!, but the Beast was massive, just what did it think it was going to do with her? A technologically superior alien being with powers and big wants a small tiny pretty human girl from a planet that hasn't even mastered electric lighting or a Postal service!!! The problem with Krull, is its a fantasy, and the film makers thought that gave them carte blanche for anything goes.... but thats not quite how it works.Characters making bizarre choices simply so the plot can move on.Your missus turns into a widow in a spiders web for killing your child? Not a problem, just brush that one off.Band of brigands that rob to stay alive decide to go on a perilous quest with the new King? Not a problem, and throw in casual disregard for safety by each one of them apart from two dying into the bargain as well.I don't hate Krull, but its a mess and it was obvious that someone had a truck load of cash to make the movie and were more concerned with spending it rather than wait to see if what they were spending it on was worth it.Nostalgia and Lysette Anthony are why i'm not being harder on this movie, by all rights I should be voting it 2/10, but Nostalgia and Lysette Anthony are a powerful combination.Now go rule the galaxy.... on horseback! "}{"Title":"Among the best of fantasy films.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull is actually quite fun.  A mix of sci-fi and fantasy (the bad guys get ships, lasers, etc. and the good guys are stuck defending themselves with whips, forks and knives), Krull borrows from famous stories of both genres, scoops up the ice cream off the floor and places it back on the cone, presenting it to us with a grin.Yes, yes, yes; this movie is cheesy.  To be fair, 99% of the movies in the 80s were cheesy.  So what makes Krull exceptional?Well, for starters, Krull has an unusually good premise *spoiler* The few surviving humans (mostly criminals) find themselves banding together to defend their planet from a bunch of bad-asses that can scale walls and teleport and such. Like Aliens and Predator and other movies of this ilk, the good guys are basically screwed, and you get a sense of that fairly early on, and our heroes begin to get knocked off one at a time.  This dark tone makes the fantasy-quest aspect of this movie (a journey to rescue a princess, which leads across swamps, rocky chasms, spider pits, and lava filled mountains) that much more dire, eerie and enjoyable.Krull, however, is basically a kid's movie (the good/evil thing is over-simplified, the love romance is unflinchingly story-book, etc.) with some sobering, mature, and scary parts woven into it.  Some of the visuals still give me goosebumps, like the baddies silently rising up out of the swamp to ambush our heroes.  It's good stuff.  I would say that this movie is ideal for tweens, those too old for Harry Potter but too young for gore-filled bloodbath movies.At its core, Krull is exceptionally strong The writing is good and fun. The acting is good and fun.  The visuals are...well, fun.  Krull is arguably among the best of the fantasy movies prior to Lord of the Rings, which unfortunately isn't saying much (and could be interpreted as a slam on the fantasy genre).  But I digress...I also agree with other reviewers that the stand-out performance from this film is the music.  Hair-raising, bombastic, epic themed music.  Horner, of course, has gone on to make a huge name for himself by composing dozens of big-named soundtracks since. If you have a stomach for this kind of over-the-top stuff, the Krull soundtrack is among the best I've found.  "},{"Title":"even Jesus used the Glaive!","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The last DVD that I got in 2008 was the one of this picture Krull and last night I saw it then Krull was the very first picture that I saw in 2009. Really great way to start the year, basically I didn't knew what to expect exactly from Krull, I only knew about its existence thanks to my cousin who watched it when he was a kid and loved it then. Recently I saw the complete Season 11 of South Park and in an episode there's a reference to Krull so my cousin was like great, that's from Krull. A couple of days ago I found its DVD, I wasn't really searching it but when I saw it I got it and now I'm more than glad I did that. Here we have more or less a typical story, a world is in danger and a man suddenly loses everything so now he must do what seems to be almost impossible to save the woman he loves and in consequence to save his world, the world of Krull. Is strange to see how different are the good ones from the evil ones, the good ones are like from the Middle Ages while the evil ones are futuristic. Basically we know how things are in Krull and the attacks of the evil ones (the slayers) happens then after this begins the adventure, a medieval journey with likable characters, I really liked the Cyclops, he is the classic character that has its own story that make us understand why he wanted to help our heroes. So the fellowship of Krull will try to go to the Black Fortress but that is what seems almost impossible but of course they get there but there were sacrifices, there were men who will not see the light in Krull again but for all of them was a great journey (I was wrong, the journey was worthwhile. Finish it for me), after all they all helped in order to save Krull. And is fun to watch those dated special effects, there are a lot but is really nice when our heroes are on the Fire Mares! David Battley here looks sort of like Roger Waters and he plays a really funny character, Ergo the magnificent. This magician delivers a lot of fun with his magic tricks, his first transformation is so bizarre, the effect is really bizarre. Certainly he is a really good guy, at one point our heroes meet the Emerald Seer and the young Titch, certainly the Emerald Seer can help our heroes in order to find the Black Fortress but the f****** Beast has other plans so at one point the young Titch is alone in the world since the Emerald Seer was his only family but Titch is now part of the fellowship of Krull and is really nice (and certainly bizarre) when the magician turns himself into a little dog since the wish of Titch was to have only one dog. And even the gang of robbers becomes part of the family, all together in order to help Krull. And for me was really nice to watch a young Liam Neeson who is certainly better known as Qui-Gon Jinn or as Ra's al Ghul. So Krull is a really fun picture to watch, certainly is extremely entertaining with memorable stuff, I loved it! PD my title is a reference to the reference that South Park made to Krull in the fantastic Easter special called Fantastic Easter Special in which Jesus uses the Glaive (THE weapon in Krull but not the one that ended with the Beast, the protagonist Colwyn with Lyssa, the woman he loves, doesn't needed the Glaive) to kill Bill Donohue! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My favourite movie of all time and always will be. Not to be taken too seriously, but just an amazing movie with characters that will blow your mind!! A must have of any movie collection and a flick that can be watched over and over. K r u l l . My favourite movie of all time and always will be. Not to be taken too seriously, but just an amazing movie with characters that will blow your mind!! A must have of any movie collection and a flick that can be watched over and over. K r u l l .My favourite movie of all time and always will be. Not to be taken too seriously, but just an amazing movie with characters that will blow your mind!! A must have of any movie collection and a flick that can be watched over and over. K r u l l . "},{"Title":"Organic","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There may still be people who watch projects like this for adventure. Heck, there are even  people who get their theology from such stuff, currently `Rings' and `Matrix.'But for me, the allure is a matter of style.This film was conceived in the shadow of 1979s `Alien,' and the 82 `Bladerunner,' both  of which raised the bar on production design. The former introduced an organic art  nouveau style as a way of envisioning alien artifacts. The latter set the standard for a  consistent vision of design across the project.Then in quick succession we have this, `Spacehunter,' `Dune,' followed by `Willow' and  `Mom and Dad Save the World,' all of which feature redheads and an evil fortress of  some kind.There are implements and objects along the way that are notable for their design, but  the test is always in the design of that fortress. `Krull's fortress has some of the best  design of all these, and the most inconsistent. In this case, the idea of organic design  was taken to the limit with the castle itself as a being.You get the impression that no one mind was in charge, that work continued until the  end and that some major ideas were unimplemented. But what ideas! Some of this is the  best work I know, beyond surreal to heavily metaphoric.The bride is just an element in the design, almost a piece of furniture. She is the almost  blank-faced Lysette Anthony, tressed up in amazing hair and an archetypical bridal  gown. We don't even hear her voice, instead Lindsay Crouse, coached by then-husband  David Mamet.Its a good thing too to judge from the DVD commentary she sounds as vacuous as she  looks.Peter Yates is an interesting director completely straight ahead. He takes this stuff  seriously. I saw this together with his `Roommates,' similarly competent, proudly within  a genre and ambitious in its conformance to theatrical values. `Roommates' also has an  idealistic redhead.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Deserves a second look","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" On the surface, 'Krull' may be a hopelessly dated pastiche of better films, but I'm here to contend that it's actually far better, clever and more original than it gets credit for. Skillfully directed by Peter Yates (Bullitt, Breaking Away) and featuring a rousing score from James Horner's high heroic period, it looks and feels very much what I imagine a live-action 'Lord of the Rings' adaptation would have if made during the 80s. The sets are extraordinary, and the on location shots are equally breathtaking. No expense was spared, with its production budget reportedly pushing $50 million (Approx. $122 million in today's dollars), and it shows. The lead ('Marco Polo' star Ken Marshall) is a bit bland, but believably heroic as he swashes his buckle in an effort to rescue his bride (the incredibly beautiful Lysette Anthony, who was dubbed for no good reason by a much older American actress), and his supporting cast, featuring then unknowns Liam Neeson and Robbie Coletrane, add a nice dash of flavor.Equal parts 'Dungeons and Dragons', Errol Flynn and 'Star Wars', 'Krull' is a fun, agenda-free throwback that deserves a second look. "},{"Title":"Did I see Krull, or did Krull see me?","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you are paying attention I gave Krull 6 out of 10 stars or kisses or likes or whatever the currency here is- I feel that's very generous. This is the kind of movie that can really only be appreciated on the small screen, specifically on VHS. Something about muted colors with muted audio really captures the sh*ttyness of Krull. Hey, c'mon now, it's big boy country here, let's be real, Krull sucks, its more than a little stupid. It's not offensively stupid, it's a pleasant sort of stupid, but it's still Krull, which equals stupid. And for all the people who want a sequel to Krull, think it through genius, you're just talking about making more Krull- you cant build anything out of sh*t except sh*t, I say with love for Krull. "},{"Title":"Slow-moving, but visually lush sword and sorcery","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There's a silliness that Krull is never able to shake off, but on the other hand, you can't deny the film's imagination. The lavish sets, matte paintings and staggering scenery do a pretty good job putting you on another planet (or at least that planet's English countryside), and it adorns the classic hero narrative with futuristic trappings. At the end of the day, it's a brave knight questing to save true love from the gnarly beast . . . with his friendly neighborhood cyclops. Two things that jumped out at me were the (very) Wrath of Khan score, and the end glaive battle felt like Tron fighting the MCP. But that's just nitpicking. Pacing issues aside, this movie seems to tick off the full checklist of space fantasy, and it's kind of a cool visual trip. Also, this is the same guy that directed Bullitt. I get a kick out of that.6/10 "},{"Title":"The cult classic.","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Is this a grand movie, no it isn't. It has a cheesy predictable plot with some weak, cheesy script writing, and acting. So Why do I call it a cult classic? The answer is simply that it is still entertaining. It has a stellar cast that helps it along the way. Even as predictable as the plot is, it is something that we fantasy (Especially those of us who love D&D)can relate to, and see as a good campaign. Let us not forget about the musical score of this movie, it is one of the best written. From the beginning to the end, the movie will keep more people than not glued to it. Whether they are traveling through the forest, mountains, or swamp, the movie does not break into sub plots,which keeps us focused on the task at hand, which is saving the Princess Lyssa. For me one of the most telling scenes is in the swamp, when they are almost deceived by the monster, until that moment the movie has the feel of the group was just moving happily along the quest line, but after, the whole demeanor of the group and movie changed to be a little darker. "},{"Title":"Krull blends together the best elements of Star Wars, Excalibur, and The Lord of the Rings","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A failure at the box office when it originally came out, the cult classic Krull blends together the best elements of Star Wars, Excalibur, and The Lord of the Rings. The end result is an occasionally slow-paced swashbuckling sword-and-sorcery tale guaranteed to thrill those waiting for it to get a high-definition release.The mystical planet Krull is light-years beyond our universe. After it's invaded by a malevolent creature referred to as the Beast, Prince Colwyn (Ken Marshall) must rescue his damsel-in-distress (Lysette Anthony) from its deadly clutches. He journeys across the dangerous plains of his world to the sinister Black Fortress where she is being held captive. The fearless warrior recruits a motley band of wizards, thieves, and mythical beings to go up against the Beast's army of Slayers.The movie is rated PG for violence, gore, and frightening and intense scenes. Things get gooey whenever a slayer or agent of the Beast is killed. Their blood-smeared heads split open and a slimy alien parasite squirms out. If it takes on a human form and is killed, the body deflates like a balloon as it collapses to the ground. There's no profanity or nudity found in Krull. If Krull is trying to tell any sort of moral story, it would be that we can accomplish anything we set our minds to. You just have to work hard to reach your goal. It also teaches that good will always triumph over evil in the end. Some will consider that idea to be old-fashioned and naïve, but I still believe.Krull might take place in another galaxy, but it's still a very human and age-old medieval tale where the hero's journey leads to battling a vicious enemy and his minions. It just so happens that the Beast here resembles Sauron and his cronies are reminiscent of stormtroopers and Cylons. Set against the backdrop of breathtaking location shots and realistic soundstage sets, the movie is a testament to the art of filmmaking before the advent of CGI. A solid roster of actors, including Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane in one of their earliest roles, adds even more substance to a film that's a welcome addition to any science fiction or fantasy enthusiast's library. "},{"Title":"Part of the eighties' backbone of cheese","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'll start off my saying that Krull isn't a particularly great movie. Secondly, I'll also add that I love it. I think part of its charm is its cheapness and the fact that it tries so hard to be Star Wars (but with swords). I saw it when I was a boy in the eighties and I think it's the perfect film for any boy, largely because they won't have seen too many films and will only marvel at the special effects (which, but today's standards, aren't that special) and enjoy the ride.It's about a princess who's captured by a beast (or 'The Beast' to be precise) and taken off to his castle where she must marry him. That is of course unless the handsome prince doesn't rescue her and save the kingdom. So, nothing too original there.It's hard to say why Krull is so good. You just have to appreciate it for what it is. The lines are pretty corny, but they are delivered with such gusto that you can forgive their failings. Also, don't expect too much logic. The baddies (or 'Slayers') use laser guns which only really shoot about two shots before they decide to just use them to bludgeon people with them. Why? Who knows, just go with it.Then you have the thumping soundtrack from James Horner. Eagle-eared viewers will notice that the soundtrack (no matter how good it is) is pretty much ripped off from Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, but it's so good, there's no hard in hearing it again.So, in summary... dialogue = bad. Special effects = not special at all. Originality = non existent. Characters = a little annoying (Ergo, I'm thinking of you). But, despite all that, I still love it. It's a classic 'so-bad-it's-good' type film. If you've seen (and loved) any or all of Flash Gordon, Masters of the Universe, Star Crash or Hawk the Slayer, then this is in their league (and, for the record, I own all of them &#x96; classics!).It's worth it alone for the fact that you get to watch (arguably) one of the greatest fantasy weapons ever seen on screen &#x96; the Glade &#x96; a kind of mind-controlled throwing star. "}{"Title":"Krull finally comes to blu ray","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the ultimate non Harryhausen wet bank holiday fantasy fun. This was not that well received on it's debut, but like many for-lone fantasy epics, found a home on VHS. This is where I discovered the film and now that the blu ray is finally coming to us I can;t wait to relive it all again. The cyclops and the flying air dale horses might be right out of the Ra Harryhausen creatures book, but it's none the worse for it. The score by a young James Horner is one of his best and a collectors item among soundtrack supremeos.Although some of the main actors had their voices dubbed, I think this just adds to the charm of this 80s extravaganza. The glade is much like a boomerang light saber affair and I only wish that I had seen this on the big screen back in the day. "},{"Title":"The journey is worthwhile.","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An Earth like planet named Krull finds itself under a state of Siege by an all-powerful Beast and its many minions, which are known as Slayers. Two opposing groups unite to fight the Beast and the Slayers only to perish. However, a prince named Colwyn (Ken Marshall) survives, and spurred on by a wise old mentor type named Ynyr (Freddie Jones), he makes the journey necessary to find the Black Fortress (a.k.a. the Beasts' stronghold), to find the weapon he needs (the Glaive - sort of a multi-bladed boomerang), and to gather together a group of travelling companions.This may not be among the most prestigious of the many films that the late, versatile filmmaker Peter Yates directed, but it's got to be among the most fun. Aided by a very talented cast and crew and a substantial budget, he makes this an agreeable diversion, if also a rather familiar one. The widescreen photography (by Peter Suschitzky, who'd shot The Empire Strikes Back), the glorious rural vistas, the soaring music by James Horner (this has to rank as one of his finest scores), the makeup effects by Nick Maley, and a generous dose of cheese and corn do make Krull very watchable if not altogether memorable entertainment.Leads Marshall and Lysette Anthony are appealing and very good looking, if also on the bland side, but compensating for that is the rock solid supporting cast Jones, Francesca Annis as the Widow of the Web (the sequence with Jones and Annis is emotional and poignant and the highlight of the movie), Alun Armstrong, Liam Neeson, and Robbie Coltrane as three of the several bandits who join Colwyn in the fight against evil, Bernard Bresslaw as the one eyed Rell, John Welsh as the blind seer, and David Battley as the character Ergo, who supplies comedy relief by changing into various animals, whether he wants to or not.All in all, Krull should prove to be enjoyable enough for devotees of the fantasy genre.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"A classic 80's fantasy movie","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I go to see this movie in theater when come out i was 8 years old and i simply love the movie,The movie was a mix of STAR WARS & CONAN great effects (for time of course)great story,great actors (Hey Liam Neeson & Robbie Coltrane are here!)great monsters and the best thing of all great action and adventure!!!.I have this movie in BETA,VHS,DVD and BLU RAY is one of my all time favorites and i gonna tell you why.Like happen before in Aliens,Predator and others movie you really like the characters because they have a great chemistry in the movie (thats why when one of them dies you really feels sorry for them) and the final battle between the prince and the beast are great.All the people of my generation really remember this movie of one of their favorites and you see why.P.DThe music of JAMES HORNER is awesome!!! "},{"Title":"Cute Fantasy Flick","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull is a pleasing cheeky fantasy film. Yes it's another one of those hero rescues the damsel in distress types of stories - but a cute one. It's kinda corny yet so damned good for a film of this sorts. The movie is a swords and sorcery meets superheros meets star wars action adventure film, so it's recommended to those that like those film types.The Glave is a returning weapon - a throwing-star, shuriken in fact. You do not see very many of these as a chosen weapon in films - so that helps to give Krull an edge (stand out) over other films in this genre. You'll want one after watching the movie! Krull is a fantasy movie I enjoyed in my preteen years. I think other lovers of this genre may like this film too.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Boomerang Knife Power","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was a kid from the 80's and fantasy was my thing, I was a fan of the cartoon show He-Man and the Masters of the Universe so seeing this film was a thrill for me. It's true this fantasy film is not up there with The Hobbit series or Game of Thrones in my book but it's not trying to be. This is a fantasy film that is just plain fun, and thats what it is.Not a whole lot I can really say about the film. I like the story, it's a simple plot which is fine by me, I like most of my fantasy films uncomplicated most of the time, which to me makes it all the more fun because that means no filler. I love the fact that this takes place on some other planet that is Earth like, which to me makes it all the more fascinating, because it feels that this is a place where anything is possible and you wonder what else is there.I really love the production value, they spent what was a great amount of money at the time to make the film possible and it really shows, because most to all of it was practical; and part of why I think is still looks good today. I really like the use of the locale, it's just beautiful looking. Even the design of the Black Fortress inside and out. But I really like some of the effects from the Glave, but mainly the creature designs of the Slayers, the giant Spider and the Beast whom don't disappoint, their menacing. The Slayers are sort of these Golems since their really tough but really slow. The Beast is a solid monster design it's face looks like a humanoid piranha which I think is kinda cool. The Shelabab like Spider in the Widow of the Web sequence was also cool and creepy, the stop motion was on par.The characters are decent from the protagonist to the villains their not deep they serve their functions. But this film were in it for the adventure and it's a fun one at that.I really like the action from the siege of the castle, swamp battle, down to the raid of the Black Fortress, the chirography is solid. However one of the highlights of the film for me is the music by one of my favorite composer's James Horner which I think is great and memorable, the theme song is solid but my favorite score is during the fire mares sequence, which I think is just beautiful because the tone is adventurous and epic.And of course one other highlight of the film is the Glave which to me is one of my favorite fictional weapons. It's just a really cool mystical boomerang knife which you can control with your mind, it can cut though anything, go as fast as the wind, and can shield you from power blasts.The only disappointment is he doesn't us the Glave enough. I know that he was only suppose to use it when he needed it the most but wasn't that one battle in the swamp or even part of the siege on the teleporting fortress, it just felt like lost opportunities but oh well.Overall Krull is a fun fantasy that makes the cut.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"Krull!","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie just for the shear entertainment value of laughing at it and the bad old special effects. It is actually not that bad of a movie just as far as watching it goes it just seems old now because the effects are all from the early eighties with the movie released in 1983 you can't be surprised to see such awful (by today standards) effects on the screen. The plot of the movie has the prince of a planet and a group of his friends go out on an adventure to get his princess back after she is kidnapped by a race of violent, invading aliens. The weapons are very different from other shows I have seen and they are pretty neat to watch. There are a lot of fun scenes in this film especially if you watch with friends, you will be entertained and have a good laugh at least. "},{"Title":"seek it...and go mad! endless fuel for the fires of imagination","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was on my hard to get, can't find anywhere list of DVDs to buy...and im happy to report it's now got a permanent place in my ever-changing DVD collection! First saw this movie when I was about 12 and loved it so much I grabbed a VHS copy and wore it out. My best friends and I used to play Krull games after we watched it - some would be the slayers, others would pick their favourite heroic character and once we even roped a girl into our silly game and had ourselves a princess to rescue! Good times...anyway, enough with the nostalgia.Krull is cheesy, clichéd and the effects are dated. Now any pedantic it's cheesy, clichéd and the effects are dated people can stop reading! I wish I could see this movie as I did when I was a kid. It fired off hundreds of ideas in my head as I came up with xcountless backstories for the heroes, the slayers and the Beast...it fuelled the fires of my imagination almost as much as Star Wars (1977) did...and thats saying a lot coz I was the biggest Star Wars geek kid ever - had all the action figures and all! But now I grab a hot chocolate and rug up in front of the heater to lose myself all over again.Highlights quick summary if interested of what's good James Horner's music score, the fantastic location shots and set design, memorable supporting cast. The things the beast sends, with the BLACK eyes still creep me out even now...very cheap effect but genuinely frightening I feel...in fact the beast and slayers are some of the best ick...these guys make me uncomfortable.. bad guys ever! This film is not for everyone, but I'd suggest if u have kids say 12-15 age bracket I say stick this one on and prepare for something that's a lot better than most of the cheesy Disney stuff you're gonna find these days!Update 26/10/07 Listen to the commentaries if u are lucky enough to have the DVD with them, they are so good to listen to, if only to hear Lysette Anthony's real voice, and one of the sweetest laughs i've ever heard. My god, the producer who insisted on dubbing her voice with an American actress should be ashamed of himself! "},{"Title":"Krull was a fantastic movie, in it's days","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I would like to offer my words on the movie Krull.Back when the movie Krull had just started to show at the theaters, the viewers such as myself found it to be a very well done film.It was Sci-Fi,Adventure,Pretty Ladies,And Aliens and all the excitement of the time that kids and adults needed it to be.Now in the 21st Century of the 2000's all we have are Movies with Guns-People Killing families-Gang Warfare-Sex Offenders and the stuff that most families do not wish their children to see or to view. Well Krull was not one of those forms of movie.It had some space age stuff and a woman and a man in love and a fight to survive in life.I would recommend this over half of the movies that are available to rent in the video stores now. "},{"Title":"Children of the 80's take notice","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are old enugh to remember your dad shelling out 200+ dollars for an ATARI 2600 then you had to live in a cave NOT to LOVE this flick!!! I feel a great sense of happiness to have seen this film as a kid and plan to share it(via dvd) with my son so he can see the wonder of pre CGI movies "},{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE this movie.  I fondly recall watching it overand over on cable as a kid.  I did not, however, get a chanceto see it in theaters, which is a shame, since even in thepan & scan TV version you can see that there is some  great widescreen photography and composition going on  here.I do think that you have to be a kid when you first see thisfilm in order to fully appreciate it.  I can see by some of theother comments here that most of this movie's fans firstsaw it when they were kids.  That makes sense, given thatthe movie operates pretty much in pure fantasy mode.  Ifyou're in the right frame of mind, it's loads of fun.  If you tryto take it too seriously, it doesn't work.Great battles, great set pieces, wonderful outdoor scenery(especially that meadow at the end!), and some pretty coolspecial effects.  There's also a terrific sequence involvingsome creatures called fire mares, which are these  enormous horses that can run so fast they leave trails offire.  For the most part I've never understood the fascinationsome people have with horses, but these are some  equines I could actually get excited about.  What kid  wouldn't want to ride something called a fire mare!  Thescene involving them kind of reminds me of the chariotrace from Ben Hur.  At first, the only sound is the  pounding of the horses hoves, but then the music kicks in,and before you know it, you just can't help but feel excited.I also have to mention the music.  James Horner pulls outall the stops here and gives us a grand, sweeping  orchestral score that is one of my all-time favorites.  Thereare some problems with the performance of it though.   Despite being recorded by the London Symphony  Orchestra, it sometimes sounds a bit sloppy, and the  french horn players in particular have a lot of troublemeeting the challenge of Horner's ambitious notes.  That'sa very minor gripe, though.  It's still an outstanding score;good enough to make me pay $40 for the 2-CD set! "}{"Title":"What fantasy is all about...","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember being about 7 or 8 years old and seeing this movie, while not a classic in many people's eyes, it is none the less an achievement when an adult remembers a movie from his childhood as fondly as I have. It was about two years ago when, at a friends house, I crossed paths with Krull again. At that moment, everything stopped as a chill ran up my spine and a smile spread across my face. It's amazing when something can throw you back to the wide-eyed innocence and wonder of being a child again. That is what the fantasy genre is all about, and that is what Krull delivers. It is simply a well-done and highly entertaining film for the kid in all of us. "},{"Title":"So near yet so far","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was given this movie last night from a friend in return for one he had borrowed and lost a long while back; it was part of a joke deal as the film was made back in 1983 (an era I'm normally keen on) I want to start on a positive by saying the whole thing actually looks pretty neat from the start, high-budget scenery and costumes for the time (1983) and special effects make the whole thing quite convincing for the opening 5-10 minutes until the action hits. It was possibly a mistake casting a dashing prince who looks a tad like Errol Flynn complete with roguish beard and grin, and a deal of the royalty's themes and costumes seem like a lend from Robin Hood...So you're left with this feel of a Medieval dragon princess story in space except with laser/neon spears; a rather schizoid mêlée.The battle sequences are arguably pretty bad, clunky (possibly because most of the budget went on costumes) and slow-moving; Liam Neeson pops up as a bandit to cheer you up halfway through so you bear with it.I remember a wedding scene where the whole kingdom and castle is invited (consisting of about 30 people)... I think the let down is largely due to an incredibly mundane use of camera-work that fails to show off any of the creative effort. Prince Colwyn has a weapon that's like a big ninja star except that it isn't as neat or exciting as you might expect; he learns things in an almost Jedi-esquire way from his castle's lone survivor. For such a fantastic story it becomes remarkably boring, and occasionally grotesque in true 80s make-up gore style. Kinda strange for a PG I felt.If you like fantasy sci-fi like Stargate you might get a kick, or if you're high you might get a laugh; sadly the latter is unlikely as the whole thing is done so seriously P otherwise leave it on the shelf "},{"Title":"another dang review?","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I know why you can't bring yourself to hate this movie. (who wants to know why someone hates anything - feh)If you're regarding Krull from the mythic time before your life, Krull was one of those you would find in the off-the-beaten-path cinemas - if you are one of the sort who gets by with that type of behavior to begin with. It wasn't your big screen bloated blastoff extravaganza lollapalooza.It has an attitude, and was no doubt intended for the denizens of the off circuit cinema - I like that - I think this was film for the fun of it, and no one expected riches or hokey gold statuettes for it. Points.I consider it a form of art/concept movie.As the years pass I find Star Wars more of an embarrassment. Krull is still growing on me.It's the musical score; imagine this film done with a rock theme like Dune and behold the turkey it could have been.If there's the least bit of storm the gates of Jerusalem, cry on your lips, sword in mailed fist, fire in your eyes in you, the music here will get you going. It is incredible. If that is absent from you, you hated Krull.The perfect music for the Perfect Band.Ynir - the Old Man of the Mountain, who has a serious flaw - and is in fact the heroic leader Colwyn may become someday.Colwyn - the glorious fool boy king - he lacks even Ynir's ONE character flaw. Ken Marshall was the PERFECT choice.Ergo the Magnificent Loser - someone who should be utterly easy to dislike - yet you would take a bullet meant for him once you get to know him. If you never knew an Ergo then you have lived a sheltered life.RELL the Job-like Golem - they could have done Rell with his eyelids taped shut and a decal stuck to his forehead and carried it off. Rell is the Avenging Hand of God; if any have cause to hate the World he does, but he keeps the faith, and his ride is the perfect touch. And of course Rell and Ergo are fast friends...I could go on in depth about all of them - the regular guys who swab the decks and empty the slop; but that is you the audience. There is Liam Neeson displaying the Street Corner Grace that no doubt got him noticed to begin with. This film could have been a career killer for him - but he shipped out with a top-notch crew of quietly great actors.A work of quiet genius - like you can often find in the back streets and out the way places where glittering mediocrity also gets its start - then forgets where it came from.I judge a film by how I exit the theater, and re-greet the World I briefly escaped from. Like Moet and Chandon, the aftertaste was worth it.I have always known I have a bit of the Pauper Knight in me. Don Quixote seeking the Holy Grail - and coming off laughably in the Real World. Ergo would understand - as he rides a Fire Mare across the Sky.That is why you quietly acknowledge how much you Wildly enjoyed this little masterwork. You naughty fellow.Aw c'mon - you know I have you - Believer.Just as Alien grew from a potty little cheapo Grade C placebo of a movie about a planet of vampires, I suspect some unknown out there will forge a memorable film from the memory of Krull someday. Except that it will make Alien seem like a B movie.No remakes please; it could only be worse than the original. "},{"Title":"Cool Weapons","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'd rate this bad for everything if it were not for the weaponry and sci-fi BS. I love the spinning claw looking weapon(probably Australia has them) that must be grabbed out of burning lava. I also like the hokey marriage scene where as a gift the groom gets the power to throw fire from his bride(not at her at the monster,stop dreaming). If that were real I'd consider marriage. I also liked how you had to sacrifice a unicorn to make the castle appear to go fight the beast. I wonder if PETA is outraged. Maybe they'll take their clothes off and I'll find a hot one to give me fire to make me stop eating prime ribs and lobster. As for Krull, It's a B movie at it's finest so it gets the highest rating for a B film. "},{"Title":"You will want the 2 hours of your life back","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Watching this movie made me wonder yet again How does some of this crap get green lighted by Hollywood? I could hear the pitch for this film in my head, Yeah, uh. It's Excalibur meets Star Wars set in Medievel England. Come on, the only worse combination someone could come up with would be Cowboys and Aliens. (Sorry Mr. Spielberg. Maybe it's time you get rid of your Yes Men.) The not-so-special effects were so cheesy it was impossible not to rip on it a la Mystery Science Theater 3000 style. The acting was horrendous in the lead roles and the direction lacked inspiration. The costume department had no concept about the importance of aging a costume and the make-up effects for the cyclops were poor even by 1983 standards. (Keep in mind Star Wars and ET had both been out before this film.The only redeeming quality was the James Horner musical score. It's a good thing I saw this for free online because if I saw it anywhere else I would've walked out (even if it were an in flight movie) and demanded my money back. "},{"Title":"Pure Nostalgia","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull falls into the category of movies that are better in your memory than they are in reality. Released in 1983 this fantasy epic boasts performances by some acting greats, Robbie Coltrane (Cracker, Hagred from Harry Potter), Liam Neeson (Rob Roy, Phantom Menace)and Bernard Bresslaw from the classic Carry On British movie series. Despite this though the movie throws in character after character without developing any of them beyond a one line description and as such you connect with none of them.The plot starts out as an interesting blend of sci-fi meets fantasy as the Beast in his planet hopping mountain sending in his black armored stormtroopers to steal him a bride in what can only be described as an intergalactic booty call. After Princes Lyssa is taken by the Slayers, her intended, the scarcely bearded Prince Colwyn, seeks out a mystical weapon, the Glaive, a super sharp frizzbee and gathers an army of criminals and outcasts to assault the mountain of the Beast.Sadly the movie turns into predictable fantasy as character after character is killed in a series of uninspired set pieces and the final battle with the Beast is so badly done you feel robbed. Plus if you are a galactic conqueror wouldn't you spend the extra cash and get your henchmen guns that fire more than one shot before they have to be flipped and turned into traditional bladed weapons? The appeal of this movie however is purely in its nostalgia factor. I watched this as a young boy and loved it even if I knew it wasn't the greatest movie my Dad had sat me down in front of. I watch this movie now to take me back to those days when life was simpler and Lysette Anthony was everything I wanted in a woman. "},{"Title":"very good early 80's fantasy movie","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really don't get why some people keep complaining about how (supposedly) Krull is a rip-off of Star Wars & other more famous movies. Rubbish. Did you know that his highness George Lucas was brought to court ( so said a news article )because his new story was copied from novels or screenplays from Japanese authors? I don't know about the outcome, but it had ground enough to stand legal action. Hero rescues princess with a few brave companions, each & every one blessed with a gift the Cyclop & his throwing mastery; the goofy sorcerer & his transformations; the wise old man who knows just the right person & the right way; etc.Here we have a cliché from Sinbad & the 1930's to 50's fantasy movies up to Star Wars ( a rip-off of medieval legends, like knights/monks, their mystic beliefs, peaceful republics turning into evil empires etc ).Special effects are good, even to this day ( to compare, a 100& CGI B movie like Casshern could rival & even outclass a few scenes of Matrix etc ).I like this movie because (with all its flaws) it's not overdone, like ex the theological Matrix dialogues get awfully cheesy the third time onwards they repeat a subject, unless you're a punk falling for the oh-internet-like-the-real-world-&-software-like-humans. Wake up. Tron (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0084827) had attempted & conceived software as animated being back in 1982, without pseudo-religious gibberish. You have subplots to thicken the story, but none is compounded to death (again the Matrix mess).Characters are fair, with Ken Marshall ( thought to be a raising star after the lavish miniseries Marco Polo ) being just adequate. Liam Neeson is just a stand-in. Princess Lyssa could act better, yet i've never been thrilled by the Star Wars Leia either ( the tuff-girl-acting gets old fast ).Krull is a simple, yet finalized early 80's fantasy, without mega budget preoccupations (ex Flash Gordon) and without a base not even Maupassant or Kafka could successfully come to terms with (ex Dune).Good entertainment for a relaxing couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Not timeless, but better than more recent fantasy movies.","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull has been a strange event before it was even released. It was originally set to be the Dungeons and Dragons movie, but for unknown reason, the idea was scrapped. And when it came out, it faced direct competition with Return of the Jedi, so it was pretty much doomed to flop.Fantasy movies can be divided in two stages. Before LotR and after LotR. Such other movies, like Legend, Willow, Excalibur, Lionheart, even Conan, were all part of that age when fantasy movies were rather underrated and quickly dismissed.Enter Peter Jackson. Since his LotR trilogy, a new, CGI based trend was born, and now we have been bombarded with title after title of modern fantasy movies like Narnia, Spiderwick, Eragon or Golden Compass.However, all of these movies were nowhere near as fun and classic as Krull. The story is engaging, and the mythology is quite interesting (even as it sounds clichéd) Prince Collwyn must rescue his captive wife to be Lyssa, and is aided by an array of individuals, an old wise man, a bumbling wizard, a rugged army of bandits, a cyclops and a blind seer with his child brother. During their journey, they stumble across peril after peril, risking their lives and safety to fight against the alien Slayers and their leader, the Beast.The performances are varied, with irregular accents from north to south of Great Britain and some American (Ken Marshall sounded so dull), but they're all fun to watch. The Widow of the Web, Torquil, Ergo and most especially the Cyclops, with his complex past and doomed future, were my favorite characters. By the way, the cute princess Lyssa has another voice re looped, an American actress, and it shows.As for the score, well, forget about Titanic or Braveheart. Krull is one of James Horner's finest scores. It's not the heavy dramatic score from LotR, but a lighter and fun musical accompaniment that I just can't stop playing in the stereo.The special effects were good, considering an 80's picture with limited computer resources. The cool and weird design for the black fortress is bold and innovative, except for the outside, which does look fake. The landscapes are stunning. You can see great cinematography in the practice with the Fire Mares sequence.Even now, when you see the better effects fantasy movies, they're not as finely crafted and don't have an actual kick-ass score.This movie may not be timeless, but if you get into the story and don't feel disappointed with the absence of cool CGI creatures, it's quite enjoyable.As a footnote, I thought this was better than Willow. "},{"Title":"Great film..Sci fi Cult  Classic","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really don't know why this film does not have the recognition it should.OK granted it has a cheesy and cliché plot.A Prince tries to save his princess from the ultimate space evil.And you can find 100 plot holes but...Still...It is an 80s fantasy movie...You just suspend your disbelief a little bit more than usual and that is all you need to enjoy an entertaining movie.Cliché but classical and enjoyable Hero/Chosen one story, AMAZING (AMAZING!!!!) soundtrack,pretty good acting,a few unique characters and the usual 80s atmosphere we all know and love.One can say a lot about the death of aesthetics during the 80s but what movies had back then was atmosphere.Photography ,lighting and cheap but well crafted stages. A feeling of (alternate?)reality that really could immerse you even in the most cheesiest of flicks. The best proof that is that even now 30 years later, with the audience eyes trained in all the crazy SGI, these movies still give the same unique feeling in terms of atmosphere, just as they did back then....Krull has that exact feeling of its time.And the Glaive..Which fantasy buff cannot dream himself wielding such a weapon.(Yeah I know geeky as hell but true!).Any way if you enjoy this particular genre don't even think of not seeing Krull.Cheesy, Corny but It has everything a good fantasy movie needs to be entertaining...Give it a chance.... "},{"Title":"surprisingly engaging","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was very surprised when I saw this money years ago. I had VERY low expectations for this fantasy film but it turned out to be a pretty good film--with an interesting story and decent acting. About the only disappointment was Krull's weapon the glave--it was really neat but he never really got to use it very much. Oh well. In fact, years later, I watched the film again (and I rarely watch films more than once) because it was just mindless fun. I do think, though, that those who really don't like medieval fantasy films still won't have their opinions changed by the film, but those willing to at least, on occasion, see this type of film (and that's definitely me) will have an enjoyable time. "}{"Title":"Get with the times (the early 80's in this case)","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie will most likely in the long term be one of the forgotten classics (if you can't call it one now). It is definitely one of my old-time faves (along with the Atari video game).Now to put my two cents in on the argument-fest going on between the different camps of reviewers I've been reading.Could the special effects been better in the film? Of course. But in order to do so the film would have to had been made much much later. There is a big difference in having great special effects in a fantasy film vs. a science fiction space opera. Doing it for a fantasy film is much harder. The effect need to be more melded into the live-action unless you have obvious cuts, which itself can be annoying and distracting. But all in all, for what they had at the time, Krull's special effects worked! Heck, some scenes still give me the creeps.And as for the reviewer who said that the Glaive was just tossed and it was doing all of the work while the hero just posed, you don't understand how the weapon worked. The Glaive was a psionic weapon. The hero was guiding it with his mind. Yes, it was a little like the Force, but who gives a crap? The Star Wars concept of the Force was far from original too, but it's still a nifty concept to the pictures. Now let's go on.Now for the 'sexist' storyline argument. WHO CARES!?! I'm personally tired of the feminist crap that is constantly out there, but it didn't stop me from enjoying 'Ever After' or 'Fellowship of the Ring' (during the sixty seconds of revisionism that Peter Jackson put in to get the feminists to shut up and more so to also build Arwen's screentime). The old time story of 'girl kidnaped by baddie; guy goes save her' is one of the oldest staples in storytelling. Hell, why don't we go back and re-edit Snow White while we're at it!*HUFF* *HUFF* ... *pant*Okay, I've vented. Sorry 'bout that....Anyway, damn good movie. Remember the time it was made for FXs. Would love to get it on DVD. Blah blah blah, etc. etc.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but...","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not usually a fan of fantasy films, as I think it's fair to say that they work better in our imaginations than when presented on film. But this film is a worthy attempt but with some HUGE flaws.1) Not enough background story given. The people of Krull seem primitive, like they were living in 1500 England, so how do they know of The Beast and his army of Slayers, who are space travelers? Do the people of Krull have a wide mix of technology? Do they fight with swords, ride on horses but travel in spaceships? I could accept this if it were at least explained.2) Ken Marshall. Not a strong lead at all. He might be good for a line or two, but he is no lead! He has no screen presence, no range, and in this film he just sorta walks around with a stupid grin on his face, holding up his right arm most of climax.3) Music. Some people here have praised it like its the next best thing. Let's be realistic. It's James Horner doing what James Horner does best ripping himself off completely. He's a fine composer, but if you watch enough films he's composed, it's like 6 Degrees of James Horner, trying to figure out which of his previous films he's ripped off (in this case, abundantly from STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN ... it's basically the exact same score, more so ripped off than normal for Horner)But if you can forgive the fact that it's a STAR WARS clone, and I can, cuz there's enough eye-candy and a great supporting cast that makes you forget about the lead! It does have a great scene where the group is bringing the old Seer through a remote forest to see where the dark castle will emerge next, where they are ambushed. Sure it looks like a set, but I still enjoyed it.Dr. Slavelove "},{"Title":"Mom, I want a Glaive for Christmas...","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Derided back in the summer of 1983 as a Star Wars rip-off, Krull has gained status over the years as a cult favorite thanks mostly to two things the film's ability to charm despite the less-than-stellar script, and James Horner's score. I saw the DVD yesterday, and I wholeheartedly agree on both opinions. The plot itself isn't anything you haven't seen before Prince Colwyn (Ken Marshall) must rescue Lyssa (Lysette Anthony) from the clutches of the hideous Beast to save the planet of Krull. With a movie like this, the charm lies in the peripherals, not the main plot. The supporting cast does well with what they have (check out Robbie Coltrane and Liam Neeson in early roles), plus Horner's score is magnificent. Having borrowed the rare 2-CD set from a friend, I'd heard the music, but had no visuals in my mind to accentuate the score. Thankfully, the film only heightens the magic.Magic... that's probably the best one-word description of Krull that I can come up with. If you have kids, sit them down and let them watch this. Sure, the plot has mile-wide holes, but they won't care and neither will you. I look forward to showing the DVD to my eight and ten-year-old cousins sometime this summer, I hope they enjoy the movie as much as I did yesterday. The bottom line? Bad script, but everything else is fine. Get the DVD and score, it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the worst movies i have ever seen, only a few entertaining parts which is why it didn't get a one.  Cyclops is amusing to watch onscreen and the occasional action scene that comes through it fun to watch at times. But for the most part, bad acting and writing, and even worse special effects.  Horrible movie, save yourself from it.  STAY AWAY!!! "},{"Title":"Fantasy by numbers with terrible everything","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm reviewing this in 2011, just for some context. I've seen some excellent fantasy in the last 10 years or so including Jackson's Lord of the Rings and HBO's Game of Thrones.If every fantasy movie were like Krull I would hate the genre. The plot was simplistic, the characters were caricatures, and the power is in you reveal is ridiculously bad. It's making fun of itself but doesn't realize it.I assume that the actors did exactly as they were directed so I won't blame them. I blame the writers primarily, followed by the directors. The effects are what I'd expect in 1983.Overall it's forgettable and not worth watching. It's not the worst movie that I've ever seen, but it's down there. If you like good fantasy you may very well be offended by this. "},{"Title":"A great film....yes, that's what I said.","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this film the other night after a lapse of a number of years--and I will admit that I had a little apprehension. How many times have you watched a film that you loved the first time and then found it to be a disappointment? This time, it was better. I was mesmerized from the beginning of the credits.Gregory the Movie Cat gave it big purrs and rubs.I'll go out on a limb and say Krull is the best pure fantasy film, ever. And that it achieves a singular kind of greatness in its unabashed and brilliant manipulation of deep psychological symbolism. It's like a romp through the collective unconscious. The only narrative films I can recall with similar resonance are Kubrick's 2001 and Jean Cocteau's Beauty and the Beast and Orpheus. (Dali's short films are in a somewhat different category.) Let's discuss these two claims individually. First of all, what do I mean by pure fantasy? Tolkien's ideas of willing suspension of disbelief and sub-creation--the creation of a fictional world with its own set of rules and consistent within that set of rules--are an essential part of pure fantasy, but are far broader. To my mind, one must add a few other criteria. First, it must not be an allegory. (James Cameron's forthcoming Avatar is an subjected peoples/environmental allegory and thus would not qualify.) Second, its core must be a combination of several archetypes--notably the hero's quest, the comedy (disruption followed by restoration of order symbolized (generally) by a marriage, the magician, and (usually) the king. Its tone is characterized by distance from the world as we knowledge and a sense of wonder. Several of Shakespeare's plays (notably The Tempest) fall into this category.What would be exclude from this category? All of science fiction and horror, and most of what we call fantasy / adventure. The Lord of the Rings is borderline, and the 3 films are magnificent. However, like the books, the films are prolix, and would benefit from a good editor.Many of the bad fantasy films we see on Syfy, God bless it, fall into this category, But they lack psychological depth, and they lack the mysterious otherworldly quality of Krull.What, then, puts Krull into exalted company? First, the script. The script manipulates familiar elements into a combination that is unique. It rises to a poetic eloquence in some scenes, notably The Widow of the Web, which is one of the most astonishing things--outside of Cocteau--ever put into a fantasy film. And it fits into the complex psychological structure, of which more later.Then, the score. I can think of few other films in which the score so perfectly matches the images and the screenplay. Another commentator here has said that the score may be the best, ever--and it might be. It certain bears comparison with the best of Bernard Herrmann and the best of John Williams.Then, the look. Krull is a ravishingly beautiful film; the main exteriors in the Italian Dolomites create a familiar yet otherworldly atmosphere. The studio sequences do not fit terrible well, but they are right for what they want to do. The effects are fine--they support, not dominate, the first.The actors are fine. Some, like Liam Neeson, are well know actors in relatively small parts. Freddie Jones is a great character actor; Francesca Annis could not be better. Ken Marshall and Lysette Anthony make a splendid hero and heroine; in particular, Lysette Anthony is a refreshingly vital heroine who would never twist an ankle.What makes Krull a particularly exceptional film is its psychological structure. First off, we have a straightforward opposition of Good and Evil. We have the classic hero's journey, and the hero's magical companion. We have an integrated view of all four alchemical elements--Fire, Water, Air (the mountain peaks, the flying horses), and Water.We have two remarkable psychological and symbolic patterns. The first forms the spring of the plot--Man has Fire, Fire to Water, Water to Fire, Fire to Woman, Woman gives Fire to Man-a neat sequent of uniting man and female elements to one, with mutual consent--a mysterious ritual with clear psychological intent.The interruption, then completion, of this ritual, first separates Lyssa from Corwin then reunites them with the power to kill the Beast--evil and disorder.The second pattern is no less interesting--the failed joining of Ynyr and Lyssa (the Widow), which leads to unhappiness and the death of both, but produces the information that can unite Corwin and Lyssa--life, redemption, and happiness. There are other themes of separation and unification and other patterns as well. It's a literary analyst's delight.Finally, for all these reasons, I just love this film. It's a fantasy for adults and thinkers. It's beautiful and intellectually and emotionally satisfying. It's far better than, say, The Wizard of Oz.See it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Hokey fairy-tale fun","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In terms of story, Krull is 100%, by-the-book, cliché fairy tale, but visually it is something else. By 'something else', what I really mean is the film looks ridiculous, but in an amusing kind of way. It is Excaliber meets Star Trek meets Wizard of Oz. Though it is not an especially impressive feature, I saw some memorable ideas. Horses which gallop fast enough to leave a trail of fire, quick sand which covers an acre of forest, a flying fortress in the shape of a mountain, spears which fire laser blasts, and a magical weapon in the shape of a golden, spiky starfish. It is all hokey but fun. Krull is the name of the fantasy land where this story is set. In this land, two kingdoms are about to unite with the marriage of their kings' children, Prince Colwyn and Princess Lyssa. Unlike most arranged marriages, these two are already in love. On the night of the wedding however, a hoard of enemy warriors called 'slayers' who serve 'the Beast' storm the castle and take the princess away. The beast wants her for his bride too (someone he can rule the galaxy with). Prince Colwyn with the help of a wise man, a cyclops and a young magician set out to get the girl, kill the bad guy and save the world. The problem is, The Beast's fortress in always magically changing locations. There is one issue I have with fairy tales on-screen. The stories always sound adventurous but they are not very clever. the characters always escape danger not because of heroics but usually because of luck, which involves something or someone arriving out of nowhere. For example, there is a point in the movie, where the hero's only lead to the enemy lair is gone, so the story introduces a new character which has the ability to help. tricks like this essentially show cheating on the part of the writer, but seeing as this is a hard movie to take seriously, you sort of don't mind. You kind of laugh and go with it. Ridley Scott's Legend on the other hand, is a fairy tale which avoids this trap, by presenting a scenario where the protagonist must depend on his wits rather than chance to succeed. Krull is slightly more climatic than Legend, but only because it feels more grandiose. The camera work is less clumsy, and the scenario feels far more intimidating, but still not terribly exciting. The ending felt a little too short though. Perhaps the film ran out of money or time. They certainly didn't make back much of either. Krull was a box office flop, but that doesn't make it a terrible film. Just don't approach it with super high expectations. "},{"Title":"Epic without a direction","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Pauline Kael infamously wrote of Star Wars, it's an epic without a dream. While inappropriate for Lucas' 1977 film, it certainly holds true of Peter Yates' Krull, a nonsensical sci-fi fantasy hybrid which indulges in the superficial aspects of both genres without tapping into the common heart of either.We start with a Stars Warsesque opening where a vast ship moves across the frame. A ship that much resembles a strange rock formation like, say, a mountain. And while this mountain/spacecraft lands, a voice-over invokes the fantasy genre with a prophecy of a Prince who shall defeat the intruders, slay the beast, save his bride, and their son shall rule the galaxy.Thus begins the formula Prince + Mentor + Princess to be Saved + Ragtag group of unlikely allies + Monstrous Villain = Fantasy (throw in rotoscoped lasers, and voila Sci-fi.) Now, I don't have any problem with said formula if said film can convince me to suspend my disbelief for it. Who is the Prince we're supposed to follow? Who is the Bride he's supposed to save? Why should I give a damn about them? I do not need (nor do I expect) full blown character bios and witty Shakespearian asides, but at least give me interesting little character quirks to separate these people from every single bland-to-mediocre fantasy novel, every single fantasy video games, and every single D&D campaign I've ever played.Give me characters with conviction.Unfortunately, everything exists to satisfy the formula, and the movie almost never takes a step further. The prince embarks on his epic quest to gain the glaive, find the seer, track down the fire mares, and engage the black fortress with an adventure loving smile &#x85; nevermind that the villains have his bride and are doing God knows what to her. The mentor imparts no wisdom upon the young hero, rather, exists to connect the dots and keep the plot moving by informing everyone where to go next. When the villainous slayers die, a strange creature bursts from their skulls and burrow themselves into the ground, but no one questions what they are or why this happens. The beast kidnapped the young bride for the sake of kidnapping the bride (why the hell do they care about this planet to begin with, anyway?).Yates introduces a Cyclops, and sets up a potentially magnificent pathos &#x96; that these creatures long ago made a pact with the Beast to see the future. Betrayed, now all they can see is the moment of their own death. In passing, this Cyclops speaks of his curse, but the film never explores it. I must stay here, he informs while everyone else rides on to the black fortress, but never does he state why he must stay there. Then a few minutes later, we see him riding to the rescue for an anti-climactic climax that carries the weight of a man deciding on decaf seconds before the 7/11 clerk pours his coffee.The only character with any development and anything resembling pay off lay in the comic relief. Yes, Ergo, who describes himself as Ergo the magnificent! Short in stature, tall in greatness, narrow in focus, and wide in vision. Early in the film, we see the extent of his magic as he shuffles through scraps of parchment, mumbling some arcane words, and presto! He magically changed &#x85; himself into a goose. Over the course of the movie, he buddies up with a depressed young boy who lost his father figure. The boy says if he could have anything in the world, he'd want a puppy. So on the road, Ergo turn himself into a cute little beagle, and the boy is delighted. Later on, the two are trapped (inexplicably abandoned by the Prince) with Slayers approaching. Ergo changes himself into a tiger, and strangely steals the sympathy right out from under Prince-what's-his-name who left them both to die.Yes, the Prince flat out abandoned his companion and a small boy, and the scene doesn't bother conveying a sense of loss. The prince starts to go after them, but when it's apparent he'd be trapped with them he hops out of the hole so fast you can almost hear the MST3K crew throwing out the line, Eh, screw this! Is this prince going to tackle rescuing his princess with that level of commitment? What about their marriage? Some happily ever after.Since the film fails so epically on the character level, one can't help but notice the premise's absurdity. Medieval knights will fend off enemies capable of space flight. The bad guys, the Slayers, slowly approach with spears that fire off long range energy projectiles, and then when close these stiff and stilted creatures then use their spears as melee weapons. Why not just stand back and fire until everything is dead? And why have they mastered spaceflight, but not &#x96; I dunno &#x96; cannons? Heat rays? Atomic and biochemical weaponry? That's not to say Krull entirely lacks any redeeming features. Quite the contrary, when the character's actions take a backseat to show off Peter Suschitzky's breathtaking photography of magnificent landscapes, and when the lifeless dialog yields to James Horner's primitive (but charming) score, Krull stands with the best cinematic experiences.It's strangely ironic that Krull is strongest, most riveting, and most inviting when the characters shut up, fade into the background, and just move from point A to point B. "},{"Title":"Good for the Era...","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Back in the olden days, before CGI, before computer editing even, making a Fantasy film was just about the most difficult movie to accomplish. 'Krull', directed by Peter Yates, dates from 1983; and yet, is still quite visually impressive even today. Certainly the massive sets ( constructed in the huge '007' stage at Pinewood ) are one of the highlights.The basic plot is quite generic, involving the usual 'rescue the Princess' concept of the traditional fairy-story. Many elements are 'borrowed' from famous works like 'Lord of the Rings' ( the idea of a 'black fortress', the design of the 'slayers' ), and films like 'Star Wars' ( the laser battles ). What is most surprising is the quality of the cast. Such luminaries as Robbie Coltrane, and Liam Neeson ( then unknowns ) are involved, as well as many famous English character actors. It's very much an ensamble piece, with surprisingly good characterization ( a conscious effort by the director ), and pathos.The DVD is a must-have, featuring an extensive commentary by cast, director and editor, as well as a slightly bizarre 'commentary' track of an extensive article in 'Cinefantasique' magazine, from 1982.In comparison to today's films in and around the genre, the movie can seem quite pedestrian. Certainly it's not in the same league as Peter Jacksons' classic 'Lord of the Rings' trilogy, the book of course being an influence on this film ( see if you can spot the similarities in the 'spider' sequence to the ROTK 'Shelob' scenes! ). Nor can it match the other fantasy blockbusters of today, like the new Star Wars or Matrix trilogies, with it's visual flair. It does have a certain charm about it though, and is a worthy addition to anyones' DVD collection.Not at all bad for it's day....  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull is truly a film to add to the list of CLASSICS!!This is a true blue 80's sci-fi fantasy film....this movie fits right into that decade perfectly!!!It also puts me in the mind od the L.O.R movies as far as the movie having an epic journey in it,and traveling across vast territory in order to complete a mission.And the fact that this film with the time in which it was made,had such great effects such as laser staves that had duel uses to them,great artistry and cinemetography.................tho' this film was great,can you imagine how OUT OF SIGHT this movie would be if it was made now with all the advancements in film today???WOW!!!!! "}{"Title":"The force er... glaive is with you!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"         'Krull' is just another in a bunch of mediocre 80's fantasy flicks. Prince Colwyn must save his bride to be from some gigantic monster who has invaded the planet. Along the way he meets a mystical old man, Obi-Wan Kenobi, who shows him the power of the glaive. Did I say Obi-Wan? I meant Yner. Anyway, they meet a band of thieves and smugglers like Han Solo and Chewbacca. Did I say Han Solo and Chewbacca? I meant to say Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane (not much difference) and they storm the death star to save the princess. I might have gotten this story mixed up with some other film.        On a bright note, it does make for a few good laughs. Check out those nifty eighties special effects. And James Horner does his usual job of making you wonder which of his musical scores came first Star Trek II & III/ Aliens/ Cocoon/ Krull because they all are interspersed with each of these films.  "},{"Title":"Sci Fi meets fantasy...","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  And the result is kind of dull.  This movie has its moments, but only after long streches of nothing really happening.  The end fight in the evil guys castle is alright, but the end fight between the monster and the hero is very anticlimatic.  This movie really needs some time cut from it and maybe a bit more action.  Like I said it has some good parts, but not enough to really reccomend it unless you want to see a sci-fi and fantasy hybrid.  The actors aren't very good either, but you do get to see Liam Neeson. "},{"Title":"Cheesy movie, so-so music","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't bother with the movie I watched the original 'At the Movies' review with Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert back in the early 80's and I agree with their assessment The movie sucks!The music is pretty good, although a bit over the top it plays a fanfare for too long in the beginning. This is a guy who's in love with trombones and french horns! It was like listening to a symphonic poem for the clue-less.The Krull refers to some extremely stupid dramatic resource, i.e. a star-shaped whirling weapon that, in the hand of a worthy person (who else could it be?) it could do truly wondrous things, like opening a hole in solid rock as if it were a tin can. The plot is simple and straight forward A black lord of some sort, looking suspiciously too much like Lord of the Ring's Sauron, lands on a peaceful planet where people lived in an idyllic surrounding not unlike that of a fairy tale, complete with castles with pointy towers. The hero is about to get married to a beautiful maiden (well, you have to use your imagination a bit, since that English chick ain't that hot), but his betrothed gets snatched by the evil servants of Sauron - huh, excuse me, the Black Lord, who scurry back to the fortress, which conveniently disappears, only to appear in another part of the planet - which, also conveniently, is not very far from where the hero is... Well, he's told by a sage to get the Krull from some mountain cave, and use it to defeat the evil flirt. The rest of course, is history!You could say it's worth a night with friends, popcorn and beer. It has no other value, cinematically speaking. "},{"Title":"Good fantasy film","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a fan of the fantasy genre, you will probably enjoy this film. The plot is typical rescue the princess  fare, but the characters are interesting and the  special effects aren't bad for the time.  All in all, a very good fantasy effort that isn't the most original but is certainly entertaining.   "},{"Title":"Funnier than a lot of comedies.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently rented this movie with some friends because we were looking for a movie to sit and make fun of. Perhaps we were going into it with a poor attitude, but I don't think we were disappointed. The movie is just a train wreck.The thing runs just over two hours, but at least 20% of that is shots of them riding on horses through the country side and climbing mountains. If they had any sense of economy while editing this thing, it only would have been about 80 minutes long.The acting is just terrible, the lead actor smiles throughout the whole thing regardless of the situation, and even Liam Neeson looks like he could use an acting lesson or two.If you're looking for a movie to rent for cheap and make fun of while drinking beers, Krull is for you. About the only even remotely positive thing I can say about it is that the special effects aren't half bad for 1983. "},{"Title":"Krull","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Visually striking, but odd choice for director Yates, who is better known for films like The Dresser. Here he finds himself mixed in sword play and sorcery in this fantasy that borrows from all over the place. There are moments of special effects grandeur, but altogether, the film suffers from a monotonous story idea. Look for Liam Neeson in this film.  "},{"Title":"Bad, bad movie","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At my office, like most, we usually have some type of daily topic to break up the everyday dull drums. IE Favorite actor, favorite 80's song. etc...  Now The topic of worst movie that your ever paid to see came up, (video doesn't count), and this movie instantly came to mind.  I saw it at a drive-in, back in 1984, and nothing that I've seen since, has even come close to beating it out.  To all of you out there that thinks this garbage rates up there with the Star Wars Trilogy, it's time to up the dosage of your Prozac!!!! I'm surprised that Liam Neeson would want this in his career's credits. In closing, don't pay the $3.00 at the video store to get it. WAIT A MINUTE, DO pay the $3.00 and get the tape and throw in the nearest incinerator,  to do your part of ridding the world of trash!!!  "},{"Title":"Exploding Castle Syndrome","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw it in the theater with friends, the row behind us enjoyed our Mystery Science Theater 3000-style running commentary whilst the row in front of us did not.I apologize for giving spoilers but I know of no other way to convey how bad this movie is. The only notable thing about this movie is the first use of Clydesdale horses for riding in a film. Other than that it has plot holes big enough to drive a Mack truck through. The movie can't decide if it's fantasy or sci-fi. We have this castle that descends from outer space, but it can teleport all over the surface of the planet. Then to catch up with the castle our heroes somehow manage to catch these flying horses in box canyon. And when our heroes defeat the bad guys they all have to escape before the castle explodes. "},{"Title":"Krull is dull","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An action-adventure fantasy circling around a pentagram-like weapon which is the only instrument that can battle The Beast, who presides over an army of dark warriors called Slayers, and a dematerializing black fortress which is never stationed in one place twice. After his kingdom is overturned, a prince turned king by the death of his father sets out to find his kidnapped bride with the council of a wiseman named Ynyr, which sets him on a trek to find the spiked boomerang a veritable 'shiroken' and The Black Fortress. Along the way, he gathers a small army of common thieves, a fumbling sorcerer, a decrepit 'seer' with his boy-servant, and a cyclopes. For an action-adventure, this film contains much too much unnecessary dialogue, extensive traveling scenes, and a lot of climbing. Since the battle in the first twenty- minutes or so, the film remains rather slow until the last half hour, wherein 'Prince Colwyn' and shoddy troupe penetrate the fortress and do battle with The Beast, after predictably dispatching a large number of mis-aiming 'slayers'. In the end, 'Princess Lyssa' is rescued from the clutches of the wonderfully demonic monster, and they re-commence with their previously interrupted wedding by exchanging vows as well as a flame derived from water. The typical 'good' vs. 'evil' scenario exists here, most commonly displayed in the conclusion wherein in conjunction with the pentablade, this 'flame of love' overcomes the 'blasts of hatred' emitted from the Beast monster. This film seems to concentrate on more of a children's faerie-tale type of story, rather than a more mature version of the genre, and could very well have been animated. I suppose it may be more appreciated by Lord of The Rings / D&D -type of fans, yet with the exception of the impressive flying weapon and giant Beast creature, as far as fantasy-action-adventure, the film is a rather rudimentary presentation. "},{"Title":"short and gay like eli roth!","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you were any sort of fantasy film lover alive during the 80's it is impossible to imagine that Krull did not grab your attention at the video store. Not only does it have an impressive cast (so many of these people appeared in other films, though I only mentioned Liam with the !), there are swords, lasers, monsters, and even a remote control 10,000rpm throwing star! Coolness! Along the lines of plot, well the film is a textbook example of some evil power stealing the hero's true love and him fighting to gain her back, with some sidetracks to show just how fantastic the setting is. Even though the Beast is a towering reptile monster it desires Lyssa to be his bride, she is a little unnerved by this. (Not the least of which would be consummating the event, yikes!) Slayers take her prisoner and leave Colwyn for dead, but the prince is saved by a wise old man and easily gathers a party of loyal friends to assist him in attacking an impregnable fortress.The special effects range from downright ludicrous, such as the amazing flying Clydesdales scene, to exceptional. The stop motion spider that guards the Widow is a gorgeous piece of work. There is nothing like watching a convincing arachnid scaled to the size of a small house. Most of the acting I can do without, but Ergo was my favorite character. When not bumbling spells and turning himself into a goose, the little guy is extolling his own virtues, which leads to some amusing descriptive phrases. "}{"Title":"Not a Classic, but pretty fun anyway","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember when I first saw this. It was advertised in the paper as being science fiction so I dragged my dad along to see it. I was a kid at the time so I can't remember much, except for the nasty bugs that erupted from the skull of the bad guys and buried itself into the ground. It was a movie that didn't really go down in history as memorable, but I think it is a good movie.Krull is a fantasy movie, pure and simple. It opens with a huge citadel landing on the planet of Krull and enslaving the populace. The two powerful kingdoms form an alliance to fight the Beast and his Slayers, but before they can mobiles, the Beast attacks and destroys the castle and steals Lyssa, the crown prince's bride. Thus the crown prince sets out on a quest to slay the Beast and rescue his bride. A pretty simple plot, but an enjoyable movie nonetheless.I guess this movie is simply your average fantasy. The thing is that there are not many fantasy movies made (though that has changed since Lord of the Rings) I guess there simply is no call for them. I enjoy fantasy movies, if they are done properly. In fact there are a lot of really bad fantasy movies out there, and they don't even make it onto TV (though one may wonder how the other garbage gets on). Krull is a decent one in my opinion, and worth spending the time it takes to watch it. "},{"Title":"nostalgia ...","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember thinking this was such a cool movie when I saw it as a kid, back in the 80's. But hey, in those days I thought Top Gun was the best movie ever made ). Seeing it again now, it's obvious that, even back then, it wasn't really that good. A pretty corny story and poorly acted, it will probably only appeal to young kids, I doubt today's teenagers will still perceive this movie as 'cool'. If they think the second Star Wars trilogy is way better than the first, they won't like Krull very much. Still, it was a nice trip down memory lane and a real joy to see Hagrid and Rob Roy in their younger years. So if you're feeling nostalgic, this would be a good choice to see with the kids, just do it before they get to high school. "},{"Title":"Classic Romp Through Space With A Band Of Fools","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Set in Ancient France, Krull tells of a giant wolf type monster called 'The Beast'. It has been scareorrizing the forests and killing young maidens, so a group of friends set out to save the day and destroy the beast. There is a boy, Harry Skywalker (River Phoenix), a cunning rogue Solo Jones (Judge Reinhold), 2 jolly giants (Brian Dennehy and Robbie 'Prawn Cracker' Coltrane) a wizard, a master swordsman called Westley The Giant (Carey Ewes), a young prankster (Mark from Eastenders), a sexy female princess of some sort (Rosie O Donnell), and a drunken Irishman (Liam McNeeson). Little do they know that The Beast is actually controlled by an evil wrinkly man known as Darth Empire who is trying to bring stability to the galaxy.This rip off of Spaceballs has plenty of excitement moments- the horse and cart race through the forest at high speed with all the little cute bears running around and cutting down trees, the sword fight in the snow where our heroes fly down a mountain on their shields, and of course the scene where the wizard fights a dragon whilst falling down into a fiery pit to his death. 'YOU AIN'T GETTING PAST ME!' he shouts, smacking his staff into the bridge before he falls to his doom. There are plenty of funny moments, mostly provided by Robbie 'John' Coltrane. As this was the late seventies, humorous side kicks were all the rage- C3P0O in Trek Wars, Milf in Thundercats, Skeleor in He-Man, Chump in The Goonies, Jimmy in Spiderman, and of course Skid Mark in Temple Of Doom. Robbie 'What is Strangled Cat' Coleraine gets his fair equality of funny lines and scenes. He slips and falls on dead bodies- 'Me's a sorry, Annie' he says, and when he is dodging the ninja stars that the Beast throws at him he shouts 'You's a tinking we's a people's gonna die!' Priceless and expensive! Tucker Jenkins gets one laugh too when they are skating down the mountain- instead of coming to a halt like everyone else, he skates on into a tent, and through a castle doorway in his striped orange shirt! Hilarity! Meanwhile the rest of the film isn't as funny as the funny bits. Krull and his band of warriors get picked off one by one by each treacherous trap that Takeshi sets for them- a pit of quicksand, a maze with one way in and no way out, boulders falling from cliffs in a narrow canyon, spikes coming out of the walls, and men with roller-skates for hands and feet chasing them until their lungs explode. Eventually only our hero Daywalker makes it, slays the beast, and goes home to Kokiri Village to be with his people. Somehow we (and he!) and he (and we!) know that another adventure may be just around the corner. Of course the sequel came out a few years later which saw Krull left at home by himself for a week while his family went on holiday, and he has to protect his house from a couple of idiotic robbers.Best Scene When Liam McNeeson gets so drunk that an old hag convinces him to drink some of her magic poison. He drinks it then vomits over his own hands which proceed to melt to the bone. "},{"Title":"It's the love of two that comes through.","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A childhood favourite were my memories served me much better than actually watching it again. I guess that'll happen once and awhile. Still there's something enthralling about this very presentable British sci-fi fantasy pitting the forces of good against evil in an epic journey. After such a good opening, it slowly goes about the adventure in a rather tedious and overlong manner. Director Peter Yates' handling is visually striking (astonishing on details) and comprises some well executed battle scenes, but despite the sincere air it never feels all that exciting or exhilarating. It plods from one scene to the next. If it wasn't for the dazzling backdrop (which is silkily photographed) with some splendidly surrealistic atmospheric set designs (the Black Fortress) and the wonderfully adapted (if demanding) special effects it would've sunk into obscurity. The weary narrative is where I think it loses some ground, as while it goes for something grand in scale the strategically limp material doesn't entirely complement it's ambitions. It treads the same ground of most of its ilk, where bravery and self-sacrifice comes to the forefront. The script is toneless, but holds pleasantness to it. Despite finding the humour to be unfunny and character's rather empty. A bunch of spirited performances make it more the merrier. Ken Marshell is proud as punch as the gallant Prince Colwyn. The lovely Lysette Anthony is fine as Princess Lyssa and Freddie Jones is nobly good. Support cast are just as enjoyable with Alun Armstrong, David Battley, Liam Neeson, Bernard Bresslaw, and Francesca Annis. James Horner's lyrically rousing musical score simply soars high and stays there. A moderate, feel-good outing that has the power to charm going for it. "},{"Title":"a decent sword and sorcery /fantasy film","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" while this is not the best film of the sword and sorcery/fantasy genre,i did like it.i found it fast paced,and never boring.yet strangely,i never really found it exciting either.and there were some things about it i found absurd.many people will find the special effects quite quaint by today's standards,and i guess they are,although that didn't really bother me in this movie.i really liked the look of the film.i do think the that the story was a bit weak,and they could have added to it.the movie felt a bit incomplete at the end,in my mind.i did find the ending anti climatic.i found the acting to be understated,but good from all concerned.there have been a lot of similar movies since then(and some before then)some better,some worse.for me,this movie falls closer to the better category.the movie on the whole actually reminded me a lot of the 1938 version of Robin Hood,and i mean that in a good way.when you add it all up,i think Krull is about a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Somewhat Incompetently Made, But A True Joy To Watch","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Unlike, say, Dragonslayer or Willow, this film is more camp than serious, with lower-quality effects than necessary and cheesy performances all around. However, it's fun to watch because of its high action, fantasy concept, and music, among other things.Krull stars Ken Marshall, Lysette Anthony (whose voice is dubbed by another actress, I believe), Liam Neeson, Alun Armstrong, Robbie Coltrane, Freddie Jones, and Francesca Annis (who gives a performance that, while brief, feels more genuine than any other in the film). Directed by Peter Yates (Bullitt; Mother, Jugs, and Speed), the movie also features a fantastically ominous opening, terrific music by James Horner (even though it sounds suspiciously like his work in Star Trek The Wrath of Khan), and a perfect pacing in terms of story achieved by editor Ray Lovejoy (2001 A Space Odyssey; Tim Burton's Batman) and writer Stanford Sherman.This will never be one of my favorites, but it's impossible for me to not have fun watching it. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Minor cult classic. Worth a look.","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My Take An amusing minor classic of its own. The first time I watched Krull, I immediately dismissed the film as passable fare. So I was a little cautious to watch it again. But when I finally played it, I found it a great film surprisingly. The film has been much criticized, mainly because the watched it once. Maybe Krull needs to be viewed more than once.Krull is like a hybrid of Star Wars(1977)and The Lord of the RingsThe Fellowship of the Ring.(2002), but it doesn't rip-off anything from the said films. Krull has a lot of good elements, a fine story, colorful special-effects, and , well a lot more than you'd expect. The characters are the usual fantasy characters. There's a warrior prince, a wizard, a magician and couple of outcasts. But perhaps my favorite character is Rell, the cyclops (Bernard Bresslaw). The entire film is highlighted by a great score by James Horner, catching the actual feel of a traditional, often corny, quest adventure. A minor recommendation for fantasy buffs. Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Good fantasy, mostly good film","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was deep in my fantasy literature period when Krull came out. Cinematic fantasy was a very mixed bag. Outside of Conan and a mixed bag of Ray Harryhausen films, most of it was pretty bad. I saw the trailer for Krull and was greatly intrigued.The film has an interesting take on the quest story the setting is another world, with a monstrous invader, rather than some home-grown horror. The young prince must recruit a ragtag band of magicians, thieves, strange creatures, and seers to save his princess and destroy the Beast. He must also obtain a mystical weapon and storm an impregnable fortress. Pretty good mix for a fantasy film. Unfortunately, the execution was a little shaky.Now, the film is quite enjoyable, mostly, with some great scenes and characters. It has some problems with story structure and casting, as well as pacing in the second act. The music is wonderful and the design is astounding. Some of the make-up is a little dodgy, but the Slayers and some of the Beast are quite effective.The acting is definitely a mixed bag. if it weren't for the supporting characters, this film would be awful. Ken Marshall is rather bland as the hero, Colwyn. He handles the physical stuff well, but the romance comes across stiff, and his line delivery lacks spark. It's hard to tell about Lysette Anthony, since she was dubbed by Lindsey Crouse. Crouse's delivery is very wooden and seriously mars the scenes with Anthony. I have seen Anthony in other work and she was just fine, so the burden seems to be more on Crouse.What really makes the film are the supporting actors. We see early performances by Robbie Coultrane and Liam Neeson, as well as Alun Armstrong. Coultrane doesn't get much screen time, but is memorable. Neeson, and especially Armstrong, are great. Armstrong gets some of the best lines, while Neeson's charisma makes up for his smaller part. David Battley is fantastic as Ergo, the Magnificent. A favorite since Willy Wonka, he is a master of comic timing, and his relationship with Titch is quite charming. The character of Ergo illustrates how badly George Lucas erred with Jar-Jar. Ergo is a cowardly figure and a fool, but he shows great compassion when he fulfills Titch's wish, then finds courage when he defends him from the Slayers. Jar-Jar is never redeemed for his cowardice and, thus, becomes an object of contempt.Freddie Jones has some fine moments, but is a little over-the-top in others. Mostly, he gives a fine, stage-influenced performance.The biggest problems lie in story structure. The quest for the glave is resolved in the first act, thereby removing a goal that would have better propelled the second act. There are some fine moments in the second act, but the pacing is slow and it nearly stops the film. One seer should have been enough for the film.The Beast is also a problem. He is more menacing when he acts through surrogates and his true form is unseen. The monster make-up is better when it is hidden, but far less effective in the final confrontation.The biggest problem is the rather bland romance. Between Marshall's acting and Crouse's line-reading, you never really get a sense that these two are deeply in love. It all sounds like a teenage girl's short story.What does work are the Slayers as a constant threat, the beautiful and other-worldly designs, and the supporting characters. These elements make-up for the wooden leads and story problems. Ultimately, Krull is an entertaining fantasy film, and one of the better ones from the 80's. "},{"Title":"good but...","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull concerns a prince, a princess, a bunch of bad guys and a Beast, who kidnaps the girl to marry her. We are in the planet Krull, which is invaded by said Beast and his army of killer soldiers, the slayers. The plot is a tale the, young hero sets out on an adventure to finding his girl and defeating the beast, with the help of robbers ,wizards and a weapon called The clave he finds in the way. I watched this movie when it was released in 1983, and I was a boy, so I enjoyed it a lot. Last week, I found the DVD at a extremely low price on a store and bought it. Well&#133;, the movie is well done, well acted, unless the girls who plays the girl, she is stiff&#133;, But I think that some sets seemed cheap and the army of slayers were a wooden mob. The Glaive is nicely designed and is visually striking. The creature, the beast, is too terrifying although almost is not seen&#133; The are some messages concerning friendship and loving but they are not fully developed and kept in a childish level. So, it's a nice show with some limitations (pay attention when slayers attack on the castle, you can see the wires they use to lift the stunts) but, after all, a beautiful tale that takes you to another world, to another time&#133;Focuses more on characters than in FX. Give it a shot but don't expect Star Wars watching it&#133; I give it seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Krull, not quite food for whales.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  'Krull' is a saga of swords, heroic oaths,deeds and the quest for a magic weapon on a world 'light years beyond your imagination'; think rural Greece with matte effects and you'll get some idea. Its production values which are more akin to an episode of Buck Roger in the 21st Century than LOTR or Excalibur. Theres nothing here that exceeds the Harryhausen effects of his 'Jason' period and how long ago were they made? If the words 'saga' and 'quest' have caused a stirring in your loins already then read no further, put down your rams horn of mead and get the video now; theres no need to expound on the plot; indeed you would have to be from another planet not to know where the story goes.Leading the troop of actors, and the 'love interest' are Lysette Anthony and Ken Marshall. Marshall plays the anodyne lead man on the quest while Anthony shows us why she never fulfilled her promise as the English 'sexpot of the 1980's; shes baby faced and very unsexy.( knock,knock - Who's there? - Lysette - Lysette who? - Thats showbiz.  Too may scenes were shot on a sound stage and the fights lack the viscerality and sweat of the aforementioned Excalibur or LOTRs. That said,'Krull' does have a 'lets take the p*** out of the Sunday afternoon film' charm about it especially when the troupe of questers get together.For Hobbit watchers look out for a younger and (slightly) slimmer Robbie Coltrane and for English viewers of a certain age the appearance of Todd 'Tucker' Carty may be of some interest. For 'Carry On' fans keep an eye out for Bernard Bresslaw as a cyclops. Nobody would make any great claims for Bresslaws acting but by dint of a prosthetic eye he signally demonstrates how realy important eyes are to any actors portrayal of character. For my part I am always pleased to see one of greatest supporting actors, Alun Armstrong, in action.So, to all you Armchair Vikings out there,Im not saying that I would rather eat my own feet than watch 'Krull' again but I am saying don't expect too much. As if you would. "}{"Title":"Amazing when I was a kid, and still keeps me entertained.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw Krull when I was a small boy.  My mother had recently taped it off the newly formed HBO, and she said I might like it.  I was always into sword fighting and magic in the movies.  When I first saw the film, I was completley blown away.  It had everything I loved in it!  A hideous beast, plenty of fighting, a beautiful princess (Lysette Anthony is quite breathtaking).  What more could a six year old want?Well, a couple of weeks ago, I was going through my old stuff from before I got married, and I found an old tattered copy of Krull.  I couldn't believe it.  I popped it in right then and there, and even though it had deteriated some through the years, I was just as ensconced as when I was a child.  I can't wait to show it to my son, now thay he is now almost six years old himself.  I just need a better copy.  I would definately reccomend it to anyone.  A wonderful film (no matter what my wife says!). "},{"Title":"Ahh, the fond memories","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember when this movie was still appearing on HBO, when I was a teenager.  Being well-versed in classical and orchestral music, I have always been enamored of the powerful musical score this movie presents. In fact, I even took a cassette recorder and recorded the entire movie (had to use both sides of the cassette, of course) just to listen to the music.  I did watch the movie many, many times, and although I remember wondering why they let Mr. Marshall wear those pants, I also remember being enraptured by the scenery, and the special effects that were, in my opinion, advanced enough for believability.  The point of a movie is to suspend belief and enjoy it for what it is, not look for fault.Oh, and the Glaive?  That was just so awesome, it defied description. "},{"Title":"impulse buy of the DVD","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  starting with the cheesey petrified log falls on planet this is a movie that reeks of B movie.  Never mind. This is a guilty pleasure only the king and the lord high marshall carry those keys kind of movie. The plot is discursive at times -- why acquire the glave when it isn't the key weapon? -- but it is an entertaining romp.  And it has the Clydesdale horses. Who could ask for more? "},{"Title":"Solid 80's Fantasy Film","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  All prior fantasy films are going to pale in comparison to Peter Jackson's excellent Lord of the Rings trilogy.  But compared to other genre films of the eighties, Krull (1983) is a solid effort.  While having nowhere near the merit of Excalibur (1981), Krull exceeds lesser efforts of the time such as The Beastmaster (1982), and The Sword and the Sorcerer (1982).  I would place Krull almost on par with the Conan films (1982, 1984).Strengths of the film include an interesting story, strong ensemble cast (including a young Liam Neeson in a small role), a great musical score, scenic locations, and good (for the day) special effects.Weaknesses include a less-than-charismatic male lead, somewhat derivative costume designs (the White Slayers in the Black Fortress sure look a lot like Imperial Stormtroopers, don't they?) and a somewhat disappointing ending.But overall, an above-average film with many memorable moments, includingWARNING - MINOR SPOILERSThe Beast telling Princess Lyssa, Love is fleeting, power is eternal.When the Slayers die, their heads split open and their brains crawl out, accompanied by the most wonderful horrible noise you can imagine!  (If anyone knows where a .WAV file of their death shriek can be found, please post the URL!)END SPOILERSIn conclusion, this is a decent movie and well worth your time.  Just don't expect Lord of the Rings. "},{"Title":"Fun for any sci-fi fan, though not an all time great movie","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie gets a lot of flak, but as long as one doesn't expect an Oscar winner it is a lot of fun...certainly better than a lot of the flashier contemporary science fiction and fantasy bombs.Its rough edges (which mainly stem from the scriptwriting) include some flat or rather silly acting on the part of the leading characters, some significant plot holes in the storyline, and themes that tend towards trite and overdone.  Its a science fiction/fantasy adaptation of a standard fairy tale...prince on a quest to save beautiful princess from a horrible beast. It's an old storyline, but not too much the worse for wear for having been done before.Its special effects are impressive if you remember that it was made in 1983, without the aid of computers, but pale compared to more modern films with computer generated effects.Contrary to the main characters, the supporting cast is well acted, and the movie flirts between epic and comedic quite well.  The story is a kind of hybrid mix between sword and sorcery fantasy and science fiction, which is refreshingly original.  The landscapes are unbelievably beautiful.  But the thing that really sets this movie apart is its score.  It's one of James Horner's first, but probably one of his best, and possibly one of the best movie scores ever written.  Worth listening to even if you dislike the movie.One note on the costumes...watch out for the pants.  Watch the movie and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Krull...hmmm","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull...hmmm...cant decide about this one. Watched it yesterday thinking I'd never seen it before and then about half way through I seemed to be knowing what happned next. No, its not that its painfully predictable. I actually must have seen it before as a child. And you know what? I actually do quite like it. The name for a start...Krull...well its pretty cool! And also what about the weapon thing RAH, also pretty cool. I like the sort of 80's fantasy ala sci-fi feel about it and the many Brits hiding here and there. No I actually do like Krull, its one of those films that doesnt get made anymore (LOTR YAWWWNNNN!!!) and I miss 'em! "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure if ever there was one","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Cheesy special effects, a bland leading man, badly staged action sequences, a monster that does not scare, a clear STAR WARDS knockoff -- and yet. Great music, possibly the best since STAR WARS. Early appearances by some of the world's favorite British and Irish actors, like Liam Neeson. Decent plot. Not as good as WILLOW or BEASTMASTER, but certainly more watchable than LEGEND or LABRYNTH. Like DUNE before it (or was that after?), a truly guilty pleasure worth repeated viewings. A quasi-cult classic. "},{"Title":"Utterly forgettable except for one thing","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Whilst the movie itself comes across as a kind of 'made for saturday afternoon Cable' show, the one redeeming factor in Krull is the absolutely fantastic music.Possibly up there with 1492 as a film totally undeserving of the accompying score, this represents a composer at his best. It was no surprise when I discovered who was behind the music, none other than James Horner... "},{"Title":"Does anyone remember this being released in 3D??","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My husband and I are in a quarrel.  I remember working at a theater when Krull came out and I swear it was in 3D.  Does anyone else remember or know where I can find out?  You'd really help put this behind us!! Thanks "},{"Title":"Worth renting? Debatable, but yes, I rather enjoyed Krull.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This one's worth a look if you're a sci fi/fantasy fan. It has a decent story line with some OK sequences, such as the one with the blind sage in the forest with the green crystal. However, the special effects (which seem to be the standard by which so many SF/fantasy films are judged these days) are so early 1980s that they may turn off today's younger fans, who are accustomed to eye-popping FX.Contains an early appearances by Liam Neeson and Todd Carty, the English actor who plays Mark Fowler on East Enders!  It had some good campy moments (at least I think they were supposed to be campy). Carty still had a full head of hair when he filmed this, and it's long hair at that. He occasionally dons that same sincere look of frowning concern that he uses so often in East Enders. Neeson's performance isn't much, but then they didn't give him much of a role, either.I'm usually willing to give a fantasy film a chance unless it looks like a total stinker. I keep hoping I'll stumble across an undiscovered gem. That's what's led me to Legend (early Tom Cruise), Willow (lead character is a real-life dwarf ), Spacehunter (made in 3-D), Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger (Ray Harryhausen animation), both Conan movies and others long since forgotten. There were a ton of these made in the wake of Star Wars in the early 1980s.Cheerio,PUPPET MASTER "}{"Title":"A little slow","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted I was watching this late knowing I had work...this movie was slower than I had remembered...It was an Ok film that needed to be stretched over four hours and should have been an epic.Seems like they spent five hours watching people riding flamed horses and spent another five wathcing our main man rock climb, bad editing. Shuld have been more action and development of character. It seemed like people just popped up and rolled with the man and pretty much died in the process. Seemed like our hero never gave it his all to protect his peoples. An ok film that I wasted money on at video store. I should have waited for a late night viewing on cable. "},{"Title":"giant space vagina?","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay did anyone else notice that all the passages in the Black Fortress look like vaginas?Anyways here's spooky_trix's awesome reviewThe sets, the costumes, the acting are first rate, except the lead guy, who smiles insanely at every moment, but thats neither here nor there.The magician is probably the most loveable bumbling idiot in a film ever!  He hardly acted in anything else, except Willy Wonka, where he plays charlie's bumbling, crazy teacher.There are some great visual scenes  The blind emerald seer and the changeling, which is one of the most chilling scenes in any film, and the beautiful widow of the web, and creepy spider.  Those two scenes have always stuck out in my mind.I don't understand why so many people compare it to star wars.  Its nothing like that at all.  I hate star wars, but this is so much more enjoyable.Who cares if the plot is cliched, the story line is sexist, and the fx are cheesey?  That is what makes this movie so much fun....that and the damn changeling scene! "},{"Title":"Tried hard but.....","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ******Minor Spoilers********To give Krull credit, it has one thing most sci-fi/fantasy movies don't, which is originality.  Rather than the usual magical sword this time the secret weapon is a spinning Ninja star.  Fine but the mechanics don't work out too well as the hero just tosses it and stands there in a dramatic disco like pose while the gizmo does all the work.  Also, while most sci-fi movies incorporate some elements of medievalism in them, this one is almost schizophrenic.  We get the bad guys shooting these laser bolt weapons, while we have sorcerers and good guys living in real castles. Still, there's lots of uniqueness, such as the slayers being what looks like a symbiotic organism, knock them in the head and the brains run off.  The Clydesdales done up as magic horses that run on sheets of flame were also interesting, as was the reappearing evil fortress.  Ultimately, however, with a hero that has the charisma of a Ken doll,  a giant bad guy who wants to possess a heroine one tenth his size, (where have we seen that before?) and an unsatisfactory mix of science fiction and sorcery, Krull doesn't work.  It's been compared to a weak Star Wars clone, which it's not, but it has the same effect as if Luke Skywalker carried a real sword and Obi-Wan used a spell book to conjure the Force. "},{"Title":"Power is fleeting.....","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A monster and its Slayers attack the planet Krull. In order to stop the invaders, two hostile nations decide to join their forces by the marriage of Princess Lyssa and Prince Colwyn.During the ceremony, the Slayers attack the palace, kill both kings, wound Colwyn and kidnap Lyssa.The next morning, wise Ynyr seeks and finds Colwyn. With Ynyr's help, Colwn gains possession of a magic weapon, a five bladed sword, and together they go on their quest for the monster's fortress to free Lyssa......This is another one of those cult movies, that I have always caught the end of numerous times, but never really understood why it has such a following.So finally nearly thirty years after it's original release, I finally saw the whole movie, and I still really don't understand why it has such a following.When all is aid and done, it's just another movie where a rag tag team of people walk through the woods a lot, and get into peril every now and again.These fantasy films were rife int he early eighties, and while this is nowhere near as bad as some, it's very average. It picks up a little when Neeson and Coltrane arrive, but they cannot vouch for such a lame lead.Marshall has nothing about him, and his line delivery is poor.After ninety minutes of walking through woods (apart from a scene with a spider, which was excellent) I just wanted Colwyn to use his blade and kill the monster who always appeared to be misty.The final battle is impressive, as its just so eighties, it has to be cool, but the rest of the film is pants. "},{"Title":"A Cheesy Fantasy Classic","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull is one of the first films to have ever had a significant impression on me. It was released a year after I was born, and the film's blend of sci-fi and fantasy must have had a very strong early influence on my developing mind, for as I grew I swiftly transformed into a massive geek, eventually becoming the tragic man-child I am today, still obsessing over monsters and heroes and quests and fantastical alternate worlds full of lasers and giant insects and time- travel and Space Marines.Regardless of the childish fancies that still plague my thoughts, I am now in fact an adult and was thus able to recently revisit the film with new eyes and the world-weary wisdom that comes with age. Would the film still enthrall me as it once had, or would it prove to be a ropey, ageing mess of clichés and bad special effects? As it turns out it was both; Krull is an entertaining, if somewhat derivative, slice of epic fantasy adventuring, mired in terrible acting and almost non-existent characterisation but carried forward by its intriguing visual design and its dark, eerie world, a film for which the IMDb rating of 5.9 out of 10 is entirely unjustified and tantamount to blasphemy.The plot of Krull draws from the same prince rescues princess from bad dude template that has been repeated endlessly down the years in everything from Robin Hood to Mario, and is riddled with holes and bizarre logic. It only really exists to drive the heroes on through a vast fantasy world, and it's here where the film shines. This is actually a beautiful looking film, and if you can ignore the occasional dodgy bit of bluescreen you'll find some impressive cinematography of the Italian mountains, with James Horner's rousing score doing wonders to fill those distant peaks and valleys with the promise of adventure. What sets are used feel unusual and are explored by the camera in interesting ways, from the odd angles of the castle to the pestilent swamp with its rows of dead trees disappearing into the thick yellow fog.The scenes set inside the Black Fortress are some of the most visually striking in the film. The film makers seem to have drawn heavily on surrealist influences, with a peculiarly organic, bone-like quality to many of the chambers. Rooms shaped like eyes or the clawing hand of a giant demon hang in a black void, presided over by The Beast itself, a rubbery special-effects atrocity that is thankfully only glimpsed in close-up, out-of-focus shots. Elsewhere the adventurers have to contend with an ebony bridge stretching out over a limitless abyss, and a horrific room that begins to sprout spikes from the walls at their entrance.The film is remarkably grisly in places. Most of the main quest is little more than a gauntlet of dangers that the heroes must overcome, their ranks swiftly whittled down as they close in on their goal. Their journey takes them through rocky passes, an impressively foul-looking swamp, a dark cavern where a giant spider stands guard over a melancholy old crone imprisoned in the centre of a vast web, and into the bowels of a dark fortress on the backs of huge horses with flaming hooves. As they travel on we see men swallowed up by quicksand, throttled by creepy shape-shifting changelings, crushed by stone walls, skewered by spikes, and blasted to atoms by the ever-present Slayers with their nifty laser guns and their disconcerting tendency to emit an awful shrieking sound when injured, their armour cracking open to reveal stringy, bloodied worms that writhe horribly into the ground.In fact the perils of the world draw too much of the film's focus, as most of the characters exist solely to perish in gruesome ways. Many of the men that the prince gathers around him are scarcely even seen until it's time for them to bite the bullet, and we are never given a chance to learn about their lives, or even really see what they look like. As such we can't possibly care about their fates, a sentiment seemingly shared by their comrades who press on relentlessly, with only the occasional troubled grimace spared in recognition of their fallen brethren as they are dispatched to the grave with impressively grisly flair.Of the characters that are actually awarded screen-time, most are similarly under-developed, though some do stand out more than others. The prince's old mentor Ynyr delivers his lines of wisdom in a pleasingly dour and authoritative manner, whereas the Cyclops, cursed with the ability to see the day of his own death, provides some enigmatic, otherworldly flavour to the ragtag bunch of forgettables. Liam Neeson, a long time before he acquired a very particular set of skills, shows his face as a womanising bandit, but ultimately has very little to work with.At one point the magician Ergo, bidding farewell to a barely known comrade, sadly states We had no time. This is certainly not an excuse the film makers can make, since at over two hours long the film could have had ample time to explore its more interesting characters. Instead they delivered a simple, shallow piece of fantasy that nevertheless has enough uniqueness and ghoulish charm to draw in anyone who can look past its slightly dated veneer. Like Flash Gordon, it's campy fantasy played straight, and is recommended viewing to any fan of the genre.Ordinarily I'd award Krull a 7 out of 10. However I'm so disappointed by its current average rating that I've given it a 10 to try and swing things in its favour. "},{"Title":"Great Fantasy!","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ken Marshall, Lysette Anthony and Freddie Jones star in this 1983 fantasy. A prince journeys to rescue his beloved from an alien beast. Colwyn (Marshall) is a prince who intends to marry his beloved, Lyssa (Anthony) until their wedding is interrupted and she's kidnapped by alien invaders. Colwyn embarks on a quest to rescue her with help from sorcerer, Ynyr (Jones). She's held prisoner at a black fortress by an alien beast. Colwyn meets other sorcerers, thieves and creatures along the way while trying to reach the fortress. I've always liked this film and remember it used to be on TV a lot long ago. The cast, effects and music are good and I recommend this great fantasy. "},{"Title":"Engaging and unjustly maligned, while not always enthralling and a touch too simplistic, it is good fun","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull is a long way from being the worst fantasy film ever made, Dungeons & Dragons gets that dishonour but it is not the best either. Instead it is a fun and engaging film, with a lot of the basic elements to make it memorable. The story is a touch too simplistic and the special effects aren't as spectacular as those you would find in say The NeverEnding Story. Plus there are one or two moments of cheesy dialogue. But this is all compensated by some wonderful looking sets and costumes, a truly terrifying villain, a brilliant scene with The Widow of the Web, chillingly played by Francessca Annis and spirited turns from Ken Marshall, Liam Neeson, Robbie Coltrane and especially Bernard Beeslaw and Freddie Jones. Plus the music score is excellent. Overall, this isn't perfect, but it really isn't that bad. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Forgettable","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I actually remember very little of this movie, other than a giant white spider, a young Leim Neeson, and some very bad James Horner music that borrowed far to much from John William's score for E.T. There are these good guys on a planet called Krull, who only have swords to defend themselves. The bad guys have lasers and spaceships, but they still ride around on horses. An arranged marriage between waring factions is the only way to stop the evil invaders, but before the bride can say I do, she's kidnapped by the bad guys and taken to their evil fortress. The groom enlists the help of a Dirty Dozen-like band of criminals, and so begins the quest to save the pretty bride from the evil invaders. Bad effects, bad sets, really bad acting and REALLY bad writing don't help this turkey one bit. It's not an Ed Wood dog that's so bad it's funny, it's just bad. The strangest thing about Krull is that it was directed by Peter Yates. Yes, THAT Peter Yates, the guy who directed Steve McQueen in Bullitt and Dennis Cristopher in Breaking Away. In fact, a year after this turkey came out, he was nominated for an Oscar for The Dresser. Wow. "},{"Title":"A magical journey into stupidity","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Here is a masterpiece in which Robbie Coltrane and Liam Neeson join forces to battle against Evil. Unfortunately, due to their completely secondary roles, they are killed by Evil. And the movie doesn't end there, the power of love (in form of great fire drawn from marriage) defeats Evil.Add to this Dark Fortresses coming from outer space on a planet that is already not Earth, Cyclops, energy weapons that fire once, then are used as swords (and since only the bad guys use them, they usually are not very accurate at the first shot), quicksand, magical kingdoms, fire horses that can travel 1000 leagues in a day and other such stupid things. The entire motivation of characters is to die in the most illogical way, while the entire idea of the movie is based on the prophecy (that we never get to see where it came from) that says the child of the main characters will rule the Galaxy. Since the parents are backward feudal savages stuck in a barbaric world, I kind of doubt it.And by the way, Krull is not Evil, not the hero, it's the name of the planet!! I gave this a 5 only because of the enthusiasm of the actors. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was so bad and so boring that, when it was shown on TV a few years later, I didn't even remember watching it even though I had seen it in the theater. My mother had a similar experience when she saw it on TV. It is a waste of time and a waste of film. One of the worst movies ever made!!! Yawn, yawn, yawn!The acting was poor, the special effects were passable at best. It was dark, and hard to see in spots. I don't remember if it was gory or not, in fact, I would write more about it, but I don't remember it very well at all.Avoid, Avoid, Avoid! "}{"Title":"Utterly forgettable except for one thing","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Whilst the movie itself comes across as a kind of 'made for saturday afternoon Cable' show, the one redeeming factor in Krull is the absolutely fantastic music.Possibly up there with 1492 as a film totally undeserving of the accompying score, this represents a composer at his best. It was no surprise when I discovered who was behind the music, none other than James Horner... "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  We had to see this movie for school. And it was time well wasted. This movie is, without a doubt, the worst I have EVER seen. We were actually laughing at the credits, when the names of the Special Effects people were displayed. A moment when this is understandable At the very start, when Lyssa gets the fire from the water (?). It was so obviously VERY fake. Colwyn's torch was alight aswell, even though it had been extinguished in the water, and the fires were different colours!!A second example is when Ynyr is in that spider cave with that giant spider. The opinions within the class varied from a balloon model to a spider three millimeters long magnified.It wasn't only the special effects (or lack of). The sets were shoddy, and looked like poly-styrene. We all agreed that the maximum limit spent on the set was probably $100.The only thing I wasn't sure about was which was worse the actors or the characters. Lyssa was the typical damsel in distress running around a fortress she has spent a few days in with perfect hair, make-up, and clean clothes. Colwyn must've been dropped on his head as a child he couldn't help grinning, even after his army had been wiped out like flies. Of course, I'm not sure if that's the way the character is supposed to be, or the actor's interpretation. Either way, it was a black mark against the name of every actor in that film (with the possible exception of Liam Neeson. He redeemed himself in Star Wars.)The last point I come to is the plot. There was not a single scene in that movie that I haven't seen before. The story made no sense, and a lot of the little side adventures were a waste of time.In conclusion, it is my opinion that this movie is suitable only as a substitution of the electric chair. "},{"Title":"Undemanding sci-fi/fantasy fun for all ages.","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After his wedding is rudely interrupted by alien invaders, who kill his father and make off with his bride-to-be Princess Lyssa (Lysette Anthony), Prince Colwyn (Ken Marshall) sets off to save his woman and slay the space beast who holds her captive. On the way, he befriends old seer Ynyr (Freddie Jones), a gang of escaped criminals, shape-shifting magician Ergo (David Battley), and a cyclops named Rell (Bernard Bresslaw), all of whom agree to help him on his dangerous quest.Lift the thin fantasy veneer on Peter Yates' Krull and what you'll find underneath is yet another Star Wars clone, one of many imitators to emerge in the wake of George Lucas's space-opera phenomenon. Most of the basic elements are there&#x97;the nasty intergalactic overlord and his faceless minions, the seemingly impenetrable enemy fortress, the beautiful princess in constant peril, the handsome hero armed with a mythical weapon, and the wise old man who teaches him how to vanquish evil&#x97;but as is the case with so many Star Wars wannabes, it is lacking the refined exposition of Lucas's carefully constructed mythology.Fortunately, spirited performances from a great cast (which includes a young Liam Neeson, a relatively slim Robbie Coltrane, Todd 'Tucker Jenkins' Carty, and the gorgeous Lysette Anthony), sumptuous scenery, excellent production design, inventive special effects (including one of the most creepy giant spiders in fantasy cinema), and an overall sense of fun mean that it's fairly easy to overlook the clichéd fantasy gobbledegook that passes for a plot and just get on with enjoying the spectacle.And what a great looking film this is too, with the wonderful cinematography not only presenting the sweeping vistas of the stunning locations at their most magnificent, but also making the most of the huge Pinewood sound-stage sets a fog bound, swampy forest is particularly atmospheric, whilst the surreal, labyrinthine passageways of the (H.R.Geiger-inspired?) Black Fortress are both striking and effectively claustrophobic.In fact, so impressive is the imagery that, for the most part, Yates seems content to let his visuals carry the film his direction rarely rises above workmanlike, with the action set-pieces in particular being surprisingly lacklustre (check out the risible rock-fall sequence&#x97;it's hilarious!). Fortunately, James Horner's rousing score keeps the adrenaline pumping even when the unimpressive stunts and poorly staged fight scenes threaten to halt proceedings dead in their tracks.Even though Krull is derivative, muddled and predictable stuff, and lacks genuine excitement when it needs it the most (tense 'huge arachnid' moment aside), there's still more than enough imagination and visual splendour to make it worth your while, especially if, like me, you're a sucker for 80s sword and sorcery.6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"An Unfortunate Invasion by the Slayers","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Given its date of release and that it contains two British actors soon to become stars Liam Neeson; and Robbie Coltrane; the film itself is disappointing. Like most fantasy movies, it borrows from the time-held vault-of-yesterday which is classical Greek theatre.It has elements of Star Wars, Dune, Robin Hood and, as a predecessor, elements of Riddick.Freddy Jones puts in one of his fruity roles (a la Dune). Others (except for Neeson) are pedestrian - for instance - Coltrane with a London accent! The lead, played by Ken Marshall, is so ineffective, I'm surprised he wasn't killed-off in the first fifteen minutes or so.However, it's entertaining pap. I gave it six points for the relatively unknown actors who supply depth. Oh, and also for the Widow-of-the-Web and the music. Still, they could have toned-down the music in places. The amazing scenery really didn't need a constant barrage of Sibelius'- type tone poems. Aaaah, what happened to silence on screen except for the jingling of horses' accoutrements and the farting of same. "},{"Title":"Complete total & utter nonsense but sort of fun to watch on a rainy Saturday afternoon.","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull opens to a star-field & a spinning thing, erm spinning around. As is whizzes past the title 'Krull' appears, then a large looking spaceship starts to appear in shot heading towards the planet of Krull (this shot is a rip-off of the opening sequence from Star Wars (1977) with the big spaceship that flies overhead for ages). This enormous spacecraft also doubles up as a castle named the 'Black Fortress'. Inside are a bunch of evil beings called Stalkers & their leader known only as 'the Beast'. These evil aliens travel from planet to planet taking them over by force &, well actually I don't know as it's never explained. I mean isn't one planet enough for them?! Anyway the inhabitants (who look amazingly like humans & they all speak English!) of the planet Krull (which looks amazingly like Earth!) understandably aren't happy about this. So the two waring kings, Turold (Tony Church) & Eirig (Bernard Archard) decide to unite their Kingdoms together to form an alliance so they can fight the Stalkers & their master. To do this Turold's son Colwyn (Ken Marshall) & Eirig's daughter Lyssa (Lysette Anthony) must marry each other, however Stalkers gatecrash the wedding party kill everyone & kidnap Lyssa. Actually when I said they killed everyone I was exaggerating a little bit as would you believe it Colwyn is only wounded & survives, even though he is shot with the same blue laser that kills everyone else. When he comes round an old man named Ynyr (Freddie Jones) tells him he must rescue Lyssa from the Beast's 'Black Fortress' which has the annoying habit of changing location every sunrise so no-one knows where it is. First of all they go in search of that spinning thing from the opening credits which they find without too much trouble. Then on their travels they meet the obligatory comedy relief character in the shape of a goofy magician, Ergo (David Battley). Then they meet a group of escaped prisoners lead by Torquil (Alun Armstrong) who also joins them in their quest to defeat the Stalkers. Since they need to find the location of the 'Black Fortress' they head for an old blind wizard named 'the Seer' (John Welsh) who wears a hideous green robe & has a little kid named Titch (Graham McGrath) as an assistant who also dresses in a horrible shade of green which has the unfortunate effect of making him look like some sort of Irish Leprechaun! Oh, & they also pick up a tall cyclops named Rell (Bernard Bresslaw) as by this time things start looking like a regular pick-up for strays. As you might expect things don't go according to plan but they manage to locate the 'Black Fortress' eventually, minus a few casualties. Will Colwyn be able to rescue his bride to be? Will he be able to save Krull from the clutches of the Stalkers? Will anything exciting happen? It's debatable... Directed by Peter Yates I thought this was average at best. The script by Stanford Sherman is nothing more than an overblown pantomime & with Yates pedestrian direction makes for a silly an ultimately unsatisfying viewing experience which at times takes itself far too seriously. The cheap, tacky & bizarre sets are silly & sometimes it looks as if the poor actors are stuck in some surreal Salvidor Dali painting! The landscapes look very familiar & aren't alien in the slightest. The special effects are consistently some of the worst I've sat through in ages, the Ergo transformation scenes are embarrassing to watch, the optical laser effects are terrible & why the red electricity when two swords clash? I don't even want to mention the flying horses that have fire coming off their hooves because they travel so fast! The giant spider looks stiff & jerky too having not been animated properly. The spinning disc effects will leave you very unconvinced as will you be by the effects for 'the Beast' at the end which looks almost exactly like the Ray Harryhausen created monster Kraken from Clash of the Titans (1981). Having said that some of the model shots are just about passable, just. Krull's action & fantasy sequences are also incredibly dull, the fights lack any momentum or excitement & are full of silly blue laser beams that look awful, the bad guys carry no threat whatsoever & the whole thing is just flat. Talking of the bad guys 'the Beast' is very underused & we never really learn his motives for being, well so evil I guess. The Stalkers look quite creepy & cool & are probably the best part of Krull, unfortunately Yates & his crew messes this up too as they get about fives minutes of screen time throughout. The acting is quite dodgy as well with Marshall making for an especially bland & forgettable hero. It's not all bad news however, Krull moves along like a rocket & even at almost two hours in length something is always happening whether it's an awful special effect or some angst ridden moment for one of the characters & perhaps most importantly Krull entertained me so for that at least it can't all be bad. Instead of constantly having one poor special effect sequence after another Krull should have paced them out a little better throughout the running time and concentrated on making them more convincing & exciting, sometimes less is more & the saying quality not quantity also applies to Krull & it's overly ambitious effect sequences. Overall I thought Krull is quite good fun to watch if your in the right frame of mind & enjoy these types of films but is no classic by any stretch of the imagination & probably won't impress too many people these days. Worth watching if you can catch it on T.V. for free & don't have anything else to do. "},{"Title":"One of the weirdest movies I've ever seen.","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yikes. I don't even know where to begin. First of all, it's like Star-Wars and Excalibur vs. Dune. Bad combination. Ergo the magnificent's little speil is hilarious (Short in stature, tall in power, narrow in focus, and wide in vision) because of the little hand motions that go with it. The kiss in the beginning between the two romantic leads cracked me up. She says something about warriors not making good husbands and asks what he thinks. He doesn't answer, but leans in slowly to kiss her creating the illusion that he's a kind and gentle man, then suddenly lunges in for the kill. RAWR! Already he's using sex to solve his arguments!Then there's his magical boomerang Golden Starfish of Justice weapon.I have seen lots of weird movies in my life. This makes the top ten.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not very good.","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Years ago when I saw this movie in the theatre I felt as if I had been sold a bill of goods.  Krull's got problems.  It's a marvelously shot film. The cinematography is top notch, and the acting is also very good.  Another real plus for this film is the art direction and costuming  Again both are first class.  But despite all these positive factors the film has some shortcomings.  The problem with this film is that there're some holes in the story, and one major dissapointment with a key plot device.  If you can overcome those, that is ignore them as they appear in the film, then you should be able to enjoy Krull.  Myself, I did not enjoy Krull, so be forewarned.*** SPOILER ALERT ON ***The story problems are few, but significant.  A minor one are the bad-guys' weapons; a kind of sharpened LASER gun that doubles as a hand to hand weapon.  Which leads one to ask that if the bad buys are sophisticated with their weapons, then how is it these medieval people are giving them such a hard time?  Why are they even bothering to let them get close for hand to hand combat?  How did the bad guys get so powerful if they're so incompetent?  But like I say, that's a minor one.The real problem with the story is that it's pretty far fetched even for a fantasy story.  Most European Based Medieval Fantasy tales deal with terrestrial threats; creatures from Earth or otherwise manifested from Earth society and mythos.  In Krull we have some guy (presumably a male baddie) from outer space, that is to say he has the ability of space travel within his dark fortress, who bothers himself with a primitive world, falls in love with a female who is not of his species, and despite his power cannot manage to fully conquer a world that's stuck in the middle ages.  Is it just me, or does this just not make sense?The other problem is with the infamous Glaive.  The glaive is this spinning multi-pronged frisbee blade found, toated and used by our hero. One could call it an oversized shiruken, or Ninja Throwing star.  The concept of the weapon is not the problem, nor how its used.  The problem comes with the fact that it's used only a handful of times.  And that's a problem, because in the billing for the buildup for the film's initial theatrical release this thing was touted as being the thing/weapon to see. Then the film rolls, and it's only used a couple of times .... and is then lost near the end of the film.  I've always hated the producers for that. Not only is it not important, not only is it only used three or four times, but then it's lost forever stuck in the gut of the antagonist.  After all the switching and baiting by the film's producers and director I say good riddance.  Too bad their careers didn't follow the glaive.The other story problem comes in with a slightly less important plot device; the Flame Mares.  It probably read well in the script Horses that go so fast flames come shooting out their hooves... or something like that. But seeing it on the screen you can't help but laugh.  Yeah, sure, it's escapist fun, but as far as escapist fun goes, for myself, the Flame Mares were about as funny as watching Joel and the robots from MST3K send up a B-movie special.  Ironically seeing the flame mares from a distance looked a whole lot more convincing than seeing the actors pretend to ride them .... another belly laugh.Two other minor problems; the cyclops character did not look convincing, but that comment's aimed at whoever did the prosthetic makeup, and not the actor underneath the mask.The final problem was the incredibly low population inhabiting this world. When the two rival kinds meet one another in the begining of the film we're led to understand that the bad guy's troops have been having a field day with these kings' armies.  Fine.  OK, so there're few troops left.  But (and this is where it gets interesting) where're all the people they're supposed to be ruling?  Where're the subjects?  One scene, in about the middle of the film, shows a collection of women attending our heros.  But it's like they appeared out of nowhere.  And contrary to the commentary on the DVD that scene doesn't make a whole lot of sense.  It's supposed to be a setup for an assasination on the lead character, but it's like these women appeared out of no where.*** SPOILER ALERT OFF ***The special effects are so-so.  The fortress/spaceship looks convincing enough (again largely because of the good cinematography).  The LASER weapons look and sound like 80's movie versions.  And the pyrotechnics are impressive.  Some of the transformation scenes for Morgo are very lacking, but get the point across.This movie needed a clearer story concept, a reworked script, and a few more dollars for a some much needed scenes and extras.  As it stands now it's pretty laughable.  If you're a fantasy fan you might warm up to this thing, but don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Not a bad effort, but check this out ...","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't add much to other comments here. I think Krull, like the original Dune, is a movie with ambition and falls short but still makes a solid effort.The think that freaked me out is this (and probably no one else cares). One of my favorite movie soundtracks is the orchaestral soundtrack from Star Trek II Wrath of Khan. I have owned it for years and played it many times. The themes and arrangements build on each other and it is a fine piece of music.So I start watching Krull on late night HBO, and after about 10 minutes realize the music sounds familiar. I listen some more and I find myself FILLING IN musical passages before we get there! It sounds like Wrath of Khan!So I go to IMDB to see who did the music for Krull, and it is THE SAME PERSON as Wrath of Khan. Has anyone noticed this similarity? I think Khan was 1982 and Krull was 1983. Perhaps there was some attempt to save some time by borrowing themes? I was just stunned, because I never would have guessed the composers were the same.Anyway, I rated Krull a 5. "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly bad - waste of a good cast","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The soundtrack confused me when I first started to watch this. It was so cheesy I thought it was a bad dubbing job. S/F are terrible, even given the fact the movie was made in the early 80s, plot is anorexic, dialogue is even worse. I can only figure that the fellow who played the fumbling magician devotely hopes that he can take this off his resume. Liam Neeson and Rob Coltrane likewise. Someone actually invested money to film this?  "},{"Title":"a paint by numbers clichéd and lifeless affair","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Princess Lyssa is fated to marry Prince Colwyn in order to unite two warring nations so they might have a chance of stopping an impending invasion of the Slayers. During the wedding ceremony the princess is kidnapped, both kings are killed, and a wounded Colyn is reduced to crying amidst the castle chamber. But soon enough he, along with a ragtag bunch of adventurers, go on a journey to save the princess & slay the monsters.You've all seen this movie before. Perhaps not this specific film, but it's so full of clichés that a wave of deja-vu will likely overwhelm you. Not only that but you've heard this movie before (the score is a virtual carbon copy of the composer's earlier work on Star Trek 2 and that, my friends, is just lazy). The film fails to be exciting in the least or thrilling at all due to the paint by numbers approach that's employed here. The only cool part that can be found is the 5-pronged circular weapon called a Glaive. The special edition DVD of this film is way too lavish for a movie this bland.My Grade D DVD Extras Commentary by Director Peter Yates, Editor Ray Lovejoy, Actor Ken Marshall and Actress Lysette Anthony; Cinefantastique magazine article text Commentary; Vintage Journey to Krull featurette; Marvel Comics Video Adaptation; 4 Photo Galleries; Filmographies; Theatrical trailer; and Trailers for Jason and the Argonauts & Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger "}{"Title":"Watchable but takes itself too seriously, effects are dated, cast are wooden and it lacks a real sense of fun and wonder","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The indescribable monster continues its conquering sweep across the galaxy, with all those before him killed by its army called the Slayers. It remains within the Black Fortress &#150; a constantly moving palace of evil. When it comes to the planet Krull, the inhabitants of the planet's two kingdoms decide to marry their children together to bring together an union capable of defeating the Slayers. Of course, the fact that Krull are men on horses with swords and the Slayers are evil aliens with laser weapons means that the battle is a short and bloody one and few men survive the attack on the castle on the wedding day. Nursed back to health by Ynyr, Prince Colwyn awakes to find his family dead and his new bride kidnapped. Ynyr is wise however, and together they locate the legendary five-blade sword and set out on the perilous mission to find the Black Fortress.It took me a few minutes with this film to get past the fact that this is not the sci-fi that was suggested by the opening credits featuring a massive starship crossing the void of space. Instead this is a medieval swords and sorcery film that happens to have a hint of sci-fi to it. This is not a problem in itself but it is a problem because it is delivered in a rather plodding manner that doesn't have a great deal of fun or energy to it. That said, it does enough to be a solid enough adventure film that will suit older children who will enjoy the odd scare that it throws up. The narrative will probably bore them though, as it doesn't really do more than the staple fare of this sort of mysticism and magic stuff; I would have liked it to lighten it up a little bit &#150; the scary bits could have still worked, the action would have been a bit more fun and the dull bits would have been that little more slicker. The effects and sets are pretty average but then this was 1983 and for that period it worked well enough I suppose &#150; but children raised on CGI might not be all that impressed.The cast is rather wooden and must also accept part of the blame for not delivering a more energetic film, although I must admit I found myself rather startled to find a handful of faces in there. Coltrane, Neeson and Carry On tall man Bernard Bresslaw all show up in small roles. Marshall has a touch of charisma about him but he hides it far too well and is left with clunky dialogue and a clunky character to deliver; although next to the wooden and simmering Anthony he looks like the most emotive man on earth. Battley is good for some humour but the rest of the cast play it straight and perhaps take it all a bit too seriously for the film's own good.Overall the sci-fi mix doesn't sit that well and at times I really found it hard to get my head around a fairly medieval society of swords and leather armour even posing a vague distraction to an army of armoured aliens with powerful laser weapons, but then I guess it's all part of accepting the fantasy. Even outside of this problem, the effects are dated, the story a bit plodding, the cast a bit wooden and the whole thing lacks the real fun entertainment value that this sort of film often really needs when it is not as worthy as it thinks it is. "},{"Title":"Grade-C fantasy.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull is an EXTREMELY plodding, incredibly boring fantasy-adventure. It gives new meaning to the term interminable; it seems to go on FOREVER. The special effects are generally acceptable, sometimes even good, but the film lacks two essential qualities that any fantasy needs spirit and excitement. Recommended only for kids, although the more mature ones will probably be bored. "},{"Title":"The man has raisins in his braincase.","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Star Wars. Star Trek. Lord of the Rings. These are all films/genres that helped create this clichéd yet imaginative film called Krull. A child of the early 80s, Krull is a film that bases so much of its emphasis on special effects and world-creation that the story and characters fall clearly on the wayside. The acting and the story itself could not stand alone for this film, so the director countered it with a plethora of animation, green-screen, and well-designed sets. This is the greatest part of Krull. Do not go into this film expecting a powerful hero, well-liked sub-characters, or even a comedic tone (though director Peter Yates tries over and over again to use David Battley for this purpose), but instead revel in the power of the 1980s special effects. In a pre-Industrial Light and Magic, pre-Lucas, pre-Jackson era, Krull stands alone as a visual masterpiece. I loved the world that Yates created. I could literally see the vast stories that could have been told about each character. I could see the different creatures and magic of the land. I could see the horror of this alien evil, but alas, I could not see the characters.Acting classes were needed for everyone in this film. Even the illustrious Liam Neeson could be seen at times slipping in and out of character (though to find the true character would be a harder task). Ken Marshall does a horrid job as the new King of Krull attempting to show emotion as he saves the supposed love of his life. In nearly every scene Marshall counters the enemy with smirks and emotionless drive. You could tell from the beginning that Marshall was not Yates' first choice to lead his picture, but instead the option they had to fall back on. With a horrible actor leading this band of cheap delinquents, it is obvious that nobody else took this film seriously. Torquil tried to be rugged, but instead just felt useless. Ergo tried to play the comic card, but instead felt like a dated magician at a child's party. The rest fell flat on their faces as well. The use of voice dubbing for both Robbie Coltrane's role as well as Lysette Anthony was embarrassing. When you would watch the special features on the DVD, you just wanted to yell to the actors saying that their voices wouldn't make the final cut. Their voices on the final film just didn't match the bodies that produced them. It was completely off kilter, and a formidable mistake by Yates.The lack of acting ability comes from not knowing the character that you are playing. If you develop your character strongly, then you become that character, and the acting comes naturally. In Krull, there was no character development, which added more to the acting hindrance. We needed to see more of the devastation by the Slayers and perhaps a bit of backstory on the leader of the Slayers. This would have lead to a very climactic ending, instead of the clichéd and rushed ending that we were handed. I wanted to know more about the characters, more about their histories and stories, but we didn't get them. I could have used a campfire scene where each talked about their lives on Krull. It would have given so much more depth to not only the characters, but also the story and the planet. While it was obvious that the special effects budget was high, some of that money could have been used to strengthen the characters, build their lives, and deliver them to audiences. Instead, I felt we received cheapened, nearly stolen, versions of Lord of the Rings and Star Wars packed into two hours.The plus side to this film has to be the special effects. While it is obvious that the characters were not given any depth or unique values, the world of Krull did. The journeys that our team makes to several unique places on Krull made this film exciting. I didn't realize that Krull's mythology was going to develop so well. The scenes with the Seer, the Widow of the Web, and the location of the five-bladed boomerang kept me glued to the screen. I wanted to see where special effects department would take me next. While some seemed cheap, it was well imagined. Detail seemed to be a big point with the special effects. While it was overlooked with the characters, it doubled in size for the effects. The spider was obviously fake, but it was a fun fake meaning it kept you glued to the screen to see what would happen next. The special effects on this film reminded me of Ray Harryhausen's work, or at least a decent dedication to him. For the special effects alone, this film was worth watching once. If it wasn't for these saving effects, I do believe Krull would have long been forgotten by now.Overall, I thought this was a mediocre science fiction film. If it hadn't been released in my youth, I do not believe I would have enjoyed it. The characters were annoying, the story was nothing spectacular (alas, you can see this lone king bands together with hooligans to save his queen story everywhere), but the special effects were outstanding. Again, this film was no Star Wars, but it did provide for two hours of eye candy fun. Both the amateur sci-fi watchers to the most experienced fanatics could enjoy Krull. I do not suggest continual viewings of this film, but to enjoy the special effects and the rich world of Krull, I say watch it once &#133; it will do you no harm! Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"What this movie lacks in certain areas, it largely makes up for in others. It's worth watching","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The haters who say this movie is the worst pile of garbage ever are full of garbage, the fanboys who say this movie is the greatest fantasy movie of all time are also full of garbage. It's also definitely not in the so bad that it's good category. The fact is, Krull is a unique case and it's a cult film for a reason. One of the most expensive productions of 1983, there is no denying this fantasy/sci-fi hybrid is one of the most original and unique of the two genres it blends together so well. I've also heard rumors it shared many members of the special effects teams that worked on Star Wars. Anyway, in a nutshell, here are a few things that may change your mind about giving this film a chance. The Good Amazing (and I mean AMAZING) art direction, imagery and London Symphony Orchestra soundtrackThat ALONE is reason to watch this film. It looks and sounds phenomenal. Some of the images in this movie continue to be so unique and extraordinary even in 2012. Enough to make any Jodorowsky or Kenneth Anger fan very happy. The Bad Joke plot, terrible pacing, and joke JOKE (occasionally laughable) acting. The worst coming from the main actor in the film. Well let's face it, a fantasy/sci fi hybrid from the 80's with a plot? Not likely, but it's the pacing and the acting that really destroyed this film almost to a greater degree than the total lack of a plot. I've seen reviews from fanboys that describe this movie as having consistent, excellent pacing...... bullllls**it. The truth is, a lot of people LOVE this film, but mostly ones with unbreakable nostalgic ties to it who remain forever in denial of it's MANY fatal flaws. I still say watch it, it will impress you if this type of stuff is your bag, it definitely won't leave you massively disappointed but perhaps sad in a way that it could have been the greatest 80's movie ever if they had just put a tiny bit more effort into it. "},{"Title":"I didn't want to be disappointed but I was","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love fantasy movies, and Krull came out at a time when the fantasy movie renaissance led by Star Wars was in its infancy. I was keen. And, while I enjoyed the movie (and still do), I am forced to recognise that, in many respects, it isn't very wonderful.In the role of captured Princess needing to be rescued is Lysette Anthony. Now, while I like Lysette Anthony, her main cinematic claim to fame is the string of nudie psychological thrillers she went on to make after Krull.In the role of handsome Prince Ken (or whatever) is - now, what's his name? Blowed if I can remember, and I looked it up less than 10 minutes ago.Bernard Bresslaw is a cyclops. Blimey, what a carry on.David Battley doesn't translate his small screen comedic success to the big screen.The special effects aren't. In fact, they are the most disappointing element of all - fantasy movies need good special effects and lots of 'em, and that's not what you get here.On the plus side, the supporting cast features some great British stalwarts, including Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane in jobbing actor roles when they were considerably lower profile than they are now. "},{"Title":"this is one where they should remake","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Out of all the remakes that are coming that SHOULD NOT be remade (Footloose, Fame, etc) this is one where they should remake. The film is descent already and with the newer technology and more of these types of films being made this would be a great film to remake and do it well to honor and exceed the fan base expectations.Why does Hollywood remake films that shouldn't be remade? didn't they learn their lesson with Psycho! you don't remake beloved by all classics!! Krull does have it's fan base and some do consider it a classic, however it's not a classic as in the same sense as Psycho, etc. I was watching it recently on Encore and while yes it's a good movie, it looks so dated and cheap compared to how Krull could be today. It would be an excellent choice to be along with the NeverEnding story and done faithfully to the books/stories etc. Neill Blomkamp would be an great choice for a director, or of course Peter Jackson and the later half of Harry potter directors would be other great choices. "},{"Title":"Pacing","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't see Krull when it came out, but I like fantasy/sci-fi, so I was intrigued by it. I finally got around to watching it in the early 90's.I thought the film had a lot of potential, but I was so bored by the long scenes that it ruined all interest I had in the film. It felt like one hour of content crammed into two hours of celluloid, for no other purpose than to call the film epic.Other than the slow pacing and a less-than-riveting climax, I have few negative comments about the film. That is why I decided to give it a 6 out of 10.I hope some clever amateur editor re-cuts the film down to one hour. That could turn Krull into the fantastic film it was meant to be. "},{"Title":"and Unusual.","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A young warrior born into a strong bloodline fights for his home, his girl, and his fallen father with a mystical weapon against a seemingly unbeatable foe. The story is of an old type, Beaowulf and The Epic of Gilgamesh, but it's pure Star Wars with little changes. It's hard to see anything but Star Wars in it. There are two very interesting aspects of this movie several scenes look almost like paintings with striking color contrasts and a few future stars (Liam Neeson and Robbie Coltrane) show glimpses of the talent they possess. The special effects are a draw back, even though the movie has some good production values, the cheap looking effects counteract them. It's a pleasant enough distraction, and used to be played to death in the summers, but it's no classic. "},{"Title":"What a missed opportunity!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I like fantasy.  I liked Willow and I liked the Princess Bride...But EVERYTIME I began to follow the storyline, the producers let something stupid show just how much they REALLY care for their craft.The whole thing is full of incongruities that ruin the movie for anyone with a literal mind..  If the producers had just hired ONE intern, with a broad physics/liberal arts view, to check continuity!To Start;  Okay, two kingdoms to be merged by marriage.. these are peaceable but then these alien types ambush the Bride and her party.. either they would turn and run or attack the intruders.. instead the guards just stand there.The aliens ride away, carrying the kidnapped bride, after killing scores of courtiers and guards, through the palace courtyard... making sure to ignite a small haycart on their way out.  Boy, THAT sends a message of doom!Now when the hero is climbing the mount to retrieve the jewel encrusted throwing star (what a concept) he encounters a hail of rolling boulders (more below).. it's evident there is protective outcrops both to the right and left but he dodges them, what hero would use his head instead of his bravado, right?Now the mountain he climbs ruins this plot segment for ANYONE that stayed awake through even ONE class on geology... because when he gets to the top of this limestone mountain, he finds the throwing star in a lava pool.  folks, fantasy magic extends only so far.There's NOTHING wrong with the actors or even the music or the plot.  The cinematography is sometimes gorgeous (considering). A lot of the quest scenes drag and should have been left on the cutting room floor..BUT WHY is there such lousy depiction... The firehorses dont look all that fast.. how hard could THAT be to make them look magical?.. Why did they pick belgian draft horses?Okay for young kids... for adults, watch Princess Bride instead.4 of 10 "},{"Title":"Krull's fatal Flaw","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the beginning our intrepid hero is given this wicked-looking spiky-throwy thing, the ultimate weapon with which he is to kill ultimate evil with. What does he do with it? He sticks it on his saddle and says No! I can't use that until the big finish! So he goes the whole movie with this thing on his belt, his little group getting the snot beaten out of it constantly by those Ayyiiieee! things the whole while. Then, at the very end, he pulls it out, lets it fly, it zooms around real cool, and then what? It gets stuck! Oops, sorry, no more spiky-throwy thing!What's the replacement for the ultimate weapon? Love. LOVE!!!! COME ON!!!! Love is apparently a big flame-thrower that shoots out of your palm, but its LOVE! "}{"Title":"The best of the cheap Star Wars clones","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull easily beats off all-comers as the best of the bargain basement clones that followed the success of Star Wars. Most of the main characters are underdeveloped stereotypes, but then who needs character development in an action-packed fantasy? They're more than made up for anyway by some of the smaller players, especially Ergo the Magnificent (played to perfection by David Battley).Krull has few pretensions towards science-fiction, and keeps its feet firmly planted in fantasy. Add in some wonderfully entertaining - or, in some cases, hammy - performances from a galaxy of English actors (many of whom became stars, though strangely enough, not the leads...), a cool spinning blade called the Glave, some reasonably special special effects, a variety of British accents, and a fun, silly storyline which makes just enough sense, and you're onto a winner. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let's think about a story such as The Lord of the Rings, then we remove the charismatic characters, the action and the great battles, the special effects and the spectacular make-up effects and the good props... What we got left is a movie such as Krull, a medieval/fantastic story filmed in a shoddy way. I mean, it was 1981, but they could've made a better product. But that's what you get when you try to imitate the big Hollywood productions without the necessary means.What about all those actors that talk like they're in a Shakespeare's play?.Nothing to point out except for that British beauty called Lysette Anthony and for the presence of Liam Neesom when he was still a complete unknown for the audience.*My rate 3/10 "},{"Title":"Patchy, and only mildly diverting","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After the phenomenal success that was Star Wars, Hollywood jumped on the bandwagon and started churning out several imitators. But none of them were ever really able to repeat the same box-office success, nor generate the same understanding of what made Star Wars work so well. And Krull is a perfect example.Where George Lucas grafted an epic swashbuckling fantasy onto the background of a space opera, Krull takes this conceit to far more bizarre extremes, by trying to meld SF elements with Mediaeval sword and sorcery. And not surprisingly, the film is a disjointed mess.Lucas was clever enough to balance out his two approaches so they stayed within the realm of believability. But director Peter Yates doesn't have the same skills, and fumbles many of Krull's narrative points. The film is made up of many pieces that don't quite fit together.The storyline is a classic quest scenario. A beautiful princess is kidnapped by an evil Beast that wants to conquer the world (of Krull). A courageous prince has to brave many perils, and rescue her from a formidable fortress (a teleporting spaceship!).Krull, quite frankly, is one of the most bizarre films I've ever seen. How the filmmakers ever thought they could get away with such a muddled screenplay is beyond belief! As I watch the film, I'm constantly being knocked out by the outrageous lengths it goes to. The film doesn't know if its telling science-fiction, or if its pure fantasy. SF and magic hardly go together. But Krull just doesn't seem to understand that. Evil knights with lances that shoot laser beams. And alongside the science, we have magical magicians that turn into animals. What a confused film this is! Krull has a peculiar sort of fascination. Trying to watch two completely incompatible genres co-habit. The film tries very hard, and straddles both approaches, but never really manages to achieve either one.In regards to the cast, they're a bit of a mixed bag too. Ken Marshall plays Prince Colwyn, the hero of the piece. But he's not exactly the hardened fighter you're expecting. He hasn't got much charisma, and as a hero, he's surprisingly underwhelming.Lysette Anthony is drop dead gorgeous as Lyssa, the damsel in distress. But since her voice was dubbed over, (in fairness) I can't really appraise her acting ability. Still, the stilted lines of dialogue she comes out with are quite horrid.There are some famous faces yet to go on to more successful careers. Liam Neeson makes an appearance as a thief recruited into Colwyn's quest, but gets screen time too brief to make any real lasting impression.Alun Armstrong is not bad as Torquil, the leader of the bandits that hook up with Colwyn. At least he gives a solid performance. We also have a pompous Freddie Jones as the all-wise Old One Ynyr (not as old as all that), a solemn Cyclops played by Bernard Breslaw, and Francesa Annis' Widow of the Web.Also look out for a young Robbie Coltrane and a pre-Eastenders Todd Carty.I could have done without David Battley's befuddled magician Ergo the Magnificent.The world of Krull is quite a strange place. Mediaeval castles in the middle of nowhere. Alien fortresses that jump from place to place. Blind seers. Horses that ride on fire. The Slayers that shriek like banshees when they're killed. I never really found any of this imaginative. Just odd and unreal. And the special effects are really shabby. Obvious back projections. Artificial landscapes. Poor stop-motion spiders. Yes spiders! It just goes on and on.The Beast himself is an unusual villain. He wants to marry Lyssa for himself, all within the bewildering kaleidoscopic confines of his Black Fortress. How he, who looks like a ten foot high Jabba the Hut, could ever hope to have a relationship with a delicate flower like Lyssa is a mystery. But it is amusing to consider the possibilities. And besides, if King Kong could fall in love with a human, why not the Beast?This is also a film that hasn't done its research. Colwyn needs the Glaive to defeat the Beast. A Glaive is a sword. But when we finally see it, its something not unlike a cross between a shuriken and a starfish. Looks nifty though when it flies through the air!But still, Krull really is quite a failure. It tries to do something different with fantasy/SF trappings and ends up failing on both counts. I suppose its OK for a mild lark, but any fun and amusement you get from it will be for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is awful.That's about it, really. I almost died from boredom while watching the opening. It is protracted and meaningless. They show us people riding horses again and again and again... Then we watch a wedding ceremony between people we do not know and do not care about. Then there is a boring battle sequence with a bunch of stiff people struggling not to trip on wires they are attached to or the furniture - considering they wear silly masks that apparently restrict their vision. And then of course there are these swords that fire lasers. Not only is it totally out of place, but one can't help but wonder why they even engage in sword fighting instead of just shooting their opponents.This film is boring, totally fails to generate emotion, and it keeps throwing nonsense at the audience. Not only is it not enjoyable to watch, I have a feeling it deliberately tries to alienate viewers. This is one REALLY bad film. If only it had the 'so bad it's good' factor. But it doesn't. It's a criminal waste of people's time. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a fantasy role-playing geek, and I found this movie dreadful. If you're a fan of nice costumes, give this a shot, otherwise, run.The plot moves slower than a tabletop quest, and far more predictably. To complete the quest, we must follow these steps in order, meeting token resistance along the way, which we will be able to surmount with the aid of the diverse group of colorful characters we meet along the way. Boilerplate material.The poor effects fit perfectly with the poor plot. It wasn't even the amusing kind of cheesy, it was the dodging the Styrofoam boulders kind of cheesy. "},{"Title":"It was fantasy to think this film should be funded, much less released.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Which shocks me more - how bad this film was, or the glowing comments by other viewers? I have been an SF / Fantasy fan since my childhood 40 years ago(remember Time Tunnel?) reading John Christopher novels, then moving up to Tolkien, Bradbury and the Thomas Covenant series.Krull has it all Princess Vacuous (Lysette Anthony) who succeeds only in looking pretty, but cannot act to sell detergent, Liam Neeson once again proving that even good actors will do anything for screen time or money, cheesy special effects that would not have made the cut for Star Trek in the 60s, badly choreographed action sequences, a villainous monster that looks like a Halloween costume my wife might throw together for a five year old, and tense battle scenes that consist of the Prince stretching out his arm and trying to vary the pained expression on his face for minutes at a time. Or maybe he just broke character when he realized how bad this film was going to be.I gave this 2 of 10, because it is a hilarious study in bad film-making, right up there with Condorman. Just don't watch more than 1/2 hour at a time unless you have insomnia. "},{"Title":"Decent Cheese - Not Bad for It's Time","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With the look, feel, and sound of a grand show Peter Yates Krull is admittedly a good watch. I especially enjoyed the score and soundtrack for the film done by James Horner, and you can hear the clear similarities between this and his Star Trek II music. The acting and direction on the other-hand is hit or miss along with some outdated looking effects. Ken Marshall is fairly bland as Colwyn, not a failure, but lacking of needed charisma. His English support is much better especially Freddie Jones who commands every scene he's in and veteran Alun Armstong. Along for the ride is a young Liam Neeson too. (spoiler) I thought the story was serviceable and the best scenes and sets midway through in the swamps. The action is standard while the standard bad-guy Slayer makes a muppet noise every time put out of commission. Our antagonist, The Beast seems satisfactorily ominous and insidious during the first three quarters, but the movie's main problem is it's climactic, or rather anti-climactic battle. Sets and costuming were good leading up an atrocious depiction of the Beast and laughingly bad final battle. Despite this, I'm willing to forgive Krull. It's better and more entertaining than at first impression. "},{"Title":"can't be taken seriously.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You can't take this movie seriously,  because it had horrible special effects. This is a shame, because the story and script showed some intellegence, So it can be seen that the script writer is the only person here who tried, but even that can't make up for  the awful special effects. (**) "},{"Title":"If you filmed Xanadu in Ireland in the 1200s","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Prince Shinyteeth and Princess Dexatrim meet and (ugh!) fall in love. Twelve seconds later she's kidnapped. And we're off on a quest, in which every sequence has been scrutinized to be sure that neither of two troubling qualities (excitement and originality) are present. The sluggish pacing is fatal. Money has been spent, but the story just refuses to get moving. There's absolutely no reason to pay attention and no payoff for doing so. It only shows a certain kind of naff humor, so as not to sully the virtue of the bland hero and heroine; the kind of humor that only dorks who like the fantasy genre find funny. And it stays dramatically vague for its entire length, convinced that specificity will derail it as the greatest fantasy epic ever filmed. The Star Wars, mythology, and the Arthur legend are pilfered liberally. The only attempt made to salvage this dud is to pile up the costly sets and score the living hell out of it. I fell asleep watching the 15th loud, look-alike scene play out. But a young Liam Neeson looks pretty fine here. "},{"Title":"All that you'd expect... and less!","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Krull is a silly movie with a predictably asinine plot, stilted dialog, and bargain basement special effects. The genuine cardboard sets are reminiscent of the original Lost in Space television series, and the acting makes one long for the superior talents of, say, Arnold Schwarzenegger in the Conan films.But then, what were you expecting? Truffaut? Fellini? For the genre, it's, well... acceptable -- not quite up to the standard of Beastmaster, but, considering that you're actually reading a review of this movie, probably good enough to entertain the 10-year-old boy trapped inside your drug addled brain. "}{"Title":"1912 movie time","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an incredibly dated film.  Stick Errol Flynn in this movie and you're off. Some great imagination in it, and a great spider but PLEASE this film has the worst role ever given to a woman.  Considering it was made in '83 it's a thousand times more unforgivable. And as for the end it looks like all over the galaxy kings and queens still always have sons who will rule the Universe. Worse than sad. "},{"Title":"Banal, childish, predictable","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hero saves world by trying and getting help that's the movie.All the characters in the movie are stock characters noble, but young protagonist/hero; pretty, loyal, helpless princess with too much makeup on; jester/comic relief figure who means well but always bungles (but amazingly in the end does something right to help the cause), bandit who helps hero and turns out OK at the end, villain who has no purpose or personality other than destruction of the good, wise Obi-Wan Kenobi adviser.The dialogue is hackneyed. The victory over the villain is achieved by the use of a magical device and (no joke) by the power of love in the form of fire that shoots out of the hero's hand. Only a handful of henchmen defend the villain's fortress when an army appeared earlier in the movie. I could go on and on. It's enough to make one believe in censorship.  "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The whole story could have been told in 15 minutes. This movie has a bad case of the drags. Scene after scene was music and views of mountains or cliffs or spinning star fish with blades on each end. Horner did some great work with the music for this film, but it didn't redeem it in any way. The sound effects got a bit out of hand at times as well. It seems as if this film was meant to be a competition to Willow or Clash of the Titans, but they missed the mark by far. This would be a good movie to pop in if you had to go and clean your toilet or do your laundry because those tasks are funner. It's even hard to make fun of this movie. "},{"Title":"I couldn't put my copy back on eBay quickly enough...","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Good lord this film was terrible. I went through a burst of nostalgia, bought a copy off eBay and then actually received/viewed/listed it back on eBay within two days.My childhood, rose-tinted memories had told me that there were - somewhere - scenes that were good. Yet, somehow, those eluded me. As does the comparison (generally unflattering, but still...) with Star Wars. Both had people. And, um, special effects. But that's about it.Krull did have a really cool name. And a Star Wars-esquire opening sequence with 'something big moving in space', but that's it.In fact, that opening sequence might be the only part of the movie that wasn't a thinly-concealed plothole. People meet. They fall in love instantly. Bad things happen because they have to. Then it turns into a scavenger hunt, as they just slip, snakes-and-ladders style, through an infinite series of plot holes, until they eventually reach the empowering conclusion.The special effects were horrid, but, given the era, that might be the only forgivable thing about the movie. The writing and acting, on the other hand, well - no excuse. People have been doing those things for thousands of years.Not sure what else to add. Except for avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Dull, dull, dull.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Overproduced sci-fi/fantasy pastiche just lies there on the screen like a big dead fish.  Not an original idea in it.  Possibly the two blandest leads in cinematic history.  Only Steven Archer's crystal spider differentiates this from a million better predecessors.  Watch this if you're in desperate need of sleep; you'll be snoring before the titles are over.  "},{"Title":"the worst of the early '80s fantasy flicks","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Krull is a misguided and unintentionally funny entry in the sword and sorcery genre of the early 1980s. Spare yourself and try Excalibur or Dragonslayer instead. "},{"Title":"Simply the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How does one describe vomit?  This movie was unspeakably bad.  The script is bad, the acting is terrible.  It is silly, inane and I wish I had the time I spent watching it back. I get ill when I think about it.  I copied over it as fast as I could. "},{"Title":"I don't normally pass up '80s scifi, but I'll gladly make an exception for Krull","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The fantasy boom of the 1980s made plenty of fun cult classics. Unfortunately, I can't count Krull among those classics.The story is way too weak. The villain is a barely-defined giant evil alien thing that exists basically as an abstract set that the main characters run around in. It sends out swarms of monsters after the good guys, but that's about the extent of its menace.To challenge this vaguely evil force, the movie introduces a ragtag band of about a dozen heroes. It's a two-hour movie, but the writers are determined to give each an equal amount of screen time, and that act really takes its toll - it's hard to sympathize with a character if his problem is introduced and over with in the span of about ten minutes. They all seem to come out of nowhere, with no purpose but to back up the main hero as he tries to rescue his bride from the aliens - and THAT goal is constantly interrupted by these vignettes where a minor character has to complete a quest that will allow them to go on.Don't bother with Krull. Or DO bother with it, so you know how NOT to write a good scifi/fantasy movie. For fun '80s fantasy, try Willow instead. "}]