[{"Title":"A film that tells you that your demons will come back to haunt you.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"44 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We all know Cujo is a giant St. Bernard that has to kill because he is rabid.  The film works as a horror film because of that concept, but this film and the story writer behind it believe that paybacks are a bitch. Retribution is always around the corner and when it is your time, you don't know if it is going to from a guy in a hockey mask, a massive great white shark,a 58 red and white Plymouth Fury, some idiot with long finger knives or a lovable Saint Bernard.  Whatever it is though, sin always accounted for.  Cujo subscribes to that theory.Everyone that dies in this film, with the exception of maybe one, does so because they are not very likable people to begin with.  They are all tainted and when Cujo gets a hold of them, we are almost glad that he wants their blood.  But it is the climax of the film that is the most intriguing. Because here we have a woman who has gotten rid of her sin.  But she now has to face the music not for what she is doing, but for what she has done. And if you read the book, you will see that it sticks to that theory and message much more than the film does.  It is understood that Cujo has to have a happy Hollywood ending, and that is fine, but the book tells a much more clear yet paradoxically convoluted tale of a boy, his dog, and how sin is never really forgiven.What is also great about Cujo is how it shows the dog coming unravelled. We see the transformation from lovable suck of a family dog, to vicious killing machine that has an insatiable need for blood.  We see his nose get more wet, we see how certain noises bother him more and we see how much saliva this dog has stored up in his nasty mouth.Cujo is a good movie.  It is scary, especially the last half hour and it actually has a point.  It also does a fairly good job of bringing King's vision to life.  It is not easy to do that, after all King has a very vivid imagination.  But Cujo comes close.  Very close  "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and Underrated, more than just 'When Animals Attack The Movie'","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"36 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cujo is a movie that will scare the hell out of dog owners, to say the least. It's very frightening and very underrated, and for most of the movie, there is no sign that it is a horror movie. However, Cujo is very frightening, mainly because these kind of things do happen, a lot of people (kids in particular) are bitten by dogs every day. The leading lady of 80's horror movies, Dee Wallace Stone, plays a woman who is trapped in her car with her 5 year old son, as a rabid St. Bernard terrorises them. The tension in Cujo takes a long time to build up, but when it starts, it never lets up. Under no circumstances should young kids watch this movie, they'll be wetting their beds for weeks. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Realistic horror","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think of Cujo as realistic horror because it is something that could really happen. People really do get killed by rabid dogs...this film just exaggerates the truth a bit. I can't say I really enjoyed this film as it is not what I look for in horror films. It's a very good film - well acted, well directed, suspenseful and emotional, but it's not really fun to watch. It starts off with the dog getting infected, and from then on tension is built up slowly as you sense the dog is getting angrier and angrier. Eventually it snaps and starts killing people. The bulk of the film focuses on when Donna and her son are trapped in the broken down car because Cujo attacks whenever they try to leave. You can feel all the desperation, pain and isolation of Donna and her son as they lay trapped inside. It makes you think twice about dogs and certainly what you would do in such a situation. Would you run, attack the dog, or wait until help arrives? This is not a fun, campy or cheesy horror film, so don't watch if you're a fan of cheese. It's for those who want to feel suspense, fear and pain. "},{"Title":"It might have you foaming at the mouth?","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A St. Bernard dog is playfully chasing a rabbit, but when the dog decides to pop its head into a burrow it's bitten by a rabies-infected bat and slowly over time it becomes a maliciously uncontrolled mutt. Which, it turns on its owner and also terrorises that of a unfaithful women and her son that came to get their vehicle repaired, but only to be trapped in their broken down car with rabid dog outside trying to get to them.Beethoven&#133; yep, I just couldn't stop thinking of the lovable Beethoven when watching this flick. That was one of my childhood favourites, but I guess it isn't going to be quite the same when I come across it again. I won't look a Beethoven the same way again. Anyhow, this is one of the King's better-made adaptations. Although, it's a long way from brilliant, it delivers a stable amount of interest and tension to proceedings. This was my second viewing of it and it has hardly lost any of that full-blooded impact it generated, especially the heart racing standoff between the dog and the trapped victims. I wouldn't be surprise that you don't think your watching a horror film to begin with, as the opening basis centres around a family melodrama, raising martial issues and work commitments. It kind of comes across as cheesy in its supposed sentiment in those moments. Then it kicks into gear with the slow beginning making way for a crackerjack final 40 minutes of simple confined tension built around isolation. It also doesn't hold back on the vicious dog attacks with ample ferocity and raw suspense being belted out. Watching people being mauled apart by this giant scuffed up dog wasn't that pleasant at all. The gore effects were more than adequate and it looked the part of a rabid dog perfectly. But you couldn't help but feel sorry for the dog, as it's more of a victim then the people who he's terrorising. Honestly I cared more for the misunderstood pooch than the initial victims. The characters weren't entirely likable, with the exception of one or two, but I didn't connect with them in this mess. The story is simple and plays it straight, but that doesn't mean it avoids the familiar clichés. Although, it doesn't entirely hurt the film, well it kind of enhances it actually. A surprising factor I found was that the film's camera-work was well choreographed with plenty of swirling shots and when it needed to up the ante it became rather erratic to fit in with the mood. Also add in some glorious slow-mo. The score on the other hand I thought was forcefully unbalanced and didn't fit into the mood at times. The performances are all sturdy and very hard to knock. Dee Wallace-Stone was at the top of her game as the wayward wife and Danny Pintauro as her worried son was equally so. Daniel Hugh Kelly gives a likable performance as the father and of course the endearing dog is worth a mention too. The strong performances make this traumatic experience even more believable.A tautly constructed and work-man like film that won't push the boundaries, but its intensely petrifying in its simple origins. "},{"Title":"Hardcore horror.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hardcore horror fans won't be disappointed (although for a while they may think they will be) with this extremely bloody and gruesome shocker. The attack scenes are about as intense as possible - the director almost pushes them TOO far. But the first half of the movie is plodding, filled with unnecessary scenes, and the kid's constant whining (although justified) is sure to get on your nerves.   (**1/2) "},{"Title":"A horror film that grabs and won't let go!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King-based thriller is a sweat-inducing shocker that ranks among the most intense King adaptations.Woman and child are trapped inside their stalled car by a huge, rabid dog.Cujo remains one of the more memorable Stephen King novels because it's a tale of such merciless suspense and in the hands of director Lewis Teague much of that same horror transcends well into this film. This film benefits greatly from a powerful story with some well fleshed-out characters, it's much more than just another 'animal attacks' movie. Teague's direction is also very tight and helps to build an unnerving tension through out this film. The atmosphere is very heated, the look of the movie very gritty, and the danger feels all the more real! The camera work is also excellent and makes this film feel truly claustrophobic! It builds to a finale that is heart-stopping. The music score is harrowing and the filming locations are good.Cast-wise the film is quite strong too. The great Dee Wallace delivers an emotionally powerful performance as a mother desperate to protect her child and survive herself. Young Danny Pintauro is great as Wallace's horrified child. The supporting cast is good too, as are the numerous St. Bernard's that play our vicious title character.Cujo is a top-notch suspense film that never loses its edge. A must-see, and not just for King fans.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Tense and well acted King thriller is on a par with Misery","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This didn't get the distribution or attention Misery got, but it's equally tense and equally well acted by Dee Wallace-Stone (as Donna Trenton).The simple premise is that a woman becomes trapped in a car while a rabid dog, Cujo, waits to tear her apart.As Misery was about confinement, so is Cujo, and director Lewis Teague (Educating Rita) keeps the suspense high and convinces us that Donna's situation is real. The dog is not entirely unsympathetic, either, as we are given the reasons for his mental and physical state.The film has a refreshing, picturesque simplicity and, by virtue of its shorter form, cuts away the lengthy novel's fat and improves on the premise, getting us to the jeopardy quicker and keeping us there.The original poster, which depicted a distant farmhouse on a hill, may not have sold tickets, but it was a stunning piece of creative understatement. "},{"Title":"Doesn't do the novel justice...","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After reading King's fantastic novel Cujo - off which the movie is clearly based - I was beyond excited to watch the movie. I wondered excitedly how they would accurately depict the intricate and emotional lives of the 8 or so main characters. After watching the movie I can say with confidence that they failed to do the job.First off - many of the characters that are quite prominent in the novel and add to the intensity and suspense are given nothing but slight cameos in the movie, or are not shown at all. The Camber family, composed of Joe, wife Charity, and son Brett, might collectively have 25 lines which is ridiculous. Roger Breakstone, Sheriff Bannerman, Gary Pervier, George Meara and Steve Kemp as characters with clear motives and reactions in the novel, are all about as deep as paper in the film. Aunt Evvie Chambers, Holly and her family, and a few other minor characters have been omitted from the film completely.If this wasn't bad enough, the main story was altered drastically, and there was no falling action whatsoever! * SPOILER ALERT *Tad Trenton lives in the movie! This huge change in plot completely takes away from the tragedy that Stephen King so wonderfully wrote. Also, Cujo is shot in the end. This quick, seemingly painless death allows the film to end quickly but totally ruins it. In the novel, the long, painful, graphic death of Cujo is, in a sense, justice being served. In the film there is no such thing.Ultimately, this film is weak, not scary, and does not stay true to the novel. I had to read the novel in broad daylight because of how frightening it was, I watched the movie alone, in the dark, at night. The film is the terrible, shameful younger brother - nay - cousin of the original novel. "},{"Title":"Beware of the dog!!!!","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film shares a lot in common with Stephen King's other adaptation 'Christine'. In 'Christine' we have a psychotic car that went round killing people whereas in 'Cujo' we have a rabid dog going round killing people. Sadly, like 'Christine' this film is effective in parts, but it has an awful lot of problems....For me the first half of the film is where Cujo is at its weakest and that's mainly down to the fact that it's so tedious; the kid says he's got monsters in his room...OK, would have been alright if there was any point to it? We're then told that the husband (Daniel Hugh Kelly) is head of an advertising company for Sharp's who promote cereals amongst other things, but then the company are seemingly brought to their knees by an allegation that their cereals have caused internal haemorrhaging to several individuals, but then this is found to be false. If it's been proved to be untrue, why go to pieces and disappear for 10 days to sort it out? Just sue the media. As a result of his self-absorbent behaviour his wife (Dee Wallace) ends up having an affair in possibly one of the most tedious aspects of the first half of the film. It's also interesting that no-one seems concerned by the bite mark on Cujo's nose which resulted in his rabies - didn't anyone think to get him checked out by a vet?I must admit the only thing that really held my interest in the first half of the film was wondering when Cujo would attack and here the writers dangle lots of carrots and then eventually decide to let Cujo loose which thankfully is when the film starts to pick up. Once Cujo goes nuts and when the wife (Dee Wallace) and the son Tad (Danny Pintauro) are isolated and Cujo is stalking them I have to admit that these moments are quite effective and do give the film some intensity, despite the intensity there are some problems in the second half....We're not given a clear indication of how long wife and son are stranded for so this aspect is open to speculation, but I know that it's light and dark on at least one occasion which begs the question does Cujo never sleep? Even if he's rabid surely he'd be hungry and would go and look for food elsewhere? It also requires a lot of suspension of disbelief to believe that a 9 stone woman can fight off a 20 stone dog, yet on three separate occasions, three fully grown men were unable to do this? Then wifey bashes Cujo six times across his head with a baseball bat which seemingly doesn't affect him - I know St Bernard's are big dogs, but at best it would have knocked him out and at worst it would have killed him. Cujo's re-appearance from the dead at the end was just lazy and predictable and rounded off just how bad this film was.If you're the sort of person who just wants a bit of excitement and edge of your seat antics and can suspend a lot of disbelief then you'll find the second half of the film enjoyable. However, the first of the film for me was intolerably dull and although the second half was better, for me, it was still too sloppy and clichéd to make up for the poor first half. "},{"Title":"Rabid Cujo","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. I saw it on TV last Halloween, and it really set the mood. It's basically about a dog that gets rabies, and a mother and her son are trapped in the middle of nowhere (in their car that broke down, of all things) because the dog is terrorizing them. It's really pretty sad actually, because they show the dog chasing the rabbit into the cave where he gets the rabies, and the dog just seems so sweet and cute. It's pretty scary too, when the boy passes out from the heat in the car and needs water or SOMETHING. It obviously set that kind of situation for movies like Panic Room and Signs. It is really a pretty suspenseful movie with that psychological terror--it would scare the hell out of you if it happened to you. "}{"Title":"One for 'cat lovers' I suppose","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You can almost hear every old lady with a Persian cat on her lap tutting as she watches Stephen King's 'Cujo' and saying something like 'I told you dogs were trouble.' Here a lovably, cuddly St Bernard doggy gets bitten by a rabid bat... with disastrous consequences.Without wishing to spoil it for you, the dog goes on a rampage. The dog. Just a dog. Not a demon dog, or a dog with superpowers and laser-eyes. Just a dog.It's not a bad idea, but stretching it out for an hour and a half is about an hour too long. There are some pretty traumatic scenes involving a young boy watching some pretty grisly events unfold before his eyes (hopefully the young actor didn't require too much counselling to get over them!), but, one the whole, there are too many sub-plots that are simply there to fill time because just having one angry dog isn't enough to fill an entire film.Not bad in parts, but you may have to keep your eyes open through some of the 'non dog's dinner scenes.' "},{"Title":"One of the better Stephen King adaptations","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There have been alot of movies adapted from Stephen King novels or stories. Some have been good (Carrie, Cat's Eye, Misery), some have been just so-so (The Shining, Firestarter), and some have been bad (Children of the Corn, Maximum Overdrive). 1983's Cujo ranks up there as one of the good ones. It's about a sweet St. Bernard dog that turns nasty after a bat bites the big canine. After the dog turns completely evil, he terrorizes everybody in sight. This includes a woman and her young son who drive up to the house (where Cujo lives) to have her car fixed (Cujo's master is an auto mechanic). Not one person is in sight, and when Cujo shows up, the once friendly dog traps the two in their car and then viciously tries to break in. To make matters worse, the car stalls and refuses to start. Cujo does have a few laughable situations and there's a little stupidity thrown in at times, but overall this is a very effective horror film that did frighten me many times. Dee Wallace Stone (E.T.) and Danny Pintauro (TV's Who's the Boss?) are very good as the mother and son who's little trip to get the car fixed turns into a nightmare. Cujo is a little well-made horror flick worth seeing. *** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Cleverly done attacking dog story and better than Misery, because of Misery's critical errors","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Possible Spoilers, but did not give away the ending! Donna Trenton is a mistreated homemaker wife subtly evident to this is how much money her husband Vic makes and yet he drives a Jaguar and she drives a broken down Pinto and she regularly has to run errands with their--younger than 6 yr old--son, Tad. What a creep! She carries on a vindictive affair with his best friend, Steve. Despite what she did is probably more wrong than what he did, most wives that felt that they were desirable enough to have an affair and married to a man like that would be doing just that. She probably should have let Vic know what she was feeling first(even though, it should have been obvious to him); that way, she has communicated and made a record to him. Anyway, as I said, Donna drives a Pinto that is in such bad shape that it could stall any time she tries to start it. Instead of Vic getting the car repaired by professionals or getting his wife a new car, he checks into servicing the car at Joe Camber's country home. At this first visit, their dog(and same breed as the dog Beethoven), Cujo, shows just what gently kind of dog he is by playing with Camber's son and little Tad. Some changes are on the horizon for Cujo, as due being bitten by a rabid bat and the huge size of Cujo, he gradually becomes an unpredictable monster from gentle to even little kids to a readily aggressive, serial killer. The change becomes complete about the time that Camber's wife decides to visit family and takes her son(Cujo's only stabilizer) with her. Meanwhile, Vic finds circumstantial evidence of Donna and Steve's affair, then she admits it in an awkward moment. Vic(instead of seeing his issues and talking it out) leaves in a kind of vindictive, self-righteous anger. He leaves Donna to handle business with Camber herself. Cujo has killed Joe and his friend since the Camber's wife left. So, there is no one nearby when Donna and Tad come rolling in. Donna confronts a 180° different dog than Tad played with on his first visit. He even gets to where he just attacks Donna or the Pinto with every movement or sound. That is, until a police officer comes out, as result of Vic possibly developing a conscience or missing his wife--trying to find the whereabouts of his wife. The dispatched cop doesn't know to expect Cujo and is killed by the time he knows what is going on. Tad's natural allergies to monsters have also turned to shock with real life monster Cujo attacking his mother and the Pinto and the hopelessness of the car not starting. Donna is getting more and more desperate with the worsening Tad. Anyway, Donna has tried unsuccessfully at least twice to reach the Camber's house and phone. That will change; watch to see how. "},{"Title":"Cujo, What Are You Growling At?","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I remember when this movie came out and it took me forever to have the nerve to watch it. Cujo is one of Stephen King's better adaptations, the other being The Dead Zone. At the time back in 1983 I owned a Dachshund, and watching Cujo was off limits due to the story. I was the same way with Pet Sematary, I was able to finally watch both of them after my dog passed in 1986.Cujo is a basic story, it's about a lovable St. Bernard who contracts rabies. It involves two dysfunctional families The Cambry's and The Trenton's. The story is great, but this movie is not for those with weak stomachs due to some of the gore. It also has a sub story in it where were Donna Trenton(Dee Wallace Stone) is having an affair, with Steve( Christoper Stone); and Vic Trenton(Daniel Hugh Kelly) finally finds out. The problem I had with watching this movie is seeing Cujo go though the different stages of rabies. I know it's a movie but I'm a dog lover ; and watching dogs suffer is tough. If you want to find a great movie based on a Stephen King Adaption I would check out these hits, The Shinning, The Dead Zone; and Cujo. I guarantee you will not be disappointed with these hits.THX, Kris L. CocKayne- "},{"Title":"Definitely a classic for me","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched this again just the other night, and it really is one to be left in the past. I would of rated it higher when I'd seen it the first time, but I was a bit irritated by the actors.The book is of course, way better (they seem to always be), but I'd recommend everyone to watch this movie at least once. I feel like if they had cast better actors, and a different child to play in the movie it could of been better. They were not very believable and again, just very irritating in my opinion.I'll always think fondly of this movie but definitely not one of the best. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, especially for a creature-horror movie","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Pretty good, especially for a creature-horror movie.Horror movies, incl creature-horrors, are dime-a-dozen and are easily the least original and worst genre of movies. However, Cujo is fairly good.Based on a Stephen King novel, the big plus to Cujo is that it is believable. No supernatural, bump-in-the-night crap. This could actually happen.Add in the fact that it doesn't overstay it's welcome - it's 89 minutes long - and moves along fairly well, and it is an entertaining movie. Performances are okay too.Hardly Citizen Kane, but it'll do. "},{"Title":"Effective, underrated movie","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When i first saw the title and rating on IMDb didn't had so many expectations. Was kinda sure the dog parts will be bad. Little i knew. I must confess, i have a big fear of dogs. This might have influence the impact this movie had on me. The plot is based on Stephen King's novel, Cujo. It's the story of a dog that's getting bit by an bat, gets rabies, and act ultra- violent. We're not talking about your little bulldog here, we're talking about 100 kg bad ass St. Bernard. The dog is fabulous. I don't know details about him, who trained that dog, how scenes we're made, as there have been used some artificial dog parts, for sure, but it's damn scary. The make-up, his actual acting, are great. He's cute when he needs to, and he's a mean beast after he gets infected. My only problem with the movie is the first part. There is too much character development going on. It really feels like your everyday 80s family movie. You get to care about two characters, but is too much development going on for others, that you won't care too much about. Kinda pointless. I think this might be a reason for the low rating. But the second part of the movie, after the family problems disappear, it's a terrifying and effective ride. It is effective mostly because it is a believable situation. Directing is good. Especially for the second part. First part is kinda banal. In second part, we get some nice shots and camera work. Not so happy with shaky cams during attacks, but they are not so long. I think it was more of an practical need for those, as you can't really train the dog to actually bite and you don't wanna leave your viewers seeing your fake dog head. Acting is great too, both Dee Wallace and Danny Pintauro do a great job. In second part, that's where you actually get to really care about them. Not so much in first part. You kinda forget that beginning. The kid is acting so good, and it's parts are written very good, as there always is a connections between the two. Great movie in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Once upon a time, not so long ago, a monster came to a small town in Castle Rock, Maine...","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first time I watched the movie, I wasn't much impressed, giving it only 6 stars. Then I decided to read the book, which, I think, is a pure masterpiece, intense and reaaaaaaaly dark and oppressive, alluding quite often in its theme and metaphors to real-life misery and struggles, etc. After reading the book, I thought of the film, viewing it in my mind through a different perspective. The book was the prism that reflected the beauty of the film in my mind and created a picture where I could re- discover the grandeur of this cinematic work. The acting is terrific, the atmosphere is unique and the scrip and camera work make for a perfect symbiosis. My final rating is 10. "},{"Title":"Scary and Suspenseful","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo may not be a perfect adaptation of Stephen King's novel, but it's a well made horror movie. You would think that this is just your average nature run-amok movie, but it actually leans a lot more towards a tense thriller for a large chunk of the movie. It's not really about a body count as much as it is about getting you to the same mental state as the victims in the film. There is a long stretch of the story where our main characters Donna and her son Tad are trapped inside their car while Cujo is outside. I really felt that it captured the fear, the claustrophobia and the anxiety that the characters were feeling. They are facing constant threats from the inside and outside of the vehicle and as more time passes, the threats just keep getting bigger and bigger so there's a real sense of escalation and suspense as the film goes along. The makeup effects on Cujo successfully transform the harmless looking St Bernard into a credible threat and the performances (even from young Danny Pintauro) are convincing. It's slow at times, but it's good and suspenseful enough to recommend. (On VHS, August 3, 2012) "},{"Title":"Cujo will take a bite out of you! It's a pretty scary film.","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know, what some critics were thinking when saying Cujo is not as menacing or frightening as other film adaptations of author Stephen King's popular stories. It's pretty damn scary! It's a better film than films like 1983's Christine & 1986's Maximum Overdrive, combined. Director Lewis Teague did unleashed a semi good horror movie into the screen and it's a bit overlooked. It had some bite with its bark. I remember seeing this film when I was a kid, and being very afraid of the huge St. Bernard. It was like if the dog, Beethoven got rabid. It's a scary thought of a family pet turning against the owners. Unlike the other horrors novels, that go deep into the supernatural and fantasy genre. This film, portrays something that could honestly happen. Based on the Stephen King novel of the same name, the movie tells the story of a mother, Donna Trenton (Dee Wallace) whom wants to get her car fixed, only to find herself with her son, Tad (Danny Pintauro) trapped in a car, when the neighborhood friendly family dog, Cujo becomes crazed and started killing people after being bitten by a rabid bat. I think, some people give this movie a bad rating, due to that reason, that it's feeding into the hype that certain dog breeds are dangerous. Yes, it's a bit prejudice and ignorance to think of all St. Bernard are evil, but to claim that the movie is too far fetch to be taken serious is an understatement. There has numeral cases of dogs turning against their owners. Yes, abuse, hunger and poor breeding play most of the factors to those accidents happening, but ruthless behaviors coming from normal well-kept dogs, do happen as well. Dogs do bite and dogs could kill you if they wanted to. They are indeed animals, no matter how tame they can seem. You do have to suspense disbelief, somewhat because the movie makes Cujo look something out like a monster. It's like 1993's Sandlot, in the humorous ways, they make Cujo look more than a normal dog through means like puppetry, forced perspective and a guy in dog costume. Still, some shots were pretty good, like the JAWS like animal point of view shots and how they show that loud sounds hurt Cujo. The movie does show how rabies does in fact lead to behavior changes in animals, but a rabid dog would either be hyperactive or lethargic, not super-crazed. This is a lethal disease that would cause the dog to be weaker and weaker, by the time, the Trenton family comes into play. A rabid dog is more likely to attack humans when prone, but it's normally it is too weak to be, even that vicious. It wouldn't have the strength to kill multiple people. Most rabid dogs would not be a killer like Cujo. Still, there's always going to be a slim chance that your dog will turn on you. But the odds of this are so astronomical that to be honest, I would not worry about it. It rarely happen. This movie shouldn't stop people, from buying St. Bernard. Most of them, are truly friendly. It was genuine problem in the making of the film because they simply could not get the St. Bernard to act aggressively. They had to replace him with a cunningly disguised Rottweiler for several crucial scenes, and tape his tail to his leg so he didn't wag it constantly. Large breed dogs like St. Bernard perfectly stable if purchased from a reputable breeder or pound. As long as you meet the requirements of taking care of the breed, this movie shouldn't stop you from buying dogs like that. One thing that I love about the film, is the sense of Man Vs Nature. Thank God, Stephen King didn't add the supernatural into it. The original novel was supposed to be a sequel of sorts following Stephen King 1983's The Dead Zone, in which a previous dead serial killer character, kind of bogeyman, supposedly haunted Tad and possessed Cujo to kill him. I just glad, it never came about, in the film version. I do like how Cujo stakes his prey, as if a Lion or a wolf, waiting for the right moment to attack. You really get the race against time, as conditions inside the car, become more and more unbearable, as heatstroke and dehydration, starts to kick in. The only thing, I kinda hate about the film is how annoying, the child is. The way, he's scream is ear-bleeding. It's super loud. It's doesn't help that the kid is nearly ten year old, yet, he acts like a useless toddler. How lame! He could do more, to help his mother. He was just a burden to watch. He's way too sensitive. I just wish, the movie had the same ending for the kid as the novel. One thing, I didn't like is the sub-plot that the novel had, about Donna cheating on her husband. It never added much to the story. The movie also brings it in, to help push the story, on why the police couldn't find, Donna and the kids, but the movie doesn't give us a conclusion on what happen to the Trenton's marriage. It ends with a cliffhanger note. The same, goes with the Camber family. They go away, for plot reasons, so Donna and the kids can be stuck with the dog, most of the film, but still, you would have thought, they would be used for the big climax, but no, they don't return. The movie would have, more depth, if Bret (Billy Jayne) was the one that had to take his own dog down. It would have been a great Old Yeller type of an ending. Sadly, it never came. Overall It's a dog eat dog world out there and Cujo indeed deserve another look. Like me, you're be really surprise, how good, it was. "}{"Title":"A Realistic Type of Horror","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rabies is reality. And it is also reality that not everyone will have their animal vaccinated for rabies. That is what makes Cujo a realistic type of a horror film. Rabies does horrible things to animals (even humans) so this why I find this movie so horrifying - realistic horror.I can't believe how underrated this film is on IMDb. I don't understand it. It is a one of the best horror movie classic films ever made due to the fact something like this is a possibility - not likely to happen just like the movie but the threat of being bitten by a rabid animal is something that can happen and has happened to some people and beloved pets.Rabies is not a joking matter - and maybe this is what makes Cujo such a powerful film. It brings awareness of having your pet(s) vaccinated.I was 11 when this film came out - another long time favorite movie of mine.9/10 "},{"Title":"Barmy Bernard","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King's Cujo was brought to the screen and met with indifference back in 1983, yet it has aged surprisingly well and comes out as one of the better mad animal movies that followed in the wake of Jaws.A big cuddly St. Bernard dog is bitten on the nose by a bat, cops a serious bout of Hydrophobia and then terrorises anyone in its path. Which spells bad news for Donna Trenton (Dee Wallace) and her young son Tad (Danny Pintauro), who have the misfortune to be stuck in a battered old Pinto that has broken down in Cujo's territory.Lewis Teague directs with no little skill here, wringing out pot loads of tension and inserting genuine moments of terror as mother and son literally fight for their lives. There's a school of thought that the film's first half could have been trimmed, for this is the area that defines the Trenton's as a family.Donna has been having an affair and her husband Vic (Daniel Hugh- Kelly) has found out, so for forty minutes we are investing in family strife and foundation building of the key characters. This is judged perfectly, because once Cujo is unleashed on Donna and Tad, it throws up a number of emotional connections to not only the humans, but also the dog as well.Wallace and Pintauro are excellent, providing the film with its beating heart as they prove to be a believable mother & son pairing. Teague meanwhile uses some invention with his camera work, though never to the detriment of claustrophobic terror. Elements of the source novel have been left out, while the ending - unfortunately in this viewer's opinion - has been changed, but this is a tightly wound horror and it's well due re-evaluation in this day and age of franchise sequels and remakes.Could have done with more of those bats though, they are awesome! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Old Yeller redux...","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It irks me when a filmmaker arbitrarily changes the ending of a story just to give their movie a happy ending. APT PUPIL, one of the better novellas by Stephen King, dealt with a kid who becomes enamored of an old Nazi he discovers living just down the street. He ends up going on a shooting spree at the end of the story. THAT'S why I chose to plunk down my hard-earned cash when the movie version came out. But Columbine (or one of the many other school shootings) had happened between the publishing of the story and the release of the movie, so the movie simply dropped the final massacre. I didn't know that going in, or I wouldn't have WENT. Ditto, CUJO. Lewis Teague was an underrated director who was finally getting his just due, so I decided to plunk down... I read CUJO long before I saw the movie. I'd also read OLD YELLER when I was a kid. On top of all that, one of my worst and most painful childhood memories involved a puppy I'd raised that my drunken father had gassed. So I went into CUJO fully expecting the worst. And then came the end. I'm not saying that the end cheats (though it does), but this IS a fright film, after all- a horror movie. Horrible things happen to people- even kids- in horror movies. But only if the filmmaker has the guts. "},{"Title":"A forgotten, yet worthy animal attack flick","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" (57%) With one of the thinnest plots in film history, this still manages to be quite a real good shocker. Most of the action takes place in a broken down car in the countryside during a super hot day as a big dirty, and very angry dog tries to attack and kill a poor young kid and his mother. The attacks themselves are really quite brutal and very well put together as the main characters really do go through hell and back with this rabid pooch. This is one of the better animal attack films that has for some unknown reason been more than a little bit forgotten about. Put this on if your kid wants to watch one of the terrible Beethoven sequels for the 100th time. "},{"Title":"I'll be dog gone","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is probably the only film, that's made a successful transition from a King novel, where an aftershock ending doesn't hurt. I'm not sure this was included in the novel, as I've never read any of King's books, but you know if a movie works or doesn't, if inspired by a book or not. The set up has this free fun loving St Bernard, Cujo, chasing a rabbit. When Cujo sticks his face into a rabbit hole, a bat bites it, slowly transforming him into a rabid killer of the highest nature, something he normally isn't, where I as one, felt so sorry for the crazed mutt. Trouble strikes a mother and child who visit the family of the mutt, who operate a auto garage from their house, as their car has seen better days. To their dismay they can't find anyone, (some good reasons for that) and their car breaks down in the worst place, you guessed it. From here, it's a masterful showing and suspense and terror, where the film doesn't go straight for the gulliver. We've seen earlier what this rabid beast is capable of, so we know what can happen if Cujo gets his fangs into helpless mother and child. The situation becomes a sweating game of survival, a sit out as you will, of terror between dog and Mother and son (horror icon Dee Wallace and Danny Pintauro) where the suspense factor really delivers. What's great here, is the reality of choices the duo make, where we'd pretty much do the same if in that same terrifying situation, where the suspense really works rewardingly for it. A lot of this part of the film, takes place in the car, and works beautifully, accompanied by great camera-work, which provides a real claustrophobic atmosphere, especially where the little boy, is losing consciousness, which became a real worrying part of the film. Also, what I liked about Cujo was the interesting background of characters, Daniel Hugh Kelly, a cereal advertiser and his cheating wife Wallace. One of the better constructed horror films, and horrors film itself. Watch if you dare. "},{"Title":"Nothing happens for half an hour...","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is a large St. Bernard dog, very friendly, but while chasing a rabbit he gets his nose caught in the dirt of a small cavern. His frantic barking disturbs a colony of bats and one bat bites his nose and gives him rabies.Meanwhile, things aren't going so hot for the Trenton family in Maine. Donna Trenton is cheating on her husband with a jealous boyfriend, her son Tad is constantly having nightmares about some invisible creature in his closet and her husband Vic has just lost the big Sharp Cereals account because a bad batch of cereal was sold it it made kids puke up red dye (which looked like blood to their parents). Donna tries to break it off with the secret boyfriend but he becomes overbearing and won't leave her alone. Vic finds out just before leaving for a business trip.Donna drives Tad to the nearest car repair place that afternoon and the car breaks down but no one is home. She gets out of the car and Cujo, now coated in blood and yellow pus, comes at her and Tad. Since the car won't start, the mother and son are stuck there in the heat with no food or water in the rural area until somebody finds them or Cujo dies.Cujo wasn't bad, not at all, as far as acting, soundtrack and makeup go. The problem was the section between the part where Cujo is bitten by the bat and the part where Donna's car breaks down, it's very boring and not much fun to sit through. Also the Tad kid is rather annoying, he is pretty dorky and has the voice of a two-year-old girl. He lives in the film but died in the book, I think they should have stuck with the book if you ask me. Not bad, but like most of Stephen King's adaptations it needs some work. "},{"Title":"A King Classic","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A friendly St. Bernard named Cujo contracts rabies and conducts a reign of terror on a small American town.Cujo is more than just a monstrous dog, this is also a tale of infidelity and a family breakdown. This is what separates it from other animal attack films.The New York Times called the film predictable and said, Cujo is not as menacing or frightening as other film adaptations of King's popular stories and especially can not compare to the 1976 Carrie... Now, that may be true. But let us not sell it short, either. Just about everyone, whether they have seen the film or not, knows what the word Cujo means... far more than, say, Christine. So this is one of King's more deeply imprinted films, even if not the most creative. "},{"Title":"There Will Never be Another Cujo","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's amazing how this movie was able to do so much with so little. The majority of the movie takes place in a car with a mother and her asthmatic son yet it was riveting. I was already afraid of dogs to begin with as a child and Cujo did nothing to allay those fears. Quite naturally it did the opposite.There hasn't been a scary dog movie nearly as good as Cujo. There have been several attempts, and the one that immediately comes to mind is Man's Best Friend, but none of them can touch this masterpiece.The idea is so simple yet cleverly done. A ravaging St. Bernard with no quit in it goes to great lengths to try to devour a mother and her child holed up in a yellow Pinto. The movie had me on the edge of my seat. It was marvelously done, one of Stephen King's best. "},{"Title":"it do has suspense","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I will be honest, I don't like Stephen King stories and most of the books being captured into a flick were ridiculous. A few did stand up and were good but most of those flicks are a joy to watch but had a terrible unbelievable ending. Cujo I didn't had any problem with but again the ending was predictable and rather stupid. For a flick made in the heydays of slashers this has nothing to offer on part of gore or red stuff. What it do has is an excellent performance by Dee Wallace. Just being cast due her performances in The Howling (1981) and E.T. (1982). But on the other hand we do have a bit of suspense too once Cujo goes berserk. But you have to wait almost 45 minutes before the dog goes nutty. If you dig old school horror then this is a must to see but thinking that it contains the real stuff forget it.Gore 0,5/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2,5/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Decent King Adaptation","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo (1983) ** 1/2 (out of 4) A normally friendly St. Bernard named Cujo gets rabies and goes on a killing spree. Eventually a mother (Dee Wallace) and her young son (Danny Pintauro) crosses paths with the monster and soon they're trapped in their car unable to go anywhere. CUJO isn't a complete success but there are enough effective moments to make it worth sitting through. I'm not familiar with the Stephen King story so I can't comment on how close this movie follows it but I think there are a few problems here. One problem is that we're given a pretty worthless subplot involving the wife having an affair on her husband (Christopher Stone). I'm not sure if this played a bigger part in the book but here it just basically adds minutes to the running time and in the end it really adds up to nothing. Another problem I have with the film is that it's not nearly as intense as it should have been. In order for a film like this to succeed I think it needs to keep the viewer in constant terror as soon as everything starts to happen. That doesn't happen here, although there is one attack sequence inside the car that is quite chilling. Finally, the biggest problem with the picture is that it's simply way too predictable. With that said, Dee Wallace is extremely good in her role as the mother who is forced to fight this creature to try and save her son. Pintauro is also very good in his role as the child and it's fun seeing Stone, although his role isn't that well written. As I said, there's one attack scene inside the car that is quite thrilling but the rest of them are only mildly entertaining. The final showdown does manage to be quite exciting, although by this point you're ready for anyone to win just as long as the movie comes to an end. "}{"Title":"Possibly the best Ford Pinto ad ever","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've never wanted a dog to die so badly in a movie. It's not his fault, but it was some horrific acting by the (usually) lovable St. Bernard breed. The acting in the film was superb and perfect for the insanity caused by being trapped by an insane dog. I stopped myself from seeing this for years because&#x85;it's a dog film, about dog things and other possible non-interesting things. The relationship between mother and son especially was something that I never knew about, though, and it made the film a little more worth seeing than just a film about a crazy canine. And it's got the boy from Who's the Boss! What's not to love! I felt the marriage story was thrown in just to heighten the emotions of the story, but I don't know how badly it needed to be here. Just look at movies like Kill Bill where the female lead can hold her own while caring for her young. The music was pretty generic, symphonic filler, to me.If anything, I felt the story should've been more interesting and possibly tied in a relationship to the dog in some way. The disjointed fear of monsters is fine, but the translation from the book version to the film version screwed up the tie with this fear and actuality for the boy. I think the book version would have made this fear more weighted.It was a fine movie, but I wouldn't put it up there with movies I should own. It still feels like a creature-feature but without the backstory to make any sense of connection to this random dog. Watch it once and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Great theme for a Horror Movie","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The theme is great for a horror movie, a dog gets rabbis and goes on a killing spree, eventually threatening the lives of the main characters (as they are stuck in a car with no way out)...just because it is so realistic. If you see this as a child you would be horrified of big dogs, and the truth is animal attacks do happen every day. It really makes you question whether you would get a new dog out of fear of it turning on you... Unfortunately the performances in the movie are poor in my opinion, and the script and background story is not very good. In fact, somehow the dog is actually the best actor in the movie (in a good way, SERIOUSLY!)The dog is killing and hurting people, but the dog itself is also in pain and dying. There are scenes where the dogs face is shown, bloody and oozing, where you feel bad for it mostly because of the innocence which still remained in the eyes at times. And then in other scenes the switch is flipped and the dog is scary as hell. Truly, kudos to the evil saint bernard. The background story about the family is lame and poorly scripted with some bad acting, but overall the worst part of the movie to me was having to hear the kid scream for minutes at a time, his yell was just so irritating. Overall 6/10 (was going to give it a 5 but I saw it as a kid and it was much scarier than, so I added one) "},{"Title":"There's no such thing as real monsters.... Or is there?","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When 5 year old Tad Trenton's imagination gets the better of him his parents come to comfort his fears of lurking night creatures by offering those aforementioned words of wisdom. Tad's mother (Dee Wallace) and father are having some marital issues which make for good enough reason to send the father off and leave mother and son helpless to fend off the attack from Cujo, a rabies-infested St. Bernard. Stephen King definitely changed my mind about those cuddly piles of fur with this story.Horror films always have more of an effect on me when they are realistic in nature. Knowing the events could actually occur make for a tense story. As for the telling of this one, Cujo is intentionally slow in its build up - a little too slow, for me. Direction 7/10 (Lewis Teague knows how tell a climax. It's the rest of the story he needs help on) Cinematography 5/10 (Jan De Bont gives you nothing more than what you'd expect to see) Editing 6/10 (An above mediocre effort from Neil Travis) Acting 7/10 (Performances aren't particularly bad. Even Cujo himself does a decent job) Dialogue 5/10 (The screenplay has a few holes in it, but doesn't overly spoil anything) Sound 9/10 (Probably my favourite part of the movie. Awesome job) Effects 6/10 (Less than impressive, but enough to make the story believable) Art Direction 6/10 (Enough to get the job done) Costumes 6/10 (Not awful. Nothing memorable) Music and/or Score 9/10 (Awesome effort, Charles Bernstein- A Nightmare On Elm Street)Total Score 66/100Not that I didn't enjoy it . . . but get to the point already. When the plot eventually thickens, the acting and directing begin to work for the film but it seems almost too late. Worth a watch in my opinion &#x96; but don't go out of your way. Oh, and don't even get me started on the ending. "},{"Title":"A Stephen King film that could have been a classic but is instead a passable horror","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo contains many moments that are tense and genuinely scare, particularly the Car scene where Donna and Tad are fending off a ferocious Cujo. But in between these tense moments come some tepid and tedious romance circles and tribulations that make the extended running time seem like a gimmick (89 minutes would probably become 40 if not for said mediocre tedium). When we do get to those moments, they are particularly well-staged and decently shot. Cujo's rabid interpretation could have been handled better and some of the acting could have been less clichéd, which makes it a disappointment. Such films as Christine and The Shining have portrayed action, direction and particularly acting superbly when compared to Cujo, and comparing these films side by side makes King's rabid movie even more inferior. It's not a disaster and not even awful, it's just ok and disappointing, especially how, with better cinematography (yes, it's 1983 but still, look at Evil Dead and Christine) and acting and dialogue hand-in hand, could have been another classic. Instead, it's an inferior movie, and one of the weakest King adaptations to date. Recommended for horror buffs and Stephen King completists, however. "},{"Title":"Disliked.","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Scary and thrilling shocker based off the novel by Stephen King. I had a troubling time getting through this film. It was scary at times, but altogether, it just goes into build up for what turns out to be not much. If you read the novel, then you'll probably like it more. But regardless, it was hard to watch due to the slowness of it.As from what I heard, it adapts well to the Stephen King novel, which is what its suppose to do, but that doesn't quite make it a good movie. A good adaptation, but not a good movie. The plot and conflict really get nowhere, and it almost makes the dog killing people seem non needed. They make the film seem like a film about relationships throughout half, and the other half, they focus on surviving a huge, ferocious dog with rabies.Dee Wallace gives a nice performance, along with a few others, even though her performance is mostly of going in and out of a car. It ends on a positive note, but in quite a hurry. It almost seemed like it was rushed into production.Altogether, it didn't work well for me, it started and continued out slow, it didn't make any improvements, and it just made it seem completely pointless to watch, getting nowhere at all. "},{"Title":"Edge of your seat thriller","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Suspenseful edge of your seat thriller has Dee Wallace and her small son trapped in a car with a rabid St Bernard right outside blocking their escape. Good acting and direction. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Berserk!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  King continuously finds an ordinary situation to convert it into a horrendous one. This time, a nice and friendly Sint Bernard turns rabid and haunts a woman and son. Although the ending in the book is nastier (no happy ending) and more realistic, this movie definitely earns more than an average 5.4 rating. Somehow silly are some actions of Cujo, when he rolls over. Obviously this gimmick has been used too often. Overall, an amusing film. "},{"Title":"Cujo is as scary as a rabid dog.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  At first when Cujo starts it seems that it is not going to be such a great film, but after 5 minutes your thoughts will change.  Cujo is a well made, scary film that does not rely on gore for impact.For a third of the film, the main characters are locked in a car, and terror is forced upon the audience.  The characters are real and portrayed well by all.  A definite must see for horror fans. RATING = 8 of 10 "},{"Title":"What a precious little dog!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's a funny film. Dee Wallace is fabulous in this type of  film but the best is the wild dog. A pleasing movie to see. "},{"Title":"i think this is good (may contain spoiler )","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" my name is Brandon and i am 14 years old.i liked the Stephen king movie cujo. i bought it at walmart for $12.28 .i think this is a good movie.this movie is about a family who has some car problems. they go to have it fixed at a farm in a rural place. the people who own the farm have a dog named cujo. one day cujo chases the wrong rabbit. he chases the rabbit in to a hole. cujo barks in the rabbit den, rabid bats fly out and bight the dog. the dog starts not being friendly.later the dog becomes a real beast.the dog kills some people.later when the family comes to drop of there car. cujo wont let them leave there car.they are in a car with the greenhouse affect for days with no water.later the police come, the police officer gets killed because he was unaware the rabid dog .later they get rescued by the kids father and cujo gets shot . i liked this movie.i hope you do to. "}{"Title":"Quite effective if not as good as the novel.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was the first of three Stephen King adaptations to hit the screen in 1983, with the others being The Dead Zone and Christine. It's a respectful - if not completely faithful - version of the story that captures a lot of its visceral power.It actually takes its time to get started (unlike a lot of modern movies where the aim is clearly to have things happen as fast as possible) and gives us all too human and thus easily relatable characters to follow before and during their horrible ordeal in a Maine dooryard.Dee Wallace is wonderful in this as Donna Trenton, a young mother who's had vague unpleasant thoughts about growing old and bored as a homemaker in the small Maine town of Castle Rock. She has an affair (with her real-life husband Christopher Stone playing the lover) that she comes to regret, while her husband Vic's (Daniel Hugh-Kelly) business is threatened by a health scare involving one of the products that it's advertised. Eventually Donna and little son Tad (Danny Pintauro) find themselves stranded by a malfunctioning car on the property of local mechanic Joe Camber (Ed Lauter). And there Cujo strikes. Cujo was a good hearted St. Bernard dog who contracted rabies after being bitten on the nose by a rabid bat, and now the dog is a killer. With nowhere to go, Donna has a hard time making it through the subsequent siege by the dog.Once Cujo kicks into gear, it's a hell of a film, with plenty of nerve jangling thrills and intense action scenes. The animal action (supervised by Karl Lewis Miller) is first rate and the several St. Bernards playing the part of Cujo are all impressive. The cinematography (by Jan de Bont) and camera-work are exemplary; note the handling of an early scene in Tad's bedroom and a later one inside the car. The makeup is very well done also. You really feel the heat and discomfort experienced by Donna and Tad, and feel like you're trapped inside that car with them.In addition to Wallaces' award-caliber performance, the rest of the cast is excellent right down the line. Young Pintauro proves to be a very good screamer.Cujo is one of those movies that definitely takes you on a ride, complete with many hills and valleys along the way. And, in the end, it does have something to say about how sometimes the fears we create for ourselves can't hold a candle to a true life-or-death situation.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"The dog is too adorable to take seriously.","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While I appreciate all the effort that went into making the dog appear rabid and vicious, it's just too obvious that the dog is playing. It wags its tail in one shot and you can clearly tell when it's looking for a toy. If it wasn't for the excessive growling, it would be hard to believe this dog could harm a fly. The dog is simply too cute to imagine as a rabid dog.I was also disappointed that they changed the ending. This is a horror movie - we don't need a happy ending! The real ending of the book was sad and tragic, also realistic considering the circumstances. If I want to see a happy ending I'll just watch a Disney movie! "},{"Title":"Not So Bad, But Rather Slow","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is another good and decent adaptation of Stephen King's novels, about a rabid dog gone so wild it starts killing innocent people. The film is OK, but the first 45 minutes are way too slow and really unimpressive, to my mind. Then, the real suspense starts to build up and it grabs your attention. And I must say, I will be deadly afraid for large dogs now! But tell, am I the only one (well, my wife noticed that also) to see one Goof that was mentioned here - Did you see when the main hero decides to go to Ed Lauter's character to check his car, following the postman's advice, he is in his red car alone; but when he actually comes to that place, he is in his car but with his wife and son. Tell me, where on Earth did they come from? In general, all actors did a nice decent job and played well, the novel itself is a bit Short and thus the film did its job to capture the thrill and horror of the plot. "},{"Title":"Kind of boring, but otherwise it is quite watchable.","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is a movie about a huge, dim-witted St Bernard named Cujo. He chases a rabbit one day and is bitten by a bat with rabies, so he goes nuts and terrorizes a woman and her cute little son Tad, stranded in their car. The movie is definitely very suspenseful, you bet Cujo is going to end up killing the two, but he doesn't but he stays there so if the two get out of the car he will attack. The movie is a bit too predictable, and is quite boring. If you are into Stephen King's movies then definitely watch this, but otherwise you might be really bored watching this.6.5/10 or C "},{"Title":"A mostly faithful adaptation of the story","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I first read cujo about a year ago and like all stephen king books I have read I loved it, so when I had a chance to watch the film I took it.The story of cujo is simple, the dog cujo is bitten by a bat infected with rabbies and inturn turns into an angry violent beast of a dog. Who takes hostage a mother and son who only protection is there car.Now stephen kings book revolves around the mothers struggle in the car and trying as hard as she can to make sure her and her son get out, and this is what the film covers. However the film doesn't cover and of the sub-plot that the book has which is almost key to the story in the understanding of the characters. Now I can understand that due to time constraints it would not always be possible to cover all the plot from the story into the film, however i feel the ending of the book was a much stronger one then that of the film and feel that it was a shame that the film chickened out of the ending.All in all a watchable film and a fair adaptation of the book. But fans of the book will probably be disappointed.6 out of 10 (being extra kind) "},{"Title":"One of the better Stephen King movies","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A rare story from the pen of Stephen King, Cujo deals with a frighteningly real possibility.Lewis Teague's movie, about a rabid St.Bernard that wreaks havoc on a remote farm, is well scripted and the director manages to create a fair amount of tension. He is ably supported by newcomer Danny Pintauro, and Dee Wallace, who delivers a very good performance.Cujo is not always convincing, but it is sure to have you on the edge of your seat from the moment that 'Tad' (Pintauro) and his mom (Wallace) arrive at the farm. Certainly one of the better King movies.Sunday, February 7, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"One of the best 80's Stephen King cinematic adaptations","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A large St. Bernard named Cujo gets rabies and becomes vicious after he's bitten on the nose by a bat. The hulking canine kills two people, then lays siege to both housewife Donna (a terrific Dee Wallace) and her young son Tad (superbly played by Danny Pintauro) when the car they're in breaks down in the driveway of the house Cujo lives in. Director Lewis Teague, working from a tight script by Don Carlos Dunaway and Lauren Currier, gradually builds the steadily mounting tension to a nerve-wracking fever pitch, pulling out all the stops in the positively harrowing second half of the movie. Prolific composer Charles Bernstein's spooky, rattling, throbbing score further adds to the wrenching suspense. Jan de Bont's beautifully fluid and agile cinematography also does the trick. The terrific supporting cast qualifies as another major asset Daniel Hugh-Kelly as Donna's decent, well-meaning, but ineffectual husband Vic, Christopher Stone as Donna's macho lover Steve Kemp, Ed Lauter as scruffy, abusive mechanic Joe Camber, Kaiulani Lee as Joe's timid wife Charity, and Mills Watson as Joe's slobby friend Gary. Special kudos are in order for Wallace's extraordinary tour-de-force performance in the demanding lead; she's essentially the glue that holds this picture together. Pintauro likewise impresses with his remarkably mature acting; he thankfully avoids the usual cute kid actor mannerisms. But what makes this film so strong and frightening is the overall plausibility Teague brings to the story; everything that happens in the narrative seems like stuff that could actually occur in real life. A total gut-ripper. "},{"Title":"Fairly violent. Not another animal becomes mad and kills movie.","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Certainly not a memorable Horror movie that doesn't even fits 100% in the genre but still manages to convince a Horror oriented audience on the violence and tension factors.The plot behind Cujo is easy to follow and well known but don't think about this movie only as the typical animal becomes mad and kills everyone. There's a deep emotional sub-plot between the family and Cujo. He wasn't bad since the beginning so when he gets rabid and starts killing everyone on his way, is when the real drama begins as he takes vengenace on some unlikeable people.Dee Wallace delivers a fine convincing performance. Danny Pintauro steals the show with a strange performance in my opinion. For some reason, this boy seems to always be sad or depressed.The effects are good but kind of naive. So if you want to watch a decent movie about a killer dog well this is the best of it's kind.But beware, if you are looking for a serious Horror movie, avoid Cujo because it won't fulfill your expectations. "},{"Title":"very tense thriller ......","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched this last night having read the book some years ago and was not sure what to expect. Some Stephen King films are much better than others. This is one of the very good ones. It centres on a marriage where perhaps out of boredom has ended up with the wife having an affair with the local craftsman. On finding this out the husband needs time to think and goes to an emergency advertising meeting for ten days which is out of town and tells his wife to take the car which needs repair to the local mechanic. Enter Cujo, a big soppy St Bernard who loves all people. Unfortunately he has been bitten by a rabid bat and as the film goes on he gradually starts killing people. The car breaks down when they get up there and they are marooned with a killer dog trying to eat them. A very good film with first class acting, the tension was built up beautifully. My only criticism was that in some shots when Cujo was attacking people it was wagging its tail which doggies only do when they are happy !! "},{"Title":"Cujo is a Soldier of Karma","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Possible Spoilers- What makes this film for me is how simple it is. A rabid dog killing people. The first half is a little slow, but it builds the main players up well. The second half plays out like Jaws on Land with the victims stranded in a broke down Ford instead of a boat. The acting is top notch. The boy playing Tad does some of the best child acting I've seen, I really felt bad for him. The dog attack scenes just look real. No CGI crap. The ways the attacks are edited just make them appear more violent and realistic. Cujo has aged well and doesn't feel dated. I'm pretty sure if this film was remade today the attack scenes wouldn't look any better or more realistic. I wouldn't classify this as a Horror film; it's more of a Suspense or Nature Gone Wild film. Cujo has no motives. He's just doing what rabid dogs do. He didn't have some bad childhood or lazy camp councilors to blame. This doesn't mean some scenes aren't scary. As Cujo slowly gets worse he becomes sensitive to certain sounds, this was somehow quite creepy to me. Toward the end the poor guy seems to be losing his mind. At one point the endless screaming of the mother and child make Cujo attempt suicide via a car door. Most of the folks who get killed in Cujo have it coming to them. This makes the dog some kind of Karma Soldier, taking out the white trash so-to-speak. I mostly just felt bad for the dog. "}{"Title":"The horror of a rabid dog","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 1983 was a good year in film and certainly for Stephen King, whose film adaptations fall into all types of quality. This is one that is above average.The script is OK, most of it is based on being trapped in the car which leaves it up to the actors to deliver. And they do. The mother and her son do a good job, and so does the St. Bernhard. How they managed to get it so angry is beyond me, but I hope they were nice.They did a real good job making the otherwise friendly looking St. Bernhard look grisly and nasty and the attack scenes as well are quite scary. If you disagree to that your experience of the movie won't amount to much because it doesn't offer more than that.That is the lousiest poster I've seen btw. "},{"Title":"A pretty decent version of Stephen King's novel","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King writes some of the best stories we have today. The books of his have an effect that can only be done through writing, and not by filming. That is the reason that his movies aren't as good as the books. The novel Cujo is one of the most gut wrenching and disturbing novels I've ever read. The movie isn't terrifying, but there is one exceptionally scary moment, and there is a lot of suspense.The story is realistic and is absent of any of the supernatural elements that you would expect in a King movie. The story is about a Saint Bernard who becomes Rabid in a rural Maine town. That is the basis of the story, but it also focuses on two families, one is from the rural town, and the others are from the city and were looking for a great life in the country side. Both of these families have marriage problems, and both of the husbands have job problems. A course of events takes place in the first 45 minutes that has nothing to do with horror, but more so about the characters and the slow progression of rabies that Cujo has. Eventually, a moment strikes and horror is what takes place throughout the last 45 minutes of the movie.(spoiler) The problem with this movie is that it ruins the book. The book has somewhat of a message that was told through a heart breaking ending that many couldn't stand, but the movie ruins the ending. Otherwise, it's a pretty decent horror movie, but it's nothing like The Shining. "},{"Title":"Shocking, Terrifying, and Scary!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is a must see for all fans of the horror genre. Like most movies based on Stephen King novels or stories, Cojo serves its purpose to the fullest. It is truly terrifying, and will leave you at the edge of your seat, waiting to see what will happen next, and waiting to see how it will all end.The plot is very simple, but if you think about it, it is also very terrifying A woman and her very young child are trapped in a car. Waiting for them outside of the car, is a rabid St. Bernard, that attacks everything in site. There is absolutely no way to get out of the car without being attacked by this beast. Dee Wallace Stone gives a very believable performance in this film. The little boy does a great job as well. I wish I could have seen him in more movies, but it looks like he didn't so much after this film. The Great Acting, Great Suspense, and Great Shock Value gives CUJO Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Stephen King's Big Bad Dog.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cujo has been the butt of jokes for over 20 years now. As a movie it is not terrible for the genre, but overall there is really nothing outlandishly impressive here. The titled dog was once a friendly St. Bernard, but a brutal attack by a group of bats means that he is infected with rabies and becomes a violent beast. He starts a reign of terror on a small town and eventually traps Dee Wallace and young son Danny Pintauro in their car. Can they escape the demon dog or will Cujo's killing continue? Looking back Cujo does build to a somewhat suspenseful finale, albeit predictable and uncreative. Overall the production does enough good things to make an impression and ends up being an average movie for the trivial horror genre. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Terror now has another name.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen King's best seller novel comes to life. An alarming story of a rabid St. Bernard named Cujo terrorizing a small community. Violent, bloody and heart pounding terror. This movie will definitely scare children of all ages 7 to 70. The last thirty minutes of the movie is the most intense. Dee Wallace-Stone gives a riveting performance. Rounding out the cast are Christopher Stone, Ed Lauter, Daniel Hugh Kelly and Danny Pintauro. This is one of the better Stephen King adaptations.  "},{"Title":"An hour to warm up, a pay-off that doesn't pay.","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There are movies like Cujo that work well. The Birds is one. The first Night of the Living Dead is one. Even Texas Chainsaw Massacre effectively gets at a similar idea. What idea is that? The basic horror premise of outside, uncontrollable, unexplainable forces out to exact an uncertain vengeance on humanity. Granted, Cujo makes sense to us, but to the characters he's trapped in a car, he is a monster of immense power, an object of fear.That kind of deep analysis is most likely exactly what the filmmakers wanted us to make, after seeing the movie. But they've run into a few problems, immense problems, with the execution of the film. Not the least of which is the fact that Cujo is never really all that terrifying.The acting is standard Hollywood. Professional, if uninteresting. The cinematography, by Jan DeBont, is quite good. The script, though, carries the biggest flaws. The worst of them is the lack of anything interesting for the characters to do. For the first hour of the movie, we watch a typical family melodrama. The falling apart of a marriage, the daily struggle of making a living, and so on. This is intercut with footage of an increasingly messy Cujo, just to remind us that we're supposed to be watching a horror movie. And then the movie, for lack of a better term, takes off. It leaves the stories, the subplots, and the family issues behind (mostly), and lets the mother (Dee Wallace) and her son get trapped in their car by a now violently rabid Cujo. It's never explained why she's driving such a junky, broken down car, when her husband seems to be rather well paid. Then again, the entire second half of the movie is built on her car breaking down, so such plot conveniences are expected from this inept script. The scenes in the car are repetitive, dull, and not particularly frightening. Even as an asthmatic, I hardly felt a moment of sympathy for the suffocating son. The scenes at the end are obvious, heavy handed, and well filmed. The fact that they are well filmed leads a lot of people to dismiss the general stupidity of most of what ends up going on. It's slick horror, well made, and easily accessable. Stephen King is responsible for some great horror movies. The Shining, The Dead Zone, and Misery are just a few. This movie could have been in that category, because the idea is a good one. Like Jaws, it's simple, to the point, and in theory, terrifying. But this movie hasn't got the first idea how to scare us. And it muddies the point with so many things we don't care about, so many pointless, sidetracking, poorly conceived moments, that we forget what was supposed to be scary in the first place. "},{"Title":"Overwhelmed by flaws","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King lists this movie as one of his 10 favourite adaptations of his works. Over Carrie, The Shining, and The Dead Zone. I don't know what he sees in this one. Problems with this film are numerous the action doesn't get started until 40 minutes in, and then quickly gets stuck in a single location; the direction is workmanlike and bland; the dog is never convincingly threatening, with lots of fast cuts and shaky camera-work to convey a lot of the attacks; characters often make stupid decisions so that the plot can put them and others in danger; almost all the characters are annoying and unlikeable, particularly the little boy; the sub plots of the affair and the ad campaign aren't all that interesting and take up far too much time. There are some good points, though Dee Wallace is good and convincingly portrays the exhaustion and terror of someone in her situation; she's also pretty good in the sub-plot of the affair, putting in a reserved but believable performance and helping to evince sympathy for her character; Jan de Bont photographs the film well; and there were two or three genuinely tense moments. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing adaptation of a Stephen King novel!","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" CUJO is a movie adaptation of a novel of the same name written by Stephen King.I've never read the novel but just scanning the comments page has given me some insight. I noticed a reference to the change in the ending.The plot of the movie is as follows - a St. Bernard dog gets bitten by a rabid bat and goes on a killing spree.The plot sounds quite worn now, having been done in various movies. However it might have been something new when King wrote the novel. Or perhaps King's novel put a twist on the story that was never shown in the movie.Anyway, the first 40 minutes of this movie have nothing at all worth mentioning other than the dog being bitten. Nothing else happens - nothing scary, nothing funny, nothing to add depth to the characters and nothing interesting in any other respect. I found this section difficult to sit through and was constantly shouting at the TV, come on, get started!. The events that I was seeing on the screen were reminiscent of a TV movie of the drama genre or an extended episode of a TV soap opera. Unfortunately, there was only one family in the movie given any focus so it couldn't even work on a soap opera level. The dog was the best character in the movie, but it didn't get enough screen time in this section. There was nothing to indicate why this dog would go on a killing spree later.After the 40 minute mark point, something finally happened. The dog suddenly transformed from a lovable pet into a vicious killing machine. It began attacking some people. There was also an interesting cat-and-mouse chase when two characters became trapped in a car, unable to leave because the dog would attack them. Even in this overly long second half, the suspense would build up well before dying again. It was just a stop-go situation repeated over and over again until the movie reached its conclusion.Without giving the ending away, I can tell you it was very formulaic and unworthy of a Stephen King story.The suspense scenes when they are on the screen are exciting to watch. Some great camera angles add menace to the dog's vicious nature when he attacks people. This is particularly important because as others have mentioned a St. Bernard dog is nowhere near as scary as, say, a Rottweiler. Unfortunately, the movie fails to utilise suspenseful music to support the images on the screen. The music is far too melodramatic rather than suspenseful. This may fit a TV movie but it looks incredibly out of place in what should be a dark-toned movie presenting a living nightmare to the viewer.This brings me on to a wider problem with this movie - the photography. The camera-work and especially the choice of colours make this seem like a very cheap TV movie one would expect to see as the daytime movie on Channel 5 here in the UK where I am writing this comment from.The top two actors deliver good acting performances that help to breathe life into the movie's dull segments. Dee Wallace and Danny Pintauro should be given credit for doing a great job with the poor material they are given. I could forgive a few brief moments of overacting by paying closer attention to the dialogue, which could not have allowed any other interpretation in my opinion. I won't pass judgement on the other actors because they are given virtually nothing to do.As someone who is a fan of SALEM'S LOT and STEPHEN KING'S IT, both movie adaptations of famous Stephen King novels, I had high expectations for this movie. But it turned out to be a massive disappointment.Overall, I do not recommend fans of Stephen King or horror movies in general to watch CUJO. This is one of those moments where I have to recommend the book rather than the movie. Hopefully it brings the story to life in a way that the movie failed to do. "},{"Title":"No balls.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well to begin with it was pretty well executed, considering that most of novels atmosphere was built by describing psychological chaos witch was going on in dogs brain. That was pretty much possible to show only by bringing in someone like narrator or by making a dog talk in his mind, which was out of question, of course, so I don't have any complaints in this department. The one complaint which I have however is stated in this comments summary - no balls guys. The boy dies in the novel, why doesn't he die here? I understand they couldn't bring in the stuff like guy jerking off on the bed f.e. but why take off the main thing, which Stephen was trying to say in this novel? That's actually the main problem I have with most of movies built by King's novels &#x96; directors don't have enough balls and in that case completely misses the point of authors creation and that's the reason why all the endings of such kind of stories suck. Why would they do that? What, they think some wuss in the audience won't be able to deal with that and get a psychological trauma? Oh, I have news for you directors &#x96; such kind of people don't watch horror movies. Real horror fans will take anything you'll give to them and ask for more, so there's no reason, no reason I tell you to leave out such an important plot point of the story just because of your own lack of psychological strength. Shame on you Lewis Teague, movie would have gotten at least 1 star bigger ratings if you would have left the things how they were supposed to be. "},{"Title":"I liked the book better but the movie is still good","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was bit disappointed with the movie, it was missing way to much of the book and I think if the ending was the same as book the movie would have been a lot better.My favourite part of movie was when Cujo was on car trying break the windscreen that was scary. They did some good bloody scene in the movie, which I really liked a other good thing about this movie it made me jump, when cujo jump through window what I didn't like was was the car scene was bit long and boring at one point, I was more disappointed in the ending as I said before.Cujo the movie is good, Well made for 80's and Outstanding acting from everyone and Cujo he/she was great.The movie not as good as book, Cujo the book is one of favourite horror books and is the only book that gave me Nightmares! "}{"Title":"Has its moments","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Story about a supposedly happy family--a mom (Dee Wallace), a loving husband (Daniel Hugh-Kelly) and cute kid (Danny Pintauro). Problem is that mom is sleeping around with a family friend (amusingly played by Wallace's then husband Christopher Stone). The husband finds out but doesn't know if he can forgive her. Then Wallace and the kid are trapped in a broken down car with a rabid dog (Cujo) outside trying to get in. No one knows where they are.**SPOILERS** Strange film. The first 50 minutes or so are mostly about the family and their marital problems. There's nothing wrong with that but Wallace (who can be good) gives a horrible performance and Hugh-Kelly tries but he seems to be confused on how to play the role. The kid is OK but you're basically stuck with characters you really could care less about. However 50 minutes in they get stuck in the car with the dog outside--THAT'S when the movies works. It's very uncomfortable to watch though--the poor dog himself is suffering (although no dog was harmed making this) and seeing a kid slowly dying is unbearable. The scene where he gets in the car and attacks Wallace while the kid screams in the back is almost impossible to watch. It has a good music score and is well-directed by Lewis Teague. Also Ed Lauter is good in a small role. So it DOES horrify you but it's more than a little unpleasant to watch. NOT for kids. "},{"Title":"The dog attacks make it a decent film.","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is a fairly decent film compared to many others based on Stephen King stories. The film is mostly about a rabid St. Bernard who traps a woman and her young son in a disabled Ford Pinto. They have taken the auto to a farmhouse for service, but the family members have either gone away on a trip or become dog treats. Nobody is there to help them, and since cell phones were not yet available for widespread public use, the two find themselves in one heck of a predicament. Mail has even been suspended to the farm, so not even the mail man will be able to save them! Not that he'd have been much trouble for the dog, anyway! Also complicating things are repeated respiratory attacks (asthma?) that the boy keeps having. You get the sense that he won't last long in that car.The film uses two big subplots to set everything up. One deals with the woman's husband away on a business trip, while the other deals with an affair she's having. Neither of these subplots really lead anywhere, they merely complicate the situation and fill out the screen time. The film really only hits its stride when the dog is bearing down on the helpless victims.A lot of the credit for creating such a scary situation of course has to go to Mr. King. Usually I'm not a fan of his, though many other people in this world think he's a god. My biggest problem with his writing is the fact that he often cheats. By cheating I mean he uses supernatural elements to power his stories and put his characters in peril. His best work is when real people are put in situations that could actually happen. Cujo and Misery are examples of two stories that could really happen. This is the main reason why they work better than Pet Semetary or Night Shift or some of the other stinkers his books have produced.The direction is very good. I looked pretty hard for a reflection of the camera in one of the many shots of car windows. I found none. The film is very suspenseful when it needs to be. Not only are the dog attacks brutal, but simply showing the dog looking in at them is pretty creepy. We see numerous POV shots from the dog, as we wonder what will set him off next. The ringing of a phone from inside the house seems to really make him angry. After a while, the child's health problems become too dire for them to wait in the car any longer. The mother is forced to square off with this big, slimy, and angry dog. That part will have you on the edge of your seat.The film did okay at the box office. It's always a difficult shoot when so much revolves around an animal. Apparently they used several dogs to play Cujo. Most of them kept licking off the syrup they used for blood and the slime associated with rabies. Loved the part by Ed Lauter, too! That guy rules.The verdict 6 of 10 stars. If you can make it through the domestic squabbling, the dog attacks are worth the price of a rental.The Hound. (I've had my rabies shots!) "},{"Title":"it seems so real!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't listen to these idiots if you haven't seen this movie it is scary and has plenty of disturbing scenes. And what makes it better than anything else is that it all seems so realistic! No goofy teenagers trying to get some, no silly catchphrases just a big ugly mean dog killing! You feel sorry for the woman and the boy trapped in the car but then at the end you don't cause you realize she was a whore and the little boy was annoying. I recommend this movie to anybody but kids will be scared, when I was a scared it sure scared the hell out of me! 7/10.  "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Mother & son's car breaks down in the middle of nowhere and they are held hostage by a giant, rabid dog. Horror film takes some time getting started, but once things pick up it is one of the best constructed and most frightening and intense horror films in cinema history. Dee Wallace Stone is first rate. Rated R; Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Genuine horror","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Very good movie that does not resort to cheap thrills to scare you...okay, maybe once, but that's allowed.That damn dog is enough to make anyone cringe..he is rabid and p***ed about it, too, so he attacks anyone he encounters.  Unfortunately for Dee Wallace and her son, that includes them, in a remote spot with a not-functioning-properly car.  They are stuck in the car and there is no way out.  The kid is already scared of his own shadow so this does not go over that well, and Mom is a contrite adulterer who might be feeling a little like she's paying for her sins.There are several great shots - Pinaturo running from the lightswitch to his bed; and another in the car when they realize the true horror - the camera circles around and around and the effect is very chilling.Recommended.  8/10.  "},{"Title":"This is not for everyone, and I'm leaving it at that.","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, I mean leaving it at that AFTER I put in my two-cents' worth. I thought that this movie was nothing but a pointless waste of time (and fake blood). Sure, there were upsetting/suspenseful scenes, but I felt sorry for the REAL victimsthe DOG, who had to be the bad guy (Not fun if you're a huge animal-lover), and the AUDIENCE (unless you're a fan of excesses of blood and gore, and yes-I know plenty of those types). I watched the entire movie, basically hoping that someone would somehow manage to save the humans AND this poor animal! I love dogs, and it was upsetting to me to see this magnificent creature suffering. Yes, the people were suffering,also, but it dragged on for WAY too long. It just somehow seemed stupid to me in many, many respects.I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. Not even for two cents. "},{"Title":"Cujo Rolled Over!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This adaptation of the bestseller by Stephen King about a rabid St. Bernard can best be described as humdrum film-making.  It is not a bad film nor a good one, but it certainly is rather pedestrian.  Basically a woman and her son are stranded in a pinto(what a fate!) while a ferocious St. Bernard waits for them to come out.  The whole first half of this movie(minus the two minute explanation of how Cujo became rabid) is really about nothing related to the dog.  The pinto needs repairs.  The little boy sees imaginary monsters in his closet.  A woman wins a lottery.  Dee Wallace has an affair with a local handyman.  A guy on TV keeps talking about cereal.  I know...it sounds oh so exciting.  After 40 minutes of this we get the first murder by the dog(the victim just happens to be the guy that played Perkins, the Jungle Cat, on Sheriff Lobo).  Overall the acting was mediocre.  How many ways can Dee Wallace distort her face and scream? Now to give credit where credit is due, the dog is indeed impressive.  He is enormous and looks very scary when covered in blood, sweat, and drool.  And some of the moments in the car are well-crafted scenes of suspense.  But as a whole, the film really doesn't offer much more than you would expect from this type of film.  For me it offered even less than what I expected.   "},{"Title":"Boring. Really, thats all I can say...","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am writing this with 10 minutes left before the film finishes. I feel comfortable writing it now, because unfortunately I know exactly how this film is going to end.The premise is simple enough, rabid dog on the loose in a small town, kills people. Great - simple plot for a good fun camp 80s horror.Uhh ..no.The main problem is this is based on a book (Stephen King) and you can tell that is should not have really been adapted to film, at least not with the same plot. Why? Cuz its boring! The first 45 minutes tries to build depth to its main characters and create suspense. It however lasts too long (half the film!) - the characters are unlikeable and we never care for them anyway, and it just about creates zero suspense. The easiest film (according to plot and time) to compare this to it the classic Jaws. Everything that Jaws does right, Cujo does wrong. Jaws created good characters and a genuine feeling of dread. Cujo does neither. Jaws effectively creates a scary, creepy villain in its shark. Cujo has a dirty St Bernard running about growling and jumping, and not a lot else. Jaws is exciting and unpredictable. Cujo is a tireless bore that remains predictable right to the end.Also confusing is the plethora of subplots that just act as boring red herrings to the films main plot.If this film was rewritten for the big screen and had a better director this could have been good. But it wasn't. It was a waste of 90 minutes of my life.People on here are saying this is one of the best King adaptations - Im sorry you could not be more wrong. The Mist is a hundred times better, Thinner is 10 times better and even the one with the cats is twice as good! This in my opinion is one of the worst! The only good thing was the action scenes with the dog looked real, even though they were dull.Films ended now, and it didn't get any better. Avoid. "},{"Title":"An idea that isn't taken advantage of","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The idea behind this film is definitely a frightening one; what if the lovable family pet became a ruthless killer? Stephen King novels have translated to the screen with mixed results, and normally it's the filmmaker that's at fault, although this time I think the reason why Cujo isn't better has fallen on Stephen King's shoulders. Basically, the dynamics of the story are all wrong as King analyses the idea of the family pet going mad from the perspective of another family! Because the dog belongs to someone else, and the people under threat from it haven't spent any time with it prior to it trying to kill them ensures that a good idea isn't taken advantage of, which is rather shocking considering King's obvious talent for horror. The first scene of the film sees a St. Bernard chasing a rabbit. He ends up chasing it into a cave, where the dog is bitten by a rabid bat. Meanwhile, Vic Trenton has learned that his wife is having an affair and while he's away on business, she takes their son to the garage to get the car fixed...where they bump into the rabid St. Bernard.Most of King's stories take in supernatural elements, so the fact that this one doesn't ensures that it has grounding in reality, which makes the whole thing scarier. The central set-piece, which sees a mother and child trapped in a car while man's best friend prowls around outside is very well done and director Lewis Teague (who also directed the slightly better Cat's Eye) creates a good sense of attrition between the two parties. The St. Bernard itself makes for a good lead villain, as the dog has an imposing presence and is utilised well. Interestingly, it also manages to straddle the line between pathos and viciousness. In fact, the dog is by far the best performer in the movie. Dee Wallace-Stone (from 'The Hills Have Eyes') gets dirty and desperate in the lead role, and is flanked by an annoying performance from child actor Danny Pintauro. Rounding off the cast, Daniel Hugh Kelly is given little to do in his role as the third wheel to the central threesome. All in all, Cujo actually isn't a bad movie. It certainly could have been a lot better, but it's fairly original and the dog makes for an interesting lead. "},{"Title":"It gets Cujo right, but it guts the story . . .","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this after reading the book over a few days and concluding that it was one of the best, most touching (okay, not much vantage point, but it was touching), novels I had ever read. Lucky for me, I had subscribed to a Stephen King movie offer a few years ago, and had Cujo (among other worthless movies) lying around. I had never watched it, and put it in the VCR the second I finished the book.So what did the filmmakers do with the story?The only thing they got right -- which was done very well -- was the dog. Okay, I was freaked out, surprised, I even squirmed a few times -- and this was with the surprises of the novel fresh in my head. But a few good thrills does not a good movie make.The subplot with Charity Camber, a powerful tug-of-war with Joe over the direction their son, Brett, is going to take, isn't even alluded to. How Joe, father and husband, can die while seemingly not effecting anyone else is beyond me. He has a kid and a wife! Isn't that important to the story? It was in the book!Also, the subplot with Donna cheating on Vic was toned down to the point of being inconsequential. Where was the tension? In the book, I would argue that that *was* the plot, with Cujo trapping Donna and Tad in the car coming in a distant second. I was pulling for these people in the book. I was wanting it to work out. I wanted to see the note, and the sexual undertones. But, well, can't fit them into a 95 minutes movie I guess.And don't get me started on the ending. Talk about a wimp out.Overall, if you watch a cheap, obviously dated, thrill, this isn't the worst you're going to find. It really demeans the book though, as most of the old Stephen King movie adaptations do.Matty J "}{"Title":"Play dead, boy!! PLAY DEAD!","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's Beethoven goes berserk in this modest-budget adaptation of Stephen King's novel with the same title. Cujo is the name of a big and friendly St. Bernard that becomes deadly and aggressive after being bitten by a rabid bat. Lassie from hell first kills his owner and than takes hostage of a mother and her son in a broken-down car. I haven't read the novel but the person I've watched this movie with did and she claims it's a very faithful adaptation of King's writing and one of the most successful ones, too! Stephen King has the talent to uphold the tense image of two people trapped in a car for two-thirds of a book but it's not matter of course to translate this to a screen without losing its impact. Director Lewis Teague succeeded in making the most out of the scary struggles between dog and car. Cujo starts rather slow and throughout the entire first 45 min. you feel like you're being stuffed with information that isn't essential to the plot. The heart-breaking story of a seemly happy family falling apart due to adultery isn't top priority if you're watching a horror movie, right? If you manage to overlook the fake sentiment and family drama, you'll be rewarded with an action-filled climax and some delightfully gruesome make-up effects. The crew did their best to make the St. Bernard look threatening with filthy mud on his fur, blood-soaked teeth and merciless eyes. Yet, you can't help facing that the dog evokes feelings of pity instead of terror. That's probably another reason why it's easier to be compelled by a book.  "},{"Title":"dog bites man --- and Pinto ---- story...","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What we have here is the ultimate statement on rural families that opt to live near bat caves. The result is a fairly competent Stephen King adaptation of a big, friendly pooch that is somewhat innocently turned into a bloodthirsty devil dog.One frolicky afternoon in the sunshine, the title farm dog is pursuing a scampering bunny rabbit through the countryside. Mistakenly popping his head into what he thinks is Thumper's underground domicile, is instead infested with bats. One pierces poor Cujo's schnozz and days later, the chaos begins.On the other side of town, more mundane things are being played out. Your average three-person family --- complete with a kid who fears his closet at bedtime --- are going through the motions. Sure, we wouldn't mind a little character development and subtext for what's to come, but it's this part of the screenplay that nearly kills the film. Completely needless subplots populate this thing like no tomorrow, involving extra-marital activities, the most average town stud of the 80s, and an asinine attempt at damage control for --- you ready? --- a cereal campaign that's made America physically ill. What any of this crap is doing in a horror film is beyond me.But once you've slogged through that superfluous nonsense, you're permitted a decent little thriller. We observe a mother and her young son damned by a 70s eyesore Pinto which malfunctions at exactly the wrong time. What neighborhood farm does is crap out at? You guessed it. The residence of the now bloodsoaked, dirtied Cujo.Director Teague ought to be commended for keeping the action so tense in what ends up being (basically) a one location film. A supremely trained movie dog (or possibly *dogs*) evoke genuine fear and panic for the audience. And Teague as well creates a perfect sense of isolation for the desolate setting, which in many King novels, is a character in itself. Jan de Bont's cinematography is superbly skilled as well, most impressively involving a steadicam shot approaching the open door of the Pinto. And an excellent one rotating around Cujo as he sits on the porch of the house, the car in his sights.Wallace and Pintauro carry the film quite well, though Pintauro's screechy whining can be a bit much at times. But that's what it makes it so convincing! You feel a legitimate observation is going of how these two people would cope with being held hostage by a serial mutt. Other characters seem to occupy the screen for the sole purpose of distancing themselves from the audience, so when they're attacked, we feel better about it. And the bearded lathario who allegedly has several mistresses at his disposal, still sees it necessary to take a knife to one of his conquests homes out of her rejection of him. Please.The close of the film leaves an important visual off-screen (lemme just say gunshot!), and the final frame (especially the music) is right out of a soap opera. And I'm sorry, but as a dog lover, there were just times that I actually had sympathy for Cujo. He's not inherently evil to begin with, and most notably in the beginning, is viewed as a fluffy, friendly canine. So to see him descend into a killing machine was almost a bit depressing at times.But if you can power through a fodder-laden start (or even utilize the fast forward button), Cujo is a passable scare-fest for a Friday night with friends. "},{"Title":"It's ok, nothing spectacular.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't really know what to expect from this film, although I did know that the book was written by Stephen King, so that gave me some sort of basis.  To my surprise, I expected the film to much more supernatural, but there really wasn't anything supernatural about it.The camera-work in the film was pretty good.  There were a few scenes that I wasn't terribly fond of, like when the kid runs from the light switch to his bed.  I thought that was un-needed, and just too dramatic for such a non-dramatic scene.  Or when Donna Trenton (Dee Wallace) and Tad Trenton (Danny Pintauro) are stuck in the car and the camera goes in circles back and forth between them.  Just stupid!!!  But everything else was done quite well.  The dog, Cujo, looked excellent throughout the film, although, I think they went a little overboard at times with the goo on his face.The actors all did a fine job, but there really isn't much to talk about.  The Kid (Danny Pintauro) did start to annoy me a bit much at times, but that's ok, he's a kid.Overall, the story was pretty interesting, and a bit better than I expected, but I still wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see this.  Unless of course, you are a big fan of Stephen King (or the actors/director).  On the upside though, the film is very short, so even if you don't like it, you won't be wasting a whole lot of time.  Well, if you do end up seeing the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Turn your brain off","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you want to watch a film that insults your intelligence go ahead. Cujo is the perfect choice for you. I haven't read the story by sir. Stephen King but for sure I'm not going to if that is a good adaptation, as he claimed to be. Awful, awful, awful. Looks like a B film done by incompetent and talentless hacks. The plot is god-horrendous. The people are so stupid that the film couldn't be set on Earth, is simply no possible. Maybe on a planet where people have a rationality equivalent of a lobotomized chimp, but not in this planet by any means. And the worst part of it all is that the only reason of why this film is longer than 30 minutes is because the characters are way too stupid to not put themselves in a obvious risk situation. If you don't want to lose some braincells or just laugh at how bad this film is avoid this film, like any normal person should do upon advice. 2.7/10 "},{"Title":"There are no real monsters.","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's 24 years old, but it still packs a punch. No special effects, no CGI, just a rabid dog is enough to instill terror to the point of passing out. Stephen King wrote this horror movie and I can imagine the real horror of Dee Wallace (E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial) as she was trapped in a car that didn't appear too much bigger than the dog that was foaming at the mouth wanting to ravish her. This was Danny Pintauro's first film. He went on to Who's the Boss after this. Nothing special, but a retro classic that is still good. "},{"Title":"Real slow first half","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friendly family pet St. Bernard named Cujo is bit by a bat and turn rabinous. He kills his owner mechanic Joe (Ed Lauter) and a neighbor. When Donna Trenton (Dee Wallace) and her son go over to Joe's, their car dies trapping the pair while Cujo lurk in waiting.This takes a while to get the dog to start killing. In fact it takes way to long too get there. The only compelling idea is being trapped by that dog. Everything else seems beside the point. They are better off stripping away the excess.Dee Wallace is doing her utmost. She's a great actress and probably the only compelling thing in this movie. She's very effective trapped in the car although the dog attacks aren't that scary. Somehow the attacks need to look more violent. "},{"Title":"Dreadful Film.","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Director Lewis Teague(Alligator) directs this film based on a Stephen King novel about a young woman named Donna Trenton(played by Dee Wallace) who, along with her young son Tad, are trapped and terrorized by a rabid St. Bernard(it was bitten on the nose by a bat in a cave) after their car breaks down at a mechanic's home(father of Tad's friend). The pair try to flee, but Cujo only chases them, and so they are forced to barricade themselves in the car until help comes, or the dog dies...Perfectly dreadful film has good performances wasted in such a contrived and unpleasant film with no redeeming value whatsoever; just an ugly story that didn't need to be told. Animal lovers like myself should especially stay away from this junk! "},{"Title":"Biscuit case","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I remembered the stunning final frame of this film and wondered how the movie had held up over the years.This time around I watched with my nine-year-old son, who found it terrifying but wanted to keep on watching. (He claimed to enjoy it.) Though the dog that played Cujo is a gifted performer, I found the storyline to be predictable and hackneyed. It was dumb to have a woman and young child chugging out to the middle of nowhere in a clunker, and silly for a sheriff to probe a potential crime scene all by himself.However, there were a few nice surprises. The scene in which Cujo becomes rabid is striking, and his resurgence after we have given him up for dead did manage to startle.It was very hard to watch Tad suffering from fear seizures, but the movie maker showed some welcome mercy by sparing children from the carnage.In all, this is a rather weak work. I don't think I'll be checking it out again anytime soon. "},{"Title":"It should have barked in your face, but it ends up just drooling on your feet.","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like dogs. They're loyal. They're loving. They're playful. They have an infectious enthusiasm. And they possess an uncanny ability to motivate us out of a state of bored complacency simply with a nasal nudge to the knee and a look that says Hey! You! Hurry up and throw me a damn stick, ya lazy bastard! But there's a darker side to our furry friends. There always just enough news reports about toddlers mauled by pitbulls to remind us that some breeds of dog were bred for centuries purely to kill. When a strange dog runs up to me, tongue lolling and eyes hopeful, there's a small part of my brain that always expects it to sink its teeth into my nutsack, tear off my testicles and call over all its doggie mates to run a rape train on my mouth while I lay bleeding and helpless. The mere offering of a pat could lead to my destruction by these sweet beasts, clutching my shredded groin and coughing up dog semen; brought low by a species that truly understands that savagery equals power. I'm guessing that everybody has thought that at some point, right? So it makes perfect sense that a dog can make for a perfect horror villain.Enter Cujo. Probably the most famous flick in the rather lacklustre killer dog sub-subgenre. But sadly, in no way is it a standout of its type. It takes a very mainstream approach so, while it succeeds as a drama, it fails as a horror. It takes the time to establish its characters, but for me that's just 40 minutes of wasted screen time, especially when the emotional elements feel devoid of any real emotion. Oh noes, she cheated on her husband and feels bad about it? Couldn't care less, just get to the canine carnage. Likewise the cinematography is quite classy and ticks all the boxes for a good drama, but it criminally fails to capitalise on the great claustrophobic environment presented.Admittedly, the sight of a 200 lb St. Bernard covered in blood and mucus makes for quite a fearsome figure. But it's handled so tamely that my deep-seated fears of genital mutilation and face rape remained dormant.Basically, this puppy has been neutered. It's horror that plays everything safe. Ugh. I can't think of a concept more redundant than that. "},{"Title":"Scariest movie that I've ever seen","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think that this is the scariest movie that I've ever seen because there is more at stake. The climax of the movie is a mother and her son in a car with a rabid dog trying to get inside to kill them. I was horrified the most when the son could barely breathe so his mother tried everything that she could to save him (he lived). This isn't some immortal killer like Jason, someone who kills people in their dreams like Freddy, or some ghostly presence that kills people like The Messengers. This is a just about a sweet Saint Bernard that becomes ferocious after getting bit by a bat with rabies. Cujo was the antagonist of the movie, but you can feel bad about his death because he would have been a lovable pooch if he wasn't bitten. "}{"Title":"Cujo Another Classic Stephen King Adaptation!","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Next to Carrie, The Shining, Christine and Misery, Cujo is another one of my favorite Stephen King film adaptations.The movie revolves mostly around the Trenton family Housewife Donna, her advertiser husband Vic, and their little boy Tad. Donna is going through a rough time with Vic, since she is just ending an affair with another man. Meanwhile, the Trentons meet the Cambers, a very dysfunctional family with a beautiful Saint Bernard named Cujo. What the Trentons and the Cambers don't know is that Cujo is very sick. He has been bitten by a rabid bat, and has become a violent killing machine. So, when Donna and Tad take their 1958 Pinto to the Camber house to get it fixed, signs of leaving are minimal, since Cujo is extremely angry and has them trapped in the car, fighting for their lives.Stephen King movies are either a hit or miss. But, despite Misery, the earliest King films are the best ones. Carrie, The Shining, Christine... those movies were genuine and really scared you. Cujo is another hit in the King album. This could have been another killer animal movie, just the same as Christine could have been another killer car flick. But there are a lot of things going for Cujo that make it classic King.Cujo is not a movie that has tons of BOO! scares. It is a film that unfolds with a slowly building tension, leaving the viewer completely on edge. While people think the scariest part of the film is seeing Cujo deteriorate, for me, the scariest part of the film is watching Donna and Tad try to escape this dog. It becomes a very emotional movie, and the characters gain your complete sympathy. I cared abut Donna and Tad, and I wanted to see them get out alive.This film has a tremendous sense of claustrophobia. Just the idea of being in a small space while being attacked by an evil being just sends chills up the spine. I felt like Cujo was getting into the car and clawing at me. It felt that real.The acting is magnificent. The performances of the cast come off as very believable, especially Dee Wallace and Danny Pintauro as Donna and Tad. I was very frightened when Pintauro's character started to get sick, and I was hoping to God that Dee Wallace would be able to help him.Cujo is a very well-made film. It has tons of great shots, thanks to director Lewis Teague, and what great cinematography by Jan De Bont. Another intelligent aspect of the movie was me questioning whether the dog was real or not. According to Danny Pintauro, there were many different versions of the dog, including a real Saint Bernard and a man in a dog suit. And the only way to get the dog to attack the car would be to throw a plastic mouse in that had some sort of a scent.Stephen King should be proud of the way his material was handled on film. King movies are meant for one thing only to scare the crap out of you. And Cujo does that. It is a violent film, but it is also very suspenseful and smart. You'll think twice before you buy a Saint Bernard after watching this movie. In the entire collection of Stephen King hits, Cujo is another one for the books. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"brilliantly scary","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Back there in 1987 when this film was released in my home town theaters i rented a copy of VHS of this film. From the start i watched it enthusiastically along with my family. The whole film was scary and also very much interesting. Here the bad guy of this film is saint Bernard dog who catches rabies due to bitten by a bat but the thing is that the owner family didn't paid proper attention to the dog so the problem really turned into a living nightmare. Also in the film importantly is family of Vic, Donna and Ted who are settled in a small town to live a peaceful tension free life but is then disturbed by a former boyfriend of Dona. Vic and Donna become friends with Joe Camber family who own Cujo. They had their own issues in which 's resolve they totally forgot cujo.Only their son noticed the aggressive behavior of cujo and told his mom but she for some reasons asked him to decline. Now the cujo really gets crazy.The most thing which annoys him to the limit is noise and here he loses his whole sense and conscious. If you see the movie ,in one part when Donna and his son are trapped inside their out of order car with cujo outside in his outrageous mood a phone bell rings inside the house of joecambers who had left. Cujo not capable of tolerating noise goes on hitting the car again and again ,this was the most horrific scene in the film. It is said about mad dogs that when catch rabies even the never attack their owners at 1st , the owner and the persons closed to dogs never bitten 1st by them. In the movie the same thing happened , as cujo didn't attacked his handler , Joecambers boy. He warned him not to touch, then perhaps he himself realized that he has gone too far and there is no turn back , in order to ensure his owners safety he left them. My own family liked it and advised me to always be careful from dogs(not to get unnecessarily close to them and if own one then give him maximum attention & care). I must acknowledge the dog's great contribution in this film ,without his support and effort(also the credit for his trainer) this film wouldn't be so good. "},{"Title":"Man's Best Fiend, OR Kudos For Cujo","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Having twice been on the receiving end of some vicious canine attacks, I can personally attest that man's best friend isn't always all that friendly. But what I've experienced is nothing compared to what some of the good folks in Castle Rock, Maine go through in the 1983 filmization of Stephen King's Cujo. In the film version, Cujo, a frolicsome St. Bernard to begin with, is bitten on the nose by a rabid bat, and by the time cheating housewife Donna Trenton and young son Tad (played to perfection by Dee Wallace and Danny Pintauro) come to his owner's house for some car repairs, the overgrown pooch is a frothing mess and has already offed two people. What follows is a remarkably suspenseful siege, with mother and son trapped in their dilapidated Pinto while the monstrous, four-legged killer alertly skulks outside. If only Donna had on her the now-ubiquitous cell phone, most modern-day viewers will think, and today such a siege dilemma truly might not have to happen. But nevertheless, what an amazing wringer this picture puts us through! The film features inventive photographic touches by Jan de Bont (howzabout that 360-degree swivel shot inside the beleaguered car?!?) and imaginative direction by Lewis Teague that manages to squeeze every drop of possible tension out of the predicament. Kudos also to handsome Daniel Hugh-Kelly, who gives a nicely warm and sympathetic performance as Tad's father. Actually, this first-time viewer was pleasantly stunned at what a nearly perfect horror outing Cujo turned out to be, only marred (for me) by the film's too-abrupt ending that fails to give us total closure. Still, my stomach was in knots by that ending, a sure sign that Teague & Co. have succeeded in delivering a very effective example of gripping horror. As Danny Peary puts it, in A Guide for the Film Fanatic, it is a surprisingly nerve-racking adaptation. "},{"Title":"one of the better Stephen KIng Adaptations to hit the screen","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this movie certainly has some adrenaline inducing moments and terror,especially if you've ever been attacked by a dog.it's one of the better adaptations of a Stephen King novel to the small screen.the story is simple,but it is effective,and once it grabs you,it doesn't let go until the end.a dog named Cujo starts freaking out and attacking people,for reasons which are explained in the movie.it's fairly fast paced,and isn't boring.there is one sequence of events that didn't seem to belong in the movie.it had nothing to do wit anything.this is just a few brief scenes.but it felt like filler to me.anyway,the rest of the movie is pretty good.for me,Cujo is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"You can't judge Cujo like that. You weren't there.","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" We all know that Cujo use to be nice. That all changed when he got bit by a rabid bat. Rabies drove him crazy. People were scared of him when he came out growling, except for Brett when he saw him in the fog. Brett was just worried about him and I'm glad that he didn't say anything mean or run from him. Everyone else did something asinine that caused themselves to be dead meat or injured. Mostly, people said something mean to him. Here are the rules when it comes to an angry dog. Rule #1 Don't run. If you run from an angry dog, it will not only chase you, it will drive him crazy. Rule #2 Don't move. If you move, it will drive him crazy. Rule #3 If you're in the car, stay inside. That's the thing with the adults in this movie. They make dumb choices and the next thing you know, they are dead meat. They are ignorant. Which leads up to Rule #4 Don't ever yell anything mean to Cujo. That will make him angry and drive him crazy. You can't judge Cujo like that. You weren't there. It's no one's fault. Don't do anything stupid and don't say anything that will make Cujo angry. Rabies is driving Cujo crazy as it is. Violate any of the rules mentioned, it will drive Cujo crazy even more. Be nice to him and he'll back off. It's a good thing that Brett was nice to Cujo and didn't run from him. He's the only character that did something wise. Start using your brains. "},{"Title":"Excellent suspense; somewhat underrated","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I honestly do not know why Cujo is not as highly regarded as other Stephen King horror films. Even though I personally do not think it is a masterpiece, it is highly rewatchable and did very well in most of the necessary fields it takes to make an entertaining horror movie, in my opinion, which I thought that would be enough to make more people enjoy it, but here I am telling myself it deserves a little more appreciation and recognition. First of all, it had wonderful suspense and build-up. There was a clean, very well handled scare factor, and since they took so much time building up the last minutes of the film, they give you enough time to learn about the characters, to where you actually care for them, or care to have Cujo rip them to shreds, whatever kind of person you are and how you perceive the characters. There was a nice use of blood and gore that might disappoint gore hounds, but ultimately satisfy true horror fans, and the plot was very fun with no flaws.Also, since something like this could actually happen, it made the movie way more interesting and fierce than it already was; movies that are realistic or could ever happen, through a person's perspective, always seem to be more heart-racing, and I personally think animal attack films are the creepiest horror films out there. Why I do not love this movie more than I do is that the movie itself does get very boring and irritating at some points to the point where you are itching for something, anything to happen, and I could not help but get a little mad when they went with one of the most annoying horror clichés.The representation that people are going with of how the movie is meant to show the main character as a sinner and Cujo as her redemption is a little nauseating as well, whether it is true or not. Nonetheless, Cujo is a really fun movie, and I enjoyed it all the same. People criticize a lot about it, and even though there is a lot that one may find wrong with it, that is the case with every movie and every movie's main purpose is to entertain, which Cujo definitely does that. "},{"Title":"Well DOne!!","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this movie the other night for the first time since the eighties and I must say what an underrated movie it really is! It is brilliantly crafted and the dog's acting was absolutely fantastic! The trainers did a fantastic job making Cujo look rabid. What patience the dog must have had having all that slimy goo all over him. There were moments where it looked real especially when the little boy was crying. I would bet that he was scared to death and his tears were real. (poor little guy) Well made movie I really don't believe that a remake would be any better. Please don't ever remake it! "},{"Title":"Vicious!","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King deserve a lot of credit for making the story Cujo. A story about a lovable St. Bernard who later becomes a vicious, rabid, killing machine when she got bit by some sick bats. The nature of dogs when they chase other animals. Cujo runs around town spreading terror and mayhem among people. There comes Donna Trenton(Dee Wallace Stone) and her son Tad(Danny Pintauro) who drive a Ford Pinto that's breaking down all the time, get locked in a garage so that Cujo does not get them. It gets worse, because Tad is sick. It's a shame that pooch like Cujo who's so friendly become so dangerous. Even Stephen King could come up with such a story like that. The cast of characters in the movie was great. It would come to you as a surprise that Dee's husband, Christopher Stone is in the movie as well. They would later on do the updated version of Lassie. Sadly, Christopher Stone died in 1995. This movie is amazing, Stephen King's book is a keeper, so is this! 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"One of King's best.","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching this film for the first time about around 20 years. I find it to be far more frightening then many a modern horror. The acting of fear felt more real then anything I've seen in years, as if death were really there for the victim. It makes me wonder where Hollywood went soft! That's just my opinion. I've never read the book which saddens me; I'm just sure that I'll never read it now. It's hard to find a King movie that lives up to its original text and I plan on staying in ignorant bliss knowing that I'll never disillusion myself of the movies terror. I'm still stunned by the realism. The bulk of the story was not completely necessary but did a good job setting up the attack. Not sure I'm happy with the ending, but that could be do to the long, drawn out, uber happy endings were given these days. "},{"Title":"Average, but it's got it's twists and surprises.","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is based on the novel by Stephen King, one of the greatest writers of horror in history. It takes place in a small, quiet, peaceful town. One of the town's beloved dogs, named Cujo, contracts rabies from a bite to the nose from a bat, and from there, the townspeople's lives become more embedded in fear as Cujo's last days approach.I thought that this movie was pretty good, but I don't think it holds perfection and/or any REAL jolts and shocks. It's certainly emotional, if you're a dog-lover, but otherwise it doesn't supply us with that much feeling to it. It's a mellow, typical film. It was unique in it's time, but there's not much to expect from it now.I haven't been able to figure out the reason behind the dog's extreme rage. Was it a demonic possession? Or was it simply the disease? Given the writer of the book, it's not as easy to figure out. "}{"Title":"There are no real monsters.","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's 24 years old, but it still packs a punch. No special effects, no CGI, just a rabid dog is enough to instill terror to the point of passing out.Stephen King wrote this horror movie and I can imagine the real horror of Dee Wallace (E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial) as she was trapped in a car that didn't appear too much bigger than the dog that was foaming at the mouth wanting to ravish her.This was Danny Pintauro's first film. He went on to Who's the Boss after this.Nothing special, but a retro classic that is still good. "},{"Title":"If you were scared of dogs before you saw this movie...","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this movie again on cable, and, frankly, it scared the bejesus out of me. I'm not great with dogs anyway, but a huge rabid St. Benard charging a woman and a 5-year-old makes dogs even more scary than they've ever been for me. This was a very well-crafted thriller, and it easily subscribes to the less-is-more syndrome. Any movie that is able to scare you without a ton of blood, a hockey mask, creepy monsters - or anything else in that gender of film - is definitely worth viewing. And this one stays with you LONG after the credits roll. The only thing I haven't ever understood is why Dee Wallace's character decides to get out or the car the first time AFTER she knows Cujo is there. Tadder is fine, and there's no reason to move, but I guess the plot needed a little shot in the arm... Well - rent this film, but keep the Valium close at hand and the lights on, so Tad's monster doesn't jump out of your closet. "},{"Title":"Another Outstanding Performance from Dee Wallace-Stone","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dee Wallace-Stone, at the height of her career (after performances in the original Hills Have Eyes, E.T and The Howling, gives another outstanding performance in the film adaptation of Stephen King's chilling novel, Cujo. Wallace-Stone plays an original desperate housewife, Donna Trenton, who, somewhat neglected by her husband Vic (Daniel Hugh-Kelly) has an affair with family friend Steve Kemp (played by Christopher Stone - the Stone in Wallace-Stone, who sadly died some time ago).Wallace-Stone once again plays a loving mother, though this time, thanks to her affair, is somewhat distant from her son Tad (child actor Danny Pintauro), but later in the film, their relationship is defined well when they both go through a harrowing performance with the infamous Cujo.Strangely for a horror movie (but not unwelcome), and certainly not untypical of a Stephen King adaption, most of what goes on during the film is rather mundane, just the day-to-day life of the Trentons, which makes for interesting drama in itself. It's not until Donna and Tad become trapped in a car (for reasons that I won't go into), things really start to heat up, as the dog Cujo, riddled with rabies, tries many attempts to get into the car and attack the mother and son.The time where the Trenton's are trapped in the car is done very well, and they seem to go through everything one would expect from someone in their situation. Both Wallace-Stone and a young Pintauro do remarkably well in these scenes.Cujo does fit into the horror genre as the rabid-dog concept seems to fit there well, however the film evoked terror more than horror, as the performances were so real, and the situation, while unlikely, is not highly improbable. So don't watch this expecting a crazed dog savaging anyone and everyone throughout the whole film, watch it and enjoy the great acting from Wallace-Stone, the tense drama and frightening scenes. "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD... saint bernards cause a lot more damage than expected!","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just saw the horror/thriller classic Cujo. It scared the bejesus out of me but it kind of gave me a heads up not to f*** with a 200 IBS st. bernard. I never thought that a dog like that could do that much damage. (even though I was bitten by a rabid Jack Russell terrier 4 months ago... go figure eh?) If I watched cujo back in 1983 I would have had nightmares for weeks! but hey, no movie has ever scared me! now in the book the dog kills off Tad '( and Donna barely survives a bloody battle with the bastard. but in the movie Tad and Donna survive. ...? I dunno. watch this movie with the lights out and you will probably get creeped out a bit.cujo is #9 on my favorite movies list "},{"Title":"Kill Cujo, Kill! Bad Dog!","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really don't like the beginning of this movie because it is really a time filling kind of thing. Who cares if Donna is having an affair? The point in the movie is the rabid St. Bernard that attacks her and her son, Tad. When the loyal family automobile breaks down, Donna takes it to a place out in the country to get it repaired. Little does she know on this hot summer day that a rabid dog is going to hold her and her son hostage while she and Tad sweat it out in the car.The scary thing about this movie is that I never knew what Cujo was going to do next. I was always wondering if he was going to attack her or just sit on the car and stare at her.That was what made the movie so doggone scary! "},{"Title":"One Good And Heart Pounding Movie","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one that really makes your heart pound because you never know when the rabid dog will strike next.  I own this movie on dvd and watch it every so often, I used to own it on vhs but then decided to buy it on dvd along with other Stephen King movies.  I own a lot of other movies on vhs and/or dvd.Dee Wallace was really good in this movie along with E.T. and some others.  She's really good for these type of movies not to mention an excellent movie like E.T. too which I will eventually buy on dvd but the revised edition.  I wish they would make more movies like these instead of the same old predictable slasher type ones.  Even if they continue to make those ones, I still watch them even though I know what to expect. "},{"Title":"a new name for terror","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film has long been given short thrift. Teague's use of the camera is fantastic. It is a shame his career never lived up to the potential that this film suggested. Dee Wallace is excellent also. 9/10 "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  decent Stephen King flick is tense at times but suffers from a really dull first half but the catches fire in the second half then becomes exciting and tense this is generally well made has lots of bloody dog bites anyway worth a watch it is fairly enjoyable **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Dog Vs. Pinto","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a fave of mine when I was like 12. I don't know why. All I know is, this film sealed the fate of the reputation of the Ford Pinto. The dog beats it up all thru the film. It's really disgusting how nasty the dog looks with eggs and fake blood smeared all over him.The book was a lot better. At least Stephen King writes horror pretty good. Skip this lam-o movie!!! "},{"Title":"good action-horror movie..but,low-class plot","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Actually,i like every stephen king's horror story-especially if that book adapted into a movie-it was very suspenful,terrifying,thrilling and brilliant.i never missed his new product.i ever watched The Shinning(the best of him),Christine,Misery until' Rose red-except Pet Sematary-all of his movie were very excellent and haunting...including this movie called 'cujo'.I like and love this movie basically.All the stars-even i don't know them-were two thumbs up!Horrifying and terrifying suspense with horror sub-theme in plot..But,i was just don't like about the plot.it was just feel so..cheap!a b-movie and so weird..i had no idea why that happened with him..i was just giving opinion about how dissapointed i am!let watch and vote it!i don't want to judge.. "}{"Title":"I don't know why they won't approve my summary for this movie.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!! Did you know that this movie was made in California? This was a good movie. The Chambers have a dog name Cujo (well duh) who chases after a rabbit. He gets his head stuck and gets bitten by a bat. The dog develops rabies and starts getting irritated by all the noise. Charity Chambers wins the lottery and takes her son to visit her sister.  While that is going on Donna has an affair and gets caught. He has to go away on a job trip and leaves uncertain about the future of his marriage. He tells his wife to take the pinto to Chambers house to get it fixed. The car dies and they are stuck. Ok, some moron here said why didn't she stick her foot out and push the car. Hello, are you stupid? The dog is rabid. Would you stick your foot out of a car when there is a vicious animal around that can eat you up in one bite?While he is on his job trip he keeps trying to reach the house but can't get an answer for days so he comes home to find the house in shambles. A cop goes to the Chambers to see if she is there and he gets eaten.  Vic finally comes to the rescue and they live happily ever after. I read this book over 20 years ago and I remember that Tad (what a stupid name by the way) died. I recommend this book. You don't have to be young for this movie to scare you. Trust me, this movie still scares me at parts.  "},{"Title":"WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOF","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Oh my god this movie is sooo scary it is so messed up the blood my god the gore, it is REALY intense i was craping my pants through the whole of this moviespoilers a st bernard dog is bitten by a bat and it gets infected and it sends him phsyco. a woman and her son go to a mechanics house to get her car fixed and they have gone on holiday not knowing that cujo (the dog) has gone majour ape and the womans car breaks down and then the dog attacks her many times rips apart a policeman and two over men and cujo looks realy menacing. this movie realy put my faith back into horror movies 9/10    "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie. A 10 out of 10. This movie might be scary for little ones to see. Now this movie came out when i was born. So i saw it when i was 8, I was very scarred then. I watch it now like its nothing. It is a good movie. I just love the dog, but he is mean. Another one of Stephen King's Classics. Read the book too. Watch the movie. But if you don't like bloody scarry movies then skip it.  "},{"Title":"Why this film works.","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cujo works because its simple. It does not have too many sub-plots and is basic in its approach to the main plot of the film which is of course how a very large but very likable family pet turns into a very large but very unlikable, rabid, human eating, water hating, blood lusting killing machine with all the time and perciveriance in the world to wait around until it gets the chance to bite into the woman and child that just happen to be stranded in  a car in the middle of cujo's back yard. I think that the casting for this film was spot on, the choice of the young Danny Pintauro for the role of Tad Trenton was paticularly good because he did bring a different sense of fear to the film, his role in the film helped with the continuity, it seemed as though everything revolved around him. Great Film....... "},{"Title":"Dull!!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although well made, this screen adaptation of Stephen King's Cujo emerges as a dull, uneventful entry in the horror genre. Novel about a mad dog on the rampage occupies a low place in King's novels, which is understandable if the film's stupefying predictability is an accurate reflection of the book. Except for the appealing kid played by Danny Pintauro, the characters are of little interest. ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A chilling Stephen King story.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Cujo, and I liked it! Dee Wallace-Stone did an excellent job in her role as Donna Trenton. This is one of the best Stephen King films. I have read the book, and although this may sound strange, I liked the movie better! Overall, this is a pretty good movie, and I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good movie but boring beginning","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The last half hour or so of this movie is filled with suspense, action and drama. The beginning of the film is totally forgettable though, it tries to set up the characters of Dee Wallace and the husband shes cheating on, but all this character development is almost unneeded and forced in the film. The real star of this film is the dog, who once turns into a vicious killing machine, that will kill at anyone in sight. Wallace gives a very strong and realistic performance at the end, as she tries to save herself and her son from the dog.  "},{"Title":"Canine killer machine.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book when i was a teenager, and before i saw the movie. The book was incredibly scary and had a typical Stephen King ending. In other words, a happy ending for one character, and a fatal ending for another. It's like Stephen always gives you something to drink against your thirst, but it's got an unpleasant taste.  This movie being a Hollywood production, you can forget that it ends unhappily.  What makes this movie so scary is that it places average people in a realistic situation. After all, there have been plenty of people bitten by rabid dogs. It's got the usual cliche's, yes. But it deals with them in advance. For example, when terrorized by the dog, the car won't start. This is a typical cliche, but you knew in advance that the car had engine problems to begin with. The failing engine was not an out of the blue coincidence. The movie tries to set up some of the characters, as it should, because it's a movie about people, not cartoon characters. The problem is that in the book these people were at least somewhat likeable, where as here they are totally unsympathetic or just plain uninteresting. The woman played by Dee Wallace sleeps around on her husband, and you almost agree, seeing that her husband is a total grump, unlikable and emotionally incompetent fool. But sleep around on him with a guy like the one played by Christopher Stone (Dee Wallace's real life husband) is putting salt on a badly hurting wound. If you manage to ignore this wasted opportunity to set up interesting and sympathetic people you'll be on the edge of your seat for the rest of the movie, as it's nothing but a big nasty killer machine on four legs not letting up until all living things in it's neighborhood are dead. Great suspense. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie when I was quite young and my brother and I were so delightfully scared. It's still scary today. The dog-actor is really good, and so are those human-actors too.A mother and her son are trying to survive the sick dog's attack and you really care for them and want them to win. The movie is quite violent and some moment are really gut-turning and will give you goosebumps. "},{"Title":"One of Stephen King's most thrilling adaptions!","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is hundreds of different types of horror films as every movie fan knows. Cujo is within the group of films that (literally from start to finish) falls into the category of realistic horror. Since most moviegoers see films as a means of escapism from their everyday life, that leaves a story about a rabid dog kinda like easily passed on for a more complexed type of frights such as some of King's other literary transitions (which are superb), a tormented girl with telekinetic abilities (Carrie), a teacher with psychic abilities (The Dead Zone), a haunted hotel in the mountains (The Shining).This very simple story involving a mother and son trapped inside of a broken down Ford Pinto by a dog with rabies results in a movie that pulls no punches. It's a harrowing tour- de-force. If you really haven't seen it, thinking it would just be boring, watch it the first time on a home theater with all of your lights out. It's a mesmerizing ride. Very scary.Cujo is one of the most brilliant horror films ever crafted. "}{"Title":"Professional adaptation of less than stellar novel","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King is a veritable assembly line of bestsellers, but Cujo comes in the days when he was still producing something relatively original rather than ripping himself off. Even with that it was one of his lesser efforts. A 400+ page story of a mother and son trapped in their stalled automobile during a sultry summer week by a rabid St. Bernard, Cujo the novel is filled with superfluous characters and padding topped off with an especially downer climax.The film, capably directed by Lewis Teague, pares down some of the novel's stuffing, but still not enough. Cujo is a kindly St. Bernard who in the opening moments of the film is bitten by a rabies-carrying bat. Given that his owners are the rural definition of clueless white trash, they have apparently never heard of getting their pets vaccinated, which results in Cujo's progressively painful descent into madness and death. Dee Wallace and Danny Pintauro are the mother and child, Donna and Tad Trenton, who circumstances strand at Ed Lauter's makeshift repair shop/home where Cujo is in the throes of rabies.The heart of the film and its most tense passages are obviously the ordeal experienced by the mother and son. Unfortunately, like King's long-winded novel, the film takes forever and a day to maneuver its characters into position. We must endure subplots involving Wallace's tryst with local handyman Chris Stone, which results in the estrangement with husband/father Daniel Hugh Kelly. Another subplot revolves around a lawsuit at Kelly's advertising firm, which takes him out of the picture at an inopportune moment. Young Pintauro's rather protracted fears of imaginary monsters gets further screen time and then there are the moments dedicated to the Cujo's loutish owner Lauter, his drinking buddy Mills Watson, his mousy selfish wife Kaiulani Lee and their son, Billy Jacoby, who seems entirely too well spoken and well adjusted to have sprung from the diseased loins of these borderline hillbillies. Purportedly King wrote the novel while in the throes of alcoholism and it shows as plot threads are scattered all over the place.Once the film heads into its final third and is focused on its main plot, it has a number of tense moments to make viewing worthwhile at least once. Director Teague ably amps the tension and captures the grim despair of the trapped duo. Oddly, despite some earlier moments detailing Cujo's agony, the latter third of the film seems to forget all about the animal's suffering in favor of turning into the proverbial monster. Teague also gets first-rate performances from Wallace and Pintauro. Wallace was a popular fixture in early 1980s films and it is often forgotten what a solid and sympathetic actress she could be as demonstrated here. I have heard people mention that Pintauro's increasing hysterics get on their nerves, but I think his performance is fairly strong and convincing. I feel he manages to convey the terror and confusion of the young boy while maintaining a degree of believability and sympathy. I certainly find him less aggravating than Dakota Fanning's shrieky child in War of the Worlds. Kudos must also be given to the dogs playing Cujo.Any flaws in the film ironically stem from its source and are mirrored in the novel, while the biggest successes come from the direction and performances. On a side note and something I want to address A number of King purists were aghast at the film's somewhat more upbeat ending regarding Tad's fate, but I think it plays better in the film. While I am not against a child dying in fiction for some great dramatic impact, Cujo is far too flimsy a novel for that kind of drama. Further, King's novel left a sour tase with its arrogant, high-handed insinuation that the attack and Tad's subsequent death were somehow Donna's fault for being a cheating wife, and the death of the innocent Tad was some kind of penance that needed to be paid. This trope of the innocent children paying for the sins of the parent got overworked and tiresome a long time ago and ends up adding nothing to this particular story, so changing it only manages to improve already flawed material. "},{"Title":"Slow, boring entry","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is an over-hyped and overrated film with a few good moments.**SPOILERS**Worried about bad dreams, Tad Trenton, (Danny Pintauro) keeps his parents Donna, (Dee Wallace-Stone) and Vic, (Daniel Hugh-Kelly) up late into the night. Tired the next morning, they drive off to mechanic Joe Camber, (Ed Lauter) auto repair shop and meet his dog, Cujo. While Vic concerns himself with work, Donna and Tad take their run-down car back to his repair shop after being impressed with his work before and notice that Cujo has changed. Realizing he's been bitten by a rabid bat and turned into a hulking monstrosity, they become trapped inside as the vicious dog guards the car day and night, preventing every escape opportunity. When Vic discovers her missing, he races to help her against the dog.The Good News There wasn't a whole lot to like about this one, and the few good parts are all at the end of the film. They are the few individual attack scenes on the car, which are simply unsettling and quite suspenseful. To see a dog try that intently to get inside a car to get at the hapless, screaming characters trapped in it is utterly terrifying, and is rightly milked for all it's worth. From the jump tactics where it appears out of nowhere barking against the glass window or seeing it emerge from it's hiding spot, race over to the car and bark and claw to get inside, the scenes strike the right touch and are quite unsettling. The final showdown, with the savagely bitten and emotional battered character strikes back is a really tense scene, with the right amount of action and suspense put into it to make it satisfying. The dog does look pretty creepy, being distorted enough to recognize it was once a dog while also retaining a fearsome image. The addition of all the other items to it gives it a nice and threatening appearance, and it helps add to the film. However, these were the film's best qualities.The Bad News This was a huge disappointment. One of the things it gets wrong is that the opening half is incredibly boring and very slow paced. The infidelity, the focus on the business, the crumbling marriage, all of it could've been shortened or chopped out and not left one dent in what the film was about. It's supposed to be about a killer dog attacking victims trapped inside their car, and to give the audience scenes that distract from that are only going to induce boredom and contempt. The other really fatal mistake is to make the attack scenes so far apart from each other. The last half hour of the film is the reason for the whole appeal of the film, which are relegated to just a few minute-long scenes or so and then spend the majority of the time on the characters inside muttering contempt for the dog or looking at it watching them. It is simply boring and would've been better had the attacks been nonstop and watched them struggle in vain efforts to escape the dog. To spend most of it watching the dog lie out in the sun watching the characters doesn't inspire much fear. It really could've capitalized on it's great premise, but falls short due to a supreme lack of interesting action going on and boredom from the grand finale.The Final Verdict While this did have a few good moments in it, the majority of the film is a slow, boring drama that really suffers from a lack of tension or action. Had it capitalized more on it's intriguing central premise, then it would've at least been decent, but this is really too slow to serve as anything other than a recommendation for hardcore King aficionados.Rated R Violence, Graphic Language and constant scenes of a child in danger "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The works of Stephen King!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo (1983) was the jump start of a cavalcade of Hollywood productions that were based upon the writings of Stephen King. A few movies were made before CUJO were based upon his works (they all have become cult classics except his adapted shorts). But after CUJO's release came the deluge. The eighties was a financial boon for Stephen King. His popularity soared to unheard of heights with his books flying off the shelves and being adapted into movies as soon as the novels were released.CUJO is about a boy's fear of a monster that lives in his closet. It's also about a carefree Saint Bernard who one day whilst chasing a rabbit is bitten on his snout. His master's (a young boy) father is a grease monkey who owns a garage out of his home. The boy's parents use him for mechanical services. There's a bit of soap opera intrigue as well. The mother is unfaithful and the father is oblivious. How will all of these characters lives come at a crossroads? Who or what is CUJO? Why is this movie so highly overrated? I don't know but maybe you will when you watch CUJO!Another one of the flawed Stephen King adaptations that people find so excited. I was disappointed. Read the book instead. It's just another pedestrian adaptation of Stephen King's earlier classic novels.Recommended for average horror fans. "},{"Title":"Average horror movie","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that falls in the not bad but not good category. This was a moderately suspense filled movie but some of the scenes just dragged on and on and I found myself hitting the forward button a lot. This movie felt too secluded- being that most of it took place in the car. Cujo (the dog) was quite scary though and some of the more violent scenes did work well. Five out of ten is my grade for this. "},{"Title":"Not scary","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although Cujo can be a bit startling at time, as with most good horror movies, I didn't think it was scary or even creepy in the slightest. The movie was okay but its not the best horror movie, although I wouldn't advise it for little kid, because otherwise they might never come near a dog again. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a scare, but it's really outdated","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have not seen Cujo for a long time, so I did not want to comment on it until I knew I would see it again. So I rented it and while I was scared and felt tense, it was a little outdated. See, nowadays, you could just easily use your cell phone to call yourself out of the car. But the plot was very real and terrifying. I've read the book Cujo, and it's awesome. The movie and the book=not together. So don't expect accuracy. But I would recommend for a good scare or for horror movie fans. Otherwise, it is an outdated movie that you just scream at a million times. But when you see the relationship of mother and son and the protection of those two in the car scene, it's rather touching.7/10 "},{"Title":"A film that doesn't follow the book good enough.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've bought the film after I read the book. After seeing Cujo I was very disappointed that the director made the choice of an typical Hollywood ending. My opinion is that the director had to stick to the book and also the ending. The film was okay, I liked it, except the ending. So if you have to make a choice between the film or the book, buy the book. "},{"Title":"The one non-scary horror film I've seen.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cujo is the one horror flick I've seen that did nothing for me. No scares, jumps, logic, or suspense. The whole film feels slow and repetitive. The story is illogical, the suspense music cheesy, and the acting atrocious in many areas. Although Dee Wallace was just fine in E.T., I don't think she's a strong actress in general, especially in this film where her voice is so soft and low. But the kid Danny Pintauro is another story! He is like a parent's worst nightmare a shrill, whining baby! He mostly screams and cries uncontrollably in the last half! After having great children in scary movies like Carol-Anne in Poltergeist and Newt in Aliens, we get a bad one in this film's Tad Trenton. The name itself is sickly sweet and nauseous. This movie really let me down big time as it was not scary in any way.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing - but I had that already predicted","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I found this flick extremely disappointing. What's with the re-make of Stephen King's splendid books anyway? I haven't seen a good movie from a book originally written by Stephen King? Surely only the purpose of money-making is behind the filmatisation of his books.I had heard things about Cujo. A few friends said it was a good movie. It could be about taste, anyway I didn't like it one bit.It's a sad story really, which could have been done so much better. After a film like this you realize how much you love your dog. At times you might not appreciate it as much as you ought to do, but when you see this beautiful creature in the movie. He's got style, elegance and everything you think is beautiful, but also rabies and is eventually also pictures as a hungry beast.However, not much to say baout the characters or actors. They weren't exactly outstanding but the work that had been put into the dog in being aggressive was great. I had expected more though. "},{"Title":"Horridly Boring","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A lengthy comment on this film would just be a waste of time.  All I can say is that this film is truly one of the worst movies to come out of Stephen King.  I mean, KING is the KING of horror.  Not very good.  This film, though boring, does manage to be somewhat suspenseful and therefore will get **out of****Not great overall, though moderately suspenseful. "}{"Title":"Utter failure","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A friend of my family has a Newfounland. For those of you who don't know, Newfoundlands are large (average weight being 160 pounds), friendly dogs. I was worried by watching a horror movie about a rabid St. Bernard that I might become afraid of my friend's dog. I needn't have worried. Cujo is too boring and stupid to scare anyone.Cujo is a friendly St. Bernard who when chasing a rabbit, gets his head into something he shouldn't a cave filled with bats (are there bats that actually live in rabbit holes?). Anyway, poor Cujo gets bitten by a bat, and at first he seems to be the same normal, happy, lovable dog. But then he starts changing.The film is divided into two parts. The first is a trite and boring story about marital infidelity, and the second is a drawn out segment of a mom and her son being trapped in a broken down car with Cujo lurking outside.Neither one of these stories is even remotely entertaining. The first half of the movie is meant to introduce us to the characters, but it's so boring and stupid, and the characters never even achieve two-dimensionality. The second part of the story is the horror part of the movie, but it's not any better.First of all, the film has some very large credibility issues. I'm not a veterinarian, but I don't think a dog who has gone insane from rabies is capable of such devious plans as Cujo is. It becomes a war of attrition between Cujo, and Donna (Dee Wallace) and her son, Tad (Danny Pinero). If a dog has rabies, is he really going to be able to just sit and wait for his potential victims to get out of the car? I would be more willing to give a little leeway to the movie, but it's got an even bigger problem Cujo isn't particularly frightening. As messy and bloody as he looks, Cujo always has those sad puppy dog eyes that make you want to give him a hug (and a bath) rather than run away. How do you expect a film to scare someone when the the villain is a dog who looks at you like he's sorry for chewing your shoes? The attempts to make him menacing fail in the same way. When he attacks someone, he looks as if he's just happy to see them.The acting is flat, which only makes matters worse for this misbegotten project. Dee Wallace is not your average scream queen, despite her popularity in the genre. For one thing, she's not a big breasted teenage girl; she's a mom. This could have been an effective way to build suspense, but neither she nor her son are developed enough to really make it work. Daniel Hugh-Kelly looks more like Greg Brady than a horror movie character, and he acts like it. No one else is on screen long enough to make an impression (although the guy who plays the owner of the car repair shop looks the part).Don't be intrigued by the hype. It was said to have one of the scariest scenes in movie history (I would be interested to figure out which one it was), but the fact that the ranking was done by Bravo alone should tell you that that means zip.Cujo isn't scary, just stupid. "},{"Title":"Suck","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting big things from this movie and I was utterly disappointed. On the back of the movie it says that you will regret not seeing this movie, I think not, I regret watching it. After the first five minutes you hate two of the main characters and are hoping that Cujo will kill them. All of the actors, with the exception of Cujo sucked. Unless you want to see a movie which should never have been released, even on video, then dont watch this, it sucks.  "},{"Title":"Weak adaptation of one of King's weaker books","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A big friendly Saint Bernard gets rabies and begins to turn into a vicious killer. This only makes life even more difficult for some local people who are already facing problems with their families, job, etc...This is a pretty boring movie. There is no way around that. The development is slow and not much really happens. In fact this is more of a domestic drama with a slight horror element, than just a horror film. The book was pretty much the same, but at least the book had many more details and far better, if also slow, development of what is going on. The pain and discomfort of the characters was displayed so much more effectively that you actually care to a degree what happens, but not here.The visceral element is also all but totally gone here with hardly a drop of gore. Then to top to all off, the director adds in a touchy feeling ending, which is essentially the opposite of what happened in the book, and that makes the film sink below what is even mediocre. The screen adaptation of 'Pet Sematary' was far superior and the book was even better. 3/10Rated R for some violence "},{"Title":"Great Stephen King movie!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Dee Wallace-Stone, Danny Pintauro, Daniel Hugh Kelly, Christopher Stone, Ed Lauter, Kaiulani Lee, Billy Jayne, Mills Watson, Sandy Ward, Jerry Hardin, and Merritt Olsen. The acting by all of these actors is very good. Wallace-Stone is really excellent in this film. I thought that she performed good. The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is good. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Dee Wallace-Stone, Danny Pintauro, Daniel Hugh Kelly, Christopher Stone, Ed Lauter, Kaiulani Lee, Billy Jayne, Jerry Hardin, the rest of the cast in the film, Stepen King, Horror, Thrillers, Dramas, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like Stephen King then I recommend that you check out the following films! Creepshow, Creepshow 2, The original Dead Zone, Salem's Lot, Silver Bullet, Maximum Overdrive, The Running Man, Graveyard Shift, It, The Shining (mini series), Nightflyer, The Green Mile, and Dreamcatcher! "},{"Title":"Dude, where's the plot?","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Few words can be used to accuratly describe this film.  Boring, meaningless, horrible, unusually bad are the first to come to mind.  I have no idea what the hell the director was thinking. The first 45 minutes of the film consist the characters doing fascinating things such as sleeping, watching TV, picking their kids up from pre-school, fixing their cars, talking to the mailman, ECT.  The suspense!  By the 45-minute mark, the dog FINALLY does some damage but it's not scary or terrifying.  The dad's role in this film is absolutly meaningless.  He was no function whatsoever.  The little boy has my vote as the most annoying kid in horror film history. Truth be told, the film doesn't realize it's a horror film till the last 20. Heck.  This darn movie can be condensed to about 10 minutes.  I could be watching a game of chess and still have 3 times the amount of emotion compared to what I recieved in this film.  It's THAT bad.Stay away from this film.  It's 100 minutes of your life you'll never, EVER get back. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally funny","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it's just my personality or my own personal tastes, but this movie didn't do anything but make me laugh. A St. Bernard? How can you be scared of that dog? I don't care if he is rabid, all I wanted to do was rub his belly or throw a tennis ball for him. I actually considered Cujo to be the anti-hero. The Anne Heche-esque wife and the David Hasselhoff-esque husband annoyed me to no end, as did Jonathan from Who's The Boss. Note to film-makers when making a movie like this, please make sure we can tolerate or relate to the characters. I mean, what is up with that whole cheating sub-plot? How did that add to the story in any way? And Cujo's first victim, I believe, simply saying Oh my god, you're rabid in a plain monotone voice. Can you say 'lack of quality?' I hate it in movies where dogs get hurt, and that one scene where his head is stuck in the car window completely outraged me. I guess this film was good for a laugh. I've seen a million horror movies, and I'm a dog lover, so maybe I'm just desensitized to this. I will admit though, they did manage to make the dog look pretty grisly and nasty, but still, I just wanted to play fetch or scratch his back...or something. I think he was just really lonely, not rabid.3/10 "},{"Title":"It grinds the viewer down without a satisfactory release...","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Numbskull thriller-cum-horror movie, adapted from Stephen King's bestseller, has a big scrappy St. Bernard infected with rabies and preying on people around an isolated farmhouse; Dee Wallace and young son Danny Pintauro get stuck on the property in their station wagon while snarling, drooling Cujo waits them out. Despite the fact these characters are truly in a perilous situation, the scenario simply doesn't lend itself well for a feature-length film (how much action can you stage around a stranded automobile? And how much tension can be derived from a woman hoping to outfox a rabid dog?). The acting is as good as can be expected, but this is a depressing, eyesore of a film, all on one excruciating note and virtually killed dead by a soporific conclusion. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"If you've seen the trailer, you've seen all the exciting parts already","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was curious about Cujo when I first heard about it. I think that Nature being Nature is often much scarier than anything the human mind can come up with (which is why the movie Outbreak did not need the Hollywood-esquire chase scenes later on -- the deadly virus was scary enough). Knowing that this movie had been made based on a story by legendary horror writer Stephen King about a rabid dog, I was intrigued. This dog wasn't possessed by evil or a mutant or of alien origin or anything like that. Just a friendly St. Bernard who got rabies and became a monster. How was King going to add his unique touch to this one? I was growing skeptical how compelling a villain could a rabid St. Bernard be and how scary a movie could they make about him?The answers are that Cujo is not a compelling villain and Cujo is not scary.Cujo is the most interesting character in the film, with the bunny he's chasing in the opening scene coming in second. (The kid was going to get an honorable mention, but I'll get to him in a minute.) The human characters are so artificial that the natural acting of the dog won my sympathy. I did not, however, ever feel scared of Cujo. I felt sorry for him. He's not mean-spirited or evil or anything like that; the poor dog has rabies and is only doing what he's doing because a bunch of tiny viruses are turning his brain into mush. He's a tragic villain, which horror villains can never be. Horror villains have to be menacing and EEEVIL or else we'll never fear them. Cujo won my heart though. Believe it or not, this movie actually made me like St. Bernards more. (Maybe I'll get one.) Now, about the characters and the story itself. First, this 95-minute film spends a solid 35 minutes setting up a bunch of stupid, clichéd subplots that serve no purpose whatsoever except to kind-of-sort-of provide a reason for a woman and her young kid to drive to the spot where Cujo happens to be. Once they get there, we're treated to an hour in which we see the same old scares over and over again. (Like I said, if you've seen the trailer, you've pretty much seen the movie. There's only so many times that a dog head-butting a window can be scary, although it didn't scare me once.) I think the film was trying to go for the claustrophobic scare, where terror is generated from the thought that the woman and her kid can't leave the car for fear of Cujo. But, we never feel that terror, mainly because Cujo simply is not EEEEEVIL. Also, having the kid screaming his head off each time the dog shows up started to feel exploitative after a while. Horror movies usually have kids in traumatic situations, but if you're going to traumatize a kid for this long, the kid better either be possessed or he better have the shining. This movie could have worked with better direction and perhaps some innovative camera-work and editing, but it lacks all of that and so it doesn't work. Frankly, had the filmmakers cut out the first 35 minutes and trimmed the rest of the film down, they would have had a decent hour-long episode of The Twilight Zone. Cujo is a cool dog, but Cujo sucks. "},{"Title":"How much is that doggy in the window, the one with the foam on its mouth.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I gave this movie a five, but I think I will change it to a four; just thinking about it makes me remember this wasn't that great of a movie.  I saw this as a kid, but it has stuck with me so that I remember a great deal about it.  One thing I remember is that is kind of dull, and if I as a kid thought it was boring it probably was.  Though there are shots of the mother and son trapped in the car that were rather well done so it does have quality to it.  I also remember unresolved plot points such as the mother's affair.  It really isn't a necessary scene; in fact it looks like it was added to pad the film.  Just like the woman who won the lottery and left with her son, two potential victims gone.  In fact there aren't many kills in this one, but that is okay because they don't look very good anyway.  I mean the dog is happily wagging its tail as if is supposedly killing the person.  Like I said the saving grace of this movie is the scenes in the car which are very claustrophobic in nature.  Also they do a very good job making the dog look like a killer.  Though this is one Stephen King movie that made me skip the book entirely as it didn't pique my interest at all in the book. "},{"Title":"You have better things to do!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You have better things to do than watch this crap, I cant believe I watched through this entire movie. Though the movie had its moments when I burst out i laughter, I don't think that was what the director wanted. And what the hell is the matter with that kid, he whines more than anything I have ever seen on tape, I just wish he could have blaced out at the start of the movie so I didn't have to listen to his constant whining. Oh and by the way, a st. bernard NEVER EVER looks scary, no matter what!Bottomline is, DONT WATCH THIS S***! "}{"Title":"Who the Hell is scared of Beethoven?","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not me.. If it came down to it, I could kick a dog's ass, and that's why this movie doesn't work for me. If it was me against the Alien, or Jason.. Or.. Hell, I dunno.. ANY OTHER HORROR MOVIE ANTAGONIST, then there'd be no contest and I'd have my ass handed to me barring divine intervention. A horror movie works because it puts people in a situation with a creature, person, being, entity, whatever, that is more powerful or resourceful or intelligent than they are, and then people think 'well what if that happened to me', and they get scared - and that's why this is a horrible idea for a story. I can't imagine myself being terrorized by a dog, so I'm not scared. "},{"Title":"Cujo now has a new name CRAP !","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Man, I just cant believe this movie. I have watched it entirely (believe me, I have done this !) and the best part was the traillers on the beginning (and I hate traillers!!!!).No plot, no acting, no nothing. I was watching the movie and thinking, When this is going to start ? It never started. How people can spend money and time to make such a crap ?The plot A Dog gets bitten by a bat and get rabies - Okay, until now no problem, nothing special but OK. Now the rest of the movie will be - the Dog will chase people!!! thats it, nothing else!!! Now add to this some of the worse actings/actors I have ever seem, some completely irrealistic scenes (and some others really idiotic, like the child cant breath and the mother gives him a big and strong hug to see if he gets better), and a very lame ending, thats it, here you have CRAP... ops!.... CUJO.Do your self a favor and make something more worthy, like hiting your head against the wall or play chess with yourself.ZERO out of 10.Gabriel.  "},{"Title":"The scariest thing about this movie was the BOX!!","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is a Saint Bernard who is bitten by a rabid bat and contracts rabies himself.Tad Trenton and his mom, Donna, are having car problems, and in the face of Dad walking out on them, the poor things have to take the car to the mechanic's, all by themselves. (If Mom hadn't been doing the handy man, that wouldn't have happened, but I digress.) The car stalls in the mechanic's front yard, the mechanic's gone, and there's no one there to greet them but Cujo.I'm sorry, but a rabid dog, even under the conditions of isolation such as this movie presents, just...isn't scary. All the screaming that goes on is basically just the typical female victim in the typical female victim role in most poorly done movies. Help! Help! I'm all by myself and I'm very very scared! Ridiculous. Take a dog bite and kill the thing. The shots are painful, but you don't take the chance of your kid slipping into a COMA while you're doing it.I found this movie rather pointless, and I, an avid Stephen King fan, found the book to be a bit worse.On a bright note, I found Danny Pintauro's portrayal to be very convincing and realistic. No wonder he did so well as Jonathan on Who's the Boss. Too bad he didn't have a story line to work with here. With his talent, this could have been a great movie.It rates a 1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Probably my least favorite King film","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have to say, I was not all that thrilled watching this.I'll admit, there were some good moments and some of the story was good, but I wasn't really enjoying this movie all that much.I hated seeing the dog suffer, I didn't mind when it got hurt after being turned evil, but seeing it in pain when normal upset me. I hate seeing animals get hurt in movies.I thought the whole affair thing was stupid too. Afterward, I just kept wishing Donna would die.While watching, I just kept thinking of Cujo as an evil Beethoven. It really upset me at parts, but I did like the overall concept. I just wish they had used a more evil looking dog instead of nice ol' Cujo.Well, an OK movie, but chock full o'flaws.5/10 "},{"Title":"CUJO * OF ****","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is about a mother and son trapped in a car, surrounded by their rabid dog. This movie is a compilation of scares we know are coming and dragged out scenes. This film could've been 30 minutes, and it would have the same effect on me. Stephen King movies usually do not live up to the book. In this case it does, both were terrible. The saving grace of this movie is the star, Cujo. I wish he had a spin-off movie where he could showcase his real talents. Overall, I rooted for the bad guy here, and that is never supposed to happen.VERDICT * of **** "},{"Title":"Ho hummer","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is yet another badly directed Steven King tale that does the talented author a great injustice.  Other such travesties include The Dead Zone, Christine, Fire Starter, and Pet Semetary.  The Saint Bernard is about as frightening as Peter Rabbit, and the characters are simply dumb people who do everything humanly possible to put themselves in harm's way. Classic scene mommy and her darling boy are about to escape from the vicious mutt in their car.  F*** you, Dog! shouts the mother.  The car dies and refuses to start.  Yawwwwn.      "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Especially the scene with the bat-cave for bunny rabbits.    Cujo totally busted out that window rawr rawr rawr Cujo doesn't like   phones, rawr rawr rawr, he's eating my cell phone, oh no's!    Look out wife-beater, Cujo's gonna get you and your little friend rawr   rawr rawr rawr rawr rawr!    Oh no, the police are here!    Go, Cujo, Go!    It is the best movie ever, especially when the woman uses the gun to   break the rear window as opposed to the already broken window! She's so   smart!    Oh, man, he totally ate that guy!    Go, Cujo, Go!    Look out, she's got a gun!    Shoot her! Shoot her!    Clever girl.    OH MY GOD, CUJO ATE MULDOON!    Go, Cujo, Go! "},{"Title":"OK rabid dog horror, thriller or marital drama film, you decide which.","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cujo is a giant, lovable, gentle and affectionate St. Bernard owned by the Camber family, during the opening sequence Cujo chases a rabbit over fields and through a local wood somewhere in Castle Rock, Maine. The rabbit disappears into a burrow and Cujo sticks his head into the entrance hole. The rabbit vanishes from Cujo's sight, angry Cujo starts to bark and in doing so inadvertently wakes up and annoy a colony of bats, one of which bites him on the nose. Donna Trenton (Dee Wallace-Stone as Dee Wallace) is having an affair with Steve Kemp (Christopher Stone, Dee Wallace's real life husband) which her husband Vic (Daniel Hugh Kelly) who works in advertising, discovers. Obviously their relationship becomes strained. Happily oblivious to all of this is their young son Tad (Danny Pintauro). Joe Camber (Ed Lauter) fixes cars for a living out of his barn on his farmhouse. Joe is planning a guys weekend with one of his friends Gary Pervier (Mills Watson) when his wife Charity (Kaiulani Lee) wins $5,000 on the lottery and decides to take their young boy Brett (Billy Jayne as Billy Jacoby) with her on a trip to see her parents. Arriving at Gary's house to pick him up Joe finds him dead on the floor, he goes into the kitchen to call for help and his dog Cujo who is now rabid attacks and kills him. Donna and Tad drive to the Camber's farmhouse to try and get her car repaired. The place is deserted except for Cujo who is now completely rabid, foaming at the mouth, his fur stained red with blood and maddened by pain. Cujo attacks the car to try and get at Donna and Tad, luckily for them the windows hold firm, at least for the time being anyway. Donna tries to start the car but it has completely broken down, they are both trapped with nothing but the hope that someone will come and rescue them. Cujo lies in wait, ready to attack and kill anyone who crosses his path. Directed by Lewis Teague I thought the film was a bit slow for my tastes. The first half plods along, the second half builds up a head of steam but I still felt it was a little underwhelming and unexciting. The acting is fine by everyone involved, I've no complaints there. Technically the film is OK, photography, music, special effects, editing and it's generally well made. The big problem is the script by Don Carlos Dunaway and Lauren Currier and in particular it's first half, most of which appears to be padding to stretch the run time out. Clocking in at just under the 90 minute mark it felt longer. It's also a little predictable as well. Cujo as a monster never really scared me either, I just don't find slobbering overweight St. Bernards scary I guess. I suppose there's nothing really wrong with it, but I don't think I'd be in a hurry to see it again. Average, not too bad if you can find a copy going cheap or catch it on T.V. for free. "},{"Title":"Turner and Hooch is scarier than this junk","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Why, oh why, is this trash considered a classic? I've seen higher body counts on episodes of The Simpsons. Virtually nothing happens in this film and much of it's running time is filled with nearly unbearable melodrama straight out of a low-rent soap opera.The Trenton family are going through tough times and when dad is away mommy and little boy go to get the car fixed. But when they get to the ranch they discover that the guard dog has gone mad. The rest of the film is just them sitting in the car while the slobbering St. Bernard circles them over and over.Regarding the kid, I have never, ever seen a more annoying child in a film in my life. And obviously he's completely Aryan since blonde-haired and blue-eyed kids, such as the one prominently featured on packets of Kinder chocolate, are apparently more sympathetic than people with brown eyes and dark hair, like me. All he does is cry and whine. Same goes for mommy. She gets out the car, she gets in the car, she gets out the car, she gets in the car.I know this was made in 1983 but I just sick to death of horror films where the characters make stupid, illogical decisions. If mommy just used some common sense she'd be able to get away from the icky dog.It's very poorly written and there's zero tension. If you want to see a good bad dog movie then check out John Lafia's Man's Best Friend. It's funny, inventive, has a better dog, a higher body count and a more involving story. Leave this garbage be. "},{"Title":"Here, doggy... See that man with the overbite? His name is Stephen. Bite his empty head off.","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It takes an eternity for this typically over-simplistic and idiotic Stephen King-based film to finally get out of the starting blocks. About half-an-hour is spent on needless introductions to various boring characters and their irrelevant little personal problems that might excite bored housewives and apathetic pensioners in soapy dramas, but this is supposed to be the horror genre (or so I naively thought). The mutt fails to look all that fearsome, which Leonard Maltin, the notoriously clueless/hopeless and always grinning film critic, would disagree with he considers Cujo to be genuinely frightening. (I often do have to wonder if Maltin is genuinely thick - or merely likes to do favors for his Hollywood friends...) It's both illogical and inconsistent the way Wallace survives an attack with only a leg injury. And, naturally, her car breaks down just when she needs it to save her life this is one of the oldest horror-film clichés; trust King to use it to minimum effect. The premise is imbecilic, too banal, even for a horror film a rabid mutt attacks a family. Is that it? This sort of thing barely constitutes a 3-minute sub-sub-plot in your average zombie film. I think even Cujo must have sensed that he was starring in a turkey. Mutts have terrible agents... But what I really don't understand is how people can actually throw themselves at the Cujo book and read it from cover to cover? These SK fans must be immortal that's the only explanation, i.e. why they treat time as such a meaningless commodity.Bodycount 3. "}{"Title":"Meh","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie and book are absolutely terrible! For some people, they may think this is a good idea, but in my eyes, it's not at all! The idea of a killing dog is horrific. I am a HUGE fan of Stephen King, but this is, in my view was his worst. I am a major animal lover and I hate to see something as cute as a dog turn into a rabies infested monster!!! Also *****Spoiler****** the dog dies and is never treated for anything. ****Spoiler***** the dog turns into an insane people killing dog. The ending is VERY sad and I just re-watched it, I was literally in tears, that dog was so cute and didn't deserve such a fate. This is a very sad movie and if you are an animal lover, you will not enjoy this movie at all! "},{"Title":"It wasn't their fault, not Cujo nor Yeller. Nobody's fault.","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After seeing the movie Cujo, I realized something. It's similar to Old Yeller, based on the fact that both of them contracted rabies. Cujo got bit by a rabid bat and Yeller got bit by a rabid wolf. Both Cujo and Yeller wanted to attack someone after rabies has been in effect, but there are differences and similarities. Old Yeller and Cujo wanted to attack a child, but didn't get a chance to either because they knew the kid was friendly or someone locked the door back. Cujo caused terror throughout the town. He killed everyone in sight, except for the woman and her little boy. But Cujo and Yeller were never vicious. They were nice to people before rabies took over their lives. It wasn't their fault. They didn't have to get bit by a stupid bat or wolf. I hate bats and I hate wolves. Wolves are the dogs I hate the most out of all dogs. I hate them more than coyotes. Anyways, we know what happened in the end as far as Cujo and Yeller. Both of them got put down. After rabies was in effect for both of them, there was no hope for Cujo or Yeller. People had no choice but to kill those two canines. That part sucked in the movie when they got shot. But like I said It wasn't their fault. "},{"Title":"A highly forgettable horror entry.","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 1983 was a bumper year for Stephen King books making it to the big screen. Christine, The Dead Zone and Cujo were all released within a few months of each other. While The Dead Zone was easily the pick of the bunch, Christine and Cujo were both pretty bad, and it's a close-run thing as to which is the lesser of the two. If pushed for an answer I'd say Cujo - marginally - is the weakest.Donna Trenton (Dee Wallace, fresh from success as Elliot's mom in E.T - The Extra Terrestrial) is a mother whose marriage to husband Vic (Daniel Hugh-Kelly) is hanging by a thread. She's been having an affair with a local worker, and is now dwelling on whether or not to leave her husband. Dragged into the marital heartache is young Tad Trenton (Danny Pintauro), son of Donna and Vic, and a pretty messed-up kid with a chronic phobia of the dark which often leads to severe panic attacks. Donna and Tad take the family car to a nearby mechanics' yard for repairs, but as they arrive their car splutters to a halt. Things get a heck of a lot worse when they discover that the mechanic, Joe Camber (Ed Lauter), isn't there (he has been savagely killed by his pet dog Cujo, a gigantic St. Bernard which was recently bitten and infected by a rabid bat.) Soon, the dog has them trapped in their car and is trying everything to get inside the vehicle to tear apart these two hapless victims. The weather is swelteringly hot; not a living soul knows they're there; the car won't start; and the dog seriously wants their blood......Cujo has potential to be a genuinely taut siege thriller, but it never really clicks into gear. I've read the book and it is quite disappointing - certainly for King - so it's hardly surprising that the film version amounts to so little. On the printed page, King was at least able to generate a degree of tension, but the film is critically hampered by the fact that a St. Bernard simply isn't very scary. The visualness of the film medium serves as a constant reminder that Cujo IS a St. Bernard. In the book, it was possible to forget this. In the book, Cujo sometimes almost seemed to assume the guise of a monster. Even with the relatively short running-time of an hour-and-a-half, Cujo becomes a tedious and patience-straining experience, occasionally unintentionally funny and certainly never as suspenseful as it would like to be. They've even omitted the book's cruelly downbeat ending and replaced it with an all's well that ends well conclusion so that audiences can go home in a cheerful mood!!! Chalk this one down as yet another inferior King adaptation. "},{"Title":"I would have enjoyed this movie much more if I weren't so distracted by how clueless Donna was.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I love Stephen King!  And this is a pretty good movie over all.  The rabid Cujo is very scary and the movie is suspenseful.  But after the first few minutes that poor Donna and her little son Tad were held captive in their Pinto by the rabid St. Bernard, I began to wonder why she didn't do something to help herself.She could have stuck her foot out the door and pushed the car backwards (I mean, it was a Pinto for Pete's sake and they were on a downhill incline) and rolled to safety, but then it would have been a very short movie. When she got the car started, did she pop it into reverse and hope that she could get at least get part way down the driveway?  No, she tries to make a three point turn in a car with a bad alternator.  She did manage to get out of the car and look around for 45 seconds or so at one point to try and get to a baseball bat that was lying on the ground nearby--what a waste of time!  I mean, if you're going to make a run for the bat, do it and at least you'll have something to hit the dog with.  But, forget the bat.  Were there no tools in the car, like a tire iron or something?  I didn't see her looking in the spare tire well of the car.  Really, why wait until you're bitten and weak from dehydration and your son is having seizures before you make a stand against the animal?At the end of the movie she was battered and torn, but by God she was still wearing high heels!  "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  and totally non-scary film. The characters doesn't interest at all, and most of the time is spent in a car. The dog is at best ugly, never really scary. To interest, a more threatening menace would have been needed, at least a few people you care for and evokes some emotions in you. And, not the least, something interesting must happen. Something unexpected. As it is, this film just drags on and on, in what seems like forever. Maybe a Saint Bernhard was not that smart to choose as the Terrible Threat to life and society?In most scary movies/thrillers/mystery, just whatever genre, there must be characters that sparks interest and makes you want to know what happens. Here you really don't care, you just wait for it all to stop, and wondering if it wouldn't be better to see something else. One of the weakest King adaptations. "}]