[{"Title":"Very Good Rock 'N Roll Film","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" This is one the best rock 'n roll movies ever made, but that doesn't say much since there haven't too many that much good to begin with. However, this IS good.It features solid music by John Cafferty, whose The Dark Side, is played quite a bit during the movie but is a great song and always enjoyable to hear. The movie also has interesting characters and a somewhat intriguing story. The story features a decent imitation of a Jim Morrison-type lead singer without getting too dramatic.A very young Ellen Barkin is the female lead here. She looked better when she got a bit older. A young Joe Pantolione also is in here and Michael Pare was effective as the lead singer. Don't listen to the national film critics who didn't care for the film. The public liked it and most times, they are a better judge. "},{"Title":"Rock N' Roll Mystery","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  	Mystery surrounds the death of a rising rock star in director Martin Davidson's `Eddie and the Cruisers,' starring Tom Berenger and Michael Pare.  With one successful album under their belts, lead singer and guitarist Eddie Wilson (Pare) takes his Cruisers into the recording studio to make an album he hopes will stand the world on its collective ear.  Drawing the title from a work by Nineteenth Century poet Arthur Rimbaud, they begin to lay down tracks for `A Season In Hell.'  But all is not well with Eddie and the band; there is dissent, and at least one among them, bassist Sal Amato (Matthew Laurance) disagrees with the direction in which Eddie has taken their music.  Early one morning, toward the end of the recording sessions, Eddie's car goes off a bridge into the river; his body is never found.  Now, eighteen years later, a reporter, Maggie Foley (Ellen Barkin) is doing a story on the Cruisers, and attempting to uncover the mystery behind the disappearance of the master tapes from the recording sessions, which inexplicably vanished the day after Eddie's apparent death. 	Pare is perfectly cast as Eddie, the Bruce Springsteen-like rocker; he lip-synchs convincingly to John Cafferty's vocals and deftly captures the persona of an early sixties rock n' roll idol on the rise.  Tom Berenger (who is actually the star of the movie) does an excellent job as lyricist Frank Ridgeway, the keyboard player known as  `Word Man' by the band.  Davidson tells the story by effectively using flashbacks, through which we get to know Eddie and his band, and which establishes the relationships so pertinent to the present day conflicts which emerge during Foley's investigation of Eddie and the missing tapes.  The focus is mainly on Ridgeway, therefore as the story unfolds it is predominately from his perspective that we learn what really happened, especially on that last night in the recording studio.  That there is a comparison being drawn between Eddie and Jim Morrison of The Doors is unmistakable; the plot draws heavily on the myth that Morrison (and Eddie) is still alive and may have `Pulled a Rimbaud.'  Poet Rimbaud (who is considered a genius, and to whom the creation of the form of modern poetry as we know it is attributed) committed `artistic suicide' at the age of nineteen, at which time he abruptly quit writing and disappeared for the next twenty years, only to reappear at last on his deathbed in France.  That the title of Rimbaud's masterpiece is `A Season In Hell' is no coincidence.  The parallels are drawn convincingly, which heightens the interest and adds to the credibility of the mystery. 	The supporting cast includes Joe Pantoliano (Doc), Helen Schneider (Joann), David Wilson (Kenny), Michael Antunes (Wendell) and Kenny Vance (Lew).  An excellent soundtrack of original songs, written and performed by John Cafferty, provided Davidson with a solid base from which to launch his story.  `Eddie and the Cruisers' is entertaining, if not entirely memorable, but the music and performances are good, and all in all this movie will do for a pleasant evening's viewing, with maybe a little popcorn thrown in for effect.  If you haven't seen this one, try it out; I think you'll be glad you didn't let it pass you by.  I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"More Here Than Meets The Eyes Or Ears In One Viewing","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Disregard what the big time movie reviewers may say! Despite a poor sound track, there is much more to this film than is obvious within one viewing. It took me awhile to get into it, but once I did, I loved it more with each viewing.  The underlying premise of the film, that there was, indeed, a definitive crossover point between the innocent early rock and roll music of the 1950's and the deeper coming of age sounds of the mid to late sixties is quite real.  And the charismatic title character Eddie has sensed this change in the wind, but is unable to convey his vision to those around him. Yes, there are a little too many flashback scenes for my taste, but all in all the film had something to say that deserves to be heard.  "},{"Title":"This movie is addictive.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie when my family first got cable television. I watched it once, then twice, then the next thing I know I had watched it about 30 times. The story is well told through flashbacks and current events. the casting is good. Michael Pare is Eddie Wilson. Every time I have seen him since, that's the first thing I think about. Tom Berenger is also very good. His character starts out as naive and innocent and then begins to grow as we grow with him. This movie is totally addictive. "},{"Title":"Great for the Rock'n Rollers","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Basically this film is a nostalgic musical for all Rock'n Roll fans.  There are some good numbers that will set toes tapping and hands clapping while Eddie belts out lyrics such as On the dark side of Betty-Lou's got a new pair of shoes.  But as a bonus and for those not so interested in the beat, the writers have thrown in some drama with a touch of mystery.When Eddie Wilson crashed over a bridge in his car, his body was never found. Could that mean he is still alive?  He certainly lives on in the hearts of the Cruisers.  And what's more, there are unexpected phone callers that sound like Eddie and there's a car like Eddie's that dips its lights in the same way that Eddie used to do.  The belief that he may still be alive is reinforced, even though Eddie died some 18 years ago.  An intriguing situation!Much of the film is in flash-back, jumping to & fro between the band of to-day and the band of years gone by.  One adjusts quickly because Eddie it seems always wears a black leather jacket.In a particular interesting scene Eddie takes his girl friend to an old junk yard one night.  He explains that as a kid he used to hang out there.  One of the workers at the yard built a castle of steel from bits and pieces selected from the dump.  Eddie in a growing mood of despondency explains it is a memorial to nothing.  Much like the boys from Jersey, they built up a band from nothing.  I liked the analogy.  Long live nothing he screams below the huge junk heap now illuminated with a million light bulbs.It is interesting that fans refuse to let their rock stars die. I guess it is true  that they really do live on in the songs that they created.  "},{"Title":"The idea of vanishing from society thrills many!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  This is probably my all-time favorite movie.  I can't explain why in terms to satisfy most people though.  It's just one of those things.  I love the music and have been to see John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown Band many times since the release of this movie.  The idea that a prominent celebrity could vanish from society is a thrilling storyline for this movie.  Its movies like these that help people whose loved ones are missing to keep the faith.  It also breeds fantasy that stars like Elvis and Jim Morrison are still alive.  I could write more but I'd rather go watch this movie!!! "},{"Title":"Best rock & roll movie ever","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" This film, along with Amadeus and This Is Spinal Tap, has woven its way into the culture and lingo of musicians around the world. Classic lines like, Do it my way with the cesarean, We ain't great--we're just a bunch of guys from Jersey, and the all time rocker, WORDS AND MUSIC (with the appropriate finger gesture), can be heard in every recording studio and rehearsal room in the English speaking world.So if you're a musician--or even if you just want to hang out with musicians--you must watch this film, otherwise you'll look like a total n00b.Even to non-musical audiences, this movie is a work of art. It's a nostalgic and poetic trip back to the early 1960s when America was just emerging from its cocoon of innocence. The entire film is a metaphor for this. Eddie's music, like life itself, dared to venture beyond the bubble gum into a world of complex social and personal issues... literally, the Dark Side of American life.Once you grasp this fundamental theme, you will appreciate the entire film on a deep level. It's not just a rock'n'roll romp. It's a profound commentary on the growing pains our society endured in the 2nd half of the 20th century. Told in flashback, the story takes on a particularly tragic air, as if you were browsing through a dusty old scrapbook of your childhood memories, now gone forever.The story/mystery is set in the first 5 minutes, and for the remaining 90 mins it unravels concurrently in 2 timelines to a brilliant finale. Acting is absolutely flawless, camera-work is both tense and dreamy, and the clincher is the fantastic music, a retro soundtrack by John Cafferty with songs you'd swear you'd heard from the 50s but were actually written in 1980 On the Dark Side, Tender Years & Wild Summer Nights to name some of the best. Check em out on Youtube if you can.Vivid characters bring this story to life. In Eddie and the Cruisers, the two lead characters personify the duality of a soul. First there's Eddie (Michael Paré) who is the dark, explosive force yearning to evolve. His counterpart is the naïve kid Ridgeway (played by Tom Berenger showing off his amazing versatility as an actor--just 2 years before his role in Platoon as the sadistic Vietnam commander. Can you believe it's the same guy?!). The two characters wrestle with each other, at times best friends, at times worst enemies, but always bound together by the thread of music. I'll leave you to discover the philosophical implications of their conflict and its outcome.Notable supporting performances are made by young actors Joe Pantoliana (Risky Business, The Fugitive, The Matrix, perhaps best known for The Sopranos), Matthew Laurance (tons of 80s-90s TV), Ellen Barkin (The Big Easy), and Eddie's girl played by Helen Schneider who surprisingly never did any other feature films.Some people criticize this film as being B grade or cheezy. Sure, why not. To me, that only added to its charm. The 80s itself was a time of innocence & simplicity relative to today's gritty cinema. Isn't it fitting that we, living in our mega-produced, paranoid, cynical new millennium would enjoy watching an honest 80s flick which itself is taking a look back to the warmth of its prior generation? It's like a window within a window. Don't miss the magic of this experience.I've seen 20 or 30 rock'n'roll films and this is hands down my favorite. Other faves include, by decade they depict, Jailhouse Rock (a surprisingly angsty 50s Elvis flick), of course Eddie (early 60s) and Head (late 60s trippy Monkees flick), Spinal Tap (a 70s metal spoof), Music & Lyrics (an 80s pop spoof), Anvil! The Story of Anvil (80s thru present day comeback attempt/comedy/documentary) and Garage Days (a 90s Aussie rock comedy by the director of The Crow). Worthy of note is Looking for an Echo (2000) by the same writer/director who did Eddie, it presents a parallel story of what might've happened to a 50s singer if he slowly faded into obscurity.Hope this review made sense to you. I nearly broke my fingers typing it. Haha. Watch the movie and you'll get it.P.S. If you see the film, make note that Wendell the sax player is actually the one who played sax on the soundtrack. In addition, the writers went to great lengths to ensure that the instruments of the era were used (Wurlitzer 140b piano, old Fender Strat guitar, etc). But notice how the piano isn't plugged in! Doh! Almost perfect. Almost. "},{"Title":"A well executed search for artistic perfection","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Michael Paré delivers his best performance as Eddie Wilson, a talented young singer who strives to achieve the perfect original sound with lyrics that reach deep within the soul &#133; forever. Eddie draws the necessary ingredients required to create his vision through Frank Ridgeway, a young man with an Ivy League education who has a passion for poetry. Powered by a sensational Rock n Roll soundtrack, Eddie and the Cruisers takes you on a journey through a glimpse of the other band members lives more than twenty years after. Their music is in the charts again, and the Cruisers are bigger and hotter than ever. But the tragic disappearance of Eddie in 1964 still haunts their minds and their lives, but now they must deal with the creation of a legend more thant wenty years after they were the hottest sound in town. Eddie and the Cruisers is well directed with solid performances by the cast. But it is the intense image created by Michael Paré's performance, that makes you believe in the legend. "},{"Title":"Eddie still lives on...","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" I was 15 when this movie was released, and I LOVED IT. Eddie and the Cruisers is one of those AWESOME movies. I remember partying to it and watching at least 100+ times. It is a movie the seems to describe a lot of what was going on in the 80's even though it was supposed to be set in the 60's. Eddie was a music ICON for us, John John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown Band were awesome, and the music still lives on today. As a child of the 80's a Gen.X child, we are called the Lost Generation and Eddie was also lost,and showed how a lot of us felt, just disappear... Again, if you haven't seen this movie, you really NEED to. It is truly a Classic 80's movie. Also, watch garage sales, flea markets, thrift stores. You can sometimes find the Soundtrack which is also awesome. My Ex-husband recently found it in a box a friend gave him, and the first time he listened to The Dark Side it took him back again.. "},{"Title":"Great Music Story","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Eddie and the Cruisers is kind of a Behind the Music story. It has a very good plot and the actors were good. The music from John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown Band is probably the best thing about this movie. Any music and/or rock and roll will love it.8/10  "}{"Title":"Thirty Years Later","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Let me preface this by saying that I was born in 1949. I have lived through the evolution of rock 'n roll. Beginning with my older (7 yrs) sister's obsession in the 50s and watching American Bandstand as a child. Although Perry Como was my first idol, that quickly evolved. And, yes, I am still a Beatles Girl. I think that I was one of the few people that actually saw this movie (twice) in its original theatrical release in 1983. I was mesmerized. Yes, it could have been the combo of Pare and Berringer, et al. Truthfully, it is THE perfect blend of music, characters, mystery (Old Nancy Drew enthusiasts do not fade away), add a dash of chuck it all, I am out of here - and who among us has not entertained THAT idea? -class distinction (college kids and working class) you have the perfect recipe for a kick arse movie. I think it is significant that it is set in 1963, in that tiny little sliver of time that was post JFK election (change and youth), his assassination (November 1963) and before The Beatles/British invasion (February 1964). When this movie was made, MTV was barely a toddling toddler (born 1981) and they actually played music. Anyway, here it is thirty years later and I am accidentally catching this movie again on AMC. The music, characters, and story line are still viable. Even the onslaught of 30 years of life is what happens when you are planning something else, this movie still mesmerizes me. "},{"Title":"Michael Pare' appears so lifelike!","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Every time I watch this movie(and I do - over and over), the scene where Frank introduces his first song to the band - nearly whispering it in a high, cracking falsetto ...from out of the shadows she walks like a dre-eam..., and while the other band-members giggle and squirm as though they're in 8th grade and just saw Mary Ellen's tidy-whities when the wind blew her skirt up - Eddie's silencing them and kindly guiding Frankie The Wordman's stumbling efforts toward something that can really get your blood moving(This is Rock 'n Roll! he exclaims joyfully)always makes me marvel at the unexpectedly-good acting coming out of pretty boy Michael Pare'. I always think the same thing 'How did Martin Davidson get that out of him? Why, in every other movie I've seen him in, did other directors fail to tap into that?' When you see this movie, you absolutely know that it isn't Pare's fault that he's so wooden elsewhere...because if he can do it here - he can do it anywhere, right? With the right director, the answer is yes. The proof is here; right here, in his very authentic portrayal of an artist trapped in the too-confining skin of a 60's rock star(Eddie If we can't be great, then there's no point in ever making music again!). But don't just watch this movie for Pare'. Everything works. Everybody rocks. It all goes together just like...yeah, I'm gonna say it words and music. "},{"Title":"Eddie and the Cruisers","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" I loved this movie when it first came out and it remains relative many years later. It reminds artists/musicians about the desire to create something that will last and how to keep your dreams alive.The cast was great and for the most part have gone on to terrific careers. Michael Pare was sensational! In the disposable society that we live in, Eddie and the Cruisers reminds us of how tough the music industry is for newcomers. Eddie...shows the pitfalls of the 'suits', the drug influence and the hard work and even rejection that a new performer must be able to take to make it. It is a good blueprint to go by, but beware, Eddie had a sequel. The real idea is to pursue a dream and make it happen.The music is still a great sound of rock and roll and a lasting sound that doesn't sound dated. I have the soundtrack and often listen to it. I am familiar with the sequel, but would love to see another rock movie as good as Eddie and the Cruisers. "},{"Title":"Read the book!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  The Michael Pare films are flawed. The John Cafferty music is too much Springsteen and not enough 50's. The sequel was a bad joke. None of this matters. Eddie and the Cruisers by P.F. Kluge is probably the best novel ever written about rock'n'roll, and even though it lost a lot in translation to the big screen, the magic is still there. If you like the movie, you simply owe it to yourself to read the book. Then you'll really understand.One creepy mystery aside from a couple of minor TV appearances many years later, Helen Schneider (Joanne Carlino) never made another film after this one. Whatever happened to her? Did she also pull a Rimbaud? "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" This cult classic still shines after all these years. Having watched this again recently, you still feel like your watching a true story of Eddie Wilson, and what happen to him. Everything from the great music soundtrack to the shots around NJ. To the fine acting performed by everyone involved. If there's a minor gripe i picked up watching it recently, they could of done a better job of aging these guys. Its supposed to be 20 years after they made it big in 1963 and they barely look older than those days. They could of gave Berenger a mustache like in the Big chill to make him look older. I thought Michael Pare would go on to be a big time actor, but looking at his profile, i never heard of any of his movies, except that horrible sequel he should of never of been involved with. Still a great movie about a bunch of guys from Jersey... "},{"Title":"Sensational rock music film ,today considered a cult movie","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" The film deals a rockers band in the 1960s,the successful group is constituted by the leader Eddie(Michael Pare) and the rest band (Tom Berenguer,Joe Pantoliano,Matthew Laurance among others),but the lead singer dies in a car accident without appear mysteriously the body.Nowadays a reporter named Maggie(Ellen Barkin) is interviewing the surviving but another member has deceased by a stroke heart.Memories group are being relived by Frank (Tom Berenguer).The journalist and members of band are looking for the last unpublished tapes what turn out to be the band's final recording.The tapes have the title  ¨time in the inferno¨ like as a Rimbaud poem(written in 1873) .Maggie thinks what Eddie following the Rimbaud life(he had a tempestuous existence and was Paul Verlaine lover and disappearing early, his biography was brought to the life in a film with Leonardo DiCaprio)committed a suicide simulated and she doesn't believes to be dead.It's an interesting film with excellent music and nowadays is deemed a cult movie.Casting is frankly enjoyable,the film results to be the best Michael Pare performance.The magnificent music is by John Chafferty and Beaver Brown Band.The motion picture is well directed by Martin Davidson,he's a director at his beginning realized good movies with known actors  Lord's of Flatbush,Hero at large and of course Eddie of the Cruisers; however today he makes solely for television episodes. The picture got a sequel with the same actors (exception of Tom Berenguer) in which Eddie emerges under a new identity in the city of Montreal and he forms a new musical group and are answered the questions of the previous film .The film will like to rockers and musical cinema devotees. Rating  Above average "},{"Title":"A Simple Plot","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  This post is not to review or rate Eddie, but to explain the background of the plot for other posters who seem confused on this.Eddie was based on the 1980 book, same name, by Paul F. Kluge (avail used Amazon). The basis of the plot is simple If the lead singer in a #1 rock group dies, how are the lives of others in the group altered? Do they try to keep it going, or let go and move on? Do they ever try to go back? Et cetera. Mr. Kluge's inspiration for this was the death of Buddy Holly in 1959. He long wondered what happened to the members of the Crickets after that day, and turned his curiosity into this book.All this per a personal conversation I had with Mr. Kluge in 1996. At that time, he was a professor at a small Ohio college. "},{"Title":"A Music-Driven Film","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" A television newswoman (Ellen Barkin) picks up the story of a 1960s rock band whose long-lost leader Eddie Wilson (Michael Pare) may still be alive, while searching for the missing tapes of the band's never-released album.The 1980s, among many other great things in the movie world, were apparently the decade of music films. We really do not see them anymore, but the 80s brought us this film (1983) La Bamba (1987) and this film's sequel (1989), just to name a few. Apparently it was also the decade where Joe Pantoliano appeared in music films, because he is both here and in La Bamba. Roger Ebert wrote at the time that the film was so frustrating, so dumb, so unsatisfactory, but he was so wrong. This may not be high art, and it may be odd to hear Springsteen-esque music allegedly being played in 1963, but it is a darn fun film.Although the film had a strong cult following when it was played repeatedly on HBO, those under 30 today may not remember the movie. Yet, the hit single On the Dark Side still receives regular radio play, so it is anything but forgotten. This might be the time to visit (or revisit) the film, especially now that we have had thirty years to reflect on the careers of Michael Pare, Tom Berenger and Joe Pantoliano.Hats off to Shout Factory for releasing this as a double feature on Blu-ray. Unfortunately, it comes as bare bones release, with only subtitles to speak of. Michael Pare was not asked to do a commentary (though he probably would), and it would have been a really cool thing to include a remastered soundtrack CD. Maybe we have not seen the final release of this film yet. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for the Baby Boomer Generation","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" I grew up in South Jersey during the 60's. (To us natives it is either North Jersey or South Jersey) and actually played in a garage band during high school.I lived down the street from where they filmed Doc's apartment and spent many summers Down the Shore. I remember almost all the locations in the film. Anyway, for me this movie is a trip down memory lane. There are really very few goofs and the producers got it right for the 60's in Jersey. I first saw this in 1985 on video. I am currently looking at it 26 years later. Still tugs at the heart strings as it did a quarter of a century ago! "},{"Title":"A film about art and passion","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" This is one of my favorite small movies of all times. It draws off a lot of artistic partnerships for inspiration with its underlying theme of words and music and the seeming contradictions in life, art and relationships that go into making something beautiful and real. The characters are wonderfully rendered and the performances are pitch perfect. The music is haunting when it should be and always exciting to listen to. Eddie's struggle is the eternal struggle of the artist, who wants to be great, in contrast to his friend who suggests, They're just some guys from Jersey. The ending is the perfect ending. The film, while not the perfect film (since a perfect film doesn't exist), is one of the few of which I actually own a copy. It you haven't seen Eddie, I promise you, it's nothing that you think it is ... any more than Eddie and the Cruisers are just some guys from Jersey. "}{"Title":"Influence","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  This movie may be junk-but it was good teenage junk. At age 15 HBO played it over and over.  I got hooked!  This movie took me to my first rock concert (John Cafferty and Beaver Brown), first poet who influenced my mind ,Rimbauld (sic), and of course crush on Michael Pare.  Also was a very good book, but this movie and soundtrack still hold an important place in my collection, and BTW, my mothers as well.Everyone says the music was bad yet it brought old styled rock back to the top 10!  My mother loved it too.  Interesting how opinions change. "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 16","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" 16. EDDIE AND THE CRUISERS (drama, 1983) In the spring of 1963 Eddie and the Cruisers are the hottest up and coming band in town. Their first album is #1 in the local charts. They are destined to become world famous. But their second album turns out to be a failure. Lead singer Eddie (Michael Pare) is angry to learn that not only the band hates it, but so does the record company. Eddie speeds away in his car never to be seen again. 30 years later the legend of Eddie catapults the band back in the charts. Reporter Maggie (Ellen Barkin) wants to put together a retrospective, and with the help of former band member Frank (Tom Berenger), they set out to uncover the mystery of what really happened to Eddie. Critique One time box office bomb whose relegation to cable and VHS have made it a cult film. Its 'what-if' music world combines the likes of legends like Hendrix, Morrison and Elvis. Although they died, the fictional figure of Eddie Cruiser remains elusive and distant. Existing between past and present. The movie has a superb soundtrack and spirited live performances by the actors. The screenplay by Arlene and Martin Davidson (who directs) richly blends legend and fiction. This was Michael Pare's explosive debut. His Eddie is charismatic, brash and full of life. His obsession for greatness leads to his own destruction. Sadly, Pare's follow-up films have been total duds, relegating him to 'B' films. The potential he showed here has never been realized. He never had it so good. He would come back and star in Eddie and the Cruisers 2 Eddie Lives (1989).QUOTE Eddie I want something great. I want something that's never been done before! "},{"Title":"in 1963 Eddie Wilson vanished some say he died but his music lives on","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Eddie and the Cruisers is a incredible time capsule of a movie. It captures the era so incredibly and it gives us a mystery story as well. in 1961 Eddie Wilson formed his band the Cruisers after playing beach bars and other Jersey establishments they meet Frank Ridgeway a drop out from college tending bar.Frank captures Eddie's attention because Frank is smart he's educated and he can write songs like nobody else is doing. Eddie wants to be great and he sees that with him and Frank writing the songs the Cruiser's making the music that they'll go places and be Big. When frank joins things start breaking big for them one of their songs ON THE DARK SIDE is a hit. Satin records wants more and so Eddie goes back into the studio with the Cruisers and makes a record Satin considers horrid .Eddie storms off and the next day his car is fished from the ocean the viewpoint is Eddie is dead. Flash forward 20 years later Eddie and the Cruisers are white hot their music is in a revival and interest in Eddie is mounting. When Frank now a teacher starts exploring their history he finds out that someone is looking for the lost tapes and murder might be a option for them to get their hands on the tapes. the movie is told in flashbacks mixing it with the present and giving us a wonderful gem of a movie that rocks. "},{"Title":"Mysterious and Haunting","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" This movie evokes strange feelings of going back down a road, I have been on before, but did not recall ever being on it.This was one of those movies I watched on cable during the eighties without noticing much. I would only watch it, if I had nothing else to do.That said, I was amazed how much I remembered from this movie, when I watched it again recently. Probably because this movie has a lot going for it, that I never considered. It is a good story, with some mystery that compels one into the story. The movie has a good sound track and made an interesting point that good musicians feel tortured when trying to express themselves musically. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" I was born after Eddie Wilson died. I always enjoyed the few songs released by his band. When I watched Eddie and the Cruisers, it really intreaged me. I am now trying to find the second movie. I also wasn't to find the only album that was released by Eddie and the Cruisers while he was alive. RThis movie really makes you wonder if Eddie is still alive. The movie flashes back to when he was alive. I have tried to find all over the internet the car the Eddie drove. I am purchasing both Eddie and the Cruisers and Eddie and the Cruisers 2 Eddie Lives. If your into rock and roll that made sense and had feeling, Which is what Eddie Wilson tried to show then you will enjoy this movie as much as I did and you will want to watch the second. I can't understand though why the record company did not want to release his second album Season in Hell, because the music is excellent. Watch the movie and see if you wonder if he really is alive. "},{"Title":"A super soundtrack - some rarely heard songs","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Rock music lovers will enjoy Eddie. When I walked out of the theater in 1983, I said this was a winner. Although never into Springstein or his music prior to seeing this movie, I was curious why the Boss had turned it down, it was very surprising since the end product was of such high quality. Michael Pare did a fantastic job. The music still haunts me 22 years later. A great cast, many who went on to huge success in film, along with great musicians like Kenny Vance. A lead character named Wilson (distant parallels to the genius of the Beach Boys) too many great details to list here, that will make any movie lover smile. "},{"Title":"Anachronism in the movie!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" This is mystifying me! I just watched Eddie and the Cruisers on DVD, and there's a scene when the reporter is looking up something on Eddie on the computer (it's supposed to be 1983 in the film's story). She uses the Internet and goes to a search engine called RIDDLE, whose colorful letters on the screen highly resemble GOOGLE. I noticed the similarity of RIDDLE and GOOGLE and chuckled to myself, ah they're doing a take-off on Google. However, when I got done watching the movie, I realized that this film was really made in 1983, and Google wasn't started until 1995. So, this is more than anachronistic! If this film was really made in 1983, the writer/producer/director was able to foresee the future by 12 years!!!! How can this be? Am I going nuts? "},{"Title":"How much fun can you have?","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Despite the low budget this movie has all the right components of a great movie experience. The actors,Michael Pare,Tom Beringer and the entire cast did a great job especially Pare's performance as Eddie.I have never seen such a great lipsink job you totally believe thats he's singing.Which brings up the best part of this movie,THE MUSIC!!,On the Darkside,Tender years.wild summer nights etc you will fall in love and want the sound track.I just enjoy this movie and the music so much I don't want anyone to miss it. "},{"Title":"Respectable blend of music and mystery.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  An intriguing and likable yarn about a former member of a sixties rock band now high school teacher, Frank Ridgeway (Tom Berenger) who is interviewed by an eager magazine reporter, Maggie Foley (Ellen Barkin) about what might have happened to the band's fiery lead singer, Eddie Wilson (Michael Pare).What makes Eddie and the Crusiers work so well is the musical score by John Cafferty, which mostly consists of soft rock songs.  The performances by Pare and Berenger are quite good, too.  However, the story written by Arlene Davidson and director Martin Davidson doesn't give the film more detail.  One must wonder how much detail is too much for a movie like this?Overall, Eddie and the Crusiers is a respectable blend of music and mystery. "},{"Title":"Steller musical with an emotional story","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Ahhh, this is what a musical should be.  Eddie and the Cruisers is the story of a one hit wonder band that is experiencing a revival in their music 18 years later.  A reporter believes that the lead singer, who died before the second album could come out, is still alive and hiding somewhere. *Michael Pare gets thumbs up for his performance as the moody and philisophical lead singer.  *Tom Berenger also receives a thumbs up for his role as word man, the writer of the songs.  *However, the number 1 reason to see this film is the burning hot music.  The Dark Side is a song that still receives radio airplay, Wild Summer Nights is a classic jaunt into the land of rock & roll, and Tender Years is one of the most beautiful and heartfelt songs to be featured in a movie.  Recommended for music lovers. "}{"Title":"Great movie and music","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie!  It has a good story line and some excellent music! This movie has drama, mystery, romance and music--what more could you want! The relationship between Eddie and his band was a big point for me.  Eddie has strong feelings as to what should be included in their songs and that spills over into the friendships.  If you watch closely, you will see that Frankie and Eddie are the only ones on the same page regarding the band's music.  Sal and Eddie are close but even he doesn't understand what Eddie wants from his music. So, if you are looking for some great music and a feel-good movie, this is the one to watch.  Of course, you will want to follow up with Eddie and the Cruisers 2  Eddie Lives!  "},{"Title":"A haunting and evocative rock and roll movie.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  This is a haunting and evocative rock and roll movie that retains its impact 16 years later.  Great performances all around, especially from Tom Berenger and Michael Pare.  What a shame Pare's career didn't live up to its early promise -- he's simply wonderful in this movie.  The story borrows heavily from the Jim Morrison myth, but the sound and location is Springsteen all the way.  The music is great! Without a doubt, this is a flawed film, especially in the last half hour, but the overall effect outweighs the weaknesses.  The sequel, however, is pitiful. "},{"Title":"Books Into Flicks","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Having read the book first, and really liked it, the movie succeeded. Though I've never cared for actors lip sync-ing to other vocalists, especially in light of having the Buddy Holly Story break new ground in the same year ( 1983 AAW best music adaptation ), Michael Pare was quite good.As this was a hybrid of the Jim Morrison ' what if ' myth & the Springsteen story, it did offer some insight into the era & at that time a look into the genesis of a band & the internecine struggles.Picking movies like this apart misses the point. It's a solid effort with passionate performances. In retrospect Michael Pare never got past B movies & Tom Berenger burned bright before he too succumbed to have SAG card will travel. Ellen Barkin lasted a bit longer. AND what can one ever say about Joe Pantoliano I'll take this flick, Risky Business, Matrix & the Sopranos on my res any day. . .. "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  It's a shame that such an intriguing idea for a film was squandered like this. The direction and acting is weak, but what truly destroys the film is the music; the Cruisers' early music is annoying AOR-type filler posing as 1950's bubblegum, and the Season in Hell music, which should be strange and hypnotic, is just dull. We're also robbed of the fun of seeing songs created through rehearsals; it's pretty clear the director has never been to a band rehearsal, as the songs sound as polished and final the first time they play them as in the final recordings.I'd love to see this movie remade by some competent people. In the right hands, it could be the best rock-and-roll movie ever.One last aside everyone mentions Eddie's resemblance to Jim Morrison, which is clearly there, but it seems obvious that the Season in Hell stuff is also based on Brian Wilson's difficulties which the never-released Beach Boys' Smile album. Eddie is even named Wilson. "},{"Title":"Eddie supposedly dies in a car accident at the peak of his career with The Cruisers.  Twenty years later  he reappears .","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" The summary is already told in other entries on this site. I just love these two movies.Some people are so critical. I don't get them. These two movies had great acting, great music, and a compelling story line. I've watched them both about 50 times!!! (I am a 67 year old female musician). My friends have watched these two movies and all love them, too!!! It captures a time that I can relate to, but it's for people of any age whole just like movies about musicians.I agree with Michael Pare's own analysis when he said this movie made him a movie actor.He has been in tons of B- movies and some television an after The Cruisers and apparently he always has work, so his style of acting obviously is in demand !!!!! He is not a big name star, but there is somethingvery intriguing about him. As Eddy Wilson, he was totally believable. Of course I developed aa crush on him with those beautiful blue eyes and sweet smile. But he played the lead singer part with perfection. I thought the lip-syncing was great. I don't understand how critical people can be about a movie like this!!! i am so glad they made this movie and I hope it continues to make money through the decades. It deserves a prominent place in the archives of movies about musicians. "},{"Title":"A lean, mean, well told story","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Plot in a nutshell Eddie Wilson (Michael Pare) was the lead singer of Eddie & The Cruisers, an on the rise rock band in the early 1960s that played late 1970s/1980s style music. They cut one successful album, Tender Years, which featured the hit song On The Dark Side, and it looked as though Eddie (and his band) had overnight fame & fortune almost within his grasp, but Eddie could not see beyond his own arrogance to recognize and accept the fact that if he wanted to be in the spotlight, he would have to play by certain rules, and at times could mistreat his band mates, even lyricist/piano player Frank Word Man Ridgeway (Tom Berenger). Following the death of their original sax player and the rejection of their 2nd album, A Season In Hell, rejected because the style of music was dismissed as little more than weird noises, Eddie apparently committed suicide, driving his car off the bay docks... but since his body was never found, an urban legend formed around him. Years later, in the early 1980s, Eddie's music has experienced a resurgence in popularity & appreciation when his old record label re-releases the Tender Years album, and a debate is sparked as to what happened to the lost performance tapes and recordings of the Season in Hell album. Then someone starts ransacking former band members homes in a desperate search for those tapes... could it be Eddie? In the midst of this, more about the band's tragic downfall comes to light.Major Spoiler at the end we see the older, long lost Eddie Wilson alone in the streets watching as his lost music is played on a big store TV; he smiles serenely, proud to know that his work, misunderstood and rejected all those years ago, is finally being heard, and disappears into the night.All in all, a well made, well acted film that speaks for all those rock singers who almost had it but for whatever reason couldn't hold on. Michael Pare (in the role that should have made him a star) is well cast as Eddie Wilson, the charismatic but self-destructive rock singer, though the true star is Tom Berenger as the lyricist who must uncover the truth of it all.Excellent showcase for the music of John Cafferty (Eddie's singing voice) and the Beaver Brown Band. "},{"Title":"A love letter to Rock 'n' Roll","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  How can anyone who loves Rock 'n' Roll not love this movie? It created a feeling of yearning and nostalgia that is still with me. Yes, it's cheesy and flawed in more than a few places, but it all comes from the heart. It's a slightly melodramatic story of a Morrisonian (without the drug abuse) rising rock star with dreams of greatness that are too big for the industry he's in. If the dialogue is melodramatic and the movies sensibility is somewhat on the adolescent side, this is the place for exactly that. This is the place for dreams, anger and passion. Everything that is at the core of Rock 'n' Roll, all the pure emotional turmoil and conflict.  "},{"Title":"What a great rock and roll film should be.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best rock and roll films ever made.  It has a stellar cast which includes Michael Pare, Tom Berenger, Joe Pantoliano, and Ellen Barkin... in one of their very first roles.  This is the film that made their careers.  You can see the great promise in each of them and see great things ahead for each... well almost.  Watching this film you can only feel sorry for Michael Pare and the B-movie roles he has lately gotten himself into.The score is really what drives this movie. John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown band does Bruce Springsteen better than Bruce does himself.  This of course is not to detract from the well structured script which plays on the Jim Morrison lives myth (with the character of Eddie Wilson as the Morrison substitute).All in all, this film will keep you on the edge of your seat, singing away, until the movie's surprise ending.  Not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"For those who have been on stage...keep the dream alive!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  When I first saw this video in the spring of 1988, I had goosebumps all over me.  Having played in a band in the mid-60's, Iknow the feeling of what might be or of what our band mightbecome. Having played in the band for three years...we thoughtit would never end and we never recorded a note...then one dayit was over.  We had not played music as the band since 1968but Eddie and the Cruisers renewed a burning desire within meto get the band back together...just one more time. We gottogether again and had so much fun that we played for our 20year high school reunion and have played every five years sinceat the 25th, 30th and I hope forever till we can't play anymore.I highly recommend this video to those who love good Rock 'NRoll music.  Let the music live "},{"Title":"Eddie and the Cruisers","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Compelling film about young rocker who supposedly committed suicide or purposefully disappeared to get away from fame. Berenger is impressive as a member of the band, while Pare stands out as the young and mysterious rocker.  The ending to the film is wonderful!  "}{"Title":"Very promising but ultimately disappointing","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" In 1983, journalist Ellen Barkin starts digging into the story of a supposed accident which killed Eddie Wilson, lead singer for Eddie and the Cruisers, a hot 60's band who made one hit album. Also in question are missing tapes for another album which never got made. Could there be more to the story than a simple accident? And where did these missing tapes go? And plus, Eddie's body was never found.This had all the potential of being a great movie. Switching between present and the swinging 60's, remembered by the band's piano player (Tom Berenger), the story of this fictional band is played out. What is truly an interesting premise gets bogged down by a below average script which is more shallow than a bathtub.None of these characters come to life, remaining as much a mystery to the viewer as to the public Ellen Barkin hopes to enlighten. Michael Paré, who plays Eddie, is supposed to be this fountain of wisdom, but he's so poorly written and comes off as completely one-dimensional. None of the other main characters fare any better, with Tom Berenger completely wasted in the lead role. Sudden dramatic scenes, like when the band's sax player overdoses, are left completely unexplained and have absolutely no plight whatsoever. And what's the deal with Eddie and his girlfriend? Is she just a slut or who did she really want to be with? Nothing is fully explored or explained, leaving the viewer (me anyway) wanting to know a lot more.The film's saving grace is the fantastic music score done by John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown band. When Eddie and the Cruisers are playing their stuff the movie suddenly comes alive, and Michael Paré is an excellent performer on stage and lip syncs to perfection. That's the reason why I keep revisiting this film on a regular basis.Overall acceptable but hugely disappointing in most respects. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, again","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  I recently watched this movie for the second time, even though I remembered being disappointed with it the first time, which was at least ten years ago.Why did I watch it again? The movie has a quasi-cult status, at least in my mind, which led me to conclude (erroneously) that it had better-than-average value. That and I didn't remember much of it specifically from the first time around.I did notice this time that the script was developed from a novel, which makes me wonder if the book covered in detail some of the things that just pop up in the movie for no apparent reason.For example, Wendell the sax player overdosed on drugs. But until that point we, the viewers, hadn't a clue that anyone in the band was doing drugs of any kind.Secondly, why did Wendell's death affect Eddie so deeply? Evidently, the brooding second album Season in Hell was informed primarily by Wendell's death, but there's no emotional connection between Eddie and Wendell that I can see.I'm guessing it was in the book but the filmmakers did a poor job of explaining it. Or maybe decided not to explain it at all.Secondly, it doesn't make sense at the end for Frank and Joann to hand over the Season in Hell tapes to Doc. He's already proven himself to be a duplicitous fellow. Yet they let him drive off with the tapes that could make them all millionaires. Unbelievable.This movie could have been much better than it is. "},{"Title":"Those Oldies But Goodies","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" As a nostalgia flick, this film does not work, at all. For one thing, Michael Pare is too old, and too intense, to be convincing as a rock star of the early 60s. Pare lacks the innocence and idealism that we would expect for a singer from that period. Second, in this film, there's not nearly enough cultural contrast between the two eras. And third, the film's original music does not, in any way, sound like it came from the early 60s. It sounds like it came from the early 80s. I can envision Bruce Springsteen singing those songs, but not Rick Nelson or Pat Boone. In short, Eddie And The Cruisers lacks credibility as a cinematic time machine.The film's mystery element fares better. The plot revolves around the mysterious 1964 death of rock singer Eddie Wilson, played by Pare. Some eighteen years later, a reporter named Maggie (Ellen Barkin) wants to find out what really happened to Wilson. She talks with Frank (Tom Berenger), a Cruisers band member, who in turn reacquaints himself with other members of the now defunct band. Through all of this, there is considerable puzzlement over recording tapes that vanished the day after Eddie presumably died.The plot is somewhat contrived, and there are some really hokey plot elements, like the physical condition of reel-to-reel tapes, after all those years. The film's dialogue, acting, and cinematography are acceptable, if unremarkable.As an oldie but goody, Eddie And The Cruisers is not real good, but the story is mildly interesting, despite a mediocre script. The underlying premise had, and still has, lots of potential. But the film's execution, particularly as it relates to nostalgia, is poor, mostly as a result of bad casting, and a lack of understanding of early 60's rock and roll music. "},{"Title":"Terrific song & performance, story not as strong","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" TV reporter Maggie Foley (Ellen Barkin) want to find an infamous '60s rock band whose leader Eddie Wilson (Michael Paré) was presumed dead. Recent events indicate that he might still be alive. We follow old band mate Frank Ridgeway (Tom Berenger) as he tracks down old colleagues such as played by Joe Pantoliano.The structure of this film is where most of the interesting stuff is told in flashbacks. I wish that they did not keep going back and forth in time. And the final reveal wasn't quite satisfying.The best thing about this movie is the music and more specifically one song. It has immense energy. In fact, it infuses it into the movie itself which does get slow when it is in present day mode. "},{"Title":"Watchable but not great","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" SPOILER ALERT I don't understand all the 10-star ratings. The movie is OK but the problem I have is with the music. First of all, Eddie is still stuck in the '50s, with his tough guy look, cut-off t-shirt, and music. The big problem I have is that the music from the 2nd (unreleased) album is so '80s! How do you make this story believable when it purports how ahead of his time Eddie was, going from horn-based frat rock to something considered weird sounds and progressive for the time. No way, I don't buy it. The writers of this film should have made that supposed transition of his music (they called it being ahead of his time) something harder but still with a 60s mindset, lyrically and musically. Wow, what a stretch, Eddie has an 80s sound! The movie really portrays Eddie as a one-hit wonder, with that annoying On The Dark Side constantly popping up every 30 minutes or so. Lastly, the unreleased album was called Seasons in Hell? Come on, that is no 60s title! What's next, Eddie has long hair and bell bottoms too because he was ahead of his time? Why is everyone worshipping this one-hit wonder? They could have made these aspect of the movie a bit more believable. "},{"Title":"Eerie Realistic Atmosphere","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Having lived on the New Jersey shore near Asbury Park in the 1970's, seeing this movie was like a flashback to those times. I don't think I've ever seen a movie that has so accurately captured the feeling of it's setting as did Eddie and The Cruisers.That was the Jersey shore in the 1970s. Even the scene in the bar where Tom Beringer joins the band felt like I was back in The Stone Pony.The music was great; the plot OK; it was fun seeing Ellen Barkin and Tom Beringer before they achieved superstardom. But those are ancillary to the atmosphere - every time I see this movie, I get goosebumps.Maybe that's why the sequel was disappointing - it didn't have that Jersey shore flavor. "},{"Title":"View of Rancocas Valley High School in the movie","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" If you have seen this movie, you'll notice the side of the high school that was used as the front of the high school for the movie shots. That was the entrance used by the student parking lot. Well, that no longer exists as the high school has greatly expanded.I always wonder why they didn't use the front of the school (could have covered up the school name) because the view from across the street would have been nice.Rancocas Valley is a beautiful school and this movie reminds me of how it used to be (class of '96)If you are a Mount Holly native or graduated from RV, check out this movie. "},{"Title":"Fine Soundtrack -- Where Does The Movie Go Wrong?","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" It's really touching to see how many reviewers remember this movie fondly. I just picked up the soundtrack CD last Saturday, and after more than twenty years the classic Fifties-style songs with the unique Beaver Brown sound still hold up.Unfortunately, the movie itself is limp, torpid, depressing and shallow. Why is the story so weak? At bottom, I think this is really two movies. On one level, in the present, it's a realistic, low key look at how some typical working class characters deal with disappointment and loss while poignantly cherishing memories of the more glamorous past. Please don't go, tender years, is exactly what these middle aged rockers want to say.And that's fine. The movie works best when it's almost like a documentary, charting the failures and humiliations of the surviving Cruisers in later life. Listen to Sal D'Amato, saying, they strike oil in your back yard and all you get are dead tomatoes. Then later that night, he leads his tired, balding band into battle, and the announcer says, the Holliday Inn is proud to welcome back some Jersey boys who really made good, Eddie and the Cruisers featuring Sal D'Amato! The irony is that Sal's triumph depends on living in the past, and keeping Eddie alive in his music. At the end of the show he pays tribute to Eddie, saying he's as much a part of this band as I am. Down the street . . . around the block . . . not far away at all. It's hard not to watch that scene with tears in your eyes.But the movie tries to be another story too. The fifties flashbacks showcase Michael Pare as the young, brooding, hunky Eddie Wilson. And uh, that's a mistake. Michael Pare does for Fifties tough guys what Bela Lugosi does for Count Dracula. He takes a rich, compelling screen archetype and turns it into a corny joke. Every dramatic scene he has falls flat -- he just flexes his biceps and looks goofy. The script never does give us a reason for Eddie's attitude, but it's more loser/bully than rebel/dreamer. He tends to pick on people like his own band mates rather than challenging bigger, tougher authority figures. As a biopic of a sexy, enigmatic star the movie really gets into trouble fast. Eddie is just a big lug with a nasty sneer, not a real rebel who has a vision. Even his warmed over class resentments come off as forced and stereotypical.Ultimately, the movie loses you because it never explains why Eddie disappeared, what made him a genius, or what was eating him before he ever became a singer. Had they just had Eddie stay dead and focused on the middle aged years, it would have been a quieter, better film, but we might not have this killer soundtrack. So it's all a bit of a trade off. As other reviewers have mentioned, the missing tapes plot and the unintentionally funny ending (Doc? Is that you? Who's out there?)take all the heat and momentum out of Eddie's story. So in the end what's left is the soundtrack -- a genuine rock and roll achievement. "},{"Title":"A Bruising Cruise","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" Tom Berenger must have been desperate for work when he signed on for this embarrassment of a film. It has the feel and tone of the kind of made for television movie you might watch out of sheer boredom and exhaustion on a Sunday afternoon when you're too tired either to locate the remote or to fire a bullet at the television screen. The acting is wooden and unnatural, and the music, which is supposed to be awesome, sounds curiously like a bad rip-off of Springsteen, even though the flashbacks in the film are set, for the most part, in 1963, when NOTHING sounded like Springsteen. Worse yet, the sets do not look at all like anything reminiscent of 1963. This is very clearly a cheap production, doomed from the start by an awful script, terrible acting, and a devil may care attitude about capturing the feeling of an era. Here's the premise of the film years after Eddie, the tempestuous and dumb (can he spell Rimbaud?) lead singer of the Cruisers, has disappeared (he died in a car accident, but his body was never recovered), a reporter decides to write a story about the band. She has a theory that Eddie is still alive and believes that the band may be on the verge of a renaissance, if the missing final recordings, named A Season in Hell, can be located. She forces her presence into the lives of the remaining band members, who are, by the way, dull as dirt, to piece together the band's history. This reporter is so creepy and annoying that she'd probably have a restraining order slapped on her, nowadays. Ironically enough, A Season in Hell describes the viewing experience quite accurately. "},{"Title":"Hated it","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  What can I say?  I'm really picky when it comes to musical movies, and this one really sucked.  The music itself wasn't so bad, but plot was just annoying.  The movie simply circulated around one man's memory of a friend and a band.  I didn't understand the point of the film.  Some did enjoy it, surprisingly enough.  Watch if you care about personal struggles over dumb issues.1/10 "}{"Title":"Only one problem...","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" I enjoyed this movie from the get go... As much as I love the music and even some of the acting...the guitar playing from a authentic standpoint is pathetic! I don't think there was any point in having Eddie (Michael Paré) attempt to act like he was playing because anyone who does play could tell he wasn't playing. Also, in Tender Years, he puts the guitar down but guitar is clearly heard throughout the performance... Was there a point to that? As a musician, I notice these things. The bass and drums appeared to be adequately portrayed... The sax was obviously authentic... Never could see the piano keys...so it's easy to fake... Despite that, I still enjoyed the movie and watch it when I notice it is on. "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" A fantastic movie about some guys from Jersey trying to hit it big as a band. The music is great, the story flows. Almost feels like a real documentary. Anyone from NJ, NYC or Philly areas will appreciate this for what it is. The scene where they play Tender Years at Tony Marts is a movie classic. Its beyond me how people gave this bad reviews. Than again, the younger audience out there doesn't listen to classic rock so they wouldn't appreciate this type of movie. I just wish they didn't do that horrible sequel. I finally bought the DVD, nothing extra or special, just the original movie but in current 5.1 channel sound. And i cranked my stereo to this version. When i think of movies involving rock and roll there's only a few i like, Pink Floyd - The Wall, Hard days night, Spinal Tap, and Rocky Horror picture show being the ones. And this is right at the top. I had the privilege of seeing John Cafferty in the late 80's at a club called Fastway in Asbury Park NJ and he played all these songs from the movie and sorta my version of being at Tony Marts... "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise for Berenger Fans","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Berenger was in this film much more than I thought he'd be - practically every scene after the beginning of the film lays the foundation of what's going on here. You'd think he'd be Eddie of The Cruisers because of the film's title. But he's not. He's Frank Ridgeway, The Wordman, piano player in The Cruisers. But without his input, Eddie wouldn't have been able to get close to saying what he wanted to in his songs which range from leavin' the '50's behind & latching onto a whole new sound that's fast approaching. Eddie was a bit before his time.Berenger says he isn't really musically inclined & had to learn piano for this film. He obviously feels uncomfortable playing it & if that's his real voice, he obviously can't sing either. But his character's way with words really strike a chord. Nice touch of romance when Joanne, the only female in the group & Eddie's girl, first lay eyes on each other. Priceless! They keep a secret torch going throughout the film but it's only consumated one time with one kiss on a college campus. Too bad Eddie saw it, too. It made for quite an embarressing night for The Wordman on stage. But he knew he deserved it.I personally didn't care for the musical score here. I'll take the '50's innocence. But the cars & the D.A.'s were where it was at. Ladies, you'll get to dreamin' right along with The Wordman when you catch the scenes of him in the bed smokin'. Perfect photogenics workin' there! So if you're a Tom Berenger fan, see this film & don't let the title or the cover of the video box fool ya! This IS a Tom Berenger film! "},{"Title":"Greatest Rock and Roll Fib of all time","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Eddie and The Cruisers is the greatest Rock and Roll Fib of all time. You mix the legend of Arthur Rimbaud with the supposed faked deaths of Elvis Presley and Jim Morrison and the working man's rock and roll of The Boss Bruce Springsteen and you get Eddie and The Cruisers. I saw this movie on H B O just like some of my contemporaries in here have. This was a great movie that had the right elements. A Decent Story mixed with Rock and Roll and Mystery. The question of what happened to Eddie Wilson and the missing tapes of the second album is core of the movie. You get the answer to the second part of the question but the first part remains a mystery till Part 2.  "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack with an even better plot","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  I too enjoyed this movie I felt that the chemistry between Micheal Pare and Tom Berenger enhanced the movie's value. I felt that had the sequel had a better plot the career of Micheal Pare would have taken off because the story could have showed how his potential to play roles that aren't fluff. Oh and by the way there is a goof Eddie put the guitar down twice before singing tender years. "},{"Title":"Great idea--mediocre results","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" In 1983 reporter Maggie Foley (Ellen Barkin) goes searching for the members of a 60s rock group that is becoming popular again--Eddie and the Cruisers. Eddie (Micahel Pare) died in 1964--but his body was never found. She talks to ex-member Frank Ridgeway (Tom Berenger) and discovers there are some tapes from their last recording session that were never released. They seem to have disappeared but someone is looking for them--and it might be Eddie! A decent idea totally ruined by a boring script with some truly terrible dialogue. There are some good actors here--Berenger, Barkin, Pare and Helen Schneider--but they can't do much with this script. The saving grace is some good acting and the music. All the songs were done by John Cafferty and his Beaver Brown Band and they are good-- especially On the Dark Side which became a belated hit one year after this came out. This isn't a terrible movie--it's just overly predictable and badly written. This was an understandable bomb in theatres in 1983 but became a hit on cable the following year. It also made Cafferty and his band popular for a few years. Worth catching for the music. Also it's kind of funny seeing Pare badly lip-sync to Cafferty who sounds NOTHING like him! A 6. "},{"Title":"Words and Music","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  An Elvis like fictional story of a Rock legend, who like James Dean ended his short career. A great cast of characters with a story that intertwines a series of friends and band members who still live with the memory of Eddie. Tom Berenger is a surprise treat as he plays Music Man, the band member that added the words to the Music that made up the Cruisers. A nice ending that helped fund the bad sequel made a few years later.  "},{"Title":"Bruce called, and he wants his music back...","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" I remember working in a music store late in 1983 (when this movie came out), and one day we got in the soundtrack for Eddie and The Cruisers. So we pop it on the turntable (remember those?), and I'm thinking, Gee, this sure sounds like Springsteen's 'She's the One', but let's get this off right away, as it blows and nobody even asked about it. Then, eight months later, in the summer of '84, the movie starts playing on HBO, and suddenly we're blowing Eddie and The Cruisers cassettes out the door like Van Halen's 1984! What's up with that?Turns out everybody loves the Bruce ripoff sound (this was the summer of Born in the USA), and once again I'm just amazed at what strikes a fancy in the collective buying habits of Mr. Average American Citizen.I eventually saw Eddie, and it was as putrid as I thought it would be.Don't waste your time, even if you're having your own Joey Pants film festival. "},{"Title":"Just before B movies went direct to video...","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  Sweet-natured but clunky B movie about a reporter (Ellen Barkin) searching for the vanished star of a sixties greaser band. The movie looks and feels like a seventies Avco Embassy picture, and if you can get past the dreadful John Cafferty classic rock songs there are a number of good--or at least well-intended--performances, notably an extremely touching Tom Berenger as the lyric-writer turned high-school English teacher, Barkin as the avid journalist, and a sultry young Michael Pare as the hero, a smoldering amalgam of Jim Morrison and Arthur Fonzarelli. "},{"Title":"Poorly made soundtrack, poor setting, overall average film","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":" This movie is just kinda average. Not too bad, not great either. It's a compelling story, but it goes in 100 different directions Eddie and the keyboard player in-fighting, the sax player dying of a heroin overdose, the sexual tension between Eddie and his girlfriend, etc.But that really isn't my major problem with this film. Coming from a purely music production standpoint, the filmmaker's were absolutely lazy! It's supposed to take place 1963, yet the music CLEARLY sounds like it was recorded in 1980's. Take a listen to some actual music released in 1963, (some fine examples The Beach Boys, The Beatles, any Motown or Stax records, or since this movie is about a New Jersey band, The Four Seasons). You would notice that those recordings sound very raw compared to the supposed music of 1963 they flaunt in this movie.I don't mean to nitpick, but there are some other films about musicians, to some degree, that at least tried to better represent the sound of the period that they're representing. Almost Famous, Still Crazy, This Is Spinal Tap are just a few examples of period pieces that actually do get it right when it came to making original music that actually sounds like that it could've been made in the late 60's to early 70's (depending on which movie you're watching). They could've at least had John Cafferty & The Beaver Brown Band record their songs with 1963 technology with 1963 instruments, most of which was still readily available at the time, or at least tried to get a sound on 1983 technology that could recreate how a record made in 1963 would've sounded. It really wouldn't have been difficult.It's absolutely appalling that the filmmaker's didn't even try. Besides the soundtrack, the sets and settings weren't done very well either. I guess they didn't have the budget to be authentic. They just threw some music together, not caring about if it's right, threw a guy into a leather jacket and slicked his hair back, and called it a movie about 1963. "}{"Title":"Cruisin' for a bruisin'","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Music","Review":"  The media is a frenzy of knowledge used to gather the truth about our society. It is now time for them to find the truth about Eddie and his group of instrument toting friends. Hot on the report is Maggie Foley (Ellen Barkin), a reporter that is out to discover the truth behind the band. Their music is slowly being revived, and she wants the 'hottest' news possible. So, she begins interviewing the remaining members of the band. Everyone is accounted for except for Eddie, whose questionable death lead to the breakup of the band. Foley's mission is to discover if Eddie is really dead, or if it was just an opportunity to leave his life behind. It was very strange to hear that this film had a 'cult' following, because of the very poor story, acting, and drama that it contained. There was nothing about this film that was different or innovative. I thought that with a focus to change the image and sound of Eddie's band, the director would also want to do it with the film that he was creating. This was not the case at all. Instead, it fell into clichéd plots, defined characters, and a strange aftertaste that made you wonder if you had just watched a live-action version of 'Scooby-Doo'. I don't want to give too much of the ending away (for those music fans out there), but I kept waiting for Foley to rip off the mask of the culprit as he shouts, 'I would have gotten away with it too, if it wasn't for you pesky band and your lost second album'. Alas, it never occurred, and I was forced to see Hollywood botch up another ending with darkened cars, suspicious music, and a twist that has been done time and time again.Overall, Eddie and the Cruisers was a poor attempt to bring mystery and suspense into the music genre. I wasn't sure what to expect from this film, but I needed more than what was presented. It was an idea that had a bit of potential, but the execution left much to be desired.Grade * out of ****  "}]