[{"Title":"Clearly, viewers either love or hate this movie","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even among Steve Martin fans, there are those who love his zany work (MWTB, the Jerk), and consider his more commercial hits (All of Me etc) a sellout, and those who see it the exact opposite.I love this movie. I am amazed when I view it for the 73rd time and still fall down laughing.I hope saying this doesn't sound smug, but I suspect those who don't find it funny are missing a lot of the jokes. The fast pace and dry delivery of a lot of hysterical lines are the best part of the movie.I'm a Steve Martin fan, and this is easily my favorite Steve Martin movie (and possibly my favorite movie of all time - being able to always make me laugh no matter how down I am is worth a lot!) "},{"Title":"Murmur!","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Policeman That woman's not drunk, she's dead! Dr Michael Hfuhruhurr Oh, i better get her to a cemetary right away!Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr The only time we doctors should accept death is when it's caused by our own incompetence. Shameless madcap farce from Director Carl Reiner (The Jerk, All of Me, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, That Old Feeling) is part romance melodrama, part sex comedy, part thriller, part medical drama, and all silliness. Yet it uses this silliness to touch on a fairly risque philosophical issue - what exactly makes us human? Kathleen Turner is in temptress mode as Martin's new wife who lives to torment men, and forces Martin to seek comfort elsewhere... with a brain in a jar!Anne Uumellmahaye I don't think there's a girl floating in a jar anywhere who's as happy as I am.You have to admire the over-the-top and on-the-edge comedy pairing of Reiner and Martin which produces genuine hilarity, letting-loose fun and general enjoyment for a nice friday night hour and a half (good length too!).Two thumbs way-up! "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know why but it seems that what is 'funny'is about the most difficult thing to agree on. For me, I can count really funny films on two hands(dirty rotten scoundrels; planes, trains and automobiles;marx bros., woody allen,big business; romy and michelle's high school reunion; liar,liar ; monty python's holy grail, and now, The Man With Two Brains .)I can't believe i missed seeing this film up to now, and i'm so glad it was on some film person's recommended list because i have just finished an hour and a half of continuous laughs. what a treat of a screenplay.steve martin is the naive simpleton brain surgeon who gets taken in by devilish scheming wicked witch kathleen turner(such a beauty).a lot of visual gags but it's the wordplay that makes it so continuously funny.(see the discussions part of this site for many of the funniest lines) Boring? No Way. a 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Ranks Right Up There With Martin's Funniest","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here is another Carl Reiner-directed farce that also stars Steve Martin (the two collaborated before in the '80s in Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid). This is the best of that duo with a lot of laugh-out loud scenes. There are tons of gags, both obvious and subtle. In fact, I think is one of Martin's funniest performances. Kathleen Turner, his co-star here, played a similar role in another black comedy Serial Mom. There, too, she played a woman who appeared to be nice on the outside but was evil inside. Turner also liked to show a lot of skin in those '80s flicks, which included Body Heat.I had remembered this as a strictly light comedy but was surprised when I viewed it again this year and heard all the sex jokes. Reiner turned out to be a dirty old man but he write and direct some very funny movies. It's unusual for a comedy to be rated R, but that was the appropriate rating. If you know and don't care if its a bit raunchy, this is a very funny movie. "},{"Title":"Classic on Par with the Marx Brothers","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What ever happened to Steve Martin's talent?  In the name of becoming a Hollywood Player, Mr. Martin sold his soul to the suits in the business and thereby squandered his true talent wacky, irreverent comedy.  The fact that The Man with Two Brains didn't do well at the box office probably made the studio heads decide that Martin's talents were not selling.  Mr. Martin therefore may have panicked in some way and decided to sell-out and do the dreadful treacle that he did later and keeps on doing like Parenthood, Roxanne (a particularly pretentious entry of his), Leap of Faith (the most blatant of of bids for the ridiculously overrated Oscar) and the forthcoming (as of this writing) Cheaper by the Dozen.  In The Man With Two Brains, Steve Martin is so on target in virtually all his scenes that the movie becomes truly inspired.  Like the great Marx Brothers' movies of the early to mid 30's, he creates a universe all his own.  The movie has it's own unique rhythms and is consistent throughout.  He and the rest of the great cast never get sentimental. They keep the whole thing amazingly light and truly (God forgive me for using this word, but it applies )Zany.  The entire cast has to be noted for keeping up with Steve Martin including Kathleen Turner giving a great comic-villanous performance, Sissy Spacek as the voice of his beloved brain complete with a bizarre name and, most notably popping up COMPLETELY unexepectedly, MERV GRIFFIN!  His entrance into the movie simply pushes the whole thing into comic overdrive.  There's a number of great comic set pieces and almost all of them work brilliantly. My favorite has to be Martin's meeting up with a knockout blond prostitute.  Let's just say that she's got a great body but her voice is....well, just wait and see.  A truly great comedy from a man who could've been one of the great enduring comic geniuses of our time but who instead sold out and lost his calling.  A tragedy... "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated comedies of all time","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An extremely funny movie, it deserves to be up there with Airplane! and The Naked Gun in the best 'stupid-funny' films of all time.Steve Martin excels as the surgeon who falls in love with a dis-membered brain, and Kathleen Turner is perfect for the heartless gold-digger wife role she is given.I am amazed at how many people have never heard of this film, let alone seen it.  Go watch it now - I guarantee you'll be quoting it for months. "},{"Title":"Martin's second most wackiest comedy","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is most indeed Steve Martin's second most wackiest comedy after The Jerk. Everything about this movie has zip, craze and certain kind of frantic in the pace, which makes for an absouloutley lovable comedy. The story centers round Dr Michael Hfuhruhurr (Steve Martin), spelt Haf-far, he is most probaly the worlds greatest brain surgeon, he is rich and famous. But Michael has emotional problems and his wife died some time ago, though lucky Michael ends up meeting the evil, sexy and seductive Delores (Kathleen Turner), who is a gold digging Scum queen. They supposedly fall in love and get married, though Michael sensing some problems  thinks it is going down hill and thinks a honey moon to Europe would help and so he and Delores go. The Man With Two Brains has two stories, one involves what I said above and another takes place around Europe where Michael ends up falling in love with his research, a human brain! It is Romeo and Juliet as their love is forbiden and Michael goes to extreme lengths to ensure they remain in each others arms, okay that was a bad excuse. What makes The Man With Two Brains so great is the colourful, eighties, eneergetic look that adds the crazy wack to the movie. There are many comedic sets in the movie e.g the condo, scenes in Hfuhrhurr 's hospital. Any movie in  which Steve Martin stars is bound to be watchable, but what Martin did back here was he would overact a lot more, he would not do his everyman thing, he is indeed crazy, his eyes in this movie shows a locked up genius with a crazy edge. The character of Hfuhruhurr is a very unlikeable person, but with Martin playing him he is the good guy, he makes you want to come out of this with his loved one. Kathleen Turner is also a comic delight as she does a little micky take of Body Heat. Screen play wise this is also one of Martin's best as it is witty and full of excellent scenarios. As with any classic comedy there has to be a funny scene that stands above the rest, the scene at the beginning in the car is excellent, Hfuhrhurr Can you tell me what you wrote, I believe I may have sounded snobbish? Interviwer My research is the some of the greastest the world has ever seen and in that way will proably so ever plant my reputation as a great proffesor for all eterntity HfuhrhurrNo it didn't sound snobbish... Take out the probably though. Makes me sound wishy washy. Now that is excellent Martin, he does it with every film, not everyody would get that. Another hilarious thing about this movie is it's music, it is so corny and cheesy but without sounding annoying it is just plain funny. Bottom line is, this is one of Martin's landmark films, a film which has visula look, brilliant pacing, trademark manic peformance by Martin and memorbale scenes that stick in the mind. Absoloutley wack, crazy, wild, funny and hilarious. "},{"Title":"Just plain funny....","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like funny, any kind of funny, watch this movie. I don't think you need to like Steve Martin's humor to enjoy this. Silly, goofy, crazy, sight gags...whatever...I laughed my butt off. To me, Steve Martin is always hilarious but Kathleen Turner, too, is very funny, not to mention sexy. I do think most people will find this movie to be very, very funny. "},{"Title":"Paging Dr. Hfuhruhurr","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE MAN WITH TWO BRAINS (1983) ***1/2 Steve Martin, Kathleen Turner, David Warner, Paul Benedict, Merv Griffin, Sissy Spacek (voice only).  Martin is hilarious as brilliant neuro surgeon of the screw-top transplant, Dr. Hfuhruhurr (pronounced as it sounds!) who has brains on his mind and a devil woman wife (the sultry Turner loving every minute of it) as he falls in love with a brain in a jar (voice supplied by the melancholic Spacek).  Part Mad Scientist spoof, part Marx Bros./3 Stooges dialogue all parts brilliantly goofy and some wickedly funny moments.  Best line Into the mud Scum Queen!  Get that cat out of here!! Merv Griffin has a cameo in one truly stunning plot twist. "},{"Title":"Very good spoof","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Man with Two Brains is not the greatest spoof ever, I'll save that for one of three Mel Brooks movies (Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, The Producers). But still, this is a very good spoof. And if you see any spoof expecting to see great plot lines and deep sub plots, then you shouldn't be watching spoofs. They are made for fun, not for art & Oscars. Martin as always is very funny. There are a few dull moments, but they are few and far in between. A couple jokes are done to many times (like the cat joke). Turner gives a good & sexy performance as the wicked wife. It runs normal length for spoofs, about 90mins and fills most of the 90mins with good laughs. So go to your video store and rent this one, it's worth it. "}{"Title":"One of the Funniest Comedies Ever Made","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The narcissist Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr (Steve Martin) is one of the greatest neurosurgeons of the world that has developed a cranial screw- top brain entry technique for his successful surgeries. He grieves and has not recovered from the loss of his beloved wife Rebecca. Dr. Hfuhruhurr gives an interview about his career to a reporter while driving home in his car. Meanwhile the vixen gold-digger Dolores Benedict (Kathleen Turner) has an argument with her husband and untimely leaves the real estate. Dr. Hfuhruhurr accidentally hits Dolores and operates her saving her life. While recovering in the hospital, Dolores seduces Dr. Hfuhruhurr and they get married. However, the hot Dolores always refuses to have sex with her husband, claiming that she is not feeling well while shags with several men.Dr. Hfuhruhurr decides to travel in honeymoon with Dolores to Vienna and attend a medical conference. However, after an incident, Dr. Hfuhruhurr decides to divorce Dolores. Out of the blue, Dolores receives a phone call from his lawyer telling that Dr. Hfuhruhurr has inherited 50 million dollars and she changes her behavior toward him. Meanwhile Dr. Hfuhruhurr meets his colleague Dr. Alfred Necessiter (David Warner) that collects brains alive for his experiments, most of them victims of the notorious The Elevator Killer. Soon Dr. Hfuhruhurr has a telepathic connection with one of the brains that belonged to Anne Uumellmahaye (Sissy Spacek voice) and they fall in love with each other. When Dr. Hfuhruhurr learns the reason why Dolores changed he behavior, she revenges putting Anne's brain in the oven. Now Dr. Hfuhruhurr needs to find a body to save the life of his beloved Anne. The Man with Two Brains is silly but also one of the funniest comedies ever made. Steve Martin is in one of the best moments of his successful career as well as Kathleen Turner, immediately after Body Heat and in the top of her beauty. I have seen this movie several times on VHS and now on DVD and I always have good-time with the absurd situations along the story. The cameo of Jeffrey Combs shaving Dolores is among the most hilarious scenes of this top-notch (and underrated) comedy. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) O Homem com Dois Cérebros (The Man with Two Brains) "},{"Title":"LOVE LOVE LOVE this movie","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Won't tell you much about it, of course, as it would just be wrong wrong wrong .. but I can tell you that Steve Martin is renowned for writing one of the greatest stage comedies of all time, he was one of the best bits of Saturday Night Live altogether and he was just hosting the show from time to time and even if you do not get his sense of humor, he is a charming person who is good to look at.The movie is a sort of enigmatic thing .. dumb humor for intelligent people. With Steve Martin, to really get his jokes you usually have to put a bit of thought into it .. kind of like Monty Python in that way. There is dumb surface humor and then deeper, darker, funnier humor for those who wish to dive in and retrieve it.I watched this movie several times in my life and keep wishing I could watch it again. It's that good and has that much going on in it. It would have been good without Steve Martin, but with him in, it soars from comic to comedic genius. "},{"Title":"this movie is great!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie has lived in my memory for years i first watched it when i was like 8 or something! i love this film beginning to end its wacky and orignal and is by far Steve Martains best movie like ever! he plays dr hufffffuuuurrrr or something like that any way ! who fall s in love with a disembodied brain!-great stuff if you ask mePlease if you havent seen this i order you to watch it is sooooo funny and fans of Martain and Kathleen Turner- who is young and pretty sexy will bloody love it! "},{"Title":"I told them to leave out the *probably*!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is, unlike most of Steve Martin's subsequent movies, actually funny. Hang on, not just funny, it's hilarious.  There is not a dull moment.  From the conversation with his dead wife's portrait to the sex scene by the Austrian lake this film will keep you in stitches. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably Steve Martin's funniest film. Its packed with really funny laugh out loud moments. Its so over the top you can't help but love it, and Kathleen Turner puts in a terrific performance too. When I first saw this film the tears were rolling down my cheeks with laughter, Steve Martin is a very gifted physical comedian and this movie was perfect for his talents. If you are feeling down in the dumps then check out this film, it will cheer you up no end. I'm surprised by its low rating on IMDB I reckon its a classic of its genre and one of the all time best comedy films. ***7½/10*** "},{"Title":"Finger Sucking Good","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr (Steve Martin) is a man who appreciates the finer things in life Verses by the finest one-armed poet in history, a last name that can't be pronounced, a screwtop brain surgery procedure that has made him probably the greatest practitioner of all eternity and beyond (though he wouldn't like me saying probably), and a second wife with the body of Kathleen Turner and a mind of pure, golddigging evil.The Man With Two Brains is a genius comedy, pure and simple, a farce that's a takeoff both of '80s revamped film noir flicks like The Postman Rings Twice and Body Heat and of mad scientist movies. It lacks the heart of Young Frankenstein, but otherwise has a Mel Brooks approach to comedy that values rapid-fire gags over script sense and character development. And it has Martin, working his Saturday Night Live-honed wild-and-crazy-guy mojo for maybe the last time, and to great effect.Kathleen Turner steals the movie as vicious Delores Benedict, a woman who marries for money and then tortures her husbands to the point of apoplexy, and hopefully, a premature reading of their wills. When fate brings them together, as Dr. H (not writing it out again!) runs her down in his car, only Dr. H himself has the expertise that can save her. There was another doctor, but he was murdered in Europe by a strange elevator killer, meaning as Dr. H points out, not only is he dead, he's 6,000 miles away!Turner plays much the same character she did in Body Heat, raising the on-screen temperature to the boiling point as she sucks Dr. H's finger as substitute for sex. The plain joy she gets from her libido-teasing cruelty is one of the funniest aspects of this very funny film. It's not that she needs to have sex with strange gardeners and bellboys, you see, it's just she so relishes the pain it will cause Dr. H when he finds out. But she wasn't prepared for Dr. H turning the tables on her when he comes across the telepathic brain of a gentle young woman he met in a black-market laboratory who shares his passion for singalongs of Under The Bamboo Tree.Why isn't Man With Two Brains more appreciated? Probably because at the time people thought Martin would keep doing silly comedies forever. He was still doing television specials in the early '80s, like All Commercials and The Winds Of Whoopie, and people took his madcap antics for granted. Who could have guessed that he would settle so soon after (following the classic All Of Me) into a comfortable middle-aged rut of feel-good comedies relieved only once by the glorious excess of Dirty Rotten Scoundrels? It's high time pop culture rediscovered this glorious treasure, and maybe reminded Martin what made him so special to begin with.Okay, I could do without the music. There's also some sequences that are lamer than others, like one near the end that references the pinball/video game craze of the period. But even the dumber lines (Leaping lizards!) have a kind of madcap charm. Director Carl Reiner knows how to have fun, and there are some sequences that are flat-out brilliant, especially the dialogue. I love the look inside Dr. Necessiter's condo (amazing what a few throw pillows can do) while Dr. H and his host have their big debate about the ethics of stealing brains.Dr. H The only time we doctors should accept death is when it's caused by our own incompetence.Dr. Necessiter Nonsense. If the murder of twelve innocent people can help save one human life, it will have been worth it.Even the gratuitous nude scenes come with good jokes, like the prostitute with the grating voice and love of Gene Chandler music. The best line in the movie is one I can't repeat, except it involves the downside of putting the brain of the woman Dr. H loves in the body of a gorilla.You will laugh a lot watching The Man With Two Brains. If you don't, you are watching it with the wrong brain. "},{"Title":"The most brilliant Steve Martin film, and my fav comedy of all time","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is  an absolutely brilliant film. I have watched this so many times over the years and was just thrilled that I was lucky enough to find it on dvd.Overall, I am not into movies that have stupid plots, but this is so weird that it makes it an absolute masterpiece and a cult favorite.If anyone asked me to recommend a comedy, this would definately be the first choice. I have watched thousands of movies, and this is in the top 5 favorites.The scene with the flowers on the porch is the funniest one liner I have ever heard.Do yourself a huge favor, run out and rent it. "},{"Title":"A riot","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steve Martin is the master of the absurd, he is not only a fine actor but a great writer as well. In this movie he plays a doctor with the worlds most unpronounceable name, who is looking for someone to replace his dead wife. On his way to the hospital one day he hits Kathleen Turner with his car, after he saves her they fall in love.  Scene to watch the hilarious screwtop brain surgery he performs on Kathleen. Well anyways after they get married it turns out that Kathleen is a money hungry wench, that just married Steve for his money.  They go on a honey moon in Germany to a fancy hotel, and there they discover that there is a madman named the Elevator Killer.  It turns out the elevator killer uses window cleaner to kill his victims which leaves their bodies dead but their brains very much alive. The rest of this movie past that is a love story between Steve and one of those brains that is kept alive.  The movie is ridiculous but still hysterical, the thing about Steve Martin is you don't have to be bent to get his humour you have to be bent to laugh at it.  A choice and silly film from the master of the absurd. "},{"Title":"A total gut buster","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Brilliant prominent brain surgeon Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr (Steve Martin in peak zany form) is stuck in a bad marriage with the beautiful, but evil and frosty gold digger Dolores Benedict (Kathleen Turner at her most insanely hot and divinely wicked). Things perk up for Michael when he meets and falls in love with sharp and charming female brain Anne Uumellmehaye (marvelously voiced with sweet aplomb by an uncredited Sissy Spacek). But now Michael has to find the perfect body for Anne before it's too late. Director Carl Reiner, who co-wrote the blithely nutty script with Martin and George Gage, keeps the pace hurtling along at a nonstop snappy rate and infuses the whole show with an infectiously screwball anything-for-a-laugh kooky sensibility that pokes witty and often hilarious affectionate fun at cheesy Grade B sci-fi fare. The consistently sidesplitting humor ranges from broad (Michael as a human pinball) to raunchy to flat-out brilliant (Merv Griffin's inspired surprise cameo as the notorious Elevator Killer). Amidst all the sublime silliness we've got an utterly absurd, yet warm and touching love story between a man and a brain in a jar. The first-rate cast all give terrifically lively and enthusiastic performances Martin certainly earns his early reputation as a wild and crazy guy with his frenzied portrayal of Michael, Turner plays the femme fatale to the deliciously nasty hilt, plus there are fine supporting contributions from David Warner as droll mad scientist Dr. Alfred Necessiter, Paul Benedicts as Necessiter's snooty butler, and Richard Prestoff as Michael's jolly superior Dr. Pasteur. Popping up in nifty bits are James Cromwell as a realtor, Earl Boen as a fellow brain surgeon Felix Conrad, Jeffrey Combs as assistant Dr. Jones, and George Furth as elderly millionaire Timon. The gorgeous Randi Brooks has a memorably sexy small part as Fran, an airhead hooker who has a fantastic body, but an extremely irritating squeaky voice. Michael Chapman's crisp cinematography gives the picture an attractive polished look. Joel Goldsmith's spirited, flavorsome score likewise does the trick. An absolute hoot. "},{"Title":"Super-dooper uneven and unpolished,...but still very funny","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow, was this an incredibly funny and incredibly uneven film. Like THE JERK, this is a certain roughness about the script that make it very fresh and appealing but also pretty amateurish and stupid from time to time as well.Also, when I saw the film, I watched it with my grandfather. This was a very uncomfortable experience, as seeing an adult comedy with nudity in it with an 80 year-old relative just seems creepy. But, he sure laughed his head off, so I guess I was just the one with the hangup.Anyways, Steve Martin plays one of the foremost brain surgeons, Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr (pronounced Hrrrr-rrrr-rrr). The way everyone had trouble pronouncing the name was pretty lame and was beaten like a dead horse. Well, despite this, the doctor has perfected the new screw top method of surgery and saves a beautiful lady (Kathleen Turner) from sure death.They fall in love and marry soon after. But, Kathleen seems intent on driving the doctor crazy, as she never seems willing to consummate their marriage. This lead to some very funny but crude jokes, by the way. However, despite her many excuses, he catches her being unfaithful many times and yet can't bring himself to divorce her.It is during this same time that he meets a very strange man, Dr. Alfred Necessiter (David Warner) who is doing unethical experiments with brains--wanting to put them in new bodies and revive them after the bodies had died. Necessiter's lab, by the way, is the coolest on the planet--you'll just have to see it to understand what I mean. For some inexplicable reason, Dr. Hfuhruhurr hears a voice coming from one of the brains! It seems they brain isn't quite dead and they fall in love (the scenes of them out on dates are priceless).But, what to do about the evil and unfaithful wife as well as this brain he's fallen for?!? Yep, you gotcha, the Windex Killer helps solve the problem and almost everyone lives happily ever after. And, since you probably have no idea what all this means, watch the movie yourself to find out and laugh out loud at all the silliness and high energy. "}{"Title":"Amusing and fun  comedy for Steve Martin's fans","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie deals with Steve Martin a famous surgeon married to sexy and greedy Kathleen Turner but he meets a scientist (David Warner) who makes human experiments and falls in love with a brain in a jar (with the voice of Sissy Spacek) and he immediately begins searching a house for living . It's a silly remake to 1950 terror science fiction films and specially to ¨Donovan's brain¨ (Curt Siodmak) , even appear some frames on the movie .This is a film for Steve Martin enthusiasts but has the brand of his own humor  the comedy is crazy and savage . In the film there is tongue-in-cheek , irony , wild humor , giggles , profanities and is quite entertaining and funny . This is the third of four films that actor Steve Martin has made with director Carl Reiner , the other movies are The jerk (1979) , All of me (1984) and Dead men don't wear plaid (1982) . And second and final of only two ever produced screenplays that were co-written by George Gipe who co-wrote this film along with director Carl Reiner and actor Steve Martin . Here Steve Martin interprets in his peculiar style , as always . Kathleen Turner , recently her acting in ¨Body Heat¨ repeats the role as the evil and nasty loveless married wife . The picture is rated ¨R¨ for partial nudity , a little bit of violence and profanities . The motion picture was professionally directed by Carl Reiner . Rating  Acceptable and passable . "},{"Title":"'You won't have to shave her anywhere!'","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I find it incredibly hard to understand that this film was a flop at the box office. It is, without a doubt, an almost floor-less comedy. From the monologue delivered by the young girl, through the vagina shaving scene, past the midget wheeling the dead dog and right up until Martin refuses to inject those pert buttock cheeks with window cleaner (it makes you brain die last) there are laughs, and big ones at that. It's got more funny lines than I've had hot dinners. Reiner and Martin have pulled off a corker of a film that will always make me laugh 'I suppose if it were Christmas you'd hang ornaments on it!' Top stuff! "},{"Title":"He is a wild and crazy guy.","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This should be the movie that people think of when Steve Martin is mentioned, this and The Jerk. Martin's manic style, mixed with a sultry, half naked, post Body Heat pre Crimes of Passion Kathleen Turner, make an oddly great combination. The best scenes of the movie are when these two go at it, throwing goofy barbs at each other. Into the mud scum queen!, Martin shouts as he tosses Turner into a huge muddy puddle. But my personal favorite is the scene where she denies him sex, he walks over to a glass door, and breaks a panel of the door with his hardness. Nice breeze. There are a lot of great silly lines in this movie and some good visual jokes as well; including the classic drunk test. This is also a very faithful spoof of mad scientist movies, chiefly Frankenstein and The Brain That Wouldn't Die. David Warner, Paul Benedict, James Cromwell, Earl Boen, Jeffrey Combs, Sissy Spacek, and Merv Griffin(!) also make appearances.*Dr. Hfuhruhurr(operating on Kathleen Turner) Cover her breasts, damnit, I am only a man! (Meow) Get that cat out of here!* **Dr. Hfuhruhurr(pointing at KT's netherlands) What is that? (Dr. Jones whispers in his ear.) Dr. Hfuhruhurr I know what is! What are you doing? Dr. Jones Shaving her. Dr. Hfuhruhurr This is a brain operation. Dr. Jones I know. Dr. Hfuhruhurr What is that? A heart? Dr. Jones Yes, sir, Clive and I thought since it was Valentine's Day... Dr. Hfuhruhurr You don't have to shave her anywhere, we'll be using my cranial screwtop method. I don't wanna see that again! I suppose if it were Christmas, you would hang ornaments on it!** "},{"Title":"Another wild & crazy Steve Martin Show!","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steve Martin is in his element, able to use all of his comic talents, including song & dance, juggling and acrobatics. The script is delicious, including many one-of-a-kind lines that will be long remembered and credited to this film.This is the bizarre Frankenstein-like story of a self-important brain surgeon in search of true love, who eventually finds it in a glass laboratory jar. The wicked wife (played perfectly by Kathleen Turner) and the parade of walk-ons are hilarious. Although the story is ridiculous, the comic nonsense will keep the viewers' attention. The awful (fake) German spoken by the locals in the Austrian setting is outdone only by the over-the-top situations. The elevator-murderer side-plot (and the eventual revelation of identity of the killer) are wonderfully amusing.One serious flaw is the fact that the Steve Martin character never rises above the selfish-pig level. To the end, he is interested only in his own wants and needs, willing to murder so he could have the perfect wife. This extreme selfishness may put viewers off (it did me). Otherwise, this is one big Steve Martin Special! "},{"Title":"Goofball comedy at it's best","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best Steve Martin movie ever! He's a scream as a world-famous zip-lock brain surgeon(!), and Kathleen Turner has a whale of a time sending up her earlier 'Body Heat' femme fatale. David Warner as a mad scientist, and Sissy Spacek as the planet's sexiest brain... what more do you want? If this movie doesn't make you laugh, nothing will!  "},{"Title":"serious laughs","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Man With Two Brains is definitely one of Martin's best films to date. This film makes you laugh from the git-go, and does not let up until the credits are rolling.  Ok...ok...the film is  pretty stupid, but it was meant to be that way.  Ok...ok...the film had a weak plot...who cares! Martin put on a great comedy act, his best since The Jerk.  I've seen this film five times and still laugh every time.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man With Two Brains is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  Steve Martin and Kathleen Turner are hysterical in this.  My favorite part is David Warner's apartment and the paper thin walls and when the identity of the elevator killer is revealed.  If you like to laugh, SEE THIS!  "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very funny film, amazed it's only got 6.1.  Can't be bothered with plot etc, and I don't even particularly like Steve Martin but this is a genuine laugh-out loud comedy.  None of this romantic comedy pap that seems to dominate our cinemas without actually being funny.Strongly recommended.Here's some random words to fill out 10 lines (new IMDB policy?) Here's some random words to fill out 10 lines (new IMDB policy?) Here's some random words to fill out 10 lines (new IMDB policy?) Here's some random words to fill out 10 lines (new IMDB policy?)  "},{"Title":"Wild and crazy","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steve Martin and Carl Reiner (*The Jerk*) reteam for this generally amusing, sporadically hilarious, and only occasionally stupid spoof of Disembodied Brain Flicks.If you like Martin's comedy antics of the period (arrow-through-the-head, bunny ears, King Tut, etc.), you should enjoy this movie. If not...not.As a bonus, you get Merv Griffin in a funny and quite unexpected cameo, David Warner making silly noises, and Kathleen Turner in various items of scanty clothing. "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi Fairy Story And Psychological Morality Play. Waxed Absurdist, of Course.","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whenever i get a chance to see this one (which is not too often) i always find myself a little befuddled, but always amused by the whole thing. as silly and ridiculous as much of this gets, i always sense a cerebral (i know ha ha on so many levels) quality to it and it's story, especially if you so choose to take it to a higher level. why not. as this movie defies a certain amount of explanation, you might as well see it any way you choose.this movie has always had a strange effect on me. when i first saw it back in the 80's i remember being struck by the fact that it seemed a lot weirder than 'The Jerk'. that's saying a lot since 'The Jerk' is pretty off the wall. i remember thinking that quirky and oddball didn't quite describe what i saw. i even thought this was weirder than 'Weird Science'. and 'Science' is weirdness pushing the envelope of sanity. i kind of dismissed 'TMWTB' as the fact that Hollywood and artist types are always kooks. as i got a bit older i took more interest in children's literature, fairy tales, nursery rhymes and folk lore traditions, as well as classic older cinema works. when i saw this film again it struck me as even more crazy weird. and also ripe for psychoanalysis. so much of the aim of it's effectiveness seems to be psychogenic in the very nature of it's message of psychometry. i know that sounds like a pretentious mouthful of words, but i just don't know any better way to describe this. and yes, i know, i like to play Pop psychologist.i'm probably going to run out of my word minimum here, so lemme put it simply. in a sense this movie was the first 'Shallow Hall'. love should know no boundaries of physical observation you know blah blah... starting to get it? it's not hard if you've had some basic psych classes at a Jr. local.and as for Steve Martin's brain surgeon protagonist? um. that's not a character in a story, that's some kind of pyschohistorical text of the male sex. men are visually stimulated sexually, have ego attachment issues and so on. we've heard it all before. especially from frustrated feminist types. this whole movie is told from a psychodynamic and psychoanalytical perspective that simply rattles the unconscious. and the funny bone.because all in all, it's main attempt is at humour. which i personally think it succeeds with great finesse. Steve Martin is a brilliant comedian and very adroit at physical comedy. Carl Reiner is also a very funny man although sometimes he can fall a little flat as a film director, like in his early venture 'The Comic'.this is also a farcical send up of 50's sci-fi films like 'Donovan's Brain' and 18th century pot boiler literature. probably not best to think about this film too much. it just gets too trippy. it's mostly for ticklish fun. relax. enjoy. but this eccentric comedy probably has more, ahem , brains, than it's given credit for. "}{"Title":"One you can watch over & over again...","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film by Steve Martin is one of my favourites. I believe it is one of his great films, along side Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, Bowfinger and The Three Amigos, but that is my humble opinion! Also, as a musician into electronic, synthesized music, the soundtrack is superb. Trouble is, I cannot find it anywhere. Kathleen Turner plays an excellent role too, and you really start to feel sorry for Steve Martin. The sexual frustration is intense!! I feel it borders on the 'Naked Gun' style, which is a big plus point for me. When all is said and done, The Man With Two Brains is a great & funny film. Even for todays hard to please audience! "},{"Title":"The Title Alone Makes Me Smile!","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie in quite a few years I guess. I had actually forgotten just how incredibly funny Kathleen Turner is. Of course, ten years or so can make a huge difference in the way I appreciate anything so I was more than psyched when a friend bought this movie at Ross the other day. The whole farce and its perfect cast are worth it even if the underlying opinions of the writer aren't immediately understood. Years ago I caught an old recording on the radio about the Lobotomy demonstrations performed back in the 50's by the innovator in Psychiatric medicine that invented it. Obviously, Herr Fuhrer (even if it IS Steve Martin) is a parody based very loosely on doctors of that time. Screw-top brain surgery is pretty innovative for sure, which feeds the enormous but self-deluded ego who falls in love with the most manipulative and evil, but very beautiful Dolores of the great speaking voice and fabulous fashion sense- she even knows what costume to wear for each particular mind game she easily works on him. There couldn't be a more perfectly matched couple as far as how equally selfish and driven they both are. Only one problem with the the brain surgeon- he can only ultimately be tied down by a woman who also tells him he is always right and of course,everything else he wants to hear. He grows tired of feeling used and never getting laid as much as he thought he would. Falls in love with a female brain that fits all his needs but must have a body to put it in or all is lost for the Fuhrer in his quest for love. Well, obviously the mean wifey dies and the perfectly docile brain is switched in- food and body issues included but somehow he isn't interested in her body being perfect so long as the brain IS. I secretly hope she gives him a hernia while the dumbass tries to pick her up the second time. Nothing beats a great Steve Martin comedy! "},{"Title":"Mad genius at work","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steve Martin is an interesting individual. There are times when he is absolutely dreadful, embarrassingly bad. But when it works, it works.The Man With Two Brains is one of the latter. It is filled with jokes from start to finish, ranging from the daft (the running gag of Martin's character's name, for instance) to the situational, from slapstick to character. Not all work, but enough do so that I laughed nearly all the way through.David Warner plays Dr Necessiter absolutely straight(thank you!) and Kathleen Turner plays both her characters beautifully. And Martin is probably at his best ever. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous and silly fun","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The man with two brains isn't a great comedy. Indeed it does make you laugh at times, is definitely a step up from the spoofs of these days, and is extremely quirky, with some strange scenes such as Steve Martin's character licking his palms so he is able to stick to the side of the building and Merv Griffiths being an elvator killer who injects people with window cleaner. But quirky is sometimes a good thing. Although this typical weird 80s comedy is strange it is entertaining. Whether or not it's genius or a completely shite movie is beyond my level of thinking. You can decide for yourself. Fans of such films as Dr Detroit or neighbours, i recommend it to you. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Sublime","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" You either love or hate Man with Two Brains. Personally I love it and consider it one of Steve Martin's best. Speaking of Martin, he also gives one of his best performances in Man with Two Brains as Doctor Hfuruhurr as he gets to read his favourite poem, conduct a citizen's divorce and endure the world's toughest drink-driving test. Sissy Spacek is believable as the brain Martin falls in love with and Kathaleen Turner hilariously sends up her femme fatale persona, something she established in Body Heat. Man with Two Brains is well filmed, well directed and has a funny script and engaging story. Overall, sublime all round. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Man!. Your drunk tests are hard","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the Icelandic language there's one word that perfectly describes this film; Steypa. Most people here won't know what that means but in English it means concrete and doesn't apply all that well. Basically this film is one of those Steve Martin/Carl Reiner collaborations of totally whacked out comedies that don't make a lick of sense but are quite simply hilarious on occasions.How on earth can you imagine a sentence like this could make any sense in the context of a film; Were you out on the lake today kissing your brain?. Well, here it makes perfect sense as Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr (Martin) makes the grave mistake of saving the life of the obnoxious Kathleen Turner and, worse still, marrying her. However, Michael finds true love in the form of a brain (voiced by Sissy Spacek) and contemplates ways to restore that brain in a human being. He is, after all, the world's best brain surgeon.My particular favorite here is when Martin is pulled over by the Swiss police and subjected to what has to be deemed the toughest drunk test ever. But overall The Man With Two Brains is chock full of crazy scenes, most quite funny while others simply leave you scratching your head.Martin was born for these kinds of roles and he's perfect here. Turner is simply stunning to look at and shows quite the flair for outrageous comedy. David Warner is solid as a crazy scientist and Re-Animator's Jeffrey Combs has a funny cameo as an orderly who's very romantic (or a big perv; you make the call). "},{"Title":"Vintage Steve Martin,truly and completely","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some,maybe many,people have either forgotten and/or are too young to recall that Steve martin once made his living playing the quintessential Inspired Idiot,first on stage for his hugely successful stand-up comedy routines(that in their day rivaled the kind of success that,say,a Dane Cook gets today)and then onto the big screen,most famously in his breakthrough,the deliriously funny The Jerk(1979). Now,thirty-plus years into a long and storied film career,he's become iconic and has split his time between highbrow endeavors(i.e.nuanced dramas,dark and/or deep comedies,playwriting,screenplays,art exhibitions,recording avant-Gard bluegrass,etc.)and the moneymaking,safe fare he gets the most attention for(The Father of the Bride movies,the Cheaper by the Dozen films,The Pink Panther films,Bringing Down the House among others)and movies like this one seem so long ago.It'd be a shame,except that it makes the delight in getting this film cheap and adding it to one's film library even sweeter.This came on a single disk,2-for-1 deal from Warner brothers,alongside the pleasant and warmly entertaining 1990 Martin offering My Blue Heaven. While that movie was certainly a worthy keep,it's nowhere near as gangbusters frenetic or true Martin a film as this offering,another pairing he made with director Carl Reiner.Martin is Dr.Michael Hfuhrruhur,a brilliant neurosurgeon whose inexplicable naiveté over love has him in the arms of a diabolical gold-digger(Kathleen Turner,playing her vampishness for laughs not long after 1981's Body Heat),and then his subsequent disillusion over that leads him to a kindred would-be romance with a lovely woman whose one small problem is that she is a floating brain in a jar. Go figure!Too many great lines and physical comedy to get into here(stuff that almost rival any Zuker-Abrams-Zucker offering at their 1980s peak),this film,like The Jerk showcase Steve's total commitment to that Inspired Idiot,physically as well as verbally. Very good(if perhaps limited)support coming from David Warner,Paul Benedict,Richard Brestoff,Randi Brooks and Merv Griffin(!)enhance the elements of this madcap comedy. This movie is a great showcase of old Steve Martin,and if you miss seeing that,than rent or buy it as soon as you can find a copy. "},{"Title":"arguably Steve Martin's best","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back when Steve Martin was still a wild a crazy guy, he made several funny films, many of which were not very successful at the box office. Probably the best was 'The Man With Two Brains,' a genuinely inspired slice of movie lunacy. Like a lot of comedies that weren't too popular in their initial release, it's gone on to become a (do I have to say it?) cult favorite. It is frankly puzzling though that it didn't draw a wide audience first time around, as it is hilarious from start to finish, and at the time Steve Martin was a hot property. A funny running gag has to do with Martin's character's name, Dr. Hfuhruhurr, which seems unpronounceable to everyone but the doctor, though he is sometimes charitable enough to tell others they almost got it right. He is the discoverer of a revolutionary brain surgery technique called the 'cranial screw-top.' The name pretty well describes the technique. He meets Dolores Benedict, a femme fatale if there ever was one, by hitting her with his car and then aiding in her recovery, during which he falls madly in love with her. Kathleen Turner gives the comedic performance of a lifetime as Dolores, a women for whom vicious infidelity is an all-consuming passion. At one point after they're married, Hfuhruhurr comes home to find Dolores with another man, who she says is paying her several thousand dollars to touch her behind. When the doctor tries to get angry with her, Dolores becomes angry in return. Why? she asks. Because you don't want me to work? To have my own career? There are a lot of funny lines and situations in 'The Man With Two Brains.' Dr. Hfuhruhurr, eventually disenchanted with Dolores, falls in love with another woman, or rather, another woman's disembodied brain being kept alive in a jar in a laboratory. After several, well, complications, they live happily ever after. At least, it appears they're about to start living happily ever after. This was the third of four film projects Martin collaborated on with the gifted comedian/director Carl Reiner, and their partnership represents the high point of Martin's cinematic career. Reiner seems to have appreciated Martin's specific comedic approach better than anyone else, and fleshed out the comic's stand-up persona without destroying it. Anyone wanting to see Steve Martin at his peak, and as an added bonus, Kathleen Turner like you've never seen her before or since, should definitely check out 'The Man With Two Brains.' "},{"Title":"Scientist with a new screw-top brain technique wants to replace wife's brain","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a nice film, certainly not one of Martin's best, but watchable (if you dont mind seeing brains, and lots of them!).Concerns a scientist who invents a new way to operate on brains, meeting an Austrian scientist who invents a way to transplant them. After marrying Turner, Martin finds that she is a pain in the neck as far as marital relations are concerned, and his frustration drives him to near madness when he meets a brain (its voice spoken by Syssy Spacek) and wants to replace his wife's brain with it.Many funny situation all over the film such as the ram scene with the police, the finger licking action and the elevator killer (he got $10K for this cameo role).  "},{"Title":"Get that cat out of here!","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was just strange, it never really tried to be a comedy that is sentimental or semi serious. From the strange name that Steve Martin's character has to a hooker who does not mind being injected with a solution that kills the brain last this film is just strange and very funny. The story is about a very skilled brain surgeon who has developed a revolutionary new way to perform a surgery. Basically a screw on lid type maneuver. Well he is going through a bit of a rough patch at the moment as his wife is dead and he can not get over it, even dressing up a Barbie doll to look like her. Well another woman is having difficulty in her relationship. She basically has wed an older gentleman in order to get all his money. Well she forces him into a heart attack as well as his dog, but proceeds to get hit by Martin's character who now performs his famous technique on her and promptly falls in love. During the course of the film he ends up falling in love with a brain in a jar that is a lot more pleasant than his wife is. Granted this film is a bit dated now as a lot of people these days would wonder who the heck Merv Griffon is. However, for the most part this comedy works and is one of Martin's better comedies ranking right up there with The Jerk and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. It is a shame he has not really starred in anything recently that I would care to see. The guy used to be in great comedies all the time, and this coming from a person who is not all that into comedies. "}{"Title":"brain power all the way","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll admit that I like The Man with Two Brains the least of the Steve Martin-Carl Reiner collaborations (the others were The Jerk, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid and All of Me), but it's still a hoot, even if it does run a little long. Featuring him as a surgeon befriending a brain (voiced by Sissy Spacek), he's a little more subdued here than normal, but his interactions with some people are great, and I like what happens to his hair occasionally.So, even though it's not quite All of Me, TMWTB is still a comedy for the ages. It's got brain power to the max! Also starring Kathleen Turner, James Cromwell, and even Estelle Reiner and Merv Griffin in small roles.Scum queen...what a line! "},{"Title":"The Man with Two Brains","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a really interesting scientific comedy, especially from the enjoyable Steve Martin. Basically Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr (Martin) has been lonely for many years since his wife died. He one day though meets a new beautiful girl and they fall in love and marry. Dolores Benedict (Kathleen Turner) does do some suspicious things, but she looks pretty innocent, or is she? Also one day Michael meets Dr. Alfred Necessiter (David Warner) who specialises in the same subject as Michael, brains. Necessiter has even managed to bring Michael's dead wife (voiced by Sissy Spacek) back to life, as a brain, in a special liquid. Micheal now wants to find the perfect body to put his wife into. Also starring James Cromwell as Realtor and Earl Boen as Dr. Felix Conrad. Very good! "},{"Title":"bloody good laugh...","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I'm not the biggest Steve Martin fan on the face of this planet. in fact, most of the time his movies kind of bore me. this one however, made me laugh intensely right out loud (while watching it alone!!), and that's usually a trademark of something that's very funny. I must admit though, that I'd had a few and it was in the middle of the night.the plot is of course pretty lame, but that's not really what matters here. the thing is the jim abrahams-esqque little jokes that you don't have to figure out, they're just served to you right there on a silver plate. these really dominate the first hour of the movie. then the makers try to make the plot come together and that's when the movie becomes less great... well worth a watch! "},{"Title":"The brain surgeon","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carl Reiner, the director of this film, and Steve Martin, an actor who has collaborated in some of the projects they've developed, are reunited again in this funny satire that has not been seen as much as it deserved. Mr. Reiner, one of the funniest creators in the industry, was in rare form when he decided to go ahead with this movie.The film is a perfect vehicle for Steve Martin, a comedian that without the proper material tends to go overboard. As the notorious Dr. Hfuhruhurr, he is at his best performing the material. One of the funniest sequences in the film involves a hat that has been stuck around his middle as his delayed honeymoon gets an unforeseen delay.Steve Martin gives a great performance as this mad scientist that has perfected a new technique in brain surgery. The gorgeous Kathleen Turner makes perfect foil for Mr. Martin's antics as she plays the calculating Dolores. David Warner, a man not notorious for his comedic roles, is a surprise with his Dr. Alfred. Paul Benedict, James Cromwell, Peter Hobbs, and even Merv Griffin, are seen in supporting roles.This is a funny film with sharp dialog and fast pacing thanks to the talented Carl Reiner and his star, Steve Martin. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just caught this movie on late night cable TV, and I must say, it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  I remember loving this movie as a kid, and just realized I probably didn't get half of the jokes back then. Steve Martin gives a top-notch comedic performance as the brilliant neurosurgeon Dr. Hfuhruhurr who falls in love with a brain.  If you love zany comedies then this movie is for you.  They don't make comedies like this one anymore.  Pure genius!    "},{"Title":"murmur... murmur... murmur","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr (Steve Martin) is a self-proclaimed world's greatest neurosurgeon. He still pines for his late wife Rebecca. He accidentally runs over ruthless gold digger Dolores Benedict (Kathleen Turner) with his car. He uses his cranial screw-top brain surgery on her and then marries her. She's more interested in the lawn boy than him. They go to Vienna for a conference and their honeymoon. Serial killer 'Elevator Killer' is on the loose. Hfuhruhurr is befriended by Dr. Necessiter (David Warner) who has been getting brains from the Elevator Killer and keeping them alive in jars. Hfuhruhurr has had enough of Dolores and finds that he can telepathically communicate with the jarred brain of Anne Uumellmahaye (Sissy Spacek).Carl Reiner and Steve Martin unite in another one of their broad ridiculous comedies. It is non-stop amusement. It's also a matter of tastes. They're smaller laughs but the lines don't stop. The main change I would want is David Warner. He's a great dramatic actor but I wish they had a comedic actor doing something crazier. Kathleen Turner, on the other hand, is the perfect combination of sexy, evil, and comedy. "},{"Title":"Brains Become Him!","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A delicious black comedy along the lines of Death Becomes Her, this practically forgotten Steve Martin farce is now going on to my list of one of the best comedies of the 1980s, as well as one of the best comedies you've probably never heard of. Steve Martin plays a widowed doctor who specializes in brain surgery and all of a sudden becomes enamored of the gorgeous Kathleen Turner who has just managed in a hysterical opening sequence to knock off her wealthy older husband. Spoofing her role in Body Heat, Turner is deliciously evil, and seems to be have a wonderful time in playing this part. Martin, of course, does his usual stick, but mixing science fiction elements with a spoof of film noir which he had already done recently with Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, he finds true love with a seemingly still living brain, voiced by none other than recent Oscar winner Sissy Spacek.A film clip of the 1953 science fiction film Donovan's Brain cast up his interest in experimenting, and features then first lady Nancy Davis Reagan in the archive clip. Verbal and visual sight gags a la Airplane! make this worth seeing over and over again.Among the visual highlights is Martin's checking out of a castle like house he wants to purchase, complete with laboratory and Turner's determination to get rid of anybody whom she can inherit money from. Her obvious plans of seducing the handsome Hispanic gardener is also very funny. Some surprise cameos along the way add to the hysterical moments that are frequent and sometimes pass by too fast to catch up on simply one viewing. Veteran director Carl Reiner practically outdoes himself in the delightful way he takes preposterous situations and makes them laugh out loud funny. I could not have seen this in the theater, because I think I would have been choking on my popcorn or spitting my soda at the unfortunate person in front of me. It is that funny. I won't spoil all the delightful things with your car by saying more, but being available on the Warner Brothers Archive Collection, this was more fun than I expected it to be, although I will give credit to the delightfully annoying voiced prostitutes who Martin encounters during his journey. By the time she came along, I was laughing so hard that I was actually crying. "},{"Title":"Dr. Hfuhruhurr & Mrs. Uumellmahaye are HILARIOUS","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this movie at least 10 times. This movie is completely silly and ridiculous with no redeeming qualities at all, so if you are looking for a high-brow movie this may not be for you!It's just one side splitting laugh after another, and it's not like I'm a teenager, I'm a older man who normally likes more serious fare. I guess you could compare it to Young Frankenstein. Except instead of a castle, Dr. Necessiter performs his experiments in a castle-like condo, where he argues with his neighbor about the noise (her TV is always up too loud!). (The walls in these condo's are paper thin, you know...)Kathleen Turner is excellent as the scheming Femme Fatale and Steve Martin is at his wacky best performing surgery with his get that cat out of here! line... and hand me the metzenbaum scissors!.If you liked Young Frankenstein, and/or if you like Steve Martin at all, you'll love this movie! "},{"Title":"Sounds like a subdural hematoma to me.","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sayeth the little girl bystander in the opening minutes of Steve Martin's unheralded comedy, The Man with Two Brains. Steve Martin plays the world renown brain surgeon, Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr, who becomes involved with a grifter of a patient who has her own fiduciary agenda.Filled with zany, stupid yet uproariously funny zingers and visual gags, The Man with Two Brains is not deep comedy, but delivers on the goods where the laughs are concerned. It's not low brow comedy either (well, not mostly anyway), but old fashioned this is funny kind of stuff.There is a lot of adult humor in it, so it's not a comedy for kids, though if your boy is in middle school, then odds are he's read all the raunchy jokes, and probably knows more than you and Steve Martin combined. But, even so, this is not a film I would watch with the youngins.An all star comedy cast comes together to tell the tale of a man who falls in love with the woman he thinks he rescued, only to discover his heart yearns for something more. Does he find it? You have to see the movie find out.Professionally done, it's a basic film with good solid production values, and a parable at the end for all to enjoy.Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Terrific Work From Steve Martin,","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Man With Two Brains is a great movie with a good storyline,cast,characters and some very funny scenes that keep you watching.Its a bit different from the usual films you see Steve Martin in if your a fan,like me,its like a romantic horror comedy.Steve Martin did a terrific job both writing and acting in the movie and Dr. Hfuhruhurr is very funny,I especially like the parts where he gets mad because no one can pronounce his name,if he was talking to me now he wouldn't be happy with me,because I certainly cant.Dr.Michael Hfuhruhurr (Steve Martin) is a doctor who studies and is fascinated with brains,and he meets the love of his life,Dolores Benedict (Kathleen Turner).However,he falls in love with a brain and wants to kill his wife and put the brain in her. "}{"Title":"Before there was Jim Carrey...","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...Steve Martin's physical humor was the talk of the town. In his early years he was featured on the Sonny and Cher Comedy hour, the Ken Barry Show and the Smothers Brothers Show as a regular. He turned up frequently as host on Saturday Night Live, in every case showcasing his peculiar brand of off-the-wall physical humor and jester-esque feats. The Jerk can probably be considered his first real movie as a vehicle to his humor which is often seen as the first of his classics-trio with Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid second and The Man with Two Brains his third. Although I consider The Jerk to be the best of the trio, The Man with Two Brains is certainly a close second. The cast is brilliant with a sexy yet villainous wife played by Kathleen Turner, one year before her landmark role as the eccentric romance novelist Joan Wilder. David Warner fresh from Tron and Time Bandits who probably has the largest resume of movies and TV spots I have seen yet. Unless you lived under a rock and never turned on your TV during the 80's and 90's you've seen David Warner is some fashion... anyways where am I? oh... he also manages to keep up with the non-stop antics playing a brilliant yet mad scientist who has discovered a way to keep brains alive. Carl Reiner and Steve Martin twist another crazy tale together to showcases the unique humor of Martin. It's not the best Steve Martin has done, nor is it hilarious through and through, it's mostly a hit and miss spoof, The Man With Two Brains is certainly recommended for old time fans of Steve Martin before he traded in his physical humor for more straight-forward gags. "},{"Title":"The Best Steve Martin Movie","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, the very best of them all.I love over the top stuff if it's done properly, and this highly-strung movie froths with it. It has the kind of nervous silliness that makes everything in it funny whether the punchlines are good or not.Kathleen Turner OWNS this movie.And...I can't help it. I know it's stupid, but I think it's romantic, falling in love with a brain in a jar. And she's such a *nice* brain in a jar. And... and, and, and I like their little song, and I think it's romantic when he says at the end What fat?, and David Warner's funny.So there.If *I* lika you and *you* lika me... "},{"Title":"Not bad, but best for the die-hard Steve Martin fans","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steve Martin as well as Leslie Nielsen are best known for their completely absurd comedies. The more insane the idea, the better it seems to be and I must say that I can appreciate their kind of humor. With The Man With Two Brains, you'll see a movie that has been inspired by horror movies like Frankenstein, but that doesn't mind about the horror genre's conventions of course...In this movie Steve Martin is a rich and recently widowed brain surgeon called Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr (I guess no-one really knows how to pronounce it, but you can give it a try of course), who has invented a new technique that will make brain surgery a lot easier the cranial screw-top brain entry. He injures Dolores Benedict in a car accident, but is able to save her life by operating her by using his new technique. She recovers and he falls in love with her. They soon get married, although she doesn't love him (she only wants him for his money), but he still yearns for his previous wife. When he finds out that she was murdered by 'The Elevator Killer', but that her brain was saved by the mysterious Doctor Alfred Necessiter, he starts a platonic relationship with his dead wife's bottled brain.Of course you can't expect any serious acting or a great story in this movie. This just isn't the kind of movie that needs that. This is an absurd comedy and everything, no matter how strange, can be expected. Even though I liked the movie, I must say that it certainly isn't the best example of this kind of comedies. It had some potential, but I've seen a lot better before and that's why I give it a 6/10. This is only for the die-hard fans of Steve Martin. "},{"Title":"The Movie With Two Jokes","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This follows up the classic gangster-movie spoof Dead Man Don't Wear Plaid by spoofing classic horror-monster-mad scientist movies. Bad jokes have a tendency to ripen with age, and if you saw The Man With Two Brains as a kid chances are you might still like it. You might also enjoy this one if you are a very die-hard Steve Martin fan (or just an average Kathleen Turner-aficionado). All others can easily give it a pass -- it's really not that funny, and quite stolid and scripted. To give you a taste, the main character has a name that is difficult to pronounce, and that gag is continued throughout the movie although it wasn't funny to begin with.The one thing I like about this movie though is how painstakingly they recreated Austria in some studio far away from the land on the stream (although god knows why they didn't just shoot it on location). It's quite startling how the Austrians all look rather Austrian, although they obviously aren't as they can't speak German for toffee. "},{"Title":"The Wild and Crazy Jerk...","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Man With Two BrainsSteve Martin was starting to make a rise into Hollywood during the time `The Man With Two Brains' was released. He had gained fame from doing standup comedy and a few records, as well as hosting `Saturday Night Live' many times. He had just come fresh off `The Jerk,' another wildly zany comedy. And much like `The Jerk,' `The Man With Two Brains' has its hit and misses.Steve Martin plays a rich, world-famous brain surgeon. His wife has just died, and as a result he has been depressed lately. And then, during an interview, Steve hits a woman (Kathleen Turner) while driving his car. He instantly falls in love with her. Unfortunately, he has done brain damage to her. So, he performs screw-top brain surgery on her, and gets her back to life, during a funny sequence (`Cover it up! I'm a man, for God's sake!' and `Get that cat out of here!') Eventually, he gets married to her. Little does he know that she is a black widow, killing off men for their wills. Pretty soon, Steve begins to fall in love with a brain. Yes, a brain (voiced by Sissy Spacek). I'm not sure where anyone got that idea, but they did. This 1983 comedy is so loony and wild that you just have to see it.Carl Reiner, who directed `The Jerk,' directs this wild film. Much like `The Jerk,' the comedy is extremely stupid &#150; so much so that it is funny. Unfortunately, many of the jokes do fall flat &#150; more often than in `The Jerk.' Many scenes are out of place and edited very choppy, as well (take the scene where Steve is driving his car and they cut to Kathleen Turner and her ninety-something husband &#150; where did that come from?!). Still, the film has its big moments. It starts to wither away in the middle, then picks up again at the end.Martin and Reiner wrote this movie, and it's no wonder. It seems like a Steve Martin-written film. But Reiner must have contributed a lot, because Martin wrote `Bowfinger' by himself and there wasn't that much slapstick in the movie.This film could have been decent just on the premise that Martin gets with a black widow who tries to kill him off. But when you add a talking brain to the premise you think one of two things. One, the makers were on drugs when they wrote this. Or two Steve Martin wrote it.It's just too bad that the film doesn't work as well as it should. Too many should-be laughs don't work, and a lot of the gags just are not funny. They are overused and basic. Nowhere near the greatness of Steve Martin's greatest comedy, `Planes, Trains and Automobiles.'But one of the best sequences is a simple one with not much thought at all. After hitting Kathleen Turner, Steve runs over to a little girl and says, `Okay, little girl, you need to run down to the ER and tell (whoever) that we've got a (gobble-gook-whatever) with a cerebral hemorrhage and a (gobble-gook-whatever); then tell Mary that&#133;' He goes on and on with medical garble. Then, the little girl, holding a teddy bear, who has just been staring at Steve the whole time, says, `Sounds like an inner (whatever) to me.' And then Steve says, `Oh it does, does it? Well, what do you know? Get out of here! Go on, get! Boy, that makes me mad. It's not an inner (whatever), it's an OUTER (whatever), so HAH!' I haven't laughed that much in a while. It's just the chemistry between the girl and Martin in that scene. You have to see the girl's face, and how Martin reacts to her. `Oh you do, do you?' I love it.Overall, `The Man With Two Brains' is not a great comedy by any means, and it definitely could have been better; but for heaven's sake at least watch the scene with Martin and the little girl! 3/5 stars &#150;John UlmerBTW If you want to see Steve's best comedy, and my all-time favorite comedy (which I mention in many of my reviews), see `Planes, Trains and Automobiles' (1987) with Martin and John Candy, written and directed by John Hughes. `The Man With Two Brains' stands nowhere near as great as that film.  "},{"Title":"Mad Comedy At It's Best","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this movie is not considered a sci-fi comedy-horror - I personally put it in that category It's has a mad neurosurgeon, twisted experiments and a murderer. I don't believe that a movie has to have traditional horror characters (Frankenstein, Dracula, etc) to be considered a (comedy) horror. The idea of any mad scientist or neurosurgeon with odd-ball experiments automatically puts it in the sci-fi horror to me. This is one of Steve Martin's best comedies - well worth watching if you enjoy the older comedy films.This movie would make a great double feature with movies like Jekyll and Hyde... Together Again, Young Frankenstein or All of Me.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Man with Two Brains","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Easily the best collaboration between Martin and Reiner in their long movie errm...collaborations. Its Martin's second zany wacky off the wall movie after 'The Jerk' which wasn't as madcap as this. In this work of genius Martin is set free to basically come up with as much lunacy as he possibly can and boy does he.The plot is somewhat sensible I guess, a brain surgeon falls for the sexy Kathleen Turner only to eventually discover she is a gold digger and doesn't give a damn about anyone really. In the mean time Martin falls in love with a disembodied brain (in a jar) and decides to try and rescue it with a new fresh sexy body.The whole idea is basically a B-movie homage to various ridiculous horror concepts and at the same time an influence for many future raunchy trashy 80's teen comedies, it serves dual purpose. Its not exactly a full spoof but it comes close at times, its just an insane comedy with surreal touches of outlandish humour that borders on spoof.Most of the funny moments tend to be sexual innuendo or sight gags, some childish some clever and witty, whilst others are clearly in there just for the hell of it, probably created on the spot. Take Martin's character name for instance...'Dr Hfuhruhurr', we here Martin say his name properly right at the start but from then on almost everybody pronounces it differently as they struggle to say it, most just give up. This is such a stupid gag ,its infantile, but it works so brilliantly every time yet you don't really know why. You know its stupid but seeing all the various characters pronounce it so randomly is just so fudging funny. The joke is even extended to a few other characters also, you'd think it would get old but it still manages to make you smile.What hit me was how old the film looked, it was released in 83 but it looks like a 70's flick to me. Everything really looks so dated nowadays but I think some of it is deliberate, made to look cheap like an old fashioned mad scientist movie. Naturally the fake castle laboratory within the apartment (nice switch) is the cheesy stereotypical mad scientist vibe for this kind of thing. I like how they include that simply for that reason and actually say that in the film hehe could almost be a Leslie Nielsen vehicle.Its also easy to forget how hot Turner was back in the day, she smoulders here as the evil temptress or black widow. I also like the various bits of ass on display too (yeah sue me). I do recall watching this as a kid and thinking it was a dirty film, to a kid the material shown is quite kinky and revealing for sure, the dialog is also pretty smutty and only now as an adult do I appreciate it, much like all the humour.This has to be Martin's best film or close to, its such a shame he never really did anymore off the wall flicks like this. There is so much that works here, so many little gags and visual nuggets that are admittedly so daft (the very quick human pinball scene) you just can't help but like it (unless you dislike Steve Martin's style of course). Its rude crazy and predictable (with a brief bit of in your face racism!) but for me its probably one of the best comedies made.'The only time we doctors should accept death is when it's caused by our own incompetence'10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best spoofs ever","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apparently, it deals with most of the clichés in film noir and sci-fi, yet smashing them into tiny bits of zaniness and many cartoon-like jokes. The first viewing of this film was a riot, but then, knowing the jokes, it's not that wild anymore (for me, at least). Still, it's a fine, entertaining comedy, which is a rare thing nowadays. How could it be possible back in the 80s to make quality zaniness, if I may put it that way? Today's spoofs are so trivial and not funny... The twists in TMWTB are so surreal (a mild word), the characters' motivation and evolution (such big words) are mere caricature, the pace is so quick, and all of that is so in your face and silly that it works! It's a special kind of humor, continuing the half-absurd style of the Marx Bros. and perhaps it wouldn't have been that effective without very good comedic actors such as Mr. Martin (so innocent and, well, self confident) and Mrs. Turner (so stunning and funny at the same time). It looks as they have had a great time doing this film and I can see clearly why. "},{"Title":"Ready the bone wax....","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently widowed Doctor Michael Hfuhruhurr, the world's greatest neurosurgeon, injures Dolores Benedict in a car accident. He operates on her and saves her life using a technique of his own invention cranial screw-top brain entry. As Benedict recovers, Hfuhruhurr falls in love with her and they are soon married. However, Benedict is only interested in Hfuhruhurr's money and he still yearns for his previous wife. They travel to Vienna to attend a medical conference where Hfuhruhurr finally divorces Dolores, meets a mysterious Doctor, and becomes entangled in a serial killer hunt....It's certainly is a random movie, from beginning to end, it never fails to surprise with all the very silly, but funny sight gags, and the hilarious one liners.Everything gets thrown into the mix, from brains on rowing boats, to suction hands, to paper doors, but the writers and director, keep the narrative in check, and the story consistent.It's not for all tastes, and I could understand why this is a love or hate movie, because its so ahead of its time, and so offbeat, that I wouldn't be surprised if Monty Python confessed during their reunion to writing this.Martin is as good as always, Turner has never been better, and it's the kind of film you find something different in every single viewing. "},{"Title":"Two brains are better than one","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Man with 2 Brains is a science fiction comedy produced in 1983 starring Steve Martin as Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr, a brain surgeon who saves lives with his cranial screw-top type of brain surgery. One of the victims he saves is Dolores Benedict (Kathleen Turner), who gets run over by a vehicle in her attempt to escape from her previous husband's coronary which is fatal and caused by Dolores. Dolores is a conniving, scheming woman whom Hfuhruhurr unknowingly falls in love with and marries. On their honeymoon as well as business trip to Vienna, Hfuhruhurr refuses to consummate the marriage and a strange twist happens in the movie. Hfuhruhur runs across Dr. Alfred Necessiter played by David Warner, who is a mad scientist that has discovered how to preserve live brains in jars. It is here that Hfuhruhur meets Annie, a woman's brains that have been kept alive and he falls in love with. The only problem is he now needs to find a body for Annie and fate provides him an opportunity. There has been a series of elevator murders, and his wife gets murdered by the elevator killer so opportunity arises to transplant Annie's brains into his wife's corpse.Cast includes Martin, Turner, Warner, Paul Benedict as the butler of Dr. Necessiter, George Furth as Timon and Peter Hobbs as Dr. Brandon. This sci-fi is just too funny and if you're in for a good laugh with a bit of a twist, then The Man with 2 Brains is for you. "}{"Title":"Comic genius!","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I swear, Steve Martin did some of his best work with Carl Reiner. The Man with Two Brains is a winning mix of high and lowbrow humor, with much of the movie listing toward the absurd (like the star making out with a jarred brain, for example). Kathleen Turner offers up her sultry image for gags, while ... no, scratch that - everyone here does (David Warner included). As Steve Martin movies go, this is certainly one of my favorites, with its laundry list of one-liners and endearing sense of humor. And as if that's not enough, when we find out who the Elevator Killer is, it's a doozy. I laughed harder at some of the jokes than I have in a long while. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A No-Brainer With Not One, But Two Brains","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This mediocre Sci-Fi/Comedy from 1983 was so funny that I honestly forgot to laugh.It didn't help matters much that I'm not a Steve Martin fan. His annoyingly goofy screen-persona tends to either bore me, or irk me off a lot. In this picture Martin's dumb histrionics did both.Of course, I can't say that the Man with Two Brains was a total waste of time. There were some genuinely funny moments in this film. Like, for instance, there's one real gem when the doctor ventures down to the red light district of town desperately searching for a hot enough body to house that brain that he's been storing in a glass jar of liquid preservatives - And it's here that he meets up with the hooker with the squeaky voice.In my opinion, Kathleen Turner's performance as the doctor's sleazy, whorish wife was just as lousy and unfunny as anything that Martin did in the film. "},{"Title":"Very crazy","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, what can you say about this movie? It's very strange, but very funny at the same time. Steve Martin, I'm not really sure if his role was meant to be comedic or psychotic. But the story is interesting. Kathleen Turner is a great villain. The whole scene with Steve and the brain on the boat in the lake was a bit... disturbing. I wasn't sure where the movie was going after that. It's not a bad movie, but nothing I'd really watch again. Because it is very strange. The acting, directing, and editing isn't bad. I'm not sure what this movie was getting to, or if it had a point. It's just something you have to be in a certain mood to watch it. Other than that, it's all your's.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought this movie on DVD two days ago. I saw it. Though Steve Martin is a great actor, the quote His funniest movie on the DVD is far from true. There are good moments and Kathleen Turner is gorgeous but the movie, in it's all, is far from funny ! It is even sometimes boring. The end is cool but the story line is not well developed and some ideas where unexploited ( there is no plot about Dolores former husband's death) ! Frankly if you want to get bored with some laughs, take a look at this one ! "},{"Title":"Desperately Unfunny","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As much as like Steve Martin, this film is one piece of desperately unfunny trash.  How did Martin get conned into doing this junk?  As the cover notes on the DVD copy I viewed observe Anyone with half a brain will rejoice in the sheer lunacy of this sublimely silly farce...  Unfortunately, only those with half a brain and a purile sense of humour will make it to the closing credits.I do feel Reiner (the writer / director) is trying to do Mel Brooks but comes up miles short of the mark.  But then, Steve Martin doing Mel Brooks... that would be something else!  "},{"Title":"Was this supposed to be funny?","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this movie dull as tripe.  I could constantly recognize that the people on the screen were trying to make jokes, but why?  What purpose did these attempts at humor have?It didn't help anything that the movie was edited as if it were a sequence of stock footage spliced together at random.  One scene would not lead into another; you would just suddenly be wherever the cameraman happened to wake up.The movie probably had what the writers thought would be running gags.  A cat in the operating room!  The surgeon goes Somebody get that cat out of here!  Laughs and hijinks, right?  ... Without the comic timing, it goes nowhere.  The cat joke is repeated over and over, each time seeming like a throwaway line that desperately wants to be funny.Perhaps the only way to laugh at this movie is to think of the poor investors who lost money on this film. "},{"Title":"someone get that cat out of here","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i love this film. perfectly silly. I'm going to name my next cat Dr. Hfuhruhurr in homage.7/10 "},{"Title":"A load of crap.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The intro to the movie is enough to make me want to turn off my DVD player. I can't believe, that on the case of this movie's DVD, it says, Steve Martin's funniest movie! My reaction after finishing the movie, What the hell!? I didn't find anything in this movie funny enough to actually laugh at, as a matter of fact, it came off as quite disturbing. I couldn't believe that Steve Martin had played such a lowly role. The movie was more depressing than it was supposed to be funny. "},{"Title":"An occasional mildly amusing scene, but overall, it's still pretty lame","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had never heard of this film until I learned that it was available for free rental at my local library. Before watching it, I was aware of Steve Martin's starring role (I had seen him in some funny movies before), and the premise looked intriguing, although I did see the rating on IMDb, which wasn't as high as I expected. With all this in mind, I wasn't expecting a masterpiece, but I was hoping for at least a reasonable comedy, but even with those moderate expectations, I was still disappointed.Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr is a widowed neurosurgeon, still grieving over the loss of his wife. While in his car one day, he accidentally hits a woman named Dolores Benedict and badly injures her. He manages to save her by performing an operation, and as she recovers, he quickly falls in love with her. This leads to a marriage very quickly, before Dolores fully recovers, but the surgeon does not realize that she is a selfish, evil woman who just wants money, and he is now about to be her latest victim! The couple soon go on a trip to Vienna, where their relationship begins to fall apart, and Michael falls in love with the brain of a dead woman, being kept alive in a jar in a laboratory! Around the beginning of the film, it looked like it was going to be pretty silly, but reasonably entertaining. I definitely found myself snickering at times, but do not recall a single gag that made me do more than that. In fact, for the most part, I didn't find it funny at all. For example, I don't see what's so funny about Dolores sucking Michael's finger. Also, for better or worse, this 1983 sci-fi comedy is very strange! Personally, I probably wouldn't have minded that if the movie was consistently amusing, as I sometimes enjoy comedy that's out there, but that wasn't the case with The Man with Two Brains. In the end, I sort of wondered what I just watched! Like I said, Steve Martin has been in some funny films (such as the hilarious Planes, Trains & Automobiles), but this is clearly not one of the stronger films of his career. "},{"Title":"Nearly worth-seeing for Kathleen Turner's sexy/funny performance...","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steve Martin plays the world's greatest brain surgeon who falls in love with a (talking) brain in a jar; Kathleen Turner is his shrewish wife, David Warner plays a mad scientist whose laboratory is in a hotel! Shoddy-looking slapstick comedy from director Carl Reiner, with much of the early emphasis on smutty gags. Reiner and Martin might've actually believed this material was cutting-edge...so how does one explain the soggy sentimentality in the film's second-half? The dirty jokes are torpedoed and the pace comes to a screeching halt as Martin falls in love, which means less and less of Turner (the picture's one real bright spot). Martin is very confident in pop-crap quickies like this, and he does have some funny scenes, but this hoary material is really beneath him. *1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"So so movie, not good as THE JERK!!","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this movie to be very BORING.  The good thing about it was looking at Kathleen Turner.  She was quite stunning in this movie directed by the Meathead's Dad, Carl Reiner.  However, I expected more from Carl.  This movie fell flat, leaving wanting more.  I didn't get the crazy behaviour I was expecting from Steve. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  showing its age & boring","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Man With Two Brains strives for the charm of Young Frankenstein but fails. It's aging and even the dumb jokes don't have that dumb charm to them.It was worth a couple of chuckles but they were quite far in-between. I normally like Steve Martin films, All of Me for example, and even stupid ones like Sgt. Bilko have some merit.But this one, stay away.Who should see this film-- nobody, even on a rainy day, even if you get it for free on cableI'm forced to give The Man With Two Brains a 3 out of 10. "}]