[{"Title":"One of my family's all-time favorities","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Of all comedies that I have seen in my 23 years, Mr. Mom has got to be one of the best and funniest of them all. I have been a fan of this movie since I was about 4 years old! To be exact, I think I taped three different copies on cable and network until I bought it on video and finally on DVD! Michael Keaton plays Jack Butler, who, along with several co-workers, loses his job at an auto plant due to layoffs. To make ends meet, wife Caroline (Teri Garr) gets a job at an advertising agency, and he stays home with the kids. Easy, right? Absolutely not! From out of control vacuum cleaners, washing machines and toasters, to the neighborhood ladies, including Joan (Ann Jillian), who has her eye on Jack, running the household is horrendous. On top of this, Caroline is climbing the corporate ladder. But success comes with a price in the form of long hours, travel, and persistence from boss Ron (Martin Mull), who sets his sights on Caroline. Can Jack and Caroline keep the family together despite these woes?It is my belief that Mr. Mom is one of the best comedies of all time, and features Michael Keaton and Teri Garr at their best. People of all ages should see this movie. It shows how successful familial role revearsals have the power to be, and demonstrates how to challenge previous stereotypes about career and family. A great film not to be missed! "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Going into this film, I expected some trite family comedy with a lot of cheap gags involving things like the normal guy trying to change diapers. That's why I was really impressed.  I enjoyed it a lot!  This movie proves why it's a shame that Michael Keaton has turned to Michael Who? in the eyes of Hollywood.  I hope to God he doesn't start doing direct-to-video crap like some once-popular actors.  He is a true talent with impeccable comic timing!The script is well-written.  Though you can call it predictable, it deserves to be predictable.  Besides, the plot turns make sense in the context of the characters, and don't feel contrived.  The film delivers a fine message without suffocating you with corny sentiment.  And Keaton's wonderful performance keeps the film airtight.There are many hilarious moments.  The gag in which Keaton plays poker with a group of homemakers, using coupons instead of money, is absolutely priceless!  Plus, I felt for the characters and when you feel for the characters, the jokes are always funnier.  When Keaton gets himself into one dilemma after another, I was laughing because I felt sorry for him, and that's the key to physical comedy.  You have to care for the character's intentions.Mr. Mom is a funny, sweet, kind-hearted family comedy that doesn't cater to any particular age group.  At first glance, it looks an anti-parenting film that manipulates us guys into thinking, Geez, I'm never gonna have a kid.  But as Keaton's character goes through his arc, your attitude changes along with his.  Go see it!  A truly entertaining movie that's likable in all aspects!My score  8 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"good family comedy","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Keatons first lead role after his successful Night Shift debut in 82 was this family comedy about a laid off auto worker who takes over at home as his wife (Garr) goes back to work.  It is a bit unbelievable that Keaton, after years of having a family, would not know how to operate the washing machine or vaccuum cleaner.  But he was so perfect at being silly I had to let it slide.  Its a little like a fish outta water story as he has to go to the unfamiliar market, do numerous chores around the house and learn the right way to drop off the kids at school in the morning (South to drop off, moron!).  Plenty of good moments from a comedic and dramatic standpoint, as Keaton and Garr deal with her being away from home so much.  Mull becomes a foil for her as her new boss, having a case of the major league hots for his star employee.  Im sure Keaton will always be remembered as Batman, but this will always be my fave of his in one of John Hughes (The Breakfast Club, Ferris Buellers Day Off) more unknown works.  Good, harmless fun.  "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a funny movie. And, not very many comedies can say that - most unfortunately. Michael Keaton was great. I'm not a big Teri Garr fan, but she was more than adequate as a second banana in the film.If you have no children, are a man, and have never had to raise any children even for a weekend, then you will certainly appreciate this movie. Everyone should appreciate it, but those of us who have never had the pleasure of changing a diaper will probably identify the most.I cannot imagine how this movie only got a 6.1 on IMBD. I have never known anyone who did not enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Family comedies don't get much better than this","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mr. Mom is, yet again, one of those movies that I have been watching since I was a kid. This is one of Michael Keaton's best movies I think, forget Night Shift and all that. Keaton's greatest strength is comedy. Mr. Mom is well put together, is always funny, and never lags. It does a brillant job of protraying role reversal and the rest of the cast makes this movie a joy to watch. Everyone is good, singling someone out for special praise is unnecessary. I hate kids in movies but I loved the kids in this one. It's because they are not annoyingly cute or naughty or too sweet, they're just normal kids. Bottom Line This is a great movie and every movie fan and family should have it on the shelf.  "},{"Title":"Who gets tired of this movie?","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seriously,I mean, who really gets  tired of seeing Michael Keaton playing a housewife?  There's just no equivalent to this when it comes to great comedy. I've seen it countless times, and can't believe how little recognition this film actually gets.   The main plot of the movie is that Keaton gets fired (or laid off, I can't honestly remember, it's been so long since I've seen it...) from his job, and ironically enough his wife wants to go to work for an advertising company.  Reluctantly he agrees, and what follows is just pure chaos.  He loves his wife, but at times you get the feeling not enough to keep doing the daily, mundane rituals, he feels woman should be stuck with doing.It's a great comedy and an awesome rent for anyone over the age of 10. A film that you could actually watch with your kids, and still not have them get certain underlying jokes.A 9 out of 10 in my estimation.  10 being the highest that is, and the reason I give it a 9 and not quite a 10, well....I guess you'll just have to watch it to make your own decision about that.And that's my review. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie Ever.","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I know it seems weird to say this about a John Hughes film, but I honestly think this is one of the great films of all time. There are so few movies that are so.. flawless. The script is hilarious. The editing is seamless. Every line is quote-worthy. The acting is spot-on. Michael Keaton is at the top of his game, Terry Garr is a comic genius, and the casting is perfect. The story is both goofy, and rather deep. It conatins at least a dozen of my top 100 all-time favorite movie 'moments'. Its the kind of film you see late at night on TV, and you start watching a few minutes, then suddenly before you know it, you've watched the whole thing AGAIN. Obviously, I highly recommend this film, and encourage more filmmakers to study it, because they just don't make 'em like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Fun for Keaton","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mr. Mom (1984) *** (out of 4) An auto-engineer (Michael Keaton) gets fired from his job so his wife (Teri Garr) must go out and get a job to support the family. This leaves Keaton at home to take care of the kids and house. This is a film I use to watch countless times when I was little because it seemed it was showing up on HBO at least twice a day. I hadn't watched the movie in at least twenty years before this viewing and it held up well for me even though it's clear that it's certainly not a masterpiece or anything too special. The screenplay by John Hughes is pretty light from start to finish but the majority of the humor works thanks to the performance by Keaton. Keaton comes off very likable and he handles to the change from family man to coach potato very well and he manages several laughs. The best moments are when Keaton becomes obsessed with soap operas, which include a very fun dream sequence. Garr is also good in her role as are Jeffrey Tambor and Martin Mull in their supporting roles. I really can't sit here and type why this film works for me outside of its charm. I'm sure many will find the film too silly to enjoy so perhaps it's something nostalgic for me. "},{"Title":"Hit-and-Miss Comedy From the 1980s.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Keaton gets laid off from his cushy job and figures he will be called back very soon, but that does not happen. Thus wife Teri Garr finds an advertising job really fast and it is up to Keaton to care for their three young children in this admittedly funny, but somewhat under-achieving comedic venture. Martin Mull steals every scene as Garr's new boss and Ann Jillian sizzles as the couple's next door neighbor who has her eye on Keaton. Not bad, but not real good either. Middle-of-the-line entertainment. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Mr. Mom is Michael Keaton","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mr. Mom launches two careers, Michael Keaton's as well as John Hughes'. Mr. Mom was Hughes' first major script and it was Michael Keaton's first major role. Michael's super as Mr. Mom. Michael Keaton starts as Mr. Mom and he goes on to be Johnny Dangerously, Beetlejuice, Batman, Doug, Jack Frost and among many other good parts. John Hughes starts with Mr. Mom and he moves on to write Summer Vacation, The Breakfast Club, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Planes, Trains & Automobiles, Home Alone are just a few of his numerous good films.Michael Keaton is one of my very most favorite actors. He's so funny, and good. I love Michael Keaton! He really does make Mr. Mom a hit. Teri Garr's so good too, and the kids are great. Mr. Mom is a likable comedy adventure and very approving.Mr. Mom makes light at suburbia family home life in a lackadaisical manner. It's lighthearted fun. Mr. Mom is unbound by categorical type restrictions of classification. It's widely amusing. Mr. Mom has a cultured and impetuous personality that's adequate for the viewing. It's kind family fun. Mr. Mom has firm and flexible humor, able to transfer into alternating comedic forms with certainty. It's lovably funny. Mr. Mom invites a relating relationship with the viewer displaying familiarized family issues. It really touches home. There's nothing heavy about Mr. Mom, just a friendly flowing showing. "}{"Title":"Cute comedy that hinges on the tremendous abilities of its lead","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite the overall cute tone and the TV-movie production values, Mr. Mom is a blast, thanks primarily to a truly funny lead actor. Writer John Hughes takes the role-reversal premise of an engineer having to stay at home while the wife reenters the workforce, and places it smack in the middle of the early-80s recession (which lends the movie a solid authenticity).Most of the comedy derives from Keaton's earnest portrayal as he navigates the jungles of housewifedom (supermarket chaos, hostile vacuum cleaners and falling into stay-at-home complacency) and seeming ease with being the movie's comedic fulcrum. Hughes' script plumbs the depths of a working man faced with the daunting responsibilities of domesticity for laughs, while colliding the housewife's experience with the the corporate boardroom mentality.Things could easily have slipped into generic chick-flick territory. But Keaton makes all the difference.7/10 "},{"Title":"In mommy's shoes.","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simple-minded fun is ensured from this charmingly light-hearted suburban family comedy penned by John Hughes, produced by Aaron Spelling and starring the likes of Michael Keaton (after his break through performance in Night Shift the year before), Terri Garr and the comic actor Martin Mull. There's just something about Mr. Mom, while it didn't have me in stitches it seemed to be a pleasant farce which remains quite likable with its repetitive, if accidental gags caught in real life situations (some being over dramatised e.g. the sitcom daydream sequences to enliven the humour) and the daily chores that fill a housewife's cycle. Keaton is a good sport finding him in plenty of red-faced and grinding situations that soon begin to affect his mental state of mind. Keaton balances the right moods in an amusingly bright turn and goes on to prove how well of a versatile actor he was. When the tables are turned for Garr's character&#x85; that's when she comes out with a wholesomely good performance and a fine show-in by Mull as her smarmy boss. Also in small parts are Jeffrey Tambor and Christopher Lloyd. Stan Dragoti's breezy direction lets it unfold and Hughes gimmicky material is quite snappy with its banter, but satirical with its vision (despite the silly slapstick) without losing any of its warm-hearted appeal. "},{"Title":"A lovely example of a happy family.","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was made in 1983, and was a big hit when it first came out. It showcases the work of two outstanding comedic actors Teri Garr and Michael Keaton. Sadly, they are often unrecognized for the comedic talents. Especially Michael Keaton. But, one only has to watch Mr. Mom view the evidence and see these two great and legendary actors at their best. Not only is their family, including their 3 small children idealic-in a realistic way-absolutely adorable they are also incredibly entertaining. In short this is a 'fish out of water' tale. When Jack (Michael Keaton) loses his job working for a large automobile company his wife decides to get a job at and advertising company so that they won't suffer financially. While Caroline struggles initially with the drastic change she prevails and succeeds, although she soon encounters the pitfalls of being successful while having a family. Jack finds himself COMPLETELY out of his element and the events that ensue are hilarious! In the end, we find a happy ending that is so much a part of John Hughes films and the 80's era. Something I personally miss desperately in movies today. The soundtrack is also excellent, maybe not genius, but it meshes well with each scene and the overall feel of the film So sit back, and travel back to a better time. Enjoy Mr. Mom! It's a classic! "},{"Title":"lots of classic running gags","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Commentary of the times AND lots of comedy. Great roles for Teri Garr,Martin Mull, and Michael Keaton. Martin Mull seemed to play this role of the buffoon-ish boss (TV Show Roseanne) a lot. Love the on-going gags ie near the beginning, someone asks what wiring will you use, 220 ? the reply is 220, 221, whatever it takes (to show lack of knowledge of wiring.) Near the end, someone says Nice shot. what did you use, a 38? the reply is 38, 39, whatever it took. The script & comedy are very smooth, flows much like a Neil Simon. Fun with names, like Howard Humphreys from Schooner Tuna. Fun to watch Garr and Keaton try to be successful as they switch roles at home & at work. LOVE the poker game...Ann Jillian is great as the naughty neighbor. The interaction of all the repairmen near the end is a great scene. FUN to watch. no plot holes or slow parts, which is rare. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Family Comedy that made Michael Keaton a star...","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Keaton officially became a star with MR. MOM, a warm and funny family comedy which stars Keaton as Jack Butler, an automotive engineer who gets laid off and can't seem to get another job anywhere else. In order to make ends meet, Jack's wife, Caroline (Teri Garr), who gave up a brief career in advertising to be a stay-at-home Mom, decides to go back to work and is instantly hired at an advertising agency, which forces Jack to settle into being the stay-at-home Dad. It's hilarious watching Jack cluelessly trying to deal with his kids, shopping, laundry, and other domestic duties. Jack even manages to get addicted to THE YOUNG AND THE RESTLESS and teaches the other moms in the neighborhood how to play poker. Meanwhile, Caroline gets promoted after 20 minutes on the job and is forced to fend off the advances of her slimy boss, played to perfection by Martin Mull. This film contains one hilarious scene after another as Jack starts to lose his self-esteem, reduced to dealing with dirty diapers and a vacuum cleaner with a life of its own. Garr is in top form and there is a fun turn by Ann Jillian as an amorous neighbor who has the hots for Jack. This film is a joy from start to finish, thanks to a clever screenplay and the impeccable comic timing of Michael Keaton. "},{"Title":"When I first read the title, I thought that it was an action movie or something such.","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having just made a splash in Night Shift, Michael Keaton got another really funny role in Mr. Mom. As struggling dad Jack Butler, he and wife Caroline (Teri Garr) decide to switch roles he'll stay home while she works. Needless to say, it proves to be not quite that easy.Mr. Mom was the sort of early-'80's comedy that showed how cinematic comedy was shifting toward the outright loony. But don't worry, this one is totally zany without being idiotic (a previous viewer noted that this was before Hollywood wanted comedy to be scatological all the time). Moreover, there's a distinct feeling of realism here when Caroline applies for a job, the boss comes on to her (I have heard of such instances). A really funny movie.And yes, when I first read the title (long before I actually saw the movie), I assumed that Mr. Mom was an action movie or something such. The title was listed right next to Night Shift, which I assumed was a horror movie; boy was I wrong! "},{"Title":"Remember, it was made 20 years ago, so a little out-dated, but I think it's still funny today!","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" (some spoilers) John Hughes certainly helped personify the 1980s as writer and director! Although he didn't direct 'Mr. Mom', he hasn't directed a film in 14 years, which coincides when his writing in the 90s has seen him represent less iconic films and straight-to-video sequels. He wrote Mr. Mom, and although, not as significant or funny as 'The Breakfast Club' or 'Ferris Bueller's Day Off', it still represented a reasonably popular and somewhat iconic film on the gender role in the 1980s.Michael Keaton plays Jack Butler, hard-working father of three children, who finds himself in a pickle when he and his colleagues are fired from his manufacturing car company. His wife, Caroline (Teri Garr), manages to get a job in advertising, and the roles are reversed so to speak. Nowadays, we might frown upon this being the premise for a comedy, but back in 1983, attitudes were different. Anyway, Jack finds himself learning the ropes of being the stay-at-home dad, while Caroline begins to excel selling tuna as her new boss Ron (Martin Mull from Roseanne) begins to take more than liking! Jack finds goes from clueless Dad to successful parent, all the while avoiding the affections of a would-be lover, and trying to get his wife to remember the little things she misses while wrapped in work. He learns that pride in himself, and his family values are what's important, and not selling himself short to get a job back. Meanwhile, Caroline gets caught up in her work in more ways than one.This early 80s comedy is quite funny, even though some stereotypes may not be accepted now. I'm sure most guys know how to shop for groceries without wrecking the store, however clean up in isle&#133; was quite funny! And, of course, the whole letting yourself go in the unemployment rut and getting caught up in soap operas was also quite funny. Keaton does well with or without a beard, and Teri Garr was quite funny too. Christopher Lloyd is briefly in this movie, and Jeffrey Tambor is good as the disloyal employer. This is reasonably well directed and is Stan Dragoti's most popular film, but it's the writing and humorous commentary on social changes and gender roles that makes this film a winner, particular because John Hughes had a gift for writing good scripts in the 80s (I have no idea what happened in the 90s). And, most people see this as a John Hughes film, although he didn't direct it- but I guess it has his trademark. 'Mr. Mom' wouldn't work as well now in my opinion, although many gender-issue comedies have been made since. However, the workforce is no longer just a man's world, and vice versa. Still, 20 years ago, this film is pretty funny! A high ***½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"A mother's touch","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so funny. It's about a guy who gets laid off and his wife ends up getting a job and he has to stay home with his kids.It really funny how he starts to act like a mom. He starts to hang out with ladies and has a really hard time with things around the house. He even starts to watch soap operas. It's a really funny movie. "},{"Title":"old looking camera lensed, underated keaton comedy is funny","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  it was fun, and hilarious to see michael keaton in  this role as a working man, who's wife  becomes the working girl, and he becomes  a househusband. raising his kids. i thought  when he got so much use to,  becoming a househusband, he got fat, and grew a very big beard was funny, when he was hanging out with a lot of women friends.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Comedy","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I got this movie for Christmas last year on DVD and I kinda liked it but my brother loves this movie. He loves the facial expressions that Michael Keaton makes. My favorite scenes are the school drop off scene (SOUTH TO DROP OFF MORON!) The Supermarket scene and the soap opera scenes. The last 20-25 minutes of the film don't match up though. Still it's a pretty good comedy. 7/10 "}{"Title":"A great vehicle to showcase Keatons talent.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are but a few actors in Hollywood who can make the transition from comedy actor to serious, dramatic actor.  Michael Keaton is one of the best. Going from this movie, Johnny Danger, Beetlejuice,and other hilarious movies to Clean and Sober, Pacific Heights (terrifying), One Good Cop, and many more demonstrates his talent and ability.  I watch every movie he makes and am never dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Working-class dog....","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the Michael Keaton we all know and love.The nice guy, the lovable slob, the lug who tries to do the good thing but messes up one detail or another then gets it right by the end.Mr. Mom makes his frantic antics the highlight as he loses his job in an auto plant just as his wife (Garr) gets one at an advertising firm.  He's then left to do things Dad's way, kids and all.  Most guys (most, I said) know how to operate household appliances and read the directions on the laundry detergent.  But there are guys who just have to do it there way to show it can be done...even if it can't.  And in Keaton's case, it can't.  And he proves that more than once here. He's the whole movie, basically; the macho can-do guy trying his best not to let the piles of housework, shopping, school routes (south to drop off, north to pick up) and daily advice from other housewives get him down.  And John Hughes' script is subtle and fun; this was long before he watched too many cartoons, mind you.In the end, all is well in the average American household and Keaton, Garr and Hughes demonstrate once and for all that, guys, it doesn't kill you to pick up after yourselves once in a while.Seven stars for Mr. Mom - eight if you like The Young and the Restless. "},{"Title":"Warmed over John Hughes & amiable Keaton = family values","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  MR. MOM (1983) **1/2 Michael Keaton, Teri Garr, Martin Mull, Ann Jillian, Jeffrey Tambor, Christopher Lloyd.  Amiable domestic comedy with recently downsized auto engineer nice guy Keaton becoming the household ruler and Garr out to bring home the bacon with sleazy ad exec Mull makes for some chuckles thanks to John Hughes' warm script and silly scenarios. "},{"Title":"Director-Stan Dragoti  and his actors-Michael Keaton as well as Teri Garr tackle a serious subject in a funny manner.","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In today's world it is only rich people and filthy rich people who do not have to worry about a regular 9 to 5 job. They don't have any social obligation to work as they possess a lot of money in their bank accounts which can be spent any time without any problems. For everybody else who claims not to be rich, a job is the best thing to be had as it helps a person to move ahead in life. Nobody can do anything in life without a job as a job enables people to experience financial security. Keeping these issues in mind, American director Stan Dragoti directed Mr. Mom-a light yet serious look at how the loss of job has tremendous emotional impact on a happily married couple with children. Actor Michael Keaton gives an incredible performance as an out of work man who is compelled to stay at home in order to look after his children. His acting is so natural that one is led to believe that not all men are incompetent as far as looking after a house and children are concerned. There are also men who are extremely good at looking after children when their wives are out at work. Despite the equality of sexes, Mr.Mom suggests that a mother is the best person for parenting as young children do miss their mothers. The tone of this film is light yet it has not eschewed serious issues such as why people are fired ?, How does the advertising industry work ? and apart from watching soap operas on TV, what can an unemployed person do spend time in a leisurely manner ? "},{"Title":"Nice light hearted family movie","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie starts off with a traditional family setup until engineer Jack (Michael Keaton) gets laid off by the car company. Before he could get another job, his wife Caroline (Teri Garr) gets hired by Ron (Martin Mull) for an ad job.This is definitely one of those comedies that suffers from the passing of time. That era is gone especially for the dad side. It's really superficially silly now especially the home and grocery stuff at the beginning. It was probably a little silly back then as well. The mom side of the movie is still good. As he gets more into housewife mode, it gets more realistic. The movie's heart is always in the right place. John Hughes is able to write a very nice light hearted family movie for his first big hit. "},{"Title":"Don't paint your sister.....","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack and Caroline are a couple making a decent living when Jack suddenly loses his job.They agree that he should stay at home and look after the house while Caroline works.It's just that he's never done it before, and really doesn't have a clue...This is one of those fish out of water movies, that is really only funny thanks to Keaton and the chemistry he has with the children.Hughes has gone for the predictability factor with this, and although it's very pleasing to watch, you cannot help but feel that a wealth of better material could have been added.we have the boss who wants to marry Keatons wife,the inevitable watching of the soaps (which is quite funny) and of course, men do not know how to use household appliances.But Keaton pulls this out of the doldrums, and thank heavens he has such a great supporting cast.The narrative flows freely and makes the film easier to digest, but one cannot feel tat this could have been so much more.At least this doesn't have much of a Chance of being re-made, as it wouldn't be very original or unique now. "},{"Title":"Megan and I are starting to watch the same TV shows. I'm liking them. I'm losing it!","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mr. Mom is directed by Stan Dragoti and written by John Hughes. It stars Michael Keaton, Teri Garr and Martin Mull. Music is by Lee Holdridge and cinematography by Victor J. Kemper. Plot sees Keaton as Jack Butler, who after being laid off from work, is forced to become as house husband when his wife Caroline (Garr) lands a good job with Schooner Tuna. Something he's really not cut out to do. Ah, well, look, it's obviously very eighties, and thankfully society has moved on in leaps and bounds since this film was released. But good honest comedy is just that, honest, and for those looking for a good chuckle whilst admiring the talent of a pre-Batman Keaton, Mr. Mom is a bad mood lifter. Condensed into the 90 running time are enough gags and fun sequences to fill out a 12 episode sit-com, with a pre-teen-angst trail blazing John Hughes scripting it full of quotable lines. Lines which Keaton delivers with the comic timing not befitting someone just starting out in films.The fun is mined from Jack being hopeless at basic household chores whilst badly tending the three young children at the same time. Enter scenes involving shopping, dropping the kids off at school, laundry, cooking and ironing. As his masculinity starts to wane, Jack starts too slob out and gets his kicks by watching day-time soap operas and playing cards with the neighbourhood women. This coincides with his wife Caroline (Garr adorable) advancing well at work, but paying a price for it by being away from the family home far too much. There's also the looming presence of Caroline's smarmy boss (Martin Mull delightfully sleazy) and the good time girl (Ann Jillian sexing it up) who has her eye on Jack for fun and frolics. Both of these are stereotypes, but they existed then as much as they exist now, with that, it's easy to cut Mr. Mom some slack. Supporting slots fall to Christopher Lloyd (who would re-team with Keaton for the very funny The Dream Team in 1989), Jeffrey Tambor (City Slickers), Graham Jarvis (TV Starsky & Hutch/Cagney & Lacey) and Miriam Flynn (National Lampoon's Vacation). The child actors put in pleasing turns, where they score funny points both visually and orally, and director Dragoti (The Man With One Red Shoe) directs in an unfussy natural way. Ultimately it's Keaton and Hughes' script that lifts it to better comedy heights, the latter of which also plays on some basic fears that arise in the real world. Yeah, it's not just about Jack's bumbling around the home, that John Hughes was a sharp man you know? 7/10 "},{"Title":"Family...Thats what its all about.","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that I could watch over and over. From start to finish it was a great family/comedy movie that made me laugh a lot. The actors were perfect for their roles and there was so many funny lines and actions. So many good and funny scenes with dad learning to play the mom role. And he played it so humorously well. I thought it was great how the mom, dad reacted with their children and one another, very caring and realistic. The movie made one realize that you do whatever you need to do to keep your family going through rough times and also makes you realize how much you mean to one another. So realistic and yet funny. Definitely a feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"My FAVORITE Comedy","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I enjoy this movie in a way that a person only can when they have grown up with a film. This was one of the movies my family watched together the most often growing up in the 80's, and it perfectly encapsulates what it was like to be a middle class family in the mid-east at that time. At least for me.When I watch this movie, I remember what it felt like to be home during the day with my mom and sisters, watching daytime t.v. and cleaning house. But it's not just nostalgia that makes this my favorite. It actually holds up to repeated viewings, with almost every single moment being enjoyable. This is one I can watch over and over, endlessly. The quotes are instantly familiar to my family and I, like a secret language. I only have to say This is SERIOUS poker! and everyone knows what I'm talking about. It has that level of familiarity, right up there with Wizard of Oz. I can't think of anything I don't like about it, so I'm going to give it a 10. A great family film. "},{"Title":"One of the best (and unique) comedies I've ever watched","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember this one from my youth, before Keaton blew up in Batman and Beetlejuice, he was big in Mr. Mom, and Gung Ho. Mr. Mom as a comedy to me had a very unique and warm touch to it because while it both captured a new (at that time) slapstick style of family comedy, it also showed a more human, less refined side to the world of parenting. As a young boy, I could see just how difficult it could be for a man to grasp taking over the role of a mom. I think it helped that the movie trailer at the time perfectly illustrated Keaton's character's dillemna, in addition to the obvious film title. Quick scenes with total chaos erupting involving household mishaps, astray children etc. Perhaps an even greater bit for me is how the filmmakers portrayed the quirks of suburban life the way it felt then. It doesn't offer any commentary on the way things are, but injects so many funny little scenarios into the plot that could only take place in the suburbs. For me, there is no question that this work has more depth than say, Vacation. Vacation for me was awkward to watch, because it seemed to constantly excuse bad behavior as being funny. In Mr. Mom, the plot relies more on the complex world that Keaton finds himself in, as does his wife. It is funny not only because of the slapstick comedy, but because it makes life seem quite bizarre when the gender roles are reversed. "}{"Title":"The Heart of a Tuna","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a nutshell - Auto worker Jack Butler (Keaton) loses his job, thus prompting a role reversal with wife Caroline (Garr), who goes back to work in advertising while Jack tries to master the dangers of the household - including a mad vacuum cleaner - when not fending off his oversexed neighbor (Ann Jillian). Meanwhile, Caroline must fend off an all too eager boss.One of the prize comedic moments is when a soap opera addicted Jack has a hallucination of his wife coming home just as he's caught in a passionate embrace with his risqué neighbor, being gunned down, and then watching as his wife takes off with her boss. All ends happily though when Keaton's bosses, recognizing that they laid off too many people, ask him to come back to work, while Garr's boss begs her to stay with the company after he makes an unsavory pass at her. May not rank up there as a comedy classic but still an entertaining comedy with a very engaging pre-Batman Michael Keaton as the hapless patriarch. Teri Garr, looking like a forerunner to Lisa Kudrow of 'Friends', is also adorable as his wife. "},{"Title":"What's not to like?","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A classic John Hughes 1980's flick!  Sure, it's a bit formulaic, and the premise wouldn't hold water in today's mixed families and diverse working environments.  However, I must confess that the lingo has gotten into my everyday vernacular.  Woobies, 220, 221, whatever it takes, etc.  It's an excellent showcase for Michael Keaton's comedic timing, and frankly, a much more likable character than Beatlejuice!   Predictable direction is made up for with a witty script and some very funny and memorable scenes that never fail to get a laugh.  Well worth watching more than once.  One of my personal 'everyday' modern classics.  Grab some popcorn, your woobie, and enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a funny film. Michael Keaton, in an early hilarious role, plays Jack Butler, a car designer who is laid off from his job and now puzzled to find work. His wife, Caroline, decides to find work and succeeds. So now Jack must become the stay at home dad, while Caroline becomes the breadwinner.What makes the film funny is the subplots. Some of my favorites include Jack's first meeting with Caroline's boss Ron (With unforgetable quotes like 220, 221..Whatever it takes or How would you like a trim on that mustache, Ron? lol); Jack getting hit on by Joan (Ann Jillian is hot as a redhead) as he becomes one of the girls; His confrontation with Jaws; and the kids toilet papering the auto plant bathroom lol.Michael Keaton would continue to do comedy until 1989 when he made his first Drama piece Clean & Sober. After that, there was no looking back. He's come a long way from doing up a diaper. "},{"Title":"Amusing Role Reversal Comedy ***SPOILERS***","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mr. Mom is yet another role reversal comedy of it's day, but one that switches conventional gender roles in a normal setting. There's no body switching or unusual potions necessary to develop the point. Keaton's typical sarcasm and Terri Garr's charm carry the film along quite nicely, and the plot doesn't compromise it's point to today's conventional standards and expectations. Michael Keaton plays Jack Butler, an engineer who is currently laid off from work. He has a hard time finding new employment, and his wife, Carol (Terri Garr) suggests that she look to return to work instead. Seeing the possibility of his wife getting a job while he tends to domestic duties (i.e. caring for their three young children and maintaining the home) as a threat to his masculinity, he makes a hundred dollar bet with his wife that he can find a job before she can. Of course, he loses this wager when Carol finds a job in an advertising agency, and thus, we have our story.Both Jack and Carol have trouble adjusting to their new roles, providing for some funny mishaps. For Jack, he can't seem to manage even those most simple tasks such as the amount of laundry detergent required to do a wash, or taking his kids to school, or making it through an afternoon at the grocery story without losing his kids who knock down numerous displays.For Carol, her difficulty concerns her inexperience in a different light. Her coworkers resent her. As a mother who has been out of work for some time, they don't think she can handle the assignments and find her suggestions on the important tuna campaign to be ridiculous. But actually, her domestic experience proves useful in her job because she is able to put things into a real perspective (such as remarking about the price of their tuna being too high for the current economic state of things that middle class mothers are likely to search out another brand or not buy tuna at all). Despite her coworker's attitudes towards Carol, her boss (Martin Mull) finds that she has potential. So, though first a bumpy obstacle, she finds herself to be successful in her work. Jack, too, manages to eek out a system in which he can adjust to the duties required of Mr. Mom. Taking care of the house, the kids, and other domestic administrative necessities seem to be no problem in due time. He even becomes close friends with the other neighborhood moms.But, both Jack and Carol, as they become more consumed by their new roles, began to grow apart and irritate of one another's new behaviors, soon venting out their frustrations about how each has changed. Assuming from the beginning, Jack and Carol weren't like this before when Jack was working and Carol stayed at home, although Carol does comment how lonely she felt at times when Jack used to work late or get involved with lengthy projects. But, here, it seems that their frustrations of one another are much different and more severe than before. These frustrations come out when Jack and Carol reach their extremes in their respective positions. Jack becomes overweight and unshaven. He becomes drawn into crappy afternoon soap operas, aland shares late nights of coupon poker with the neighborhood moms. One of them even tries to seduce Jack into an affair, and that becomes his moment of reality. He cleans himself up, gets the house and kids back in order, and even goes scouting for jobs again. For Carol, she becomes a work-a-holic, spending late nights at the office and is invited for a business trip out of town with her boss. Like Jack, she also gets a wake up call to make her aware of how far she has been sucked into the working life when the boss tries to take advantage of her.But, both Jack and Carol manage to reach a compromise, though without compromising the point of the story which defies traditional gender roles. Though some might expect Jack to return to work after a while and Carol to return to domestics, it doesn't happen that way. Jack seems satisfied with what he does, and Carol seems to be good at her job. So, as the movie suggests, there is nothing wrong with a man taking care of the house and family while his wife goes off to work. Or, that a woman shouldn't have to compromise an opportunity to boost her income level or job experience so she can be the subordinate of the family, and give her husband primary rights to that position, while she is left to be forever branded as a homemaker until the children get older to be left home alone. It is particularly significant, too, to the decade of the working woman, when it seemed to be emphasized most that women didn't want to have to give up their jobs because tradition viewed them as the natural and most necessary nurturing source. Some women took the option of either postponing having children, or having men carry on some of those responsibilities. And this story doesn't compromise itself to traditional standards.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant role switching comedy with Neil Simon qualities. (SPOILERS)","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mr. Mom is a pleasant, though not terrific, comedy about switching conventional gender roles. Michael Keaton plays Jack Butler, a father and husband who loses his job as an engineer in auto manufacturing plant. Unable to find work, his wife, Caroline (Terri Garr) is instead offered a job at an advertising company while Jack is now the one to tend to the domestic duties. At first, Jack is a novice to the domestics trade, screwing up things like driving his son to school, mastering the amount of detergent that goes in the washing machine, managing an afternoon at the supermarket, and so forth. Likewise, Caroline has some difficulties in the first days at her job, resented her coworkers who look down on her as the working mother who shouldn't have started in such a high position without having the business experience. But, they both pull through. Jack manages to adapt, establishing an effective system that get's everything working alright. He even starts to become one of the girls as he makes friends with the neighborhood moms. Caroline proves her abilities in the advertising firm, much to the pleasure of her boss (Martin Mull), as she takes on the tuna campaign, using her domestic experience to help create an effective marketing strategy.But, as both adapt, they likewise go to the extremes in their respective conditions. Jack Butler puts on weight, becomes irritable, gets addicted to crappy soap operas, and spends late nights playing coupon poker with the other moms. Caroline, too, becomes a work-a-holic, spending much time working on the campaign with her sleazy boss. And both go through their period of release, venting how they feel about how each other has changed, while having it pointed out to them that they, too, have changed. Jack reforms himself by cleaning up, working out, getting the house and kids back in order, and then looking for work again, and even getting an offer to come back to work in his former position. Caroline changes, too, and in particular, realizes what a jerk her boss is as he reveals his despicable qualities during a business trip. After all is said and done, Jack and Caroline meet a mutual resolution, and they finally manage to get everything worked out alright as far as their respective lives and their relationship.The interesting element of the story is the conclusion. There is no eager move to return the characters to their conventional roles. Caroline keeps her job at the firm, and Jack, for the time being (they don't say if he looks for work again), stays Mr. Mom. The movie is quite charming thanks to the lead actors, Michael Keaton as the witty husband and Terri Garr as his often charming wife. The movie, too, exhibits some pleasant Neil Simon comedy, particularly within the development of Jack and Caroline, as well as the various mishaps that go on. Overall, it is a good role switching comedy.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since this movie came out in 1983 I was only a year old but I waited till I was a little older, then I watched it and thought it was great. Because I like Michael Keaton and Martin Mull and Terri Garr. There all great actors. This is a wonderful movie to watch on a Friday night or anytime if don't have anything else to do. Believe me you won't regret watching this movie. "},{"Title":"A Film of Its Time, Early 80s Classic","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack (Michael Keaton) has been laid off, and his wife Caroline (Teri Garr) takes over working for a while, as Jack stays home to raise the kids. Trouble brews when Caroline's boss Ron (Martin Mull) sets his sights on her. Also starring Jeffrey Tambor and Christopher Lloyd.This film is not only really funny and a great example of John Hughes' writing, but definitely a film of its time. There's the obvious 80s fashions which have thankfully faded away... but moreover, there is the subject matter a stay at home dad is clearly not as strange today as it was in 1983.Sadly, Michael Keaton seems to have disappeared. After a solid 80s and early 90s, I do not know where he is, besides making the occasional flop (Herbie Fully Loaded, White Noise) or cartoon (Cars). We need Keaton. The same goes for Teri Garr to a lesser degree. "},{"Title":"Just a lot of fun to watch for the whole family!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First, the casting of Teri Garr and Michael Keaton was an excellent choice for the role of yuppie couple. Don't forget Ann Jillian as the seductive neighbor and Miriam Flynn as the friend. First of all, this film is quite entertaining. Martin Mull is great as the boss of Teri's character. Remember when everybody was allowed to smoke indoors? I do. Mr. Mom was never a film to receive awards. It was made to entertain the idea of a clueless father turned house husband and the wife to go out in the workforce after his co-worker screwed him over. The script was the first of John Hughes and it shows his amazing talent into the minds of suburbia and middle class living better than those Desperate Housewives. It is more believable in my opinion. My favorite moments in the film is when he becomes the sloppy house husband who puts on weight and becomes what he feared most. I love the scenes which included the Young and the Restless. Ann Jillian is perfect in her role. I also liked Jeffrey Tambor who plays Keaton's colleague in the film. THe script could have used more work but it's still entertaining. THe cast is excellent as well. Edie McClurg has a small part as a supermarket cashier. MArc Cherry should hire John Hughes to write about suburbia on desperate housewives. "},{"Title":"Modern Classic","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the few true modern comedy classics, with Keaton and Garr switching roles after Keaton's lay-off.  Story flows seamlessly through the ups and downs of Keaton's days of leisure.  Keaton has never been better, particularly in his interplay with the neighborhood moms, and Garr is radiant as always.  Beware of Family Channel showings, with more ads than movie. "},{"Title":"Mr. Keaton ROCKS!","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie I can identify with! I live in a house full of women and growing up my mom would at times make me clean the room or something. And let me tell you, I know how Mr. Mom feels! (However, the movie itself is a great comedy written by John Hughes and features great performances. Especially from MR. KEATON himself!3(***)out of 4(****)stars "}{"Title":"Sweet and funny, good cast...I loved this movie","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really loved this movie and place it on my favorites list for sure. It's one that I own and watch often with my kids.  It has a good cast and the story line is believable on its face although some of the incompetency he shows at the beginning as a MOM is a bit of a stretch but I know of a few husbands who would fare almost the same so...I thought it worked.  I really enjoyed the interaction between Michael Keaton and Terri Garr and Keaton and the girlfriends. I also think his attempts to assert his man hood gave the movie a funny glimpse into the male psyche.  I think it is a great family movie (although there is very mild profanity...one or two words I think).  I highly recommend this movie if you like easy going, funny, family entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Are you crazy? You don't feed a baby chili!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think, more often than not, that I get caught up in these deeply rooted dramas that are more disturbing than entertaining. I love films that break the mold of the modern movie and go beyond what Hollywood 2000 is currently releasing. It seems to be the same old recycled material that has been in place for the past four years. Maybe we are experiencing Hollywood's 'rut', or maybe there is something more, but films today just don't seem as personal as they once were. This is especially true in the comedies where bathroom humor comes first and plot development is somewhere in third or forth. What ever happened to films like Mr. Mom? Did we become too good or to technologically advanced to ever create films like this again? If this is the case, it is very frightening to see this change in events. Mr. Mom represents one of Hollywood's early chapters. This was the chapter of comedy that placed genuine human settings in very humorous situations. It was when ideas sold the film instead of sex or violence. It was a time in Hollywood when writers were paid to use intelligence instead of just whatever the kids will laugh at. Sadly, this chapter no longer exists, thus we are forced (willingly!) to watch films like Mr. Mom over and over again without any disappointment in our eyes. In a way, I hope that Hollywood doesn't revert back to this style of film-making so that it doesn't ruin my perception of 80s comedies.If you couldn't already tell, I really enjoyed this film. There was just something about it that stood out for me. I think it had something to do with the simplistic nature of this film. There wasn't any convoluted plots, any dark sinister tumbles, any overplayed characters, or even any wildly confusing settings. This was a very simple film and it worked at every level. With the simplistic nature of the film, you could easily fall in love or feel a connection with Keaton's Jack. The family, although fabricated by Hollywood, seemed like one of your own or at least one that is not too far away from your own. There was a sense of ownership with this film that is missed in today's cinema. The chemistry between Garr and Keaton only helped add more enjoyment to this film. The continual 'motherly' things that Garr did while not at home were not just funny, but somehow poignant. It reminded me of my childhood and those days when my father had to stay at home while my mother went to work. It was real life, or at least felt closer than what we see in the theaters today. There were money issues, dirty homes, and small televisions &#133; everything the American family needs to see.Where the real humor occurs is in the home during the day. Keaton has the best ability to take simple chores and create disastrous, yet completely laughable, moments. His interactions with the kids are impeccable. You can see from the quote above the type of language he uses around one of his youngest children. This is a scene where it is time for the kid to give up his 'security' blanket and move forward in life. Simply put, Keaton does fantastic as the stay at home mom. He combines moments of Uncle Buck with the pensive nature of Steve Martin. He is a comic, while Hollywood seems to dub him for other roles.Perhaps that is why this film grabbed me as tight as it did. Mr. Mom reminded me of the classic family structure and also how our world has changed so much since this film. The 'Mr. Mom' idea is very relevant in today's society. Men are staying at home with the children while mothers are the sole providers. It isn't embarrassing or uncommon to see this anymore. Also, this was one of those films where 'nothing' happened outside the house. We are never taken outside the house into the real world for any extended period of time. We never see any newspaper articles or any television news, only soap operas and radio shows. While we can assume that there is a bad economy going on out there, we are never given a hint on how bad it is. This again allows us to stay focused on the family. It allows us to fall in love with them without worrying that anything bad will happen to them. We believe, throughout this film, that they are the best representation of family possible. They forge through any adversity and yet still come out on top. This would be a perfect film for families to watch together that may have some struggles in their lives. It would help them to see a family that works together for the common good.Have I strayed off this film too much? I don't think so. This movie was more than just the story of a man accepting the role of the mother, but also a quick glimpse into the future. It was an American family story that would be perfect to watch at any point in your life. While the humor is enticing, what is most enjoyable to watch is the family and its reactions to adversity. It fills you with hope for all of us as we enter into any unknown times in our lives.Too philosophical? I don't know, all I know is that I loved this film and cannot wait to watch it again. Keaton steals the show and proves that he is more than just a regular 'Joe' in Hollywood!Grade ***** out of *****  "},{"Title":"A Product of Its Time (SPOILER)","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am an unrepentant child of the 60s. My formative years were during this time of new roles, questioning authority and more freedom. My dear wife, on the other hand, is Gen X to the bone. One of our few regular areas of disagreement? The films of the 80s.A case in point Mr. Mom. Despite the appealing performances of Keaton and Garr, and two admirably sleazy villains (the always-good Mull and Tambor), this film comes across as a feature-length infomercial for traditional gender roles. Keaton is a true fish out of water as a fired exec now raising the kids, while bored housewife Garr returns to work and encounters sexual harrassment, overtime and mandatory travel. <SPOILER>Though both eventually succeed at the role reversal, in the end the marriage is threatened and Garr decides she is happier as a full time mommy, leaving the better-adjusted Keaton to the big, bad world of business.</SPOILER>The year that this film was made (1983) is instructive. The new freedom of the 60s and early 70s was ancient history. The Reagan years and their resultant Social Darwinism were in high gear; women who could afford it were being advised to leave the high-powered jobs to the more fit men, go home and have babies. Mr. Mom represented an exaggerated depiction of this return to traditional, socially defined roles for men and women. Whether the media became more conservative in response to Reaganism, or whether entertainment led the way to more conservative views, is a moot point. The end result&#151;a noticeable rightward shift in our entertainment&#151;was the same. Mr. Mom was one of the first Hollywood films to reflect the nation's conservative mood...there would be many others. These films are largely laughable  today, and remain worthwhile mainly as an exercise in sociology, illustrating how movies both reflect and change the culture that produces them. "},{"Title":"Generic Role Reversal Comedy That's Well Past its Sell-By Date","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The family man loses his job and swaps roles with Susie Homemaker in this base, straight-ahead '80s family comedy. Michael Keaton was just entering the thick of his early comedic career here, and plays the lead with enthusiasm despite an exceptionally thin script. Through physical humor and an overdose of energy he's able to wring as much life as possible from several one-note scenes, but can't completely revive such a narrow concept. John Hughes gets the writing credit, but this effort is missing both the sharp wit of National Lampoon's Vacation and the warm, beating heart of his brat pack classics. It's telegraphed, generic and dated; a few scenes still work but the rest are thoroughly flat and fake. "},{"Title":"Great, Wonderful, and A Great Ending!","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this film! it was a wonderful film with a great, clean, family sense of humor! A must see! Sweet! Cool! I have seen many comedies, most with sexual content to the full, we skip so many scenes in those comedies. but not this one! It was a great, funny, and awesome movie! Michael Keaton was fantastic in this film! All the script was made to perfection! This is a great movie if your sick of inappropriate flicks. Great! A must see! You'll love it! Absolutely awesome! I think many people agree with me, it's good to see a movie that you don't have to skip every minute! You need to see this film! I loved it! A classic of epic proportions! "},{"Title":"Keaton and Garr in a Battle of the Sexes","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Aw, come on folks, why the low rating at IMDb? OK, so Mr. Mom ain't exactly Masterpiece Theatre, but it's a very good, solid comedy that holds up surprisingly well today.Michael Keaton is one of those actors who I've always found to be intensely likable, no matter how good or bad the movie he happens to be in. The material in Mr. Mom is mostly played for laughs, but it's not without some serious truths about the roles men and women play (or at least played) and the challenges each faces when he/she enters the sphere traditionally reserved for the other. This film nails perfectly that depressing funk it's so easy to fall into when your day consists of household chores and daytime television. And conversely, it also understands the difficulty in balancing a challenging career with home responsibilities.Teri Garr is her usual adorable self as Keaton's wife, and Martin Mull is a little too good as her smarmy boss.Grade A- "},{"Title":"One of Michael Keaton's funniest to date","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is one of Michael Keaton's funniest to date. One of the best things about it is when he does the household chores. It's hard for me to say which chore I think had the most hilarious outcome. When Jack (Michael Keaton) got fired, things really did get hilarious. If you ask me, Ron (Martin Mull) was only interested in one thing. You'll have to see the movie if you want to know what he was interested in. Also, in my opinion, Joan (Ann Jillian) really came on strong while she was around Jack. Before I wrap this up, I must say that the performances were top grade. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Michael Keaton or Teri Garr, you're in for a good time and lots of laughs, so see this movie today. "},{"Title":"Cute, cute film!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies of the eighties. I watched it over and over when it came out and Micheal Keaton and Teri Garr were a blast to see. The whole cast was wonderful from the kids to the Schooner Tuna bit! This was great fun all around..... "},{"Title":"Stuck In The 80's And Really Not That Funny Even Then","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, this is a very, very 80's comedy. You can see that by the fact that it stars Teri Garr and a Michael Keaton who looks like he's just graduated from high school. From the opening musical score throughout the rest of the movie, this is the 80's. In the stereotype of the husband who's incapable of taking care of the house and the kids (and, for that matter, of the house-spouse who spends most of the time watching soap operas) this is the 80's. Now, that isn't a criticism. It would be rather silly to criticize a movie made in the 80's for being an 80's movie. Of course it's an 80's movie. It's just that this doesn't age all that well. Some movies manage to break out of their era and remain fresh and relevant for decades. This one doesn't.Mr. Mom could be forgiven for its somewhat dated feel if it was funnier. But I really didn't find it to be particularly funny. It has a few moments here and there, but overall I didn't get a whole lot of enjoyment out of this, and too much of the humour was just standard stuff - like dad overloading the washing machine and then putting too much soap in it, or dad heating up the kid's food with a hot iron. Seen it. Many times. In fact, back in the 80's it had been seen many times.Keaton and Garr are both very likable actors. They tried hard - he as the suddenly out of work executive who takes on the role of the house- husband, and she as the newly into the workforce, climbing the corporate ladder ad exec. I didn't really sense much chemistry between them - but they both tried hard. The movie just wasn't that great. (2/10) "},{"Title":"Mr. Mom is Mr. Perfect!","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Keaton plays a husband who was laid off from work and now has to deal with running the household. His wife, played by the beautifully feminine Terry Garr, has found a job in order for them to continue to pay their bills. They have 3 adorable children who win you over from the start.The whole movie pivots around Mr. Keaton's brilliant performance, and he delivers with stellar accuracy. The rest of the cast is right there behind him supporting him all the way.What's extra great about this movie is that it is a comedy yet has tender, tense, and even one risque' moment all handled superbly by director and actors.If you want to have a fun, relaxed, entertaining movie, then Mr. Mom is perfect! 10/10- Zafoid "}{"Title":"A few laughs, but not many","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Parts of this reminded me of Freaky Friday; the runaway washing machine and the various workers buzzing around confusing 'mom' to no end. Not a bad show, but I felt as though I had been through it all before. Had I dropped into the middle of this film without seeing the opening credits there is no way I would have recognized Michael Keaton I only knew him from his later work. "},{"Title":"Keaton is cool...","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stan Dragoti's 'Mr.Mom' is an okay movie, that has the ever-likable Michael Keaton behaving to be a cornerstone to this early 1980's movie. The concept is passable, and there are some engaging moments too.'Mr.Mom' tells the story of this middle-class family, of whom, the man of the house is suddenly sacked from his job and is given the responsibility to become MOMMY of the house, as the real mommy needs to work and earn money. Now, the man of the house, isn't use to doing all this MOMMY stuff, so he has to make it a point that he learns the rules.'Mr.Mom' begins well, but honesty, this is not a hilarious movie. It has some sweet and tendering moments, but they aren't fall of the chair types. Stan Dragoti's direction is decent, and so is the Cinematography.Michael Keaton is the life of 'Mr.Mom'. He's young in here, and he's at his energetic best. I've always been a huge fan of his, and I see no reason on why I should stop loving him. Teri Garr is another performer, who leaves a mark as Keaton's wife.On the whole, if your a Keaton enthusiastic like me, you need to check this one out! "},{"Title":"Richard Pryor??","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The actor portraying the Assistant Cameraman is identified as Larry Flash Gordon. I am positive this was Richard Pryor, especially since there is no information available on Larry Flash Gordon. (Larry was Buster Crabbe's sort of first name. Short for Clarence.) Larry Buster Crabbe played Flash Gordon in movie serials. This movie was made three years after Pryor's near death by fire. With Pryor's twisted sense of humor, it would seem there might be a joke in the name Larry Flash Gordon somewhere. The question is How or why did Richard Pryor get this apparently unnoticed cameo? Someone connected with the shooting of that particular scene (the production of a TV commercial, featuring Graham Jarvis and Teri Garr) might have the answer. Perhaps Teri Garr, herself now battling MS, could shed some light on this. "},{"Title":"Mr. Mom","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Keaton carries this farce about a husband fired who has to deal with the everyday comings and goings of parenting. Garr is his wife, who went from housewife to businesswoman. The script, thanks to John Hughes, has plenty of spirit and is still worth a second look.Jeffrey Tambor co-stars.  "},{"Title":"Idea light years better than the result","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Keaton's star was catapulted to international fame via Ron Howard's hilarious 1982 comedy Night Shift, in which Keaton played Henry Winkler's annoying, jabber-mouthed morgue partner who just wouldn't shut up. The role won him a legion of fans and he followed the success with a spate of movies of considerably less quality. One of those was Stan Dragoti's eighties comedy, Mr. Mom.The story tells a role swapping tale about new househusband Jack, who finds himself in charge of his home and three feral kids when he loses a bet with his wife. The opportunity for comedy is endless here, and Dragoti does his best to milk it dry. In doing so however, he includes several lame jokes and weak humour.Mr. Mom has some clever sight gags which in fact make up a high percentage of the intended mirth, but the film loses its way when it begins to swing between comic styles. Slapstick, parody, black comedy and conventional humour all get a turn to varying effect. Most of the time Dragoti finds himself flogging a dead horse.Keaton fits the part but is unable to do a thing with it, and the support cast likewise struggle to make an impression. John Hughes' idea is light years better than his resultant script, which perhaps had too limited a scope to really set audiences rolling in the aisles.Sunday, December 4, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Not the best John Hughes, but fun.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is kind of dated and sexist now, a man who doesn't even know how to  run a vacuum cleaner. But still, Michael Keaton makes it work some how, by just being very silly! Terri Garr is the perfect foil for him, and Martin Mull all but steals every scene he's in. An easygoing film that is definitely 'of it's time', but fun anyway.      "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD!  INCREDIBLE","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mr. Mom is incredible.  An inspiration to us all. Everyone should see this movie right now.  Stop what you're doing, go to the video store, and be prepared for  an experience like none other. WOW!!!! "}]