[{"Title":"Great movie!!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"54 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After reading several of the user comments on this movie, it is clear that many people missed quite a bit.  Those funny one-liners (and there are plenty!) are much more than that they tell us volumes about the characters. This movie certainly does not spell anything out to the viewer (except, perhaps, the obvious), so you must be able to find the meaning behind the words.  If you listen to what the characters are saying, then you can understand their past relationships, their present feelings, which friends have stayed close, etc.  Remember, these are old friends the script is very realistic so the characters are not going to explain every line to one another.  I believe to truly enjoy this movie you need to pay close attention to all of the details and understand a bit about the attitudes and ideals of the two eras the movie depicts.Wonderful, intelligent movie! "},{"Title":"Reality staring you in the face","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"61 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There was something about this movie which I couldn't place my finger on. Although I barely made the 60's, of which all the characters are reminiscing of and therefore perhaps I maybe missed some subtle messages or didn't get some in-jokes about the 60's, this movie still applies to everyone.  I guarantee every generation will have a time where they come back after 10 or 15 years and see friends that had been so important but are now barely on the radar.  They will have a weekend of drinking and tears and fights and laughter.  You will look at someone and remember a deep, hidden passion for them that you felt so long ago and never shared with anyone.That is of course, the plot of the movie.7 friends (who go wayyy back) one husband (who disappears pretty quickly) and a widowed girlfriend (who is barely known by anyone) come together after they learn that Alex, a friend formally part of the clique, had committed suicide (this part was infamously played by Kevin Costner).  They have a weekend of sex, drugs, and good ol' fashioned rock and roll, the whole time bringing up past ghosts that had seemed long forgotten and faded.  This is touchy subject, even in today's standards.  Yet the movie handles it beautifully.  My favourite section in the whole movie was when `You can't always get what you want' was played at his funeral.  Not for the song, although it is a classic but for how the characters react.  Each sit there in the church, some smiling quietly to themselves, while others have a sadden expression, remembering great times that were and never will be again.  Every person has a song like that, one that makes you remember your friends, one that makes you sad or laugh and  or grin to yourself as you remember the things you did. That to me clinches the movie.  It shows how true the script is, and how humanly the characters react.  There is a lot of angry hype about the movie, how there is too much talking and not enough sex or car chases or whatever people think is missing.  Yet for me, it is reality.  When something like this happens in real life, people do not over dramatise.  Life is not a soap opera, although movie-goers seemed to want this movie to be.  In a real-life situation, people would do exactly what the characters did, examine themselves and try to find a reason for the problems that have happened.  Yet the hard truth is, especially about suicide, sometimes, there is no one you can blame.  I think people didn't like this movie too much because it rang too true.  It was too realistic. People go the movies to be entertained, to fall in love with the fairy-tales lives that movies have.  This movie is honest.  It seems, for now, people just want to be naïve and live in a fantasy world.  If you want a true movie, see this one now.  "},{"Title":"The Mourning of the Hippie and The Birth of the Yuppie","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"44 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In 1983 the Yuppie era was its rise people became more and more focused and obsessed with being successful and making money. These are the same people who once protested in the 1960s and were once against conformity and dreamed sweet ideals of they wanted in life. The Big Chill is a film that mourns the hippie era and it is also the beginnings and the rise of the yuppie era. The film tells the story of a group of college friends from the late sixties who are reunited at the funeral of a best friend named Alex (the role of the stiff was Kevin Costner until his scenes were taken out of the film) who committed suicide. The friends had all lost touch on and off in the years with the exception of Alex. They have all found their successes in life Sarah (played by Glenn Close) is a doctor and she once had an affair with Alex. Harold (Kevin Kline) is a businessman and married to Sarah and very secure with the direction his life took. Michael (Jeff Goldblum) is a journalist and investing on starting a nightclub. Sam (Tom Berenger) is a popular TV star in a Magnum PI-ish television show and has always been attracted to Karen (JoBeth Williams) who had once aspired to become a writer until she married a rich man and settled as a country club housewife. Then there is Nick (William Hurt) a former Vietnam vet who chose to become a drug dealer rather than pursue his doctorate in psychology. Meg (Mary Kay Place) is a successful lawyer who has decided that she wants to have a baby. And finally entering their circle is Alex's spaced out and naive-like girlfriend Chloe (Meg Tilly). All meet in the wake of his dead and they all spend the weekend together evaluating their lives and why their dear friend Alex died. We begin to know each of the characters through subtle scenes and dialogue without flashbacks or even any explanations. We begin to see why Alex died and it was not because he lost touch with his friends and because he was lonely, but because of the direction that his life took. It turns out that Alex was brilliant and was offered a fellowship to study as a physicists in a prestigious institution but chose to become a social worker. Each of his friends begin to questions the choices they had made and begin to wonder if they made the right choice. Excellent writing and terrific performances from the actors. Touching, funny, sad, and poignant film Lawrence Kasdan style. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"46 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While channel surfing, saw this movie again tonight, for about the 35th time. What makes this movie great is not the story - hell, there is no story really - but the making of the movie itself. It is the single best combination of acting, film editing, sound track, dialogue, and every other thing that goes into a movie, ever put together. No special effects, no car chases, no suspense, no anything that usaually passes for entertainment. Just excellent film making. Even tonight, I saw yet one more background detail I never noticed before. You have to watch this movie multiple times to appreciate it. Nearly everything that happens early in the movie relates to something that occurs later on. The transitions and foreshadowing, the character relationships, the very words themselves all fit together like no other film ever made. I truly believe that this is a film that should be studied as an example of pure movie making, no less than Citizen Kane. To rate this movie as a 10 is to underrate it. Of course, that is just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Ensemble Acting at it's Best","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Big Chill is about my peers. When first released in 1983, I, like the characters, was in my early thirties, a former rebellious collegian from the '60s. After a decade in the work-a-day world, being a family man and raising babies, watching The Big Chill was like a fantastic time machine and took me back to places long forgotten. It really connected with me on a visceral level and I loved it. Now, almost twenty years later, I've watched The Big Chill again. Same effect? Not exactly, although a lot of this may be due to the effect of viewing any movie a second time. My views of the 60s are not so gilded as they were then either. The Big Chill is still a very good movie; you have to love it for the ensemble acting. So many of the actors in the movie went on to have respected careers in the 80s and 90s. It's one of those rare movies like American Graffiti and Diner that served as a launch pad for acting careers.  And the soundtrack is perfect, capturing the breadth of late '60s pop music. I really wish Kasdan had done with these characters, what Updike did with his Rabbit novels, that is, show the characters at ten year intervals through their lives. This is one of the better movies of this type and is highly recommended even for the gen-x'ers. "},{"Title":"The perfect soundtrack, the perfect cast, the perfect script...a wonderful movie.","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a member of Gen-X having just revisited this movie after several years, I have to say that the soundtrack took me down memory lane in a big way, and may be one of the best things about The Big Chill. My generation's experience with this music is very different than that of my parents', having been force-fed Three Dog Night, The Band, and all the rest as a young child. It remains a part of my psyche, buried deep in the most obscure and remote of my memories. It was fantastic to hear those songs again, in spite of how much my taste in music has changed over the years. A classic is a classic, and the soundtrack is LOADED with them. Music can make or break a movie, and in The Big Chill, the music is an integral part of the film, as important as the cast, the writing and the directing. Its hard to imagine different music, just as it's hard to imagine a different cast. The songs weave in and out of the movie as easily and naturally as the subplots weave in and out of the story.22 years after being dragged to this movie by my parents (who LOVED it), I remain pleasantly surprised at what a good movie it is as a whole, and how much more I liked it as an adult. The acting is brilliant. The writing is excellent. The directing is fantastic. Everything snaps into place in ways that keep you from getting bored, irritated, or otherwise turned off. Sometimes melodramatic, sometimes hilarious, the characters are well-constructed by the writer(s) and beautifully brought to life by the cast. Two hours fly by without dragging, down time, misfires or backfires. The story unfolds in 1983 with a crew of Baby Boomers, college friends brought back together by tragedy, taking stock in their lives as they get reacquainted with each other after many years have passed. The story may be dated, but anyone, no matter their generation, can find something to relate to in this film. The interpersonal relationships, the individual journeys, and the self-reckoning that comes with the death of a friend... all of us can grasp these concepts and drink them in, get lost in them, feel the pain, and feel the joy. We can relate to it because its themes are timeless... love, loss, sadness, joy, growing up and getting older. This happens to us all.My only real criticism of this picture would be that once in a while the film was a little too poignant and too depressing for my tastes, but only for brief moments. It could be that no one else who sees this film will agree with me, or even notice. That's fine. Opinions...we all have them. For me, it went a little overboard, just a smidgen. This is the only reason I did not give this movie a 10. It is still a wonderful movie. Some might suggest that this going overboard was what made the movie effective. It was effective, very much so, but for me it was a bit too much from time to time. Once in a while, my heart strings need a rest.However, the music remains the most memorable part of the film. I had to look The Big Chill up on the internet to be reminded of the general story line, but the music has stayed with me all these years, and will remain with me, from the first notes of Joy to the World through the rest of the soundtrack and back. I would watch this movie again, and recommend it to anyone, no matter how cynical they are or what generation they belong to. Its that good. "},{"Title":"Great cast, great music, great entertainment","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It took a little while for me to really get into the film, but in the end, I was hooked.  Once I got to know a little about each of the characters, I found it hard not to care about each and every one of them.  Yes, it was dialogue-heavy, but once I liked the people on-screen, the conversations became rather engrossing.  Even if lots of talking doesn't sound too appealing, I still think you should give it a look, because it isn't too often that a film has a cast that is so hugely talented.  And of course, this film has one of the greatest soundtracks in movie history, and these songs seem to fit the mood perfectly.  I had high expectations for this film, and although it wasn't quite what I had expected, this film did not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic, elegantly handled and brilliantly done feel-good drama.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Big Chill is often regarded as the best Hollywood movie to demonstrate ensemble acting. A problem that can affect similar films is the unequal division of time that each character receives, but The Big Chill avoids this problem. It certainly is a moving cinematic experience that isn't easily forgotten. OK it doesn't really lead anywhere, but as it goes on, the nostalgic charm sets in and the core isn't hollow. Terrific performances from the ensemble cast who work well as a group. It's ironic how Kevin Costner had the most successful career yet if you blink you'll miss him. Some of the careers of the talented cast bloomed after this- Kevin Kline won an Oscar for A Fish Called Wanda, Glenn Close got 5 nominations (this film included) and got a status in Hollywood, Jeff Goldblum got success in the likes of Jurassic Park and Independence Day. Others didn't- Meg Tilly sort of disappeared, JoBeth Williams went on to flops such as Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot, Mary Kay Place had small parts in Girl Interupted and Being John Malkovich but went by un-noticed.The Big Chill is a complex and often brilliant story of the need for companionship. The soundtrack greatly adds to the nostalgic and uplifting feel to the movie. Great performances, splendid direction and an engaging script make this a deserved (if not slightly dated) classic. My IMDb rating 8.0/10.  "},{"Title":"A Winning Comedy-Drama Backed by One of the Best Soundtracks Ever!","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1983's THE BIG CHILL is one of those beautifully crafted and wonderfully acted films that is so ingratiating that I can watch it over and over and never tire of it. Director Lawrence Kasdan hits the bullseye in this alternately hilarious and moving variation on the earlier RETURN OF THE SECAUCUS SEVEN. This film follows the reunion of a group of friends who went to college together, who have gathered for the funeral of their mutual friend, Alex, who has committed suicide. The original screenplay included scenes with Alex, who was played by Kevin Costner, but, in a stroke of genius, it was decide to delete all of the Alex scenes in the film, lending a wonderful air of mystery to the character of Alex and allowing the audience more input as to why Alex decided to end his life. Alex's friends are Harold Cooper (Kevin Kline), who now owns a shoe store franchise and his doctor-wife, Sarah (Glenn Close), who also serve as our hosts ; Michael (Jeff Goldblum), a writer for PEOPLE magazine; Meg (Mary Kay Place)an attorney who wants to have a baby; Sam (Tom Berenger) an actor with his own TV show who misses the simple life; Karen (JoBeth Williams), a restless housewife who would really like to be a writer and Nick (William Hurt) a drug dealer who would like to be anything else. Also thrown into the mix is Chloe (Meg Tilly) Alex's girlfriend, who knows a completely different Alex than his friends do. This gathering of old and new friends sets the stage for some long-dormant resentments to bubble to the surface and for some long buried passions to be re-ignited. Kasdan has a sharp directorial eye and a flawless ear for dialogue with one of the most quotable screenplays ever and it is all set to a soundtrack of the greatest music from the 1960's ever compiled for a movie soundtrack. The cast is perfection...Close received a Best Supporting Actress nomination but the entire cast works at the same level and to honor one without honoring the ensemble wouldn't have been right. This is the ultimate ensemble piece and it works just about perfectly. Anyway you slice it, an instant classic. "},{"Title":"The Way We Were, before the Breakfast Club","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has been my favorite movie since it came out because it is, ostensibly, about ME. I'm from Michigan, and while I didn't go to UM, I went to a state school in Michigan in the early seventies, and this was my life.This movie has both *everyone* I ever knew in it, and all the best actors of the time. Who wouldn't love Tom Berenger, Kevin Kline, William Hurt, Jeff Goldblum, and Kevin Costner, especially when they play everyone you knew in college. This film helps define who I am and who I became. When I clean the kitchen table, I hear Ain't Too Proud to Beg in my head. I dance around the kitchen, using a plate as a tambourine, and I'm lost in the past for a few minutes.I love this film. "}{"Title":"Ok, I've seen it at last.  Now what?","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"28 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I said I had never seen this film, people gasped and told me they couldn't belive it.  They said it was a  ground-breaking film, a cinematic landmark etc etc. Worth seeing for the soundtrack alone. So I rented it and watched it.What I saw was a group of unpleasant, self-obsessed, angst-ridden yuppies whom I liked not at all and cared about even less.  We get a little light-relief once or twice with the Tom Beringer character but apart from that we are expected to spend a weekend with these people as they mull over the fact that one of the college friends has killed himself.  A little sex thrown in for variety and Glenn Close chooses to have her hissy-fit in the shower so while we watch her acting we can also see her breasts. The piece ends suddenly, with little changed, nothing concluded and the audience thinking So what?   We never find out why Alex killed himself but my theory is he realized that these people were the best he could do for friends so he threw in the towel.As for the soundtrack, a selection of fifteen or so different numbers of roughly the same period, well K-Tel have been doing that sort of thing for years.  No need to put yourself through a movie like this to hear it. "},{"Title":"The Big Chill","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ensemble film about a group a friends gathering for a belated reunion after the funeral of one of the group's friends who has committed suicide.Sounds like it would be an interesting reunion film from the synopsis but is actually very boring with unengaging script and very, very dull characters. Had seen it years ago but forgot if I like it or not so re-watched. Really wanted to like it but couldn't.Far too much music in the film also, just one song after the other after the other regardless of what is happening on screen. "},{"Title":"Hippies Turned Yuppies","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was a student at Cambridge in the early eighties, shortly before The Big Chill came out, a friend of mine had a poster on his wall entitled Woodstock Tenth Anniversary Reunion. (The actual anniversary had taken place in August 1979, not long before we went up). The joke was that those attending the reunion were all middle-class professional types, smartly dressed in lounge suits with well-trimmed short hair. This poster exemplified the way in which my generation saw the baby boomers, twentysomething hippies turned thirtysomething yuppies. Those who still retained their hippie idealism were mercilessly derided as being at least ten years behind the times. (And derided not only by Cambridge students but also by the likes of B. A. Robertson, in his satirical song Kool in the Kaftan). The Big Chill takes a rather more charitable look at the problems facing those idealists from the 1960s who tried to retain their idealism during the conservative Reagan years of the early 1980s. It features a group of old college friends from the University of Michigan who are reunited after fifteen years. The event which reunites them is the death of Alex, one of the group, who committed suicide while staying at the home of his friends Harold and Sarah. An impromptu reunion occurs as the old friends gather for Alex's funeral. The precise reasons why Alex killed himself are not spelled out- he did not leave a suicide note- but as the movie progresses we realise that he had become disillusioned with the course his life had taken. (He was a brilliant scientist, but had dropped out of the academic life to become a social worker). His friends also come to realise this, and the realisation prompts them to consider the paths their own lives have taken. Most of the group were involved in the counterculture of the 1960s and the peace movement or other forms of radical politics, but most are now living much more conservative, middle-class lifestyles. Harold is a business executive and his wife Sarah a doctor; they live in an elegant antebellum home in the South. Sam, a one-time radical, has now become a Hollywood actor closely based upon Tom Selleck, down to the moustache. (While watching the film I assumed that Selleck himself was playing the part; it was only when I saw the cast-list that I realised it was actually Tom Berenger). Karen is also now living an affluent lifestyle but is feeling dissatisfied with her husband Richard (who was not one of the college group). Michael, once a radical journalist, now works for the apolitical, celebrity-obsessed People Magazine. Nick, a Vietnam War veteran, has now become a drug dealer. Apart from their friend's suicide, the question which haunts the group is what became of their youthful idealism? Contrary to what one might have expected, the film does not take a straightforward radicalism good, conservatism bad line. A key scene comes when Nick nearly gets himself arrested by badmouthing the local policeman. Harold, a personal friend of the officer, manages to smooth things out, but then berates Nick for his rudeness and stupidity. To Nick, who still subscribes to the sixties idea that all cops are pigs , this may seem like a sellout to the enemy, but I suspect that most of the audience will side with Harold who realises that some of his contemporaries have difficulty in distinguishing between idealism and childishness. The Big Chill has something in common with another movie from the early eighties, Barry Levinson's Diner from 1981, which also deals with a reunion of a group of former classmates, although that film is a period piece set in 1959 and the characters are rather younger, being in their twenties rather than their thirties. What the two films have in common is that both are excellent examples of ensemble acting.This was the second film of its director Lawrence Kasdan (his first was the very different neo-noir thriller Body Heat) and it starred a number of actors, such as William Hurt and Kevin Kline, who were to become regulars in Kasdan's movies. , (Kevin Costner, originally cast as Alex, was edited out of the final version, but also went on to become a Kasdan regular). There are too may good performances to list them all, but special mentions must go to Kline as Harold, Glenn Close as Sarah and Meg Tilly as Alex's strange, unworldly younger girlfriend Chloe. One question much discussed on this board is whether the film is dated. Leaving aside trivial questions of fashion (even in the eighties Tom Berenger's hairstyle must have looked very seventies), I think that it is dated, but only in the narrow, limited sense that it deals with cultural phenomena such as the sixties counterculture which were very much of their own era. In a wider sense it is not dated because it deals with timeless issues such as love, friendship and the challenge of staying true to one's youthful ideals in later life. (Another eighties film on this theme, although in my view a less successful one, is Fred Schepisi's Plenty). I felt that the film was occasionally slow-moving, with too great an emphasis on talk over action. I also wondered whether it might not have been improved by keeping Costner's scenes to allow us to see what sort of a person Alex was and why his death had such a traumatic impact on his friends. Overall, however, I felt that it was a very watchable film, and often a moving one- one that could be watched for pleasure not only by those who are too young to remember the sixties but even those who are too young to remember the eighties. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Textbook Movie-making + Great Cast = Classic","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had never thought much about how movies are made, what makes great movies, etc., until I took Intro to Cinema in college. Among the requirements of the class was writing a full-fledged movie review (read that as `term paper') on a film of our choice &#150; but one approved by the professor. I wound up reviewing The Big Chill, which was only about a year old at the time.A new student of cinema could hardly pick a better picture to study. Lawrence Kasdan puts on a film-making clinic in The Big Chill. What film better shows would-be film-makers the art of transition between scenes &#150; such as moving from the church organ's rendition of `You Can't Always Get What You Want' during the funeral, to the Stones' classic version, using it to bridge the funeral sequences with the reception at the Coopers' home &#150; and hence, with the rest of the movie. The roaring to life of the varied (mainly expensive) cars in the church parking lot also points out the affluence these former radicals possess. Kasdan mixes his incredible soundtrack masterfully with the action throughout the film. The camera's attention to the listener rather than the speaker in a conversation is also important. Kasdan's lens is always there to capture the surprise, hurt, anger or other emotions generated by another's unexpected remarks. Although this is early in his career, Kasdan clearly shows that he already has a master's grasp of his art.When I first saw it, of course, I was IN college. I viewed it a handful of times over the years, but had not seen it for half a dozen years or so, when I watched it a year or two ago. These old friends were getting together 14 or 15 years after graduation. While I had enjoyed the movie as a college-age viewer, I was amazed at the new wallop the film delivered, as I watched it 14 or 15 years after I had left college! There was an emotional impact I had never experienced in earlier viewings. Like these friends, I had assured my fraternity brothers and their girlfriends that we would always be close. Fifteen years later, I had seen ONE of my brothers a total of about three times. I sadly had to admit that it would probably take the funeral of one of US to bring our group back together.That said, the movie has some interesting twists and is somewhat unique for its LACK of action. I winced during one early post-college viewing, with a friend who had never seen it. After about 10 minutes, he moaned `Don't TELL me the whole film is going to be them sitting around a house all weekend, reminiscing!' I began whistling, looked the other way & pretended not to hear. Fortunately (unlike a recent poster), my friend was won over by the movie before it was over. The film has some wonderful moments and a few bizarre ones.SPOILERS AHEAD!!!One scene I still have mixed emotions about is the bizarre husband-sharing between Sarah Cooper (Glen Close) and Meg (Mary Kay Place). Depicting this as the ultimate act of friendship between two near-sisters and (I suppose) the ultimate act of trust between a husband and wife still seems a bit troubling to me. Still, it works, as do most of the plot twists. Perhaps the romance between the emasculated Nick (William Hurt) and Cloe (Meg Tilly) came on too fast, as some have suggested. I have always wanted to see a director's cut with Kevin Costner's cut-out role (I assume, all in flashbacks) as the dead Alex; I wonder if the cut footage might have made Nick's transition a little more readily acceptable.The film is one of dialogue and Kasdan and Barbara Benedek keep it snappy and believable. It is also quite witty. I saw Jeff Goldblum for the first time in this film and have been a big fan ever since. Some of his lines are classic, including the definition of the length of the average magazine article (which I won't give away here) and of nature being `one great big outdoor toilet.' Other lines are quite telling, like young Cloe's innocent remark (filmed by Nick), `I don't like to talk about my past as much as you people do,' and Karen's outsider husband Richard's crack `I can't believe these are the same people you've been telling me about, all these years!'I could go on and on &#150; heck, I HAVE gone on and on, but, in short, this is a masterfully done film. It doesn't have techno-crap galore; it doesn't have awesome backdrops (although the scenes in the edge of the woods are quite attractive); it has no blood, no visible sex, no explosions or dream sequences. What it has are real people, played marvelously by a talented cast, directed by a master, and featuring wonderful music. It still provides wonderful entertainment. The Big Chill remains one of my all-time favorites.  "},{"Title":"I heard it through the grapevine","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is no great beyond. There is nothing waiting for us, there is nothing to look forward to, there is no hope for the days to come. This is an obituary for the generation past.The Big Chill is one of the greatest American movies ever made dealing with the concept of loss. I am you. I am all of you. A generation lost, a generation out of the tracks and into the unknown. You are what you choose in this life, not in some glorious afterlife, you are your hopes and dreams, your failures and successes, your mistakes and wrong doings, your past and your future, you are your friends.There is no doubt that the concept of modern western life runs through the looking glass of adulthood and friendship. These two ethical constructions define not only the individual, but also his surrounding environment, the juxtaposition of self and society, of creation or destruction within the normal boundaries of a capitalistic State. It is within these constructions that family is born. Nevertheless, the binding force of the entire human web is based on the only natural error that Man has never come to terms with death.The circle of friends portrayed in The Big Chill is long broken; a smell of forgotten innocence only remains to remind the group that once they were one. Not pieces of a puzzle, but the puzzle itself. Back in college they've learned to act as a fist, with strong bonds with one another; back in the American 60s, they learned that the dream of piece, love and understanding was not utopic, not unreachable, but just moments away&#x85; All of this now already faded away.In the prosperous America of the 80s lies another reality for them, the ultimate capitalistic dream, the life of the modern man encloses words such as family, money, kids, school, house, company, but not friendship. The ultimate hope of the once strongly connected group rests in the hands of the misfit, the one that never grew up, the one that probably stayed glued onto daydreams of the past and not conformities of the present, the boy that flew out of the window. And it is in this point exactly where Lawrence Kasdan begins his story, he heard a sound, probably we all did, and it was from the grapevine.The circle comes into closure, when one dies. After the funeral, a weekend is all that there is left for the eight friends to try and comprehend what went wrong. But in this very last stand of their own, they realize that what was missing was not something out there, but rather something within each and every one of them; old friends after all miss each other. With a light, romantic and earthly touch, Kasdan achieves his filmic purpose. You want to be a part of this, you want to reach out and feel the warmth, you don't want this to end&#x85;and it doesn't. At the end, we'll all leave in that house forever, alongside with Sam, Sarah, Michael, Nick, Harold, Meg, sipping coffee, hot chocolate and wine under the sounds of Marvin Gaye and the Temptations, knowing that all this is our personal, unique hideaway, our world outside the world, our very own Neverland. "},{"Title":"You Had to Be There","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.It is with some sadness that I see this film now. I was a child of the 60's, two years older than Kasdan, which of course places me where Kasdan remembers himself.When this film came out, it was part of the great exhale from the Reagan era, and a fond remembrance of when people were just better. It was easy to be smug when subsequent generations' touchstone movies were things like Porky's and America Pie. This film was an affirmation that we were okay, and was immensely popular. Part of the charm was recognition that these were Real Actors up there. On seeing it now with some distance, it is really shocking how unjustified that smugness was. Oh, the acting is still credible, and the music still resonates. But the writing seems more like a report by Time or even People Magazine on the era, something that itself is directly parodied in the script.In fact, the film in relationship to the real 60's has precisely the relationship to life parodied in the Sam Weber TeeVee show. We just needed some distance to see how contrived and simplified it all is, as if it were written by the Star Wars guy. But then, that's just what it was.That sweet spot that this film hit almost twenty years ago has melted and the film has faded into the wan oblivion of the rest of Kasdan's output. "},{"Title":"peace, love and yuppie-ness","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Chill was a classic film of the 1980's. It was the film which identified the 1960's baby boomer's as modern contemporary yuppies. Throughout the 1980's, yuppies were spotlighted in the media as the generational trend in post-Reagan era living. After the Big Chill people turned to Doonesbury and Thirtysomething to find out what the baby boomer's were up to. What once became a generation of free spirited hippies soon changed into a lifestyle revolved around corporate jobs, wearing suits and driving Volvo's. The Big Chill is a simple story that involves a group of old friends who reunite after hearing the news that Alex, a close friend has committed suicide. After the funeral, they spend a long weekend at the house of one of their friends, a married couple played by Kevin Kline and Glenn Close. They get together and spend time talking and trying to make sense of their lives by questioning the death of Alex and what's become of themselves. There is a sense of confusion about who they are and what they've become. I always feel like somebody wants something from me says a friend played by Tom Bergeron whose turned into a famous Hollywood actor. He feels guilty about his fame and the wealth that's earned him his paranoid suspicion's of other people. How could a group of friends like this go from tuning in an dropping out to living this corporate lifestyle? I hate to think it was all just...fashion. says a confused Glenn Close. Kevin Kline offers reassurance that they accomplished things. The 1960's did change a lot for the civil rights movement, the women's movement and protesting to help stop the war in Vietnam. What I always wanted to know, was Kevin Kline speaking on behalf his friends or his whole generation? Both of my parents who lived through the 1960's never became yuppies. I tried watching this film once with a close friend who was heavily involved in the drugs, protests and road trips of that period. After a half hour or so into the movie, he was incapable of watching anymore. He did'nt believe that these characters actually lived through the same things that he lived through. It sort of falls into this notion that if you grew up during the sixties and listened to the Beatles and had somewhat shaggy hair, you were instantly considered a hippie. It's a way for people to identify with something they had little or nothing to do with. The number of people who actually did experiment with drugs, sex and other aspects of life were really far few from the mass culture. This is why I feel suspicious of The Big Chill. How involved were these characters in the hippie movement? There is one character Nick, played by William Hurt who seems like the most believable character. He has a great performance as a bitter man who is tormented between the past and the present. He still has some of his naive and youthful instincts. He also seems like the most likable because he doesn't seem to hide any emotions like the rest of his friends. The other characters like the lawyer, the writer for People magazine and the movie star...how genuinely involved were they in the 1960's movement? We see these characters trying to relive the past by doing drugs and even sharing sexual partners. As my friend said It seems so phony. I don't know anyone who turned into this. A lot of baby boom audiences have responded bitterly about this film because it seems so personal and yet they cannot relate to the characters, and therefore they feel fooled, tricked or envious of these characters. The Big Chill does not speak for an entire generation and that is the problem. William Hurt may have been stuck in the past, but for crying out loud, he shouldn't be wearing a suit and driving a Porsche! "},{"Title":"A beautiful tale of friendship and healing","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There have been many films and TV dramas with a similar story to the one this film has. A group of friends are very close,drift away from each other,one of them dies or something happens to them and they all get back together again.However none of them can hold a candle to 1983's The Big Chill.A superb look at friendship,loss and healing set to an amazing 60's soundtrack.When their friend Alex commits suicide at the summer house of Harold and Sara Cooper(Kevin Kline and Glenn Close)it draws together a group of former college friends for his funeral.Along with Harold and Sara there's TV star Sam Weber(Tom Berenger),reporter Michael(Jeff Goldblum),Vietnam veteran and frequent drug user Nick(William Hurt),lawyer Meg(Mary Kay Place),Karen(JoBeth Williams)who's unhappily married to Richard(Don Galloway)but is still in love with Sam and Alex's current girlfriend Chloe(Meg Tilly).Staying at Harold and Sara's for a few days after the funeral they all rediscover the joy they brought to each other and realise they don't want to lose another of their group.Wounds are healed and the simple joys of friendship enjoyed to the full.Moving and funny with excellent performances from the leads The Big Chill is possibly the ultimate film about friendship. Alex was played by Kevin Costner but all that remains of his performance are shots of Alex in the coffin getting prepared for the funeral.I think it would have added to the film if there had been some flashbacks of Alex with them years ago.But other than that a great film that still works well after all these years. "},{"Title":"an intelligent and sensitive script  for a talented cast","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Reunions of former college mates can be an enthusiastic, but also dramatic experience, mainly when you have shared with your now adult friends great ideals in a better and just world, and all those ideals have been abandoned in favour of professional careers and wealthy lives and, moreover, when the only mate who has faced the unfillable gap between the ideal and the real has just committed suicide and thus caused that same reunion. Single sense of more or less pretended personal self-fulfilment, but hiding a dramatic sense of disillusionment, is rendered through noteworthy dialogues intelligent, witty, ironical, sensitive and deep. Each protagonist will have to take off his/her mask, and show himself/herself for what he/she is now the easy and devouring enthusiasm of those, not so distant, at least chronologically, but mentally and emotionally buried times cannot be acted for long. The only form of consolation, a very significant one, actually, is the possibility to share this sense of disillusionment, and the understanding that the only way out of personal dramas is communing with others. Evidently, the actors, nowadays known as talented performers, but not so famous in 1983, are more than good. Not to mention the soundtrack, which contributes strongly to the emotional impact of the movie and makes one feel like rediscovering the great and out of time hits of the 60's, 70's. A cult and must see movie. "},{"Title":"Great blend of music, truth and movie-making","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You never realize how good you have it in college, no matter how often you hear those tired old clichés. Clichés like 'these will be some of your best friends, memories and times of your life so enjoy them while you can'. You never believe you are anywhere NEAR as naive or idealistic as your folks or 'elders' keep telling you you are because you firmly believe you know better, heck, you're not a kid anymore. That is until you finally go out beyond those 'ivory towers' and get a 'real job' in that 'cold cruel world' you were warned so often about. This movie reflects on the essence and emotion of this painful realization, but blends it with good 'vibes', without sugarcoating the reality. Anyone who thought they 'knew it all', worked so hard in college (or high school or grad school, etc) and was ready for 'life' only to face a RUDE awakening, will identify with these characters and their situations. This movie leaves you feeling better about life and inspires insight into your own...a very high compliment in my humble opinion. "}{"Title":"Chilling?  Yes.   For the wrong reasons...","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like most members of my generation (portrayed in this film) The Big Chill is self-centered, egotistical, puerile, vapid, and ultimately chillingly bad.Chillingly because so many of my generation believe it to be poignant and meaningful, a beautiful slice of life, and, thus believing, hearken the beginning of the dumbing of America, where the childlike, puerile, and simplistic can be raised to the level of art.The film is not even entertaining for bad art. The characters, however, do accurately portray those of it's generation self-important, empty, know-it-all hypocrites. If I sound angry it's because they are infuriating, along with the director, who, as in his other masterpiece, Grand Canyon, has produced a film to successfully appeal to and promulgate the worship of childhood that has so marred our society.Do yourself a favor and stay away from this pretentious tripe. "},{"Title":"great movie about friendship, love and loss-a must see.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Growing up, I saw this movie numerous times. It's tough to watch when your a kid, in spite of the funnyness of some of the scenes, it is a pretty heavy movie. It's also a wonderful movie about freindship, love and loss. I'd recomend Big Chill to anyone who hasn't seen it. It is the type of movie that you just don't see anymore and the characters and situations are touching, bittersweet, and quite true to life.Anyone who likes movies about real people and friendships that can withstand just about anything will love this movie. It's filled with everything that life is-highs, lows and all that's in between. a must see-10 of 10. "},{"Title":"They lost their starry notions on the way...","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As people enter middle age, most contemplate their lives, asking how they got to where they are, what happened to their youthful dreams, and where they are going. This movie explores those ideas as seven college friends reunite for an unforgettable weekend.Seven friends who attended the University of Michigan in the sixties reunite for the funeral of their mutual friend, Alex (Kevin Costner, who was edited out of the film, and who only appears as body parts of the corpse). Alex has committed suicide while he and his girlfriend, Chloe (Meg Tilly) were staying with Harold (Kevin Kline) and Sarah (Glenn Close) Cooper. Harold is a successful businessman, and Sarah is a doctor. Coming in for the funeral are Sam Weber (Tom Berenger), a Hollywood actor; Michael Gold (Jeff Goldblum), a successful journalist; Nick Carlton (William Hurt), a drifter; Meg Jones, a Philadelphia DA; and Karen Bowen (JoBeth Williams), an unhappily married housewife. Once together for this sad event, the seven of them decide to spend the weekend together for an impromptu reunion. During the course of the weekend each of them confronts what has happened to their hopes, dreams, and idealism, where are today, and where they want to go. By the end, each has found something of their former selves to take with them as they go their separate ways.This is an interesting premise, and it's well executed here. You see where each person is proud of what he or she has accomplished, but also reminded by the presence of the others of what he or she dreamed of accomplishing. The gap between the two is what drives the film, and makes the self exploration real, as each person in turn opens up to their closest friends. In the end, they seem to realize that perhaps their best accomplishment has simply been their connection to each other.The acting is wonderful. The cast worked as an ensemble, so the level of acting among the performers is uniformly good. It is clear that the actors all respected and valued each other. As a result, the chemistry between them is real, and the relationships created are believable.I was a senior in college when I saw this, and at the time I wondered if I would worry about where I had been and where I was going as I aged. In the twenty-two years since graduation, I can only answer that yes, I have asked those questions, and explored those issues with those to whom I was close at the time. That's why I think this film has a certain timelessness, because it really does speak to everybody who has ever serious contemplated their life direction. And it's well worth taking the time to contemplate it along with those who do so in this film. "},{"Title":"I don't understand why people rave so much about this movie.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it's because I'm 18 years old, or maybe it's because the only actor that I like in the movie was Kevin Kline, but I honestly found this movie very poorly done.  I found it boring, uninteresting, and at some points appalling.  There seemed to be no character development whatsoever.  And it ended so abruptly!  I was left with the thought, So, what was that movie about anyway? "},{"Title":"Parallax","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with previous comments about the superficiality of these characters. I disagree with previous comments in that I thought that was the point that Kasdan was trying to make.  In this opinion, I may be 180 degrees off, in which case the detractors are correct.I enjoyed this film in a theater and on television.  I liked the snappy patter.  I thought there was a plot, albeit a slow-moving one without much action.For me, the plot revolves around Nick William Hurt.  This cynic is another disappointed naif who has largely checked out of a world that has disappointed him.  He is the member of the ensemble most bent on demystifying the idealism of the others and the Sixties.  Nick's cushiest berth speech is priceless, for example, in unmasking the misty, watercolor memories of the poseurs.Each of the other characters may be read as a representative of different strategies for coping with the death of youthful dreams, beliefs, or illusions.  Harold Kevin Kline is every bit as skeptical about their youth as Nick but has his manufacturing to keep him warm and busy in the present. Sarah Glenn Close is a professional who is apparently happiest in her domestic role, no matter what she might have planned in Ann Arbor. Michael Jeff Golblum is, in my view, the member who has changed least from a hedonistic, sardonic observer divorced from most of what is going on around him.  Berenger, Williams, and Place confront their changes in dialogue, so I shall not belabor them here.Perhaps most interesting is Chloe Meg Tilly.  I see Chloe as a latter-day hippie.  She exhibits stereotypic features and sentiments of self-absorbed, live-for-today boomers even though she is not one.  She alarms some of the ensemble despite the way in which she mirrors the selves that they are all nattering about.  This would be a better story, I believe, and my interpretation of the movie would persuade me more if at least one of the characters acknowledged how much Meg resembles the hippies whom those of us old enough to have know hippies knew.In my view, then, the cynical Nick is verbally worn down by the delusionals and won over by the realist Chloe.  At film's end, the delusional chorus are leaving Nick in the arms of the post-boomer hippie. One dark side of the 1960s drug trafficking yields to one bright idea of the 1960s attempted realism in the form of the one person in the ensemble who doesn't like to dwell in the past.It ain't Goethe, I'll grant you, but it ain't garbage either. "},{"Title":"Great family movie or just one to watch with friends","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. It's one of my all time favorites. It's fun, fast paced, modern yet nostalgic. The characters are great and everyone can relate deeply to at least one. Witty, smart, intelligent, and fun, this movie never has a dull moment. It shows the importance of success but most of all, family and friends. It's a great family movie OR a flick to watch partying with good friends. A must see!A group of college friends are reunited for a funeral of a college friend who committed suicide, which turns into a weekend party/reunion. All are very successful but obviously flawed. From a businessman having less than ethical practices, to an alcoholic actor, to control freak doctor, a miserable/loose housewife, to a lonely attorney who's abandoned her values, a former psychologist who's turned to fast cars and drugs, a womanizing professionally frustrated writer, to a clueless 20 year old. This is one you can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Well acted and memorable - if a little clever-clever and convenient.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seven  former college friends meet up for a funeral of a former friend and lament about what might have been and how their liberal ideals have been compromised.While this is one of my all-time top 200 movies - and one of the best films of the 1980's  - I am still not sure why it works or why I actually like it! Sometimes you look at a film and wish you could walk out of the audience and in to the on-screen world, but I don't really want to here.*Smallest possible spoiler*Someone is dead (a before-famous Kevin Costner actually - but you wouldn't know it from the outline shots!) but does anybody really care (on screen or off)? Suicide seems to be the reason, but don't come looking for definitive answers as to why. He left no note.I was expecting some dazzling revelation to this puzzle as the grand climax - but we don't get it as the movie only wants explore the hippy chattering classes' dream that has turned bad (although only in the punishment-of-luxury version of bad) using the dead, and soon to be buried, Alex as a throw-people-together device. Curious in the casual use of drugs and even more curious in the mention of a character having taken cocaine - something we never actually saw. While this may have been a cutting room decision we are (from 1983) at the point where drug taking is seen as the norm? There are no voices against and I wouldn't want to list the drug users (soft or hard) from the non drug users. It is a non issue says this film.The more you reverse engineer this product the more you realise why some of it is false. Bring any group together and you create families - if only for a small period of time Mum, dad, kids and uncle figures. People work together here (watch the table being cleared by team work), but they are not equals and their hippy-dippy sharing-and-caring days are clearly over.Tom Berringer even has his own TV series that seems to embarrass him. Why? Because it is a kind of cod Magnum Private Eye programme that shows him leaping in to sports cars and bedding women? Do you think he didn't beg for the role, celebrate after he was given it, use it to seduce women? And let us not forget the money. I always try and put something of value in to every episode he says at one point. So he writes the scripts as well does he? Pure nonsense. Ironically the film's greatest strengths are that it doesn't have a climax and it doesn't really have a point. Nothing is solved, not even Alex's death, and their world has been reduced to well paying jobs and pseudo-intellectual jaw-jaw over the kitchen table.They are secretly miserable people, leading secretly miserable lives from which the only respite is dope, sex and jerky dancing to soul greats. Soul, now that is an interesting word... "},{"Title":"Pretentious Crap","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was reading some of the user comments from people who liked this movie, and all I kept thinking was did we see the same movie? Now I consider myself an intelligent person, who has nothing against a movie with a message. However, one of my prerequisites for a movie to be good is that there be a story, or something at least resembling one.The Big Chill has no discernible story. As you've no doubt already read, it's about a group of yuppies who reunite for a weekend after the death of one of their college friends.The movie essentially deals with these people rekindling old friendships, and trying to find themselves. So for two hours we watch people sitting around and talking...people who are self-absorbed narcissists who, as a result, we really don't care about. The movie reminds me of the scene from Woody Allen's Purple Rose of Cairo where after Gil (Jeff Daniels)walks off the screen, the other actors refuse to go on with the story, and just sit around playing cards. the difference, of course, was in that movie, the inaction was part of the plot, while in Big Chill there is no plot. it's as if someone took a movie camera and placed it in someones living room, and just left it on. After about five minutes, you'll be asking yourself why you're watching this drivel.Do yourself a favor and skip this movie. Trust me, you'll thank me. "},{"Title":"Jeez, it isn't THAT bad!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, I hate yuppies just as much as the next guy. And yes, I see all the flaws in this movie. But this movie IS telling the truth about the Baby Boomers, in my eyes, not glorifying them. By that I mean that it tells the story of a group people who THOUGHT they were idealistic when they were young and stoned, only to grow up (and sober up) a little to find out they are as shallow, fake, and greedy as their parents. Some of them are so jarred by this realization that they become depressed and maybe even kill themselves, as their friend did.So the talky, plastic characters AREN'T the result of bad acting or bad writing. They're accurately portraying a generation so full of itself and hot air that it IS talky and plastic, see? I especially like the character playing JoBeth Williams' husband. He steps into the movie, utters prophetic truth while eating a sandwich, and steps out, leaving the yuppies in the audience stunned. The soundtrack is good, but it becomes kind of transparent and commercial-y after a while. I give the movie a B-.Things to watch for cynical product placement (Miller Beer, Nike shoes, etc.); Meg Tilly's body; Kevin Kline's come-and-go accent. "},{"Title":"Defines A Generation","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Chill tells the story of eight friends who come together after the suicide of one of the best of them. They are all searching for something they lost. They find that all they needed was each other.This film launched the careers of a lot of stars. The best performances in the movie were some of the actors and actresses that mainstreamed Hollywood for years to com. Glen Close, Jeff Goldblum, Tom Berenger, Kevin Kline, and William Hurt were the best.The movie defines a generation. And the movie defines a part of life that we all reach where the questions we ask have no answers. The Big Chill is a great film to watch when you are looking for happiness in a sad place. One of my friends died recently and I stumbled upon this movie soon afterward. It is a movie that never should be remade because along with defining a generation it speaks across generations. I have a feeling that this movie will find you when you need it. Just don't pass it by. "}{"Title":"Good soundtrack but thats it!","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Best thing about this movie was the soundtrack FACT!! Cant believe I sat through this, just awful. OK you can say some of the acting was OK, but come on where was the script? Bunch of old friends meeting up at a funeral. And sure why not through in my husband can father your baby too??? What the hell was that about for the film? Not really relevant, nor was the fact that one of the guys ran off with the widow nearly 2 days after the funeral! Good product placement for Nike though ;) As said they only thing I enjoyed about this was the soundtrack! Good start with you cant always get what you want by the stones! And that song was poetic as I didn't get the movie I wanted! "},{"Title":"When Will AZ Get a Big Chill?","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a shorten work week's timeframe, a friend recommended The Big Chill two times. In both incidents, the reason he stated it was good was because it was the best role he's seen from Kevin Costner.Spoiler alert, Kevin Costner's Alex is dead prior to the movie's opening and pretty much all we see of Costner is his surgically sewn up wrists obviously showing the cause of death. Damn, my friend must really hate Costner.But, that's not the whole reason he liked it, and I can see why.The takes-place-over-a-weekend movie reunites long-distant friends of the past after said Alex takes his life. During this talkative and exploring one's feelings weekend, there's a bunch of drug usage, alcohol consumption, sexual exploring, hot topics (of the 1983 era, that is) and some of the most wittiest dialogue and revolutions I've heard.That's pretty much the basic premise but listening to them isn't so basic. The script still seems fresh today, almost 30-years later and this is the first time I've experienced it. It helps most of the fantastic humor comes from Jeff Goldblum, whom I've always adored and found hilarious. But, that's not to take away from the other all-stars, a pre-2001's-Ocean's Eleven collage of actors, if you will.Both Kevin Kline and William Hurt &#x96; another couple of actors I admire, did great, Meg Tilly was fantastic in her character's shoes and an all-time favorite of mine, Glenn Close, who appeared to have the most depth of all the characters combined, did excellent. An honorable mention goes to an actor whom I never got into, but did a surprisingly good job Tom Berenger. Again, this is not to say the remaining cast wasn't great and they did their jobs accordingly.So, we have these old friends together again, following a very bad incident and let's watch them learn, explore, communicate, attempt to work things out and learn from this. It's a deliberately paced film and felt real. These actors and this script felt genuine. And damn&#x85; what a kickass soundtrack! (I can't forget that positive.)It's a high recommendation, especially to those who've lost someone close to such a tragedy.** - Yeah, I'm not going into my own feelings of suicide, because, mercifully, I haven't lost someone close to this kind of end. I don't feel its right to judge someone's decision on it and I will honestly conclude my feelings with the aforementioned word used tragedy. It is one, above all else, regardless if I was or was not within reach of someone taking their own life. "},{"Title":"Film, though dated, is still fun to watch","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it came out. So that dates me, a little, but it really takes me back to that time.What can I say that hasn't already been said? Fun to see William Hurt as a coke head, Glenn Close as the stalwart Mom. And of course, great fun to see Kevin Kline in his 'head of the family' role. And he is so, so talented. If you have never seen it, watch him in 'French Kiss', in which he nails the French accent so perfectly, as well as the mannerisms.A bit weird to see Mary Kay Place in such a smaller role. But she has done plenty of other roles very well and she is very solid in this biological clock role - wanting to have a child.It may make you went to move to a small town in South Carolina. It may make you want to turn back time. It will not make you feel cheated. A really solid movie in many respects. Jeremiah was a bullfrog.... "},{"Title":"A Mature Film!","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lawrence Kasdan's 'The Big Chill' is A Mature Film, that deals with Human Emotions. Kasdan, a veteran in his craft, handles this early 1980's film, with maturity & sensitivity. Also, the performances by its mammoth cast, are impressive.'The Big Chill' Synopsis A group of seven former college friends gather for a weekend reunion at a posh South Carolina winter house after the funeral of one of their friends.'The Big Chill' deals with Human Emotions. The Screenplay gives each character importance & gives them ample amount of scope, to let them do what they want to. The culmination, the final scene in particular, stands out, because it leaves a great impact.Kasdan & Barbara Benedek's Oscar-Nominated Screenplay is indeed note-worthy & well-worded. Kasdan's Direction is mature. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are pitch-perfect.Performance-Wise The Ever-Terrific Kevin Kline, does exceedingly well. William Hurt & Glenn Close are dependable, as always. Tom Berenger is very good. Jeff Goldblum is extremely likable. Mary Kay Place, Meg Tilly & JoBeth Williams are efficient.On the whole, 'The Big Chill' is well-made film in all respects. "},{"Title":"Remembering Salad Days that never happened.","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watch movies in a theatre infrequently. I always leave a theatre very emotional. Films move me regardless of their genre or story line. I could never watch two movies in the same evening because I would be too affected by the first. The Big Chill made me wish that I had gone to a big university and had a reunion with my best friends years afterwards. This movie struck a chord that stays with me to today. I have watched it many times and still feel the same way at the end as I did the first time I watched it. The ensemble cast seems perfectly assembled and the direction and editing is superb. The music is perfectly matched to blend in with each situation and it is my favourite movie of all time by a mile. "},{"Title":"The Boy at the Start is Alex's Son !!","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just realized this!Harold tells the William Hurt character that the affair between Alex and Glen Close happened 5 years ago. The boy in the bath at the start of the movie is about 4 years old! Thats why Glen Close gets Harold to sleep with the lawyer friend with a view to getting her pregnant. She thinks this will even out the marriage. Unbelievable!The Glen Close character is a cheater who has never told Harold that his son is not his. Alex was selfish bastard who slept with his best friend's wife and keeps living in his house afterwards. Then as is mentioned several times he makes a giant bloody mess when he poor poor me indulgently kills himself.Nice guy Harold gets shafted at every turn. He says to William Hurt, They only slept together a few times.... A few times! My god Harold this is your wife and your best friend! Then she thinks that one night of polite sex with the lawyer girl can make up for all of that! ...Maybe if she'd arranged for him to sleep with the Meg Tilly character....but...no not even that.Wake up to yourself Harold. Leave that horrible woman!! "},{"Title":"The Big Chill holds up well a quarter of a century later, but...","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Twenty-five years after its release, I decided to watch The Big Chill again. Thanks to Lawrence Kasdan's strong script and fine direction, the superb performances of all cast members, and the beautiful cinematography, I find that it hasn't lost its power to move an audience. Sure, Kevin Kline's less-than-convincing Palmetto State accent sounds rather silly at times, but other than that, what's not to like about this film? The film has held up well; I find suggestions that it is dated to be untrue and irrelevant, as the film quite accurately reflects the mood and state of our society at the time that it was made. As such, it is a rather beautiful portrait and/or elegant portrayal of life in America in the early 1980s.On the other hand, comparisons with The Return of the Secaucus 7 are probably inevitable for anyone who has seen both of these gems. For me, The Return of the Secaucus 7 is vastly superior in every way originality, authenticity, humor, and ability to move. As much as I admire Kasdan's entire body of work, John Sayles is the true master of American cinema. The so-called star power of The Big Chill and the slickness of the production pale in comparison with the rawness and reality that is The Return of the Secaucus 7.Notwithstanding the claims to the contrary, I find it hard to believe that The Big Chill was written without any knowledge of The Return of the Secaucus 7, its premise, and its plot. As such, The Big Chill is something less than a remake - I won't use the word plagiarism - but there are just too many similarities to allow for sheer coincidence. While this does not necessarily diminish its ability to entertain, it does affect any claim that it is a landmark. It is not. "},{"Title":"Loved the music, LOVED Tom Berenger","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have mixed feelings about this movie. I did live through the 60's(just turned 60), but pretty much stayed on the sidelines. However, hoped to make an impact through teaching.I finally decided to tape the movie last night, primarily because of two ings -- the great 60's music and Tom Berenger. I've recently seen a lot of his late 70's/early 80's movies, and can't get over how handsome he was. When you see him no on October Road, it's hard to believe it's the same person. It's interesting to see how he's evolved as an actor. To echo some other sentiments, you wonder why his career didn't take off, especially after Platoon.Just one question, can it be assumed that after Sam and Karen made love, that that's all they wanted and now she's going back to Richard? Did she realize that Richard is more real than Sam? "},{"Title":"Fade to Chill","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This probably the most quoted movie I know about, even today It starts out as the generation just before me in the Big Time Line Those Kids had their whole world turned upside down starting with the Kennedy Assignation and then moving on through Watergate.... Some of them had a very strict 50's upbringing and then that just shattered time and time again.They did have the Best America could offer then... Education, Opportunities, Music, Lifestyles, etc... America was on Top then, we had the whole world to ourselves The only thing we were missing was some Transparency with our government, business and race relations.I had to summarize the background of this move to show you how this it sort of wonders on after the Tumultuous 60's & 70's. That generation grew up on a constant state of Shock and Change.... It wasn't till the late 70's till now that the urge for Sameness and Normality would rule. Go to any Shopping Mall, they are all the same now.This movie didn't appear so even till now 2/17/08 When I first saw it there were many current assumptions and the movie just sort of flowed like a dream...But now it is more of long lost memory; I feel sort of disconnected to it. Atlantic Monthly probably needs to do a whole Treaties for it, just for the modern audience so they can understand it. "},{"Title":"The people I wish I'd gone to school with","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The friendships are true and deep. Their bonds are unbreakable. They each know the others deepest, darkest and brightest moments. They are the group you want to be a part of. Not to mention the soundtrack... Wow! What a soundtrack. I love the depth of William Holden's character. Being a vet and having a life altering injury. As well as the relationship between Glen Close and the deceased and the fact that her husband Kevin Kline makes peace with that relationship. Although a little unrealistic still very fascinating. Jeff Goldblum's character is so shallow but yet he has an unadvertised deepness and sense of humor that only the twisted like myself and Tilly's part understands. The icing on the cake is when Meg's character sleeps with Kevin's to create life. What a selfless act on Glen's character's part. LOVED LOVED LOVED this movie. "}{"Title":"Not perfect, but still excellent","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cable played The Big Chill Saturday, and I have to say it is still excellent. It's not perfect...but tries and attains enough in its successes to more than make up for uneven acting and some clumsy, too-sweet moments in the script.And although the concerns of the people seem somewhat thirty-ish and need to be considered in the time-period of the eighties, the conversations about friendship, morality and life-choices are still important and deftly worked into the storyline. It was a hit driven by good writing about somewhat believable humans, which is much less common in mainstream movies nowadays, especially ones with such a big name cast.And that fun, fun music doesn't hurt either.I agree that it may have been copied from Return of the Seacaucus Seven (which is fine in its own way), but see Chill anyway. There are many, many clever bits in the written and shooting script that make great creative use of the medium of film. "},{"Title":"This is the 80s.","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some of the users claim that this movie is a remake to a film called The return of the saecaucus seven (1980). I haven't seen it, I didn't even know it existed, so I won't go any further. All I want to do is add a comment on one of the best 80s movies.I often ask myself Which is the essential 60s, 70s, etc. movie?, and by saying essential, I mean which movie best captures the spirit of its times. I have come to the following conclusion Easy rider (1969)is the essential 60s movie, The exorcist (1973) is the one for the 70s, and this one represents in an excellent way the 80s. One could claim, that the beginning of a decade doesn't necessarily deal with the same questions that the end of it does. That is true, but I think that the only decade, that actually fits this claim, is the 60s. The 70s were much a decade of decadence, loss of faith and disappointment. The 80s were a decade of show-biz. The point was to look happy, even if you weren't. That's the point of The Big Chill.Essentially starting from this point, the movie has a lot more to say. What we are experiencing, is the true decadence of the flower-generation. They don't have a purpose in their lives, they have lost their faith and are truly scared of the present and the future. Much of it also goes through the 70s; but there's a crucial difference In the 80s you must look happy. All of them try to show that everything's cool, yet they know that they're fooling themselves. The shadow of their deceased friend -who would be 'played', as a corpse, by K. Costner- is everywhere.Many critics hold this movie as the most mature of its decade. I wouldn't go so far, but I know it's a film with a point The love-generation is dead and gone forever. Four years later, Wall Street will complete the puzzle The Yappies are here. "},{"Title":"simply the best...","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" By far one of the best movies of the time period!! Acting, writing, especially music...it's all PERFECT!!! Sometimes seen as an older version of St. Elmo's Fire, however, similar characteristics in characters severely different plot and sends completely different message. While one may argue the points, The Big Chill, and its soundtrack will live on for generations to come! Definitely in the top 10 and even the top 5!! Not too sure about genre placement, not completely comedy, but also not completely drama...a little of both, but not too cheesy...heartwarming wonderful story about friendship, love, death and life! "},{"Title":"Self-indulgent yet enjoyable. Don't like the genre it began.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At the same time both thoroughly enjoyable and thoroughly self-indulgent bilge which has so far inspired at least 2 more generations of self-indulgent bilge 30something with mel harris and ken olin, and Friends (play theme from the Rembrandts). Also note the Saturday Night Live sketch with Victoria Jackson as the prostitute obsessing about the details of her career.Old friends get together and reminiscence for a weekend. There's a comfortable feeling of familiarity, like taking a bath in warm jello. Once every ten years is fine. On its own the movie is fine. It's what it's inspired that makes me sick.The executive moneymen powers that be have taken this harmless, fun 1983 flick concept and pimped it for all it's worth and is still pimping it, capitalizing on any sense still left of our own poignant memories. That's what I hate. How this relates to the current state of our culture, well, we have become 99% a consumer culture of indulgence, with little higher meaning. We've been living on credit for a long time.P.S. The music is great. Lots of memorable lines too.  "},{"Title":"All time great films","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Of course, it would be hard to fail with the writing, acting and directing talent assembled here. Even still, throw in some of the greatest tunes of all time and you've got a film that never grows old. I've seen it a dozen times and I'm sure that I'll see it a dozen more. I knew someone would use Mary Kay Place to her full potential someday, maybe it will happen again. "},{"Title":"WAY overpraised but still lots of fun","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A bunch of college friends from the 1960s (Tom Berenger, Glenn Close, Jeff Goldblum, William Hurt, Mary Kay place and Jobeth Williams) all get together in South Carolina for a friends funeral. They're all in their mid-30s now and are, in various ways, dissatisfied with their lives and/or jobs. They spend the weekend together and bury the 60s along with their friend.This has been wildly overpraised over the years. Yes it's a fun, entertaining movie...but that's about it. I saw it when it came out in 1983. I was 21 and (maybe) too young to understand the problems these people were dealing with but the excellent acting (especially by Close), great direction, sharp script and wonderful soundtrack kept me entertained. However people who came of age in the late 1960s seemed to really understand this movie and it became a surprise hit. Over the years people have acted like it's some landmark of cinema. Well sorry folks but it isn't! It's VERY good and entertaining but that's all it is. The script is full of great one-liners...but nobody really talks that way. Also some of the situations are way too pat and predictable with obvious (and trite) happy endings all around. Yeah I DO love it but only because it's an excellent comedy-drama. It's worth seeing but don't expect some masterpiece.Also Kevin Costner was originally in the movie. His character is the one who commits suicide. However all of his scenes were cut out. Why I don't know but I think it helped the film. This is not a crack about Costner's acting--I don't think he's that bad--but he represented the 1960s in this film. I thought it was a good move to never show him. How do you put a name or face on somebody who's supposed to be representing an entire era? Well worth catching. "},{"Title":"No one ever said it would be fun. At least... no one ever said it to me.","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No one ever said it would be fun. At least... no one ever said it to me. This is the line spoken from a character named Richard who is not part of the core of baby boomers, instead this character is the conservative uptight husband of one of the characters, and what he says sums up the entire film. The Big Chill refers to the chill that director Kasden had through his bones when running into an old college friend who had different values than him, and Kasden felt a Big Chill running through his body realizing that this person whom he knew as a college kid had a far different outlook. In the scene where Richard is sharing his personal views with two of the baby boomer characters, played by William Hurt and Tom Berenger, Hurt gets a look a lot like there's a chill running through him. But then after Richard says No one ever said it would be fun. At least... no one ever said it to me, both boomers get a look like Perhaps he's right, and indeed he is. This movie is a classic, because it not only embraces the baby boomers and their side, but it lets them realize that their youth was in fact... youth, and when its time to grow up, life isn't as easy and/or simplistic as when you are young. Jeff Goldblum is my personal favorite character, providing some of the best lines since he is a true outsider of the group; as is William Hurt's character, a drug dealer who still hasn't grown up. In one scene he mentions that perhaps all of them never knew each other at all being that they were so spoiled as children. The entire cast is fabulous. The weakest link is Mary Kay Place's story about wanting to get impregnated; it sort of drifts in and out of soap opera qualities, but no matter... This is one of the best character-driven films ever made, and I recommend it highly for baby boomers or for those of us who are annoyed by them. "},{"Title":"The Big Chill","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fantastic film about a bunch of ex-college friends who share a nostalgic weekend together after the death of a close friend. Stunning performances all around, especially Close, Hurt and Kline. One of the sharpest written films ever.  "},{"Title":"The Big Yawn","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We all know this movie by it's reputation as one of the so-called icons of the Yuppie 80s, and as such I was expecting a lot more than the movie delivered.  I sat through the whole thing waiting for something even remotely interesting to happen.  Nothing ever did.  Bluntly put, it's an overblown, self-important piece of yuppie garbage which might serve as a cure for insomnia but as a movie it's pig swill.  None of the characters have any basis in reality, nor do any of them evoke even the slightest bit of empathy(although to be fair the acting-along with the soundtrack saves this movie from being a total catastrophe.  There isn't a bad performance to be found here)  These aren't exactly people you'd want to hang with. This movie also got a lot of publicity for having edited Kevin Costner's performance completely out.  Lucky guy that Kevin. Don't waste your time or money. "},{"Title":"Well made, but virtually a remake...","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While The Big Chill is a good movie and is well acted fans should check out John Sayles's Return of the Secaucus Seven. The Big Chill is essentially a remake of this film that came out three years earlier. Return of the Secaucus Seven is about a group of friends who gather after many years to reminisce about their college experience together as political radicals. While not as slick and certainly lacking the star power and soundtrack of The Big Chill, Return of the Secaucus is better written and a better character study. I recommend it if you've enjoyed the later version. John Sayles is a great writer/director. Check out some of his other work including Eight Men Out, The Secret of Roan Inish, and Lone Star. "}{"Title":"Probably not timeless, but still accessible","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On paper, The Big Chill doesn't seem like my kind of movie at all. I'm no baby boomer (of which this movie so finely targets) so I won't be waxing nostalgic along with any of these characters. Which is the whole point when you really think about it. What the hell would I know about having a midlife crisis in the materialistic '80s? And yet, I was hooked. For one thing, this is one hell of an ensemble cast each one somehow making unrelatable material very watchable. And you come away from this feeling like these people have undergone something profound over one weekend and come out the other end stronger than ever. There's humor, drama, and great performances throughout.Oddly engrossing.7/10 "},{"Title":"keeps you watching, but a ridiculous movie.","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" it's pretty much a dialogue movie, which is OK, but the dialogue is very tightly scripted. every word so carefully thought out, that it's unrealistic. people, even good friends, simply don't talk and interact like that. as for the music, it seems the producers realized there wasn't much beef, so to add some meat to the bone they overlayed popular songs every once in a while to make it seem cool and fill the time. parts almost seemed like a music video.in summary, i would say it's OK to watch to see some actors that eventually became quite popular, before they were well known. but expect to say to yourself omg this is ridiculous, every once in a while. also, as others have stated, don't expect much of a story. "},{"Title":"Cartoonish, would be unwatchable w/o William Hurt & the Soundtrack","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this when it first came out and occasional TV viewings since then haven't made me a fan. Some time after seeing this, I saw Return of the Secaucus 7 which probably inspired it--the director of The Big Chill, Lawrence Kasdan used to deny ever hearing of Secaucus 7, and later just denied seeing it. Unconvincing, because it was a movie that played for months at some theaters and helped usher in the 80s/90s wave of indie film. John Sayles made it for $20K, employing actor friends and using a plot that brought together college classmates, most of whom had gone on in the way normal ways that people often did in their first 10-15 years after college and even poked fun at their old political idealism. It even had a subplot involving a penis, like Big Chill. Despite cheap production values, I saw why people had loved it--Secaucus 7 captured change and provided a natural setting of friendships gone deep and frayed. As for Big Chill, it's easy to see why many critics and members of the public never liked it. It's basically a high concept version of Secaucus 7--better production values, middling known actors and overly dramatic, cynical shifts in people's lives. The acting seems flat and the characters don't really seem to engage each other. At least we were spared Kevin Costner trying to act--I always though he should have stuck to corpses. The best parts were William Hurt who probably was playing himself--not literally, but he has the best lines and delivery and carries off the most twisted, if somewhat unbelievable back story. And then the soundtrack...without it the vapid quality of the movie would have been in the foreground throughout. "},{"Title":"Big Chill Out.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Chill (1983) Dir Lawrence Kasdan / Cast Tom Berenger, Kevin Kline, William Hurt, Jeff Goldblum, Glenn Close Disjointed yet engaging drama about unity within the midst of tragedy. It opens with news of a suicide and eight friends from college who gather for the funeral and eventually spend the weekend at a summer estate. Tom Berenger plays a TV star who questions his abilities when a stunt goes wrong. Kevin Kline and Glenn Close play a married couple. He is about to score financial success in his running shoes business, while she is a doctor who once had an affair with the deceased. Interestingly their relationship is fueled by an understanding that is admirable at best. Jeff Goldblum plays a sex obsessed journalist setting his sights on the nightclub business. William Hurt plays a Vietnam vet struggling with drugs and impotence. Mary Kay Place plays a former attorney looking for someone who help her conceive. Meg Tilly plays the girlfriend of the deceased. Jobeth Williams plays an unhappily married woman looking to possibly ignite an old flame. They all interact or cross paths throughout this hazy weekend. While not overly satisfying director Lawrence Kasdan of Body Heat brings forth a portrait of several friends sharing a common bond with the deceased while reflecting upon why their bond will last long after winter turns to spring. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Needs more of a reason for the audience to care other than a catchy soundtrack","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Chill opens with Harold Cooper (Kevin Kline) and his wife Sarah (Glenn Close) receiving a phone call telling them their friend Alex has just committed suicide. At the subsequent funeral, Harold and Sarah reconnect with their friends from University of Michigan, including Sam (Tom Berenger), a successful actor, Nick (William Hurt), a Vietnam War veteran, Karen (JoBeth Williams), the dissatisfied and frustrated wife to Richard (Don Galloway), Meg (Mary Kay Place), a real estate attorney, Michael (Jeff Goldblum), a womanizing jokester, and Chloe (Meg Tilly), Alex's girlfriend.Following Alex's burial, Harold, much to Sarah's dismay, invites everyone over to their lakehouse for the weekend, where friendships rekindle and old memories are revisited, as the gaggle of formerly close friends decide to recount past experiences and elaborate on current ones in the face of tragedy. The film shows that certain calamity does indeed bring people together, and Alex's death has allowed for a bunch of old chums to address their friendship, and, inevitably, their relationship with Alex, in addition to seeing how they could've prevented Alex's suicide.The Big Chill is a film that winds up swooning people into thinking it's a fairly deep examination of grief and death, in addition to a cultural exploration, when it's really a film that suffers from its own glibness. The film has a lot of great music, which - in its organizations seems more like a 1970's era playlist - sometimes takes prominence over the film's characters. Being that there's little in the way of plot progression, the bulk of the film is left up to the characters, whom do an middling job at keeping the film going for the first half, at least.The problem with The Big Chill is the real film doesn't start until the last forty minutes. The real animosity and drama doesn't begin until all the small-talk is out of the way, and while that's maybe commonplace for these kinds of situations, it makes for a film with stifling inertness. During the first hour, the only remotely interesting character is Michael, thanks to his hilarious insights (It's unfair that they throw you a great party when they know you're not going to be there, he states during Alex's funeral) and his wit, while the remainder come off as narcissistic brats with little offer.The music in The Big Chill is uniformly strong, recreating that nostalgic vibe of the 1960's and rekindling that spark of youthful idealism and the inspiration of hope and change. It also works to help the audience remind themselves of the time period in which these characters grew up, with hits from Creedence Clearwater Revival, The Temptations, and Aretha Franklin, all of whom adding to the feel of the 1960's encapsulated in a film set years after the decade of revolutionary change in America. The problem is that, with this assortment of terrific tracks and their placement in the film, The Big Chill feels like a mixtape or a playlist, inevitably spawning keen memories but doing little in the way of being substantial or memorable in a long-term sense.The remaining forty minutes, however, challenges screenwriters Lawrence Kasdan (who also serves as director) and Barbara Benedek, in addition to the characters they have penned for this film. The final act of the film allows for true emotions to bleed through, and the soundtrack to finally take a backseat to some real emotional honesty, in a film that has ostensibly been delaying it with recognizable golden oldies and chuckle-inducing dialog. The focus on pathos becomes much darker, and the eventual sympathy and sorrow for Alex's untimely death is finally questioned in a way that forces all the characters to be interrogated in some way.While The Big Chill develops into a more watchable film during its last forty minutes than it was in the preceding sixty, it's ultimately still a film too focused on glib revelations and momentarily insightful instances. It's the kind of film that, during its time and its era, it was seen as an intelligent and fascinating social critique, whereas in the present day, it's nothing more than a potential-filled drama that is nowhere near as relevant or as impacting as it was in its heyday (along with other films like Easy Rider).Starring Tom Berenger, Glenn Close, Jeff Goldblum, William Hurt, Kevin Kline, Mary Kay Place, Meg Tilly, JoBeth Williams. Directed by Lawrence Kasdan. "},{"Title":"Enjoy it over and over","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This one has it all. If you ever had a really tight knit group of school friends that you absolutely love and then spent years without them, this film will allow you to feel like you are having a reunion with your friends. The closeness, inside jokes, various personalities, mini-dramas all add to the flavor. The soundtrack is one of the best of all time and the storytellers use the music to connect the audience with the characters. For such a large cast of strong actors, this group does a wonderful job not to overshadow one another. It is a harmonious blend of styles and personalities that can make solid use of non-verbal communication. I have viewed thousands of movies. Very, very few deserve a second viewing. The Big Chill is one that I have enjoyed at least ten times over the years. "},{"Title":"Okay, but not great","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, but not great. Script was rather basic, and contrived at times. I didn't find the characters and their relationships completely believable.Acting was, on the whole, average. Kevin Kline, Glenn Close and Tom Berenger are solid in their roles. William Hurt, as always, overthinks his part. Jeff Goldblum gives his usual irritating look-at-me performance. The entire movie ends up being saved, and made, by the soundtrack. The music is fantastic, really helps the feeling of nostalgia and keeps the movie from bogging down completely. "},{"Title":"I don't like The Big Chill. There. I said it.","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Maybe I was born too late to enjoy The Big Chill. I've been told that it is one of the defining statements of the baby boom generation - people of my parents' generation mention this movie in the same breath as Woodstock and the March on Washington. It's lost on me, though. I see only two hours of narcissistic whining and dancing around a kitchen table to Motown.Maybe you had to be there. Some movies are inseparable from their era, and mean far more to people who were there at the time than to people who have only read about it. Such movies bring back memories of what it was like to be alive at that moment in history. Nostalgia can make even a mediocre movie a powerful experience. Make no mistake, The Big Chill is a mediocre movie. Yes, I know it's culturally significant. I know it gave birth to the ensemble comedy-drama as we know it. And yes, I know the Motown soundtrack is awesome. But I just didn't like this movie. For me, it was nothing more than watching people I didn't like talking (and talking and talking) about things I didn't care about. Watching this movie is like going to a party where everybody but you has known each other for years. The audience is the odd man out.The plot, such as it is A group of thirty-somethings get together for the funeral of their college buddy, Alex, who committed suicide. The group's power couple, Harold (Kevin Kline) and Sarah (Glenn Close), invite the others to stay at their house for the weekend. Memories are shared, old wounds are reopened, and, of course, old flames have sex. And that's it. There's no climax or resolution. It doesn't end, it just stops.Performances are varied. Kline and Close are wonderful as the adults in the room, people who are too busy living their lives to have existential crises. William Hurt is fun as a smart-assed screwup; he may not know where his life is going, but unlike the others he has a sense of humor about it. The rest of the cast struggles, however JoBeth Williams and Mary Kay Place are given paper-thin characters as Middle-aged Women With Romantic Troubles, and Jeff Goldblum (as the group brain) and Tom Berenger (as an aging actor) fall back on their stock characters of Spazzy Nerd and Wooden Tough Guy, respectively. Meg Tilly, as Alex's much younger girlfriend, seems like a little kid at the grownups' table - although, to be fair, maybe that's the point.We never really know these people. We don't get to see inside their friendships and see why they supposedly love each other so much. We're just supposed to take it on faith that they've been through everything together and will stick together no matter no what. I don't see why they would bother.I'm sure that The Big Chill was powerful for Baby Boomers who were just starting to make the transition from Flower Children to regular adults. Every generation needs a movie it can call its own, a movie that reminds them of a time when they were young and the world was no bigger than the sum of their own problems. But for such a movie to really succeed, it has to reach beyond that generation, to have the same resonance for each new generation that sees it. The Big Chill fails that test. Middle-age doesn't look good on it. "},{"Title":"The Big Chill is a refreshing film and enduring film from the 80s.","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A group of seven former college friends gather for a weekend reunion at a South Carolina winter house after the funeral of one of their friends. Richard Corliss of Time said that These Americans are in their 30s today, but back then they were the Now Generation. Right Now give me peace; give me justice, gimme good lovin'. For them, in the voluptuous bloom of youth, the '60s was a banner you could carry aloft or wrap yourself inside. A verdant anarchy of politics, sex, drugs and style carpeted the landscape. And each impulse was scored to the rollick of the new music folk, rock, pop, R&B. The armies of the night marched to Washington, but they boogied to Liverpool and Motown. Now, in 1983, Harold & Sarah & Sam & Karen & Michael & Meg & Nick&#x97; classmates all from the University of Michigan at the end of our last interesting decade&#x97;have come to the funeral of a friend who has slashed his wrists. Alex was a charismatic prodigy of science and friendship and progressive hell raising who opted out of academe to try social work, then manual labor, then suicide. He is presented as a victim of terminal decompression from the orbital flight of his college years a worst-case scenario his friends must ponder, probing themselves for symptoms of the disease. While Roger Ebert said that The Big Chill is a splendid technical exercise. It has all the right moves. It knows all the right words. Its characters have all the right clothes, expressions, fears, lusts and ambitions. But there's no payoff and it doesn't lead anywhere. I thought at first that was a weakness of the movie. There also is the possibility that it's the movie's message. The Big Chill is a refreshing film that will last the test of time. "},{"Title":"A good one","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So Hollywood! You bring up a lot of names. You make a script. You pay for such a cast. But people are ready to come to see their stars. And pay for that too. Yet this one doesn't go as usual. The characters are more alive than the action. The funeral is only an excuse to get them all together and no time is wasted on off screen happenings.I enjoyed it. Than I thought to myself, hey! they are even breaking a few taboos in there. And the acting is real good. In the end, you get a family movie from the 80s. Nothing really bad happens. But does a movie really need something bad happening to tell the story? That made me enjoy it even after the curtain was down. "}{"Title":"Not Sure What it Wants to Be","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As one reviewer here mentioned already, there is not much talent in choosing extremely popular music hits to fit an era-specific film. I would be more intrigued if they chose obscure songs from the time or even psychedelic instrumental music from the 60's.It's like if you did a movie about people who went to college in the 80's and the soundtrack was Duran Duran, Madonna, and Michael Jackson. Big Deal. I never understood why people compliment soundtracks that are just some mega-hits playing in the background to fit the era depicted in a film.Why did they all go to University of Michigan? Only one character now lives in Michigan. Some were raised in the South, and others generic. Where did William Hurt's character drive in from in an old Porsche? I've seen this film several times and I did not see Kevin Costner in any coffin. It must have been a quick shot. But I'm pretty sure he is way too young to have gone to college in the 60's.Congratulations to the writers and director for putting in some defense of conservatism. Two different characters explain the virtues of the conservative life and point out the childish self-indulgent nature underlying the 60's mentality.Why did Hurt's character go to Vietnam if they were all radicals? Did he get drafted? He had a Masters Degree. He would have been in college for the whole war. No one even mentions his army service, either to thank him or condemn him for it.Other than hearing about it in passing, there is no indication that Hurt and Williams' characters had been a couple in school. I saw little if any affection between them.I loved the scenery. I guess it was South Carolina or some such place.I don't like to see multiple adulteries depicted. But it was not necessarily condoning the acts, but rather saying that this is what those kinds of characters might do.When we watch a film, we need to remember that the film makers are not necessarily endorsing the actions of the characters they create. They are just making them do things that fit their personalities. It wouldn't be much of a movie if no one did anything wrong.I think the two conservative characters balanced the message of this film. Which is that the way to change the world is to take responsibility for yourself, your family, and your community. That doesn't entail simply protesting stuff or denouncing things. It consists of hard work, dedication,delayed gratification, and loyalty.Good dialogue overall, but they could have implemented a few deeper passages, like in the movie Network. Hence my title. It was like it wasn't sure if it wanted to be a lighthearted reunion picture, or make some deep statement about life. I think it was ultimately the first, with a little of the second. "},{"Title":"Overlooked By Today's Audiences","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A group of seven former college friends gather for a weekend reunion at a South Carolina winter house after the funeral of one of their friends.In some ways, this film is something like Secaucus Seven, with various friends who drifted apart getting back together again. These seven had high hopes in the 1960s, but are now becoming disillusioned in the 1970s (with a shoe company named after a Chairman Mao quote and a public defender who has learned that most accused criminals truly are guilty).Somehow, in the thirty years since this film was released, it has gone under the radar and has been forgotten. Despite many big stars and a notable director (Lawrence Kasdan, a protégé of George Lucas and Steven Spielberg), not to mention a great soundtrack, how has this film become forgotten? "},{"Title":"Cool and aging graciously","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Firstly, I wanted to give this 7.7-7.9 rating but not possible here as option is not given. Personally, I feel that movies like these shall be made in every 10-15 years. Movies are not only a source of entertainment but also informative. This early 80s movie depicts the life styles of 30 somethings of that generation. We have tons of stupid teen movies or cheap ROM-coms and I found no much difference between them in terms of content or stories whichever decades they were made in. But movies like big chill gives good idea where we are going in life compared to our last generation. This is feel good drama and we can identify ourselves with the character even after 30 years. I wish some good director like sam mendes or alaxander payne comes up with something similar to this film as a tribute to this generation "},{"Title":"Great ensemble cast","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The suicide of their friend Alex brings together a group of college friends with Alex's young girlfriend Chloe (Meg Tilly). Karen Bowens (JoBeth Williams) is unhappily married. Sam Weber (Tom Berenger) is a divorced actor. Michael Gold (Jeff Goldblum) writes for People magazine. Meg Jones (Mary Kay Place) is a disillusioned former defense attorney looking to have a baby. Sarah Cooper (Glenn Close) had an affair with Alex in the past and married to successful businessman Harold Cooper (Kevin Kline). Nick Carlton (William Hurt) is an aimless Vietnam vet permanently dismembered. They stay behind for the weekend and reconnect with old drama and new issues.It's a feel good movie about a death and life from Lawrence Kasdan. Everybody is living their lives but are trying to come to terms with their former idealism after their compromises. It's a movie about people in a specific time in their lives that are jolted into some reflection. Also it's a great ensemble. Meg Tilly has some hilarious lines. Watching it again recently, it occurs to me that this movie needs a sequel. "},{"Title":"My go to movies when I want to relax and enjoy a great story","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny enough this was a film that my mom loved. Needless to say her and I have different taste in film, but this one was different. It has been one of the best stories I have ever had a chance to see visually. It deals with all of life's battles with growing up and dealing with the separation of your closest friends over time. The acting is solid and the emotions are present. The main reason I suppose I enjoy it so much is how real it is to life. It's not a monster destroying a city, its not an insane story that seems hard to believe, its just life and what happens. I have watched this countless times and can't wait until I can come up with an at par story line or someone else does.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Couldn't' take these types then, still can't, nor should you.","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Excellent portrayal of hippie/yuppies who gather in South Carolina Low Country ante-bellum mansion with encircling verandas, much like ou beloved Villa d'Amplitron, down here, Flahda.They do so to attempt to grieve for some friend who croaked himself off. OK, so the guy's dead. Bury him before he stinks up the mansion and get on with it, OK? What? They hadda make a film about it? OK, let's review.Early 80s was the Reagan Era and these hippie-dip yupsters should have been long gone. The Reagan Era was about prosperity and joy, not grieving for some old before their time degenerate hippie who offed himself. Boo hoo.They weren't much then, despite what their publicists tell you today.Today? Entirely too many of them are glutted with cash that came too easy, power they accrued all too rapidly. This film reads like a psychic X-Ray of their insipid conduct and ideological gassing off.The marshlands serve as metaphor a study in shallow.Wouldn't it have been more rewarding to make a movie about the southern gentlemen and ladies who possess more breeding, character and wisdom in their little fingers than this bunch?And for decency's sake, why didn't they include a scene in which they bury Jeff Goldblum's character in a shallow grave, out the marsh?The best scene? The police officer who politely endures undue left wing snottiness. You wish he'd either lug the bunch of them, or just spirit you away from yuppieville.But it's just a movie, so neither happens.What to do? Watch it. It's an enjoyable film about today's kings and queens who couldn't care less whether you or I live or fall into a tire shredder.That's what makes it special.Paul Vincent Zecchino Manasoviet Key, Florida 01 February, 2014 "},{"Title":"Just your typical feel-good film about student radicals","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember when this film was re-released for it's 15 year anniversary! I remember I was waiting with bated breath for 14 years and then...This is a somewhat interesting talk piece about college leftists who have grown up and have re-assembled to honor their fallen friend years later as matured leftists with money. I mean, is there a more repugnant thing in this world than people who rail against capitalism and use that same system to get rich (see Bill Ayres, Yoko Ono and The Eagles)? I believe that this was a hit because of the soundtrack not because of the protagonists' underlying beliefs. Case in point, early in the film the defense lawyer played by Mark Kay Place was complaining about her clients, as she expected to defend Bobby and Huey. That would be Bobby Seale and Huey Newton, 2 members of the Black Panthers, which was a domestic terror organization. Charming.There are some funny parts in the film, which is not completely awful. I just don't care for a film about cuddly Marxists who really haven't renounced their radical pasts. "},{"Title":"Pleasant, Feel-Good Drama!","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Chill is a relatively charming film that is all about friendship and the meaning of friendship. This film is more for adult audiences, but I feel like any person of any age could enjoy this film if they understand the deeper meanings of friendship. This film may be a bit talky, but this is never short of interesting as we listen to strong dialog, attentive characters, and a killer soundtrack with many awesome songs.Lawrence Kasdan's film is about a group of college friends who reunite after the death of their dear friend, Alex. These friends spend the weekend together recollecting their memories from the 60's despite living in the 80's.The acting is really good because of the strong cast. A cast of Kevin Kline, Tom Berenger, Glenn Close, Jeff Goldblum, and William Hurt really can't go wrong. We get to know each character very well and we can connect or relate with them. I can classify this film as a character study because the film focuses on strong, central characters.Overall, this is a very good drama that can be both sad and feel-good. Through the bonds of friendship and sex, we come to realize these characters are meant to be friends and how strong each and every single individual is. This film can be a little preachy at times, but nothing wrong with some very strong dialog. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Thought it was amazing but had a few issues...","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Talky movies - nothing wrong with that - I'm much more into a good banter than a good car chase. This is a movie that's dated only in the clothes they wear - the insights of a life after college and the friends you make in your twenties is still spot on for today. This movie contains some utterly great lines. Um, what's with the sexualising of Glen Close?! I'm being mean but really! Kinda plot less - could have had more of an arc - but not a huge flaw because it puts you in a lovely mood - so engaging. And I would give it all the stars in the world because Jeff Goldblum is completely sexy and lanky and goofy and funny and kooky and hedonistic and smart and engagingly neurotic and intellectual looking - I think he's given the best lines - he is just himself I presume - I adore him, the young him anyway. Yes, I'm being shallow but there is something about him which is completely magnetic, charismatic, unique and lovable. Would have preferred some more explanation - for example WHY was William Hurt's character now a cynical bastard - what exactly happened? Also it seemed a plot hole that they didn't sort out Alex's affairs and help out his relatives? "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Chill is, as described by many critics, an irresistible trip down memory lane. The characters here compare their sixties ideals with the harsh reality of their lives in the eighties and think about how much simpler life was at one point when they all felt they had the world at their feet. Becoming a grown up in a radically changing world, full of rebellion and optimism only to wake up years later and find that their impact on everything doesn't amount to much.Each character in The Big Chill is representative of how they cope with that reality. They all come together when one of them has committed suicide and they spend a weekend remembering past times and discuss the present. The suicide victim, who's obviously the most extreme example, is a man who couldn't find his way in the cold hard world, where your opinions and ideals don't add up to a hill of beans and you find out that you're most likely not going to accomplish anything of what you dreamed you would. Some people in The Big Chill have adapted to these new times quite nicely while others haven't.When I watch The Big Chill I sometimes wish I had grown up in these times, when the world was a little more innocent and naive and blind idealism ruled. Growing up in the 90's I feel the best of times had already passed. But really that's just one way of thinking that the grass is always greener on the other side, perhaps in years to come another film like The Big Chill will depict the reality of the 90's and show how the world has changed since then and then I'll feel all nostalgic. The Big Chill shows me that you don't have to be a product of the sixties to fully enjoy the film and get the point the film is making. That's a rare thing in a film, it's quite universal in it's message and it becomes a trip down memory lane no matter when you grew up; you find similarities in many things here.The Big Chill has it all; great story, great actors, great music; it's just a great movie. "}{"Title":"Special Movie","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an extremely special movie, for a variety of reasons. This certainly won't be for everyone. A close group of University of Michigan friends, having graduated many years before, reunite for the funeral of one of their group, a guy named Alex. Many themes are explored, including the guilt they feel for letting their friend slip away, without knowing about his pain, or his loneliness. All of the friends have achieved varying degrees of success and/or tragedy. This is all explored during the course of a weekend, as they all try to reconnect, and examine where their lives have taken them, as opposed to where they once believed their lives would go. A few romances, frustrated and unconsummated from their college years, are reignited.I guess we would all like to have a weekend like this with old friends.Well-acted, and a thoughtful story told very well. Having grown up in Michigan during the 60's, the motown music is thrilling to hear, and fits into the movie very well. The soundtrack is almost a comforting character of it's own.What can I say...this movie just makes you feel good. "},{"Title":"Who 'played' Alex? Kevin Costner?","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought that this movie was a great movie with a time capsule soundtrack that reflects the yuppie culture of the time in the 1980s. Definitive for that timeframe and with 'all the goods' for a great film - which was not really possible to replicate in its follow-up (so much so I can't remember the title here).I had heard that Alex - the lost friend/corpse depicted with a chest shot at the beginning of the film - was played by Kevin Costner and that there was extra footage originally shot that included his character but it was all cut. Any truth to this? I heard it from at least three people. He is not credited or uncredited in the film. If not him, was there an actor of note which 'played' Alex?Ross "},{"Title":"One of the finest films ever made","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lawrence Kasdan does a remarkable job crafting a realistic, funny, touching, and enjoyable look at a group of people, reunited after the suicide of their friend Alex. Over the course of a weekend, each character is able to evaluate his or her own life, the effects of their friend's death, and how their relationship with that friend changed over the years (additionally, how their relationship with the surviving friends has changed). We all have friends we've known for years and years, but how well do we really stay in touch? What do we assume about our friendships? The Big Chill is a very insightul study on the nature of friendship, and how an unexpected suicide can shake up our reality. The movie also has tremendous performances from a terrific ensemble of actors. Especially compelling was Glenn Close, whose character once had an affair with Alex. This is one of the first films that seamlessly blended in a soundtrack of songs that not only served to move the story, but were also important in their relevance to the era in which they were popular (the time when the friends were at their closest). This is a fabulous, timeless film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very good movie I've watched again and again. Love the sound track, great characters. Makes me laugh and cry. Really captured the era, and you really want to know what happens to everyone in the years ahead. I don't understand how this movie could get a low rating. Even high school & college students appreciate this movie, and it is nearly twenty years old. Stayed around for the long haul. It is interesting to see where the actors have gone since this movie was made. The only thing I don't like is that I have to write ten lines for this to be seen by others on this web site. That is annoying and will limit the number of times I comment. "},{"Title":"I guess I really have grown up after all","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw The Big Chill on its first release on my 23rd birthday, I thought it was the greatest movie since Citizen Kane. Having watched it again just now, I have to reiterate what so many others have said, that its being so dated detracts from its message. No matter who the victim, or how the survivors may be related to him and to each other, suicides are tragedies. Pure and simple. It seems that Alex's friends snap too easily out of their grief and into a horny, hazy nostalgia punctuated by a Motown soundtrack that provides rimshots to scenes where zippy one-liners didn't come easily.Nonetheless, well-chosen ensemble casts always have an appeal for me, and in this one I particularly enjoy Jeff Goldblum and Mary Kay Place. Her they're either married or gay. . . speech is a classic; one I had memorized after the second time I saw the movie. Twenty years on, I can still relate.What I watch The Big Chill for now are all the wonderful locations in Beaufort, SC. The house used for the exteriors is called Tidalholm. I've had my picture taken in the driveway where Nick gets arrested, but I did NOT try to jump back into the car like Sam and risk getting impaled on the gearshift.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie more times than I can count, and it never ceases to make me incredibly happy in its own strange way.  The acting is superb, the emotions are captivating, and the humor rules it all. When a dear friend of mine passed away several years ago, we had a wake of sorts at a friends house after the funeral.  I made everyone watch this movie.  The opening scene, which is a funeral, had a few people running, but everyone who stayed agreed that it was the perfect movie for the day, showing that friendship can ultimately withstand time, distance and even death.  Plus, it felt good to have a reason to laugh and not feel guilty about it.   "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films.  It deals with all sorts of things, friendship, love, death.I like the subtle comedy, very cleverly done.  It makes you think about your idealism you have as a youth, and how that get replaced with reality and synicism that comes with getting older.   The soundtrack is amazing too, some wonderful sixties classics!In all, one of those feel-good movies to watch when you're feeling low, and I don't think its boring at all, one of those I could watch over and over again.I rate it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lawrence Kasdan wrote, directed and executive-produced this the same year he co-wrote Star Wars VI... must have been a busy year for him!This is a great 80's drama with a group of friends coming back to their home-town for a funeral after one of their group killed himself. In the weekend they think about why he did it, and how they are doing in their own lifes. There's also some old, not-forgotten love hanging in the air, and some other relationship-related subjects (that's sex people!).Great performances all around makes it particularly fun to watch, despite the heavy subject. Hurt shines as drug addict but Goldblum steals the show as writer for People Magazine. But there are no weak actors in this one (even Close wasn't annoying, now that's a first!).8/10. "},{"Title":"Friendship is very important","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, this movie teaches everyone that friendship one of the most important things in life, because with out it, you could really go mad. Even as a friend dies, a number of old pals come together to realize that, they have lost eachother, and it took the death of a loved one to prove it. Interesting class-A drama begins in mellow moods, then expands to a humorous friend fare with an all star cast, and great oldies from the sixties and seventies! Well made in almost all ways, this film really is a big chill, as it shows us all, that in the world, of hard times, and cloudy days, there ARE friends out there, and we should never fear, for friendship is more stronger than pain. It's true. "},{"Title":"A classic that stands the test of time","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As I turn 23 and graduate from college, I find myself being able to relate to the characters in The Big Chill. It has been one of my family's favorite movies of their generation. The story is great, the acting is superb, and the Motown soundtrack is even better!Seven college friends, who are pondering the reasons for their friend's premature departure by suicide, have shed their college ideals and previous dreams for the real world. They are leading very different lives from the ones they had hoped for. They speculate that this is the reason for their friend Alex's death. He was the brightest of them all, yet never seemed to achieve as much as they have because he never bought in to the system, as the film conveys.The thing I like best about The Big Chill is how each character has his or her own story to tell. They all have different careers, marital statuses, income levels (all but one are wealthy), and philosophies on life. However, they share one main commonality life has turned out much differently than they had imagined, as it ultimately did for Alex.This film is one college students and graduates should see. It will truly stand the test of time, and is one of the best examples of filmmaking of the 1980s. In case you don't know, a then-unknown Kevin Costner was set to play Alex in flashback scenes, but the scenes were edited out. Great film with a wonderful story, cast, and soundtrack! "}{"Title":"not a b.s. movie","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Big Chill has been one of my father's favorites, so when I first watched it I was expecting another Mystic Pizza or something akin to that. I was about fifteen then and although an adolescent and unfamiliar with the movie's issues, I had still enjoyed it. Since that time, the movie has become one of my favorites also. It is difficult for me pinpoint the precise reason for my attraction. At fifteen, the gloomy plot undoubtedly appealed to my teenage miseries, but now ten years later, I feel something more than that. An old man once told me that a day would come when I would stop caring so much about the world. His comment left me distraught because I fear the day of becoming something that I loathe. Yet, at the same time, I know that I can not avoid certain realities. This movie recognizes that fear and gently admonishes it. The Big Chill honestly portrays the fears and guilt's of its characters, without condemning them for their faults. The movie opens up with that Rolling Stones song, You Can't Always Get What You Want, and this song sets the theme throughout the rest of the movie. Alex's suicide is the catalyst for each character's self introspection. By the end of the movie they each find that they got what they needed.  "},{"Title":"Very nice about friendship and getting old","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was 19 when I saw this movie for the first time, a few year after its release on cinemas. Till now those ideas about friendship, idealism, love, death and getting are present on my mind.It is a very sensitive movie and with a good Soundtrack.All the actors are in great performance. If you are young, don't miss it, if you are not, take a look on it... it will be very special! "},{"Title":"Well worth a look.","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie always makes me laugh. It also makes me cry. There is something simple and tragic about this long conversation. My experiences with a gathered group of friends has almost never been this explorational nor vaporous. Despite the sense of comic tragedy associated with the loss of Alex from their lives, these people seem to insist on remaining surprisingly self-absorbed.That does not say that the performances weren't incredible. I believe the strongest of these is Meg Tilly's great showing as the outsider who doesn't understand and yet moves through her grief in her own way. Kevin Kline is excellent as Harold, the glue of the group. I also felt a wonderful pull from Tom Berenger and William Hurt as they explore their characters and challenge each other from different points of view.The music soundtrack for this film is exceptional and perhaps the most valuable character in the production. Each of the scenes is played out to the backdrop of the vocals and instumentals that formed the characters' (and so many boomers') early lives.A nice film with a good balance of prose and laughs. Not just a feel good film but a film with some things to say. There are a few weak plot points (like Meg's ticking clock and Nick's impotence) that seemed to be more distracting than anything else. The film is still a very nice entertainment and well worth a spin on the couch twenty years after its premiere. Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are so many good things to say about this movie making it one of the best ensemble comedies ever made, it stands up with M*A*S*H.  The impeccable acting by all, one of the best screenplays ever, beautifully shot, and did I mention the music!  The simularites to Secaucus 7 are of course there, but this really is a different movie.  It is a must see. "},{"Title":"The Way We Were","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am about 10 years younger than the generation that makes up the Lawrence Kasdan masterpiece, The Big Chill. But when the movie came out, and I was a decade removed from my own midwestern Big 10 alma mater Wisconsin (as opposed to the film's Michigan alumni), the film had an enormous impact on me. For a long time, it remained the film I would list as my all-time favorite.While I still am a big fan of the film, having recently purchased the DVD and seeing it for the first time in quite some time, I did find a hint of dated psychobabble, enough for me to drop it a notch to a 9 from a 10. But what the film did so well was inhabit a certain generational psyche and mindset and it did it with finesse.What makes The Big Chill so special is the way it captures a particular group of friends who have an evolutional moment in their lives when one of their college friends passes on. It's a film about re-discovering ones own lives and roots and moving on.Those who lived close enough to the generation in the movie to have understood what the characters represent, appreciate the insightfulness and message of the film. And the incredible soundtrack remains one of the best uses of music in movies ever.It was this film that turned me on to a whole slew of superb actors. Kline, Hurt, Close, Place and crew exude great chemistry. The entire experience was exhilirating at first viewing and remains so to this day for me. It's a personal film and tends to make one examine their own lives and relationships.Sure, there is a bit of dated material in it, but it still is vastly superior to much of the current wave of self-indulgent swill that uses similar ensemble conventions.Interestingly, I can somewhat understand someone who did not live in this time being bored with it. However, I don't think that that is a flaw of the movie.For those of us who can relate to the era, it is well worth the invested time.  "},{"Title":"Performances still hold up strong!","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The most amazing thing about this movie is the real sense you get that these characters shared a pass.  All the actors are very good at slipping back into friendship while keeping each other at arm's length.  One of the best performances is that of Jeff Goldblum's.  There is no subtly and that must have been hard to keep up and still be likeable to the audience.  He is very funny. "},{"Title":"Just The Best ! One of the All Time Best ! ....(And for you Younger Readers ) ...... 'Friends' would NOT have happened if it hadn't been for this Movie ... The Music is too too much ! If you're an 'old Hippy","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If You're feeling 'Blue' and 'Lonely' .... Just grab this off the shelves and make ya self cumf'y - its a great 'Feel Good' movie with a difference, and has the most splendid cast - all of whom are now really big stars.... All the blokes are fancyable and all the girls just blooming into their prime. It stands up today 2003 as well as ever it did in the 80's and its entirely possible that you'd never have 'Friends' as a successful TV show if this movie hadn't happened... so younger viewers if you want to see really big names in their flush of youth 'doin' it' - as they say - really well, and you like really good music, join us 'old hippies' and sway your hips to the music and remember those more 'joyful times'. The story line is good,not over sentimental, and despite its possibe predictability, its well done and those big stars shine and seem to enjoy it too so... hey ...watch it.  "},{"Title":"ENTERTAINING AND THOUGHT PROVOKING","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love movies that make you think, that develop the characters thoroughly and that involve great ensemble acting... and this one fills the bill on all scores... the only weak point was the glenn close character asking her husband to father theirfriend's baby via direct sexual contact.    that seemed absurd to me..   otherwise all the characters and the dialog seemed real ..and i wish there were a sequel.. one of my tests for a good film about interesting characters "},{"Title":"The best movie summarizing the post-68 generation","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The music is worth the time, effort and money by itself. Kasdan again proves himself the premier director of the post-hippie generation. Goldblums best movie ever. And who thought that Tom Berenger could act?! Kevin Kline in an outstanding performance. But foremost, this is a story that acts on your emotions.. If you prefer not to be moved, and for your intelligence not to be challenged, stay away. "},{"Title":"Makes you want to laugh, cry and dance","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You see relationships like you've had, wish you had or wish you never had and the pain you have when you lose someone or realize that you let someone slip out of your life.  Great music is the icing.  I laughed and cried so much you could hardly tell the difference. "}{"Title":"One of my all time favorites.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of William Hurt's best works. The rest of the cast do a fantastic job as well and they seem to jell together very quickly. Anyone who ever had a reunion of any kind can relate to this film. The soundtrack is great also. The seen when Glen Close gets artificially stimulated should not be missed. "},{"Title":"A hilarious and touching film about friends","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw THE BIG CHILL quite a while ago and it's probably one of the funniest and introspective films I have ever seen!! Everything from the actors to the music makes it stand out--don't let the fact that it came out in the 80s phase you, my friends! In fact, it's one of those rare gems that came out of the 80s that luckily does not look or feel like the 80s. The quality of the film is uncanny. I especially took to the characters Michael and Meg (Goldblume and Place). Their sarcastic and ironic wit is really captivating. So, instead of going out to dinner with your friends, rent this film and invite these friends over for a couple of hours. Not only will they cook you food, hyper you into a frenzy, drug you up, and play football, but they will actually have fun cleaning up after themselves! And after that, you won't want them to leave.  "},{"Title":"Interesting 1980s Fare.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A death brings eight former college friends together for a wild weekend in this interesting, but ultimately disappointing film from the 1980s. All the performers have their quirks and all are definitely unique but this character-study struggles with sometimes difficult subject matter. The uneven screenplay also impedes Lawrence Kasdan's direction. The film is good, but it is one of those frustrating films that should have been so much better. Glenn Close (Oscar-nominated) is the best among the ensemble cast. Kevin Kline, William Hurt, Jeff Goldblum, Tom Berenger, Mary Kay Place, JoBeth Williams and Meg Tilly all have their moments as well. The casting is strong, but the film never does engage the way it should have. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"My Big Chill review","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent movie that you can see  again and again and see new little things each time.All of the characters are very relatable.It's a fun movie to see with company!Although a couple elements in the movie are outdated,the overall theme is timeless. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had never seen The Big Chill until tonight. I am only 16 so when the film was made in 1983, I wasn't even born yet. My mom always talks about the movie when it comes on tv and she always said that it one of the best movies she has ever seen. Well I saw it and I couldn't even believe how good it was. The writing and acting was amazing. And the story was great. I would recommend this movie to everyone over the age of 15. The movie also had great music. "},{"Title":"I 'chilled' so much, I coulda fell asleep!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is b-o-r-i-n-g! College friends from 10 yrs ago all sit around & dish about the deceased, one of their friends from way back then who committed suicide & no one knows why. They all come together after the funeral in a big southern mansion that one of them owns & spend the weeked getting high, eating, talking, eating, getting high, complaining, rekindling old romances & getting high again. NOT a fun scene! But all the actors mesh together for this film & do their job. Note Tom Berenger wears his jeans VERY nicely here, is in great shape & is a much larger person than is normally realized while standing in the dining room with everyone. I know he's a 6-footer but you never really know that in some of the roles he takes becuz he's usually outdoors or in a big room so you don't really see his real stature. It's just something I never noticed before.  "},{"Title":"Probably, the movie I can most relate to.","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I went to the theater to see this movie in 1983, I was impressed with how much of my personal experience I could see in it.  I was the same age as the characters and actors and had friends going through many of the same identity crises.  I have lost friends to Viet Nam, drugs and just to drifting apart.  Would love to see them all again. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming, and it's got a great soundtrack!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I shudder to think of the day when I'll be able to *really* relate to this movie.  It's about some friends from college who haven't seen each other in many years.  The reunite and discover that the dreams they had all those years ago haven't exactly been put into action yet.This is one of those movies that people will gasp if you tell them you haven't seen it yet; but it's for all the right reasons. "},{"Title":"music,acting","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  not only does this movie have some of the greatest actors ever Kevin kline and Glenn close are at their best in this film. I could see this film playing out in real life more then any film i ever seen. Now to the soundtrack nothing comes close to the music heard in this film. I watch this movie twice a year just for the tunes alone. Go rent this movie in fact go buy it you will want to see it more then once you could bet on it. "},{"Title":"A let down.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit, this movie did not impress me. I had heard, many times, that this movie was a modern classic that dealt with the existential crisis of growing older and facing the ephemerality of one's youthful dreams. Furthermore, the topic, suicide and its effect upon a close circuit of college friends, did seem intriguing. But it did not hit the mark, in fact, I feel the movie grossly missed its intended message and sunk into equivocality and ambivalence.What do I mean? For example, it becomes very apparent that everyone is touched and hurt by the suicide of their friend, however, why must they turn to marijuana, sex, infidelity and some highly questionable decision making like Mary Kay Place's search for a possible father to aid her in conceiving a child without a father? Now I am not some strict moralist and I am not saying that the world should conform to the loftiest of ideals, but I do feel as though we have a meandering script, a story without a message, merely a half-hearted continuation of an ethos that died hard at the close of the 1960's, i.e. free love and the recreational usage of drugs. We never see this successful and supposedly adult characters candidly address their pain, disillusionment, sorrow. What we see is them revert back to old college idealism and easy answers to pressing and disheartening questions. The script seems to suggest that while life is not easy, it is okay to use drugs and sex to depart from life's problems for awhile, no harm done. I disagree, but then again I am also far more cynical at my age than these characters evidently were when they were in college in the 1960s.My one compliment of this movie is its excellent music, however I don't think it was artistically crafted to aid and serenade the montage. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable & Kevin Costner & good music","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To me at least The Big Chill really does not stand out in terms of being a great movie, but it is still one that I could recommend.If you are looking for an enjoyable movie then The Big Chill is a movie for you. The movie has the fealing of nostalga in that it is an 80's film, but it is not a cheesy film. In fact it is a good movie from the decade (a decade that is widely forgotten in movie goers minds).The solid acting from a bunch of now well-known stars actually saves the movie because the story is sometimes either very thin or sometimes difficult to fully follow.Of course this may be that at times I was slightly distracted, but still a great movie would grab your attention.A couple of interesting things about this movie are the scenes with Kevin Costner (if only there were more or if only there was a DVD with the deleted scenes or at least commentary by Costner saying like and here is where I was cut as of the cast rest reflect on his character's life).Instead though Costner does not even get a credit as you only see his body at the very beginning.Music buffs will possible enjoy the movie the most as it does have a good soundtrack with rather unique uses of music (think Grateful Dead played during a funeral and you good possibly guess some of the interesting uses)Viewed on tape in 2001. Rating a 7 "},{"Title":"enjoyable 80's movie starring Tom Berenger, and others","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you enjoy nostalgic 80's films with solid acting from well-known stars, I highly recommend The Big Chill.  IT details several college friends who reunite at the funeral of a friend who has died.  They spend a weekend reflecting on their lives and their future aspirations. Good music as well. The body dressed at the beginning is rumored to be Kevin Costner. "},{"Title":"Deja-vu","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The situation and plot of this movie have been lifted wholesale from John Sayles' The Return of the Secaucus Seven, without credit or acknowledgement -- an interesting state of affairs for a work about the loss of youthful ideals.  Sayles' film has the stamp of authenticity, while this one is, in comparison, Hollywoodized.  It's not a bad flick, but pales in comparison to the original. "},{"Title":"Shallow maybe. True in essence? You bet.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After reading some of the comments rendered by the folks that saw this movie, I wonder who actually lived through the times this film is based on and who didn't. Anyone who was idealistic and rebellious at the end of the 60's into the 70's will surely see a bit of themselves in this film. Most of the people that I grew with during this time are now firmly entrenched in the establishment that as youths they abhorred with all the passion they could muster. It's called growing up, and finding your way to justifying where and who you are.The characters are all products of successful families, who usually ended up being the ones that questioned authority the most anyway. That they themselves are now successful, only leads them to search for what was so important to them in their youth. The fact that the one member of their group that hadn't bought into the system commits suicide leaves them with even more questions.The cast and crew of this movie couldn't have possibly done a better job of capturing the mood and emotion of the time. Every time I watch this film it stirs feelings of longing. Not only because I identify with the story, but because the soundtrack alone brings it all home. "},{"Title":"I am so confused","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why was Nick unable to have sex? No guesses please.Inquiring minds need to know. I have viewed this film a number of times and can find no answer to my question. It makes no sense to me as part of his character development that he is simply unable to perform. I feel that there must be a meaning to this issue.  "},{"Title":"An excellent, warm drama.","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've ever seen. This film is driven forward by superb actors and a brilliant manuscript. The dialogue is so natural and good that you really don't want this movie to end.A classic. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Cute ensemble film, by no means a masterpiece","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An overrated ensemble picture that relies too much on the (great)music it includes,and not enough on character development.  Luckily,two of my favorite performers, Tom Berenger and Mary Kay Place, are among the group. Fortunately, Berenger's role is surprisingly one of the most expansive of the bunch, and he makes what could have been a cliched character into a complex one.   "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Movies","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out and loved it even though I was only in High School.  It created an impression of what college would be like  that I would meet a group of friends that I would move into adulthood with. Sadly, it didn't quite happen that way but every time I see this movie I love it more.  I just bought the DVD which has a great 60 minute documentary on the film which is also great. "},{"Title":"A Superb Film about the Importance of Friends","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Big Chill is one of those films that anyone who had a group of friends and aspirations from youth can easily relate to and better yet, enjoy! The 8 characters in this film are extremely well-developed and all have equal and individual importance to the group as a whole.  The story is about 8 friends who went to the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor during the late 60's.   All came from affluent families (this is told by Hurt's character in the film, and helps to explain as to why all of the friends have such successful, yet emotionally unfullfilling careers).  They are reunited years later for the funeral of Alexplayed by Kevin Costner, but his acting scenes were deleted), who was considered the best out of the group, but ended his own life in despair.   Sarah (Close) and Harold (Kline) Cooper; now a doctor and businessman respectively, house their friends for the weekend following the funeral. It is this weekend where all of the friends discover how much they need one another and start to mourn their lost ideals from youth.   Meg (Place) is now an attorney; Sam (Berenger) is now a popular TV actor (kind of a  Tom Selleck as Magnum P.I.); Karen (Williams) is now an upper-class mother and housewife catering to her cold husband Richard (Galloway); Nick (Hurt) is a former radio psychologist  now involved in transporting illegal narcotics and following in Alex's footsteps;  and Michael (Goldblum) is now a writer for People Magazine.  Chloe (Tilly) is the younger character who was Alex's last girlfriend and serves to represent the tangible being of what was Alex. The other characters see in her not only the youth that they mourn and remember from college (naiveness, a carefree lifestyle, flexability, etc) but also one of Alex's last attempts at feeling young again (he was much older than her). The musical score is superb and correlates with the drama of each scene perfectly. The opening sequence where each character is learning of Alex's death and traveling to the funeral to the tune of I Heard It Through the Grapevine is not only outstanding , but also ingenious in thatit provides the audience a small glimpse into each character's settings in which they all believed they were emotionally happy.  The most famous scene from the film is most likely where the characters dance to Ain't To Proud to Beg while cleaning the kitchen after dinner.  The symbolism is outstanding in this movie. There are so many levels of symbolism that I cannot even begin to count them all.  The cast is superb, all of the actors deserve equal praise.  This movie is definitely one of the best to come out of the 80's and goes to show the importance that friends have in a person's life "},{"Title":"The greatest","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie many times and it never gets tiring, to me it's the best movie I have ever seen. People of all ages can relate to someone or something in this film. I enjoyed it so much I went out and bought my own copy so I can watch it over and over and never get tired of it. The cast and the music are excellent. "}{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is something in The Big Chill for all of us.  It doesn't matter that you were not a political activist in college in the 60s to understand what the characters are referring too.  The script and the acting are the strong points in this film based on a group of college friends who share each others best times, and worst times...Many things spoken in this film are true to all of us, which makes it poignant and relevant to the everyday person.  The ensemble cast is excellent, especially Kline and Close - with Berenger in probably the best character I have seen him play.  Naturally the soundtrack does play a large part in the ambiance of the film, and in a way it tends to help the characters develop their thought processes,  A lot happens in the weekend they spend together, and it really is a joy to watch the honesty presented to us by these characters. "},{"Title":"A great ensemble piece...","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Big Chill is about a group of former college friends who come together for the funeral of one of their colleagues and spend the weekend together reminiscing.The perfect ensemble cast is headed by Glenn Close and Kevin Kline as the hosts for the weekend. Also along are Tom Berenger, Jeff Goldblum, Mary Kay Place, Jobeth Williams William Hurt and Meg Tilly. Kevin Costner was to have played the deceased friend, however, his scenes were cut out. You can see his now famous hairline at the beginning of the film when the corpse of the deceased friend is being prepared for burial.Each of the characters open up, revealing lost dreams, empty expectations and hopes for the future. Close is simply marvelous and Hurt stands out as the flaky member of the group, who doesn't seem to know which direction to take.It's a little hard to believe that such a diverse group could have all achieved such great success and fortune. For example, Close's character is a doctor, Kline owns a group of shoe stores, Goldblum writes for People magazine, Berenger is a famous TV star etc.A small enough fault as the main essence of the film involves the various dramas unfolding between the characters.The Big Chill is a great ensemble piece, not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"and all this in the middle of the RAIGEN administration.","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  there is no argument, the RAIGEN administration was one of the worst in the us history (along with GRANT and IZANHAWER). and what a surprise, just then come one of the most hart warming and nostalgic of them all. a group of middle age men and women, all survivors of the crazy 60's come together for the friend (ALEX) funeral. for a few days this group experience the 60's all over again, a wonderful cast, wonderful director and a great movie. "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all time","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw this on a double bill with Body Heat in Glasgow in the early eighties. 1500 films or so later, it is still my favourite film of all time, and I see it once a year or so. Contains the greatest music-video-in-a-film _ever_ (You can't always get what you want). "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An interesting clash of 80s and 60/70s as a group of college friends gather around to remember their friend who committed suicide. As a group of best friends from college evaluate their lives, they question their accomplishments, values, and beliefs. Perhaps the greatest thing about this movie is that there is no flawless character, there is no hero.From perfect Sarah to strange Chloe, none of the characters can be described in one word. Remembering the old times, the fun they had, the drugs and sex of 60s and 70s, these people try to deal with everyday life and it's sad realities and unfulfilled dreams. Filled with humor and cynicism, drama and great dialogue, this is a terrific movie that you can watch over and over again (well, I could anyway).  "},{"Title":"Saved by Jeff Goldblum","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jeff Goldblum is really the only thing that saved this movie.  The actors were top-notch, but still, a whole lot was missing.  The only reason I would watch again would be just to see Jeff.  "},{"Title":"Tedious","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film that shows the Baby Boom Generation at its worst--self-obsessed, whiny, and childish.  Alternating with moments of self-centered laments about the respective characters failings are scenes designed to be charming that fail miserably and come off as cloying and trite.  Perhaps a great analysis of the biggest problems of that generation, although I think it might be an unintentional one.  "},{"Title":"The Big Chill","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It takes a suicide to bring a group of college friends back together for his funeral. They were hippies who thought their voice could change the world, but now all of them are either rich or settled into a sort of comfortable suburbia. Kevin Kline and Glenn Close are a married couple who invite their buddies to stay the weekend after the funeral. They are about to sell their chain of stores to a corporation, becoming quite wealthy in the process. Tom Berenger is a television action star. William Hurt is a dope-head who suffered an unfortunate injury in Nam and is similar in ways to the friend who committed suicide. Mary Kay Place is a lawyer who has had little success in her sex life and simply wants a child. Jeff Goldblum is a writer for People Magazine. JoBeth Williams is an unhappy suburban housewife still in love with Berenger. Meg Tilly was the younger girlfriend of the suicide victim who remains in the house they were starting to renovate. These characters will spend time together, reminiscing, dwelling on the past, enjoying each other's company, while at the same time discussing adamantly the mistakes and disappointments which have occurred in their lives. Not exactly a real plot to speak of, more or less THE BIG CHILL works off it's awesome cast of incredible 80s talents assembled, the tone often a mixture of laughs and melancholy. It is sad that it took one of their own killing himself in order to bring these people back together, and the film follows them as they come to terms with the loss and their own futures. Developments include the revelation that Close had an affair with the suicide victim, Berenger and Williams' growing closer as the weekend continues, Kline given permission by Close to assist Place in her desire to be a mother, Hurt's interesting relationship with Tilly, etc. The soundtrack is incredible and speaks for the cast's generation, along with a screenplay that has a great deal to say. While I do prefer THE RETURN OF THE SECAUCUS SEVEN, written by John Sayles, THE BIG CHILL is a movie I find irresistible because the cast appeals to me, and there's a watchability to it, in that I can return to it and never tire of it. I do believe some might consider this movie a bit ponderous and too relaxed, but I think that's part of why it continues to endure. The use of a camcorder derives some funny moments such as Hurt's chat with himself(along with Goldblum's antics, cerebral discussions with both Close and Berenger)and Tilly's airheaded nature(her sexiness is used to effect as well)is utilized to the hilt. The courtship of Berenger and Williams, and Close's deep, close friendship with Place, are given a great deal of screen time. I personally think Hurt steals the film, but the entire cast(also in abundance are the Goldblumisms)shine, each member given an opportunity to strut their stuff. There are times when conversations get a bit heated, particularly when the suicide victim is brought up, but we see how long-term friendship is lasting even during times of hurt and grieving. "},{"Title":"Heating Up THE BIG CHILL","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE BIG CHILL is a recurring reunion with every viewing it brings back memories of where we all have been in a period of time that seems so distant yet so important. The film written (with Barbara Benedek) and directed by Lawrence Kasdan has reached icon status it is as quality a memoir of baby boomer post college life that remains as poignant today as when it was released twenty seven years ago. Brought together for the funeral of suicide victim Alex, eight friends gather for a weekend of remembering and reliving the times when they were all students - Alex being the most promising of them all - and wondering what drove their little hero to kill himself. Each of the friends, through self produced play with a video camera. Through intimate conversations, and through the psychology of group 'therapy' explains where they are now in comparison to where they thought they would be. The only member of the group who is 'new' is Chloe (Meg Tilly) who had been Alex's girlfriend. The group - Tom Berenger, Glenn Close, Jeff Goldblum, William Hurt, Kevin Kline, Mary Kay Place, and Jobeth Williams interact philosophically, over food making in the kitchen of the Close/Kline home, share frustrations and fulfill expectations in both friendship and physical interactions. Surrounding this film is a selection of popular songs from their time that extend into the memories of the viewers. It is a funny film. a tender film, a tour de force of acting by some very fine actors, and a memory trip that is wroth repeating with some frequency, like opening the old photo album. It has staying power. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Reminisce if you will","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Chill is an adult comedy that will really appeal to all those who grew up in the late sixties. The drama deals with the untimely death of a young man and the resultant gathering of his college friends to mourn him.Director Lawrence Kasdan co-scripted the film with writer Barbara Benedek, and many may find the film amoral as I did. However, it is quite often very funny, potently observant of the human condition, and remains consistently enjoyable thanks to good performances from Kevin Kline, William Hurt and sure backup from a great 60's soundtrack.Not bad over all. Also starred Glenn Close, Meg Tilly, Jeff Goldblum, JoBeth Williams, Tom Berenger and Mary Kay Place.Thursday, November 14, 1991 - Video "}{"Title":"I'm too young so maybe I don't understand","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think there was a segment of America that may have dabbled on the edge of Hippieness without being hardcore activist, free love and so on. My parents were mid western wallflowers living through the same things at the same time but sticking to the status quo Christian right. The characters in this film seem like they were mostly privileged kids who attended a university and dabbled in some of the trends of the era. Being big Michigan football fans doesn't fall into what would be a hippy way to spend time. They listen to more R&B type tunes as opposed to the Jefferson Airplane,Grateful Dead and Janis Joplin (to name a few). They may have felt they were part of the movement by having a sit in at the Ann Arbor cafeteria for better vegetarian lunch options. There isn't enough background given to decide if they are hippies or not. I'm sure there were plenty of people smoking grass who weren't hippies. This is a great movie that really makes you think about your life whether you grew up in the 60's or the 90's. There is a common thread that can be identified with no matter what your age. The performances are stellar because the interaction and caring between characters is so real. I highly recommend it I enjoy this movie every time I see it. "},{"Title":"inconsistent accent","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found Kevin Kline's drifting in and out of the southern accent very distracting.  The changes in accent functioned as a regular reminder that I was watching actors playing roles rather than real people mourning the loss of a friend. "},{"Title":"I was not impressed . . .","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was very disappointed by this movie. It did not meet the expectations I had for it based on what other people told me about it. It is basically the story of these college friends who have lost touch since they've been out in the real world. They have had kids, divorces, etc., since they last saw each other. They are brought together again by the tragic death of one of their friends, a member of this group that we never get to know because he is dead as soon as the film starts. They all stay together in the same house for the weekend and talk and talk about life, death, love, etc. They listen to old records. After the weekend is over, they go home. Big deal. The main problem I have with this movie is that there is nothing really going on. It's not really about anything. So, therefore I can't bring myself to feel much sympathy for these people, or even begin to like them or care one way or the other what happens to them because I don't feel like I get to know them. They all have this history with each other which we know nothing of and don't get to know much of. It was a real letdown. So be warned If you didn't like Sideways or Reality Bites, you will not like this movie. It is the Sideways and the Reality Bites of the 80's. They even do the camcorder thing just like in Reality Bites. The only movie where I appreciated that was Blair Witch. I know I've probably ticked off a lot of Big Chill fans, who will say that I just didn't get it or whatever. I got it. And I was bored to tears. "},{"Title":"The real message or what the big chill really is!","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After seeing the movie many times, it only occurred to me recently what the BIG CHILL really is... and only because I finally and personally felt the big chill while recently watching the film.William Hurt's character is set up to be the next Alex and none of the characters in the film are getting it. Hurt's character is obviously the next member of the tribe in major trouble and just as the group was impotent with Alex, so too will they be impotent with Hurt .. their weekend of consciousness raising went awash between concerns of money and business, social/professional status, kinky sex, and issues of conventional marriage. Will the baby boomers ever learn? The real big chill is that the group has learned nothing and has gotten nowhere in their evolution even with all their alleged struggle. "},{"Title":"Comme-Ci, Comme-Ca","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie would've been ten times better if Lawrence Kasdanhadn't directed it.  He has absolutely no handle on the music.  He dumps the soundtrack in there like a sloppy child.  Par exemple.  The famous kitchen cleaning scene.  SPOILER!!!And, then the end of is abominable.  Glenn Close allowing herhusband to impregnate her friend.  What?  This makes no sense.I'm sorry, Larry.  I just didn't dig it but is it all right if I call you Larry? "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As someone who grew up during the 50's and 60's, I had high hopes for this film.  Sad to say, I was sorely disappointed.  None of the characters seem real or interesting, except perhaps the William Hurt and Meg Tilly characters, who are interesting in a brief scene with each other.  Other than that, I did not care about what was happening to any of the characters.3/10 "},{"Title":"Slick, inferior version of Return of the Secaucus 7","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Take John Sayles excellent, low key 60s slice-of-life reunion film, the Return of the Secaucus 7. Add Hollywood slickness, box office names, get the characters to dance to a great soundtrack with one of the best songs ever -- the Temptations with David Ruffin singing lead on Ain't Too Proud to Beg -- and you've got this 2 1/2-star thumb-stuck-firmly-in-the-middle melodrama.Big Chill probably ruins Secaucus 7 for anyone who sees this film first, but 7 is the better and more authentic film. But it does work fine as a music video, for baby boomers who like VH-1.   "},{"Title":"Monument to the Me generation","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching The Big Chill from the point of view of someone who didn't grow up in the sixties is a painful experience. Being emotionally and socioeconomically distanced from the subject matter, the film's flaws are glaring and verging on insulting, if it wasn't for the film's sheer naivete. While the cast is otherwise impressive, and Lawrence Kasdan has produced some work of note (penning Empire Strikes Back and Raiders of the Lost Ark), the film's premise is one of Yuppie self-infatuation. The film's characters lament a lost youth of idealized rebelliousness, while never drawing to attention to the fact that they have become the very epitome of what they once railed against - the establishment (and mastheads at that). Their woes are excruciatingly superficial - it's as if real problems don't exist. It's the 80s at its worst - displaying cheap sentimentality, manipulatingly conveyed through a conspicuously consumable soundtrack, no doubt one of the most successful soundtrack albums ever, found in the record collections of every baby boomer. It's interesting to note that Lawrence Kasdan tried to replicate the success of this film with Grand Canyon which was an even greater mess, incorporating another staple of the boomer generation - New Age Philosophy. (Shudder, shudder) "},{"Title":"The Big Chill (1983) *1/2","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw THE BIG GYP theatrically in 1983 when I was 21 but didn't remember much about it so I rented it for a new viewing. I figured that since I'm now older myself I might be able to identify with the people and their experiences in the film and get some self-awareness out of it, but the only thing I realized is that I had a good reason for not remembering this. Oh, the idea is promising enough a mutual friend dies of suicide, and so after the funeral a group of now-grown anything goes in the '80s yuppies gather together in a house for the weekend to supposedly re-evaluate their own lives and try to gain a little self-realization (if not self respect). Problem is, none of these characters are very interesting or likable, and nothing is really going on here, neither intellectually nor physically to hold your attention. Unless you count that I've always had a thing for the dark-haired Jobeth Williams, kind of thought Glenn Close was pretty alluring in an offbeat sort of way, and enjoyed watching the pretty Meg Tilly doing her leg exercises.A real nothing of a film, despite the infusion of a kick-ass soundtrack of classic '60s tunes and the bumping of hips around the kitchen to the sounds of Ain't Too Proud To Beg. *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The Big Enema","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wish I had a buck for everyone who told me this was their life story when this movie first came out. Do they still feel that way I wonder? On viewing it some 20 years later I'm struck by how smug & supercilious these characters all are, particularly Kline & Close. Were they supposed to be depicting such shallow vain self-satisfied characters? Or has time altered perspective? The platitudes spouted right & left that were amusing then are laughable at best now. And what would happen if all that great top-40 1960s & 1970s R&R background music was eliminated? What might have given this movie a more lasting edge (at least for me) is if the director had taken the running gag of the various characters performing for the found camcorder & used it as a general theme; that is have the whole film be a staged for the camcorder performance. Then this saturation of self-consciousness carryings-on might have been warranted.As always, fine performances by Hurt, Goldblum & Place. And a very lovely Meg Tilly. "}{"Title":"Not a good movie","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the most boring movies I have seen.  While watching this movie, I expected for a plot to show up at some point.  It never did.  It was just a bunch of people taking drugs and talking.  What a great idea for a film.  "},{"Title":"A real snore of a movie","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are ever having trouble going to sleep, and this movie is on TV, just watch The Big Chill. Watch for 20 minutes and you will be out. This film is about friends from college re-uniting at a funeral. The movie is EXTREMELY heavy on dialouge and low on any meaningful scenes. Just watching these boring characters talk will put you to sleep. The only somewhat interesting character is William Hurt. He is interesting because he has a drug problem. His drug problem is about the only action in the film. No, the drug use is the only scene without mindless talking, so it is all the action in The Big Chill. I did not believe that the director did a good job establishing the characters' past relationships with each other. I felt somewhat cheated that I did not get a sense of how these characters interacted in the past. Wow, the cast still drink, smoke pot, and talk about the old times. They must have loved each other like brothers and sisters in college. The director just assumes, incorrectly that the viewer can relate on how close these characters were. In conclusion, all of the characters stunk besides William Hurt. This movie is supposed to have a point to it. I think that it might be the older you get, the more you cherish the past and question the future. At least that is the point I got after sitting through this mind-numbing talk fest. "},{"Title":"Kasdan seems to have been raised on television (and yet has contempt for the medium)","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1960s college radicals in the present day yuppies, aging hipsters, a television star, and a lonely wife. Director/co-writer Lawrence Kasdan was probably the kind of college radical who protested in his living room, in front of the TV set. He sets up the most obvious of gags, complete with character cut-outs, and yet he does manage a laugh or two--but it's purely on the good will brought about by the actors. The writing does not exist on any plane of reality, the changes in tone are jarring, the dialogue is frequently juvenile and/or embarrassing. Just as William Hurt is about to explain his sexual dysfunction to Mary Kay Place, we get a 'funny' jump cut to another room where the other characters react to Place's high-pitched scream, but--ha, ha--she's just reacting to a bat which has flown into the room. That's a good one. Or how about when Meg Tilly tells the story of her deceased boyfriend who didn't eat meat because he was afraid he'd be reincarnated as a steak. This is the kind of nudge-wink material Kasdan can't seem to get passed. Some of the players--Jeff Goldblum, Glenn Close and Kevin Kline, in particular--do rise above the occasion. Meg Tilly is much like a friendly, stoned bunny rabbit, but hers is an insulting role. William Hurt is made to be sullen and combative, and yet this character would not have shown up for the party. Mary Kay Place has another insulting role (she's just there to get pregnant!), and I have no idea what JoBeth Williams or Tom Berenger were trying for. A few moments do hit the bull's-eye, and the nostalgia inherent in the theme (coupled with an oldies soundtrack) was enough to win over audiences. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Self-impressed babyboomer-cum-yuppie swill","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have an uncle who's a real jackass. I was talking to his daughter once and told her I had no idea what to talk to him about. Her suggestion was, Talk to him about himself! He's a babyboomer, it's their favorite topic. This movie is another product to feed babyboomers obsession that they were or are still important; long after they've ruined an entire generation of their own children, and lost any interest in politics for anything but personal gain. Here you have all the whitebread sanctimony you could ever require from a movie.Kasdan should have directed car commercials. That's about how much depth and nuance he's capable of. Kevin Kline is a particularly horrid standout in the ensemble. His whole understanding of drama is to deliver his lines with absolute lifeless sincerity, and constipated deep expressions. 20 years later he's still making junk along these lines (My life as a house, that Dead Poets Society rip-off) "},{"Title":"Doesn't Warm Up","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After the funeral of a member of its circle, a group of former college buddies gathers for a weekend of grieving, albeit with drugs, alcohol, and sex. This was Kasdan's second stint as writer-director after the success of Body Heat, but he falls short of his lofty goals. Apparently he was going for an incisive drama about the meaning of life. The characters broach heavy topics but don't get below the surface, typically copping out of such conversations with a joke. Hence, there is a lot of talking but little is said. The all-star ensemble is impressive, but it's hard to warm up to the characters, who are smug yuppies. More thawing needed. "},{"Title":"A crash course in apathy and self love.","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie came up in a conversation I was having with friend of mine (film guy), and he gasped in disbelief when I told him I'd never seen it. So I rented it and made it through the entire thing. Pretty grueling. I kept expecting something to happen. I don't mean a car explosion or anything, just something... It was like an episode of Days of our Lives. A bunch of people talk and talk and screw each other but when it finally and mercifully comes to an end, it's all quite inconsequential. None of the characters seem to care about anything but themselves, and as the viewer, I doubt you'll care about any of them. I wish they'd have introduced the suicidal character before he died, as he would've likely been much more interesting than any of the ones featured. People say the soundtrack is the best part... Unfortunately, I'll never hear The Who's You Can't Always Get What You Want again without connecting it to this film. throw on a record and save yourself from having to sit through this grossly overrated self- righteous snooze-fest. "},{"Title":"movie about self important thirty something yuppies in the 80's","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, let me say this is a movie with a great cast of actors, most of them going on to really define themselves in other movies as true talents. That being said, this movie is really dated, and if it was other people acting in it would fail completely. Having lived in Ann Arbor for five years on the campus of the University of Michigan, I can honestly say that the director truly did capture the smug self importance of university of Michigan alumni. This he got down perfectly, as well as the narcissism and ego of the baby-boomer generation, who hypocritically dove head first into greed and money after sowing revolutionary oats in the sixties.But most of all, this film seems to be about the confusion and despair those of that generation were during the early years of the , capitalist 80's. The characters reconnecting after one of their college friends killed himself because he felt he was a failure, speaks volumes for the self induced pressures placed on those of that time. Real or imaginary, failure didn't seem to be an option.Tom Berrenger as the movie star character of J.T. Lancer, a take off of T.J. Hooker of course, seems the most out of place amongst this group of friends, he doesn't seem like a Michigan graduate, way too good looking and far less cerebral. Jeff Goldblum would be perfect, he would have been a student and graduate from Michigan, intelligent, smug, self important, selfish.The woman who wants a baby, the character played by Mary Kaye Place, she claims she just wants someone to Plant the seed but when Jeff Goldblum offers she says something sarcastic about how it wasn't romantic, if she truly just wanted someone to plant the seed and nothing more romance shouldn't be a consideration. This of course is just one flaw in the film. Overall, at the time this came out, and for people of a certain generation I'm sure this was an important film, but now in this day and age it is way less relevant, as many wish they had the luxury of choosing to reject capitalism, most are struggling to get by during this time of the great reset. "},{"Title":"Cannot love this movie enough!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this movie by searching for all William Hurt performances. Yes, there was a period of time that I just didn't think anybody is better than Bill Hurt. (Hey, he is been nominated for best support this year for Oscar! I wonder whether he will walk the red-carpet. He has said openly that he hates it.) Then, of course I fall in love with this movie immediately. Great cast, acting, writing, directing, music and everything about a sweet feeling we all have for old friends, and something we all would like to go back to revisit. Hurt's performance is once again interestingly intriguing. Close is as good as always. Tilly is always surprising. And after this movie, I watched several other movies by Mary Kay Place and liked her very much. Some people suggested to make a sequel while all these actors are still active. I agree with it 100% and I will be the first in line to see it.And if you noticed where I am living now, you'd understand it is sweet to hear all the movie characters talking about Ann Arbor and University of Michigan. Hey..... "},{"Title":"Nostalgia Comes Cold-Calling","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Seven college friends gather for the suicide funeral of one of their clique; separated for years, mildly estranged and rediscovering each other like diaries in an attic.A chick-flick clothed in tracksuit pants, lord help us all if we didn't somehow relate to these 1980-something characters, with their yuppie elitism and consumerist élan; forced to live in denial of their anti-establishment pedigree to accept the fact that their fashionable mid-life careers are anything but revolutionary.So often in life we are reminded that our best friends are those whom we created before we created ourselves; they spurred our shape-shift into the beings we would become - hence the over-arching nostalgic poignancy to this movie, as we realize the person with whom we are watching it is *not* one of those initiates. Got news for you they're thinking the same thing.Self-analytical to a fault, yet oddly compelling due to intelligent dialog and a flawless ensemble cast, every character examining their purpose in life and, in the course of a weekend, apparently discovering it.Believe enough of this introspective guff and we'll *all* be slashing our wrists.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I could, I would rate The Big Chill at 100!!! When this movie came out in 1983 I was working in a law firm in New Orleans. After seeing the movie, several co-workers told me that I just HAD to see it because they knew I would like it. Well, I didn't see it until early 1985, in Sioux Falls, SD, at a 'second run' theatre. I was so overwhelmed that I actually cried several times during the movie (which may have been because my friend and I drank 2 pitchers of beer while watching it). Whatever the reason, after that, I watched it at every opportunity available, even setting my alarm clock for ungodly times in the middle of the night to get up and turn the TV on. (This was many years before I owned a VCR, you have to realize.) I even watched it on cable channels I didn't have; sometimes I could see it and sometimes I could only hear it, yet I was up watching it in the middle of the night! To this day, I still can't NOT watch it if I see it's on TV, even though I have two copies of my own. Although I quit counting the number of times I've seen it several years ago at 47, I have an annual ritual of watching it on New Year's Eve, just in case I didn't see it during that year.I know I'm prejudiced, but I don't understand why people give it negative ratings. I don't think it's whiny, and the narratives (talk, talk, talk) are what make the movie, along with the sound track, of course. I admit that I haven't seen Return of the Secaucus Seven, so I can't make a comparison. I would love to see it, though. "}{"Title":"Wonderful, witty, charming, and touching.","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie reminds me of professional wrestling or George W. Bush. You either love it or hate it, very little middle ground. Personally I love it. When I first saw it in high school I had a group of friends who I was very close with and we knew each other as Big Chill friends. Today I could not tell you where one of them is. What I like about the movie most is the characters. There is something about every character, even Alex, I can relate to, and there is something about every character that reminds me of at least one person I knew in college. The dialog is very real, what would actually be said in that situation. I did not think the movie seemed very scripted. There are some LOL moments, some misty eye moments, some poignant moments, etc... I think anyone who is 30+ has the same questions as the characters in this movie. As a bonus, it simply has the best soundtrack I have ever heard. The songs fit the mood of the movie in general, and the specific scenes perfectly. They are not just songs for the sake of songs. Anytime I hear one of the songs from this film I immediately think Big Chill. Even 22 years after I first saw it, there are some scenes which just resonate so clearly with me. I like the fact the flashback scenes were cut out, I think it is best Alex is left faceless and you still get to know a bit about him. It is also a very well made movie. It fits together like a puzzle. Clues in part A make sense when you get to part B. Overall a great film with a tremendous cast. It is a movie you have to listen and pay attention to in order to get something from it. If all you like is Die Hard type movies, you will not get it. But if you like movies such as Dead Poets Society, Stand By Me, Good Will Hunting, Diner, Breaking Away, etc... watch The Big Chill. By the way, this movie DID NOT rip off Return of Secaucus 7. If you watch the extras of TBC DVD you know the idea for it came in the late 1970's. 1983 is simply the release date of TBC, it was not written, pitched, filmed, and released in one year. There are similarities, and a lot of differences too. TBC stands alone. UPDATE Feb & Mar 2011 because of Facebook i am now in touch with my Big Chill friends "},{"Title":"It just fell short","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A situational comedy, drama that revolves around the death of a man named Alex. His death is the cause for a reunion of old college friends. Allof them with their own separate problems.The one bright light in this film is the hilarious acting by Jeff Goldbloom, and decent lines delivered by Kevin Kline. Overall the screenplay of this film lets it down. Filled with bad ideas and character discussions, the film quickly becomes unenjoyable. Also with way to many cast members to keep track of during the movie you quickly lose interest.I was disappointed because they had a great situation a setting to make a phenomenal comedy but sold out to monotonous melodrama and uninteresting themes. All in all this flick fell short of being good. And yet a again another eighties film fails. Glenn Close's character made no sense or just a little to much sense to be any good. Also horrible use of drugs to try to interest you in the characters. Only if it was a comedy! "},{"Title":"Top notch script and some great performances","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a top notch script by Lawrence Kasdan, director of Empire Strikes Back and many other films. It's very similar to Return of the Secaucus 7, but while I found that film to be dull, the dialogue here is so clever I've watched this movie over and over across the years. It's one of my favorite films. A couple of the performances (Berenger and his gal pal mostly) are rather stiff, but the rest of the cast is lots of fun to watch. Probably most popular with the over-40 crowd these days. My 70 year old dad thought it was offensive. "},{"Title":"I will never tire of watching this","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A great, great movie.  Every bit of dialogue, every subtle facial expression, every performance is dead on.  The fantastic cast brings Kasdan's witty, insightful script to life.  It gets funnier every time I see it and I'm probably up to a dozen viewings.  Oh, and has there ever been a better soundtrack ?  Not just great songs, but each is perfect for it's particular scene. "},{"Title":"A good one!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films.I saw it when it came out in 83 and I was 15.I liked it then and now I am 35 and appreciate it even more. I've seen it several times and each time,I notice a little something I hadn't before.If you REALLY listen to the dialogue and think about it,you'll see its universal qualities. Yes,the characters were having a pity party.Wondering how their lives turned out the way the had.This is something most of us eventually go through.Lucky for them they had friends to discuss their feelings with.Self-examination is very important for becoming a better person.It just so happened they were right around that age when people start thinking twice.I'm sure if there was a sequel,we'd see how they turned their lives around. I would recommend giving this film a second look with an open mind and really trying to understand what the characters are saying,not just looking at the surface. I will,however,concur with others,that some things are dated in the film.Especially the lineKarenI know Richard would never cheat on me Kevin Klinemm.Trust KarenNo,fear of herpes.  I've been thinking they could dub it Fear of AIDS. As far as Glen Close's character letting her hubby impregnate Meg,maybe it was her way of alleviating the guilt she had for cheating with Alex...just a thought. "},{"Title":"Trite","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I did not see this movie when it was first released - I was only 11 years old at the time. However, I stumbled upon it late last night and was not impressed to say the least. Not only was it bland, but it was so reeking of the conventional wisdom of the time that it did not appeal to me whatsoever as a now 31 year old woman, despite that the characters complained of many common thirty-something travails(although I don't think it highly likely that one would lend one's husband to a childless friend - how very book of Genesis). I've always heard good things about this movie, so I am surprised that it was this awful. The acting was fine, it was the story that left me cold. I agree with what another commenter said - no wonder Alex killed himself if these characters were representative of the kind of friends he had. "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler alert! I recommend this movie for one reason only I am a fanatic about all things Kevin Kline. Otherwise, it was somewhat pretentious and self-absorbed without any real storyline or character development I could see, certainly not elevated to the genius level some people seem to believe. The part where Glenn Close allows Kevin Kline (her husband) to sleep with her best friend to get her pregnant destroys any small amount of credibility the script had going for it and drops my rating from what would have been a 6 to a 5. As others have noted, the soundtrack is great, and it does seem to be the inspiration for the TV show Friends, albeit on a little deeper level.   "},{"Title":"A generation's middle-class angst","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rockin' little movie that works like a good stage play. Entertaining faceoffs among  disparate characters searching for a truth to call their own. Outstanding ensemble  cast of mostly then-unknowns gets down and dirty with each other in the mostgenteel manner. An excellent character study of how basically okay old friends in  pain cope with death, life, each other, and being forced to grow up. Generally fine  script has its overdone moments, but for the most part rings as true as any film  of this type. Features some of Kevin Costner's best work to date. "},{"Title":"Neither here, nor there","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this film one of the more boring I've seen recently. It reaches no great heights, nor any real lows. I feel that it may not have aged well, as most of the discussion seems lacklustre and outdated. Most of the characters give you no reason to like them, especially those of Jeff Goldblum and John Hurt who are quite unlikeable.I wouldn't recommend against it, but I fail to see how it is considered a 'classic' "},{"Title":"The big chill-out weekend, or the death of a friend puts a big chill on things?? Not certain about the title.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't remember exactly when I first saw The Big Chill, but it was probably 16 to 19 years ago. Tonight, on the AMC channel I saw it again. As is usually the case, most of the film was new to me after all this time. All the actors are 50 to 55 now, which means they were about 30 to 35 then, and their reunion was triggered by a death of one of their friends, played by Kevin Costner, whose flashback parts were all cut, and all we see of him are clips of a mortician dressing his body in the opening scene.So, the premise of the story is a very simple one, this group of 7 old classmates plus their dead friend's girlfriend (Meg Tilley) spend a weekend in close proximity, and lots of things, good and bad, come out. The dialog and acting are superb, and Kasden was fortunate to have so many actors who have continued to become big stars. Jeff Goldbloom is a geek, obviously makes plays for each woman, even Kline's wife (Glen Close), and strikes out each time. A side story is Mary Kay Place's desire to get pregnant, and finally Close volunteers her husband, Kline, and was well-done as a testament to how strong her trust was of him. William Hurt's character is bitter, partly because his wound in Viet Nam made him impotent, but in the end Tilley latches onto him for who he is, and they stick around to work on the old house of Costner's together.Overall a landmark film, a great set of character studies and done in a very believable manner. The South Carolina setting is very pleasant. This is one of those films that everyone should see. "}{"Title":"And the point of this exercise is--?","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A half-dozen or so of the best new actors in Hollywood at the time (1983) spend an autumn weekend in South Carolina reliving their college years of the late 60's.  A few good lines, a sweet young thing (Meg Tilly), and a little officially-sanctioned adultery revitalize their lives, all to the beat of a generically-great song score of 60's pop classics.  But it all hasn't aged very well.  Even Glenn Close dismissed her Oscar nod for her role as Sarah because she was crying naked in the shower.  The saddest statement of this film is that none of these actors are still stars in movies.  Jeff Goldblum, Kevin Kline, & Close occasionally get a juicy supporting role but rarely a lead anymore.  It's an okay flick if you've never seen it before but resonance is the least of its charms. "},{"Title":"The Midlife Crises of Ordinary People","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nothing is more boring to me than any movie or book about someone else's midlife crisis, and The Big Chill is about nothing but a bunch of privileged baby boomers in the middle of them.The big cast features all sorts of actors who would go on to become big stars of the 1980s and beyond Glenn Close, William Hurt, Kevin Kline, Tom Berenger, Jeff Goldblum. There's no denying the chemistry between these fine actors, but the whole movie feels whiny and self-indulgent. I sense that it may be one of those films that you have to be the right age to appreciate. After all, I was all of eight years old when it came out, and saw it while I was still in college. Actually, it was aimed squarely at people who in 1983 were about the age I am now, so maybe I should revisit it.Grade C "},{"Title":"The Big Yawn","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I bought a copy of this film only on the strong recommendation of a friend of mine. Watched it last night and here are my views. Great cast, all excellent actors, somewhat early in their careers. All went on to much better films. I can see what attracted them to this script, the ensemble writing is evenly doled out, the American angst is well proportioned and clearly expressed. For me it is entirely dated and is fading fast. What appeared so neat and chick in 1983 now looks too self conscious and although well intentioned, limp like a wet noodle. I kept thinking of other films that had family and friend dynamics that really left an impression. Think of Ordinary People, of Terms of Endearment and if you really want to have your eyebrows scorched, the white hot interpersonal relationship between Jack Nicholson and his estranged family when he returns home for a visit in Ironweed.The Big Chill does exactly that it cools out each and every single opportunity for these characters to catch fire and spit out some sparks. Why Kasdan, who both wrote and directed this movie, opted to smooth out all possibility of real drama is not clear to me. The film could have exploded along many different lines of friction. Instead all possible avenues of heat were subsumed by the relentless pit stops into self-examination, terminal long staring into the camera as the person thinks about something and then cut into the next scene without any closure. We get a drama that had all the makings of a volcanic eruption but the earth barely shook. It was all cooled out into a feel good retrospective of a generation that was unable to mourn for a lost friend and unable to emote past an adolescent level. No one was willing to give 100% and really hurt anyone and if pain was visible it was hugged away, kissed away and finally banished with too many you know I love you answers. Really, I thought who talks this way? In real life, conflicts do not go so smoothly, almost ever. So, what was Kasdan offering us? A vision of bright people who were unable to take any meaningful risks at reaching each other at the core of the heart, too afraid to commit themselves lest they cause some discomfort along the way. The script ended up, for me at least, in portraying these fine actors as shallow and that is a shame. They can all act very well and the story could have been much darker. From where I sit in 2006 this film looks sad, dated and despite great music, half of what it could have been. If this film had been released today I suspect people would laugh, unable to see themselves in the exchanges that pass as communication. I was quite disappointed. "},{"Title":"Versus The Return of the Secaucus Seven.","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Most people probably know that The Big Chill was a remake of John Sayles's directorial debut The Return of the Secaucus Seven, about some radical friends getting back together. Here, they turned the friends into yuppies and added the part about the suicide. But it's still a good movie. Tom Berenger, Glenn Close, Kevin Kline, William Hurt, Jeff Goldblum, Mary Kay Place, JoBeth Williams, and Meg Tilly all star, and this movie certainly affirmed that they were to be the next generation of great American actors and actresses, even if some of them didn't do too much afterwards (Kevin Costner of course played the deceased friend, even though his scenes were left on the editing room floor). And of course, there's the soundtrack whether it's You Can't Always Get What You Want, I Heard It Through the Grapevine, or something similar, this flick had a great selection of songs. A true classic. "},{"Title":"half-assed imitation of a much better film","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've come to use The Big Chill as a litmus test over the years. Hollywood, in the person of Kasdan, made this Hollywoodized version of Return of the Secaucus Seven, and made it fake and false where Sayle's film was low-key, well-observed and believable. Anyone who tells me they prefer it has different tastes than mine.Yes, it has a great cast, great production values, and a great soundtrack--all that money can buy. Unfortunately, its writing and conception are Hollywood conceits, shallow and silly. Not only are the characters less interesting than in Sayles's work, albeit better played, growing up in The Big Chill means giving up ANY AND ALL your idealism, as opposed to finding ways to live up to them, which is what real people try to do.Fortunately, the whining Baby Boomer characters that Kasdan so likes are becoming unfashionable, and modern audiences seem to be seeing through this piece of tripe. "},{"Title":"Story is conflict. But this story has none.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On a rainy Friday night, staring out the window watching the rain fall will be more exciting than this movie. As has been stated in other reviews criticizing The Big Chill, nothing really happens. A group of old college friends gather for the weekend after the funeral of one of their pals. They talk, they eat, they dance. But that's it. No drama! No conflict! No real plot! A complete bore. Yes, the all-star cast is very good. The production values are decent. There's even a couple of good oldies inserted in the movie that make you move to the music. But that's not good enough to keep one's interest for nearly two hours. I couldn't wait for the movie to end as I kept looking at my watch every 5 minutes. I'm a fan of Lawrence Kasdan. Looking at the roster of flicks he's written over the years (Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Empire Strikes Back) you can see this guy has talent. But I wonder how this movie managed to win a WGA for best original comedy much less get nominated for a Best Picture Oscar. A dull movie-viewing experience. "},{"Title":"Whine, whine","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A bunch of apparent grown-ups who forgot to grow up, and spend the duration of the film whining--one of the bigger disappointments of my film-watching career. "},{"Title":"Horid , But Kevin Costners Finest Acting Role Ever in a Movie","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You have to give it one star, because it's the lowest possible. The basic plot of this movie is that people have serious problems, fornicate for a weekend, and return to their lives completely whole.This movie is so bad. A suicide of a member of this group has brought them together to reflect on their lives. In Kevin Costner's finest acting role, he plays a corpse who has given these self obsessed people a reason to screw their brains out for a weekend.I have know idea why this was a hit. It's so bad. Please don't waste 2 hours of your life. Skip this movie at all costs.(For those of you who don't get irony, Kevin Costner speaks no lines in this movie, thus making it his best performance ever.) The message of this movie is if you have unresolved psychological issues a little bit of whoopee will solve everything. Pure garbage. "},{"Title":"Garbage, pure garbage","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" O.k. For those of you who aren't looking for an in depth analysis of the film, just want to know if it's worth watching, let me start out by saying the movie is worthless drivel. This movie has a reputation of almost being a modern classic. So like most movie fans I thought I'd give it a look. What a disappointment. I would have been much better off watching Mama's family reruns. And that show was horrible of course. Though the film has some great actors (And some of my favorite actors - Tom Berenger and Kevin Klein sp?) That is literally the only positive comment I have about this movie. The story is simply terrible. Dark depressing drivel. This reminds me of some of Hemingway's later work. He was hailed as a great author. And then he shot himself. And people realized that he was not great he was depressed. This movie is another of those situations. If you like movies that are intentionally depressing and morbid, this is for you. I, on the other hand, am just waiting to find out that the principle creator of this film has shot him/herself. Or committed suicide in some other way. We can only hope that the people who were involved in this hunk of worthless garbage have not made any more movies. After I finish this warning (review is not nearly a strong enough word) to other movie lovers, I will look up the film makers and note them. If only to be sure I never again subject myself to such simplistic trash. You can bet that many of the positive reviews on this movie are posted by bandwagon viewers. In other words, people who write positive reviews simply because of the movie's reputation. Do not waste your time on this one. Absolutely any movie would be better to watch than this one. "},{"Title":"Leave it in the freezer","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are a couple of wonderful moments in The Big Chill the touch-football sequence, and the scene in which all the characters are jamming to the Temptations' Ain't Too Proud to Beg while making dinner. Had Kasdan kept these three or four minutes and left the plot and dialog on the cutting-room floor, he could have spliced together a handful of entertaining beer commercials that would have contributed far, far more to our culture than The Big Chill. In and of itself, The Big Chill isn't that bad. It's just a silly soap opera that might deceive you into thinking it's High Art because of the A-list cast and pretensions to seriousness. It's very calming to watch, thanks to its shadowy lighting and Kasdan's preference for soft colors. No actor is particularly outstanding, but no one embarrasses himself. Special kudos must be awarded Oscar nominee Glenn Close, who, as adulterous wife Sarah, is able to deliver Harlequin Romance lines like there was a secret place in me that only Alex could touch as if a human being could actually say them. But what makes The Big Chill vile is its ideology.Has any movie done more damage to this country? On a superficial level, we had to endure thirtysomething and pathetic reunion tours by every washed-up 60's band on Earth. There's also the sad fact that movies like The Big Chill convinced a few addle-headed members of my demographic group (I was born in 1967) to try to create some kind of generational identity. (It was doomed to fail there weren't that many of us, we didn't face an existential threat on the level of the Vietnam War and the self-appointed voice of our generation was Douglas Coupland, who couldn't write.) On a more permanent, damning level, it's possible that The Big Chill helped cement the myth of American decline. Please note, none of the aging hippies in this film were the slightest bit disappointed in or dissatisfied with themselves. No, they were angry at the world that didn't live up to their ideals. Particularly nauseating is Mary Kay Place, a crusading public defender who lost interest in her job when she found out she'd have to represent actual criminals. A close second is smug creep Kevin Kline, who dismisses all music released after, say, 1971 as garbage and rationalizes his materialism with a single throwaway line. The ultimate message of The Big Chill is that the world is going to hell, so you might as well make yourself a nice cup of herbal tea, toke up a number and nestle in your nice, big suburban house. Which this country's entire upper class has done while three genocides have raged and the children of the working class have fought and died in two wars.But there is one saving grace to The Big Chill the filmmakers had the wisdom to cut Kevin Costner out of the movie. Imagine Kevin Costner and William Hurt in the same scene . . . it's a termite's wet dream. "}{"Title":"I waited 25 years for this?!?!?","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I actually saw this movie when I was 9 years old in the theaters. My parents took me and I didn't understand any of it. Why they took me at that age is still a mystery to me to this day! But, this movie has always stuck in my head and I said when I get into my 30's Ill give it another try. Wow, what a let-down! I like a good serious-comedy every once in a while but this one was just too weird for me. Most of the characters were just un-inspiring and boring and the few that did have some life were just creepy. Giving your husband away to impregnate your friend? Talk about screwed up morals. In the real world this becomes a big problem and never ends well. Not to mention as a father of 3 boys it would make me feel like a real winner trying to explain to that kid when he gets older how and why he was conceived. I guess his answer would be something like; well we all got stoned for the weekend after our friend killed himself and thought having an illegitimate son would be a lot of fun. Although I think the 60's produced a lot of good music, the afterbirth of ideas are just horrible. Thank God the movie industry has moved on from such ideological, boring crap. This movies does have good actors before they were stars. Instead, rent earth girls are easy for that, at least you'll laugh a little. "},{"Title":"Tasty ingredients don't make a complete feast","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With a simply superb funeral introduction, it would be able to be fooled into thinking this movie the classic some make to be. For an 80's flick the audience-friendly, adult get-together plays out like The Breakfast Club for yuppies, exuding some memorable energy at points but misfiring just as clearly at others.Unfortunately, when it appears Kasdan has managed to authentically capture this old group of friends admirably, besides for throwing in occasional juicy tidbits of underplayed drama, the arc begins falling around midpoint and never manages to recuperate steam.Some of the lines feel extremely foolish by now, but the chemistry between this group remains. "},{"Title":"Hey gang, let's put on a show!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Seven friends from collage get together 15 years later to attend the funeral of one of their college day chums who has committed suicide apparently because he felt he couldn't match up to the success of the others. So begins the implausible plot line of this film by director Larence Kasden. Kasden started his directorial career with a nice tribute to film noir movie in Body Heat but then for some reason felt that every movie he would make from then on would be a large ensemble cast feature like Silverado, Wyatt Earp, The Accidental Tourist, I Love You To Death and Mumford. It reminds me of those old Mickey Rooney movies when Mickey says, Hey gang, let's put on a show! I'm surprised with Kasden's love for big casts that he never put out a musical. The Big Chill stars Tom Berenger, Glen Close, Jeff Goldbloom, William Hurt, Kevin Kline, Mary Kay Place, Meg Tilly, Jo Beth Williams and a few others in this yuppie yawner. Lawrence Kasden and Barbara Benedek were nominated for the Academy Award for Best Screenplay for this film as was Glen Close for Best Supporting Actress. Incredibly the film was also nominated for Best Picture. It didn't win any awards which spared the audience of having the entire cast come on stage to accept. This movie has some good moments and a good cast of ascending stars and a good soundtrack of 60's tunes but it goes nowhere, the characters accomplish nothing and you don't really care about the characters after spending a couple of hours with them. Alex was the only one to kill himself but perhaps a mass suicide would have worked better and spared us from this self-absorbed inspiration to the TV show 30 Something. I would give it a 5.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Old college friends get together for the funeral of their friend and look at what their lives have become.","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movies as a part of my philosophy class. I what you are thinking, just another cynical college student. These were my observations of the film. I realize that there is a huge generation gap between me and these characters, but the time in their lives which they are lamenting is the time which I am currently living. I have the idealism that seem to see lacking in their lives. but at the same time I see a huge difference. They all set out to change the world. I know that I have no hope of changing the world. All I can do is make my little piece of it better. By that I mean that having a family and a stable environment for your children, and providing a force for good in whatever way you can. The whole cheating on your spouse side of the plot angered both me and my classmates, and Harold impregnating Meg was just disturbing. I can see how that could be seen as a huge sacrifice and gift to a friend in need but I don't agree with it. But these are the values that I was raised with and in no way I do not expect everyone to abide by them. You have to make up your own mind when it comes to that. I discussed the movie not just with classmates but also with my parents. The funny thing was that my mom didn't like the movie either. But the movie is definitely generational and that is probably the reason why I did not enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Rekindled idealism '60s Style!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE BIG CHILL (1983) **** William Hurt, Kevin Kline, Glenn Close, JoBeth Williams, Tom Berenger, Jeff Goldblum, Mary Kay Place, Meg Tilly.  Landmark achievement in dialogue heavy film with brilliant ensemble acting make this a contemporary classic of the Baby Boomer set seven college friends are reunited by a friend's suicide/funeral and spend a few days getting reacquainted in more ways than one.  Very amusing and realistic depiction of strained friendships and second acts in American's lives.  Great sixties' music soundtrack.  Produced by Johnny Carson (!)  Incidentally Kevin Costner's role as Alex (the stiff) was cut by director Lawrence Kasdan who made up for him with Silverado.  "},{"Title":"Sparing Look at Self-Indulgent, Well-Written Characters","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lots of spoilersI just saw this movie for the first time since it was out in the theaters and liked it better this time around. This movie more than others depends on the viewer. When I saw it in 1983, as someone who had graduated from college in 1977, so nine years younger than the characters, and feeling that my generation had always been ferociously overshadowed by those college graduates whom Time Magazine had put on its cover that year, I was resentful at the hogging of the spotlight, the relentless introspection, the self-indulgence (with sex, with drugs, with grandiosity) of that generation. Most of the characters seemed so relentlessly concerned with whether they were happy, whether they were fulfilling themselves - and so little with whether others around them were. Their refusal to accept life as it came - whether it was the absence of a child, a role in a popular but superficial television series, a stable if unstimulating marriage and family, the death of a lover, was distressing. Instead, they seemed to me to leap the bonds of morality -the lover taking another within two days of his death, marital infidelity, flagrant disregard of every narcotics law (and utter contempt for police) - all were justified so they could reach for happiness. I was disgusted by these people.I also personally didn't like the music - my favorites of that period weren't Motown but the equally popular and much harder music of Mountain, T. Rex, Cream, Bachman-Turner Overdrive, Faces, The Kinks, Deep Purple, Yes, Led Zeppelin, The Who, Delaney and Bonnie, Traffic - in fact, looking back, I blame this movie now for being partially responsible for the elevation of Motown to status of being considered as THE music of the late 1960s - where in fact it was merely one of the contenders at the time. Seeing the movie again, I think the characters are very well-drawn - they seem like very real people. Jeff Goldblum's character is very funny, everyone's performances wonderful, and the pace and evolution are very well-done. I think the ending is too tidy - e.g., SOMEONE  would be outraged at Meg Tilly so easily falling in with William Hurt, and Hurt's sudden decision to stay put is not credible - we haven't seen his evolution.The movie is too smug about Don Galloway's conservative middle class character - it's as if he's beneath the others' efforts to sympathize. He's NOT part of the clique and apparently the writer feels that this justifies sympathy for JoBeth Williams' decision to be unfaithful. I LIKED the Galloway character and disliked the other characters for their exclusion of him. Similarly, if the dead Alex were SO remarkable, could he really have found a relationship with the empty-headed Meg Tilly character? Perhaps - but we don't learn what appealed. She's certainly not charming, warm, attractive, witty. One does wonder if she is supposed to represent a clueless younger generation - but that's probably unfair to the writer - she's just a character not a symbol.There is something unattractive about former radicals somehow seeing that period of their lives as somehow more genuine, more true - the truth is that if that period were more true of themselves, they'd grow even more like that as they grew older. It's a sort of nostalgia for the sandbox.All in all, I'd recommend  the movie - there have been imitators since (e.g., the awful Peter's Friends, St. Elmo's Fire, and many others) that aren't as good. I haven't seen The Return of the Secaucus Seven - to which the movie is compared unfavorably, but I wonder if I'd like it as much as seeing William Hurt or Glenn Close, Kevin Kline or Jo Beth Williams - and perhaps most Tom Berenger as a very sweet, slightly dim and very humble man.  "},{"Title":"good","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i thought this was a pretty decent drama.it's about a group of former friends who have gone their own ways,and years later are reunited at the funeral of a close friend.it's well acted,for the most part,but there were a few moments which felt a bit contrived.maybe that's just me.the music soundtrack is outstanding with classics from the 60's and 70's.i might have had a higher opinion of this movie,had i not just watched Ordinary People,which was a brilliant movie.The Big Chill,to me,just didn't have quite the same emotional resonance or impact.still,it's a good movie.Lawrence Kasdan directed the movie and co-wrote it with Barbara Benedek.apparently there is remake in the works as well.for me,The Big Chill is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Eh.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I usually like Lawrence Kasdan's writing, but in this case, I guess you just had to be there. Anyone who didn't grow up (i.e., go to college) in the 70s is probably going to miss out on whatever greatness there is here. Sure, it's a great we're getting older story (and I'm starting to feel that myself), but it's for a certain audience that I just don't fall into. I guess the closest thing I have so far is Romy and Michele's High School Reunion. P "},{"Title":"Old work of art which age has not mellowed.","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nine former flower children loathing their individual losses of innocence. AKA nine boomers at a funeral. Clever dialogue has lost the innocence its characters never had. The film has become a parody of its times---almost unsettling to watch. It is a kitsch archive of cliché incorrectnesses---the splash then drivels now. This movie provides excellent documentary evidence of the narcissism for which my generation has been roundly and justifiably criticized. The characters work through their disappointments by forming an in-group. They assert their personal wagers against ageing and inevitable maturity by jogging in jeans and listening to R&B. Their escapist attitudes are masked by conspicuous consumption (the unrestricted use of an ante-bellum mansion, the custom delivery of brand name runners and the constant discussion of money-making alternative lifestyles). They have no intention, nor can they even consider embracing a circle of interests above and beyond personal gratification.This movie is corporate America at its best---affirmative groupthink for a complacent, competitive and self-hating middle-class. "},{"Title":"Boring with a capital B and that rhymes with C and that stands for Chill.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A big deal was made about the `Big' Chill.  Frankly this was perhaps the most boring motion picture I've ever seen.  None of the characters had any appeal what so ever and it's impossible to imagine any of them as once being radical students.   The plot was&#133;&#133;.well was there a plot?  One can only take so much pasta eating, wine drinking, dancing around the kitchen moments in a movie.  This film is so boring if your watching it and your TV goes out there is nothing wrong with your set it just shut off to avoid further pain to itself.   "}{"Title":"A film made by a limousine liberal about limousine liberals.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great lines, an easy, feel-goody watch.  But don't look for any deep meaning, even though it's professed and intended to be there.The movie basically entails a group of upper middle class (if not flat-out millionaire) white folks who basically spend a weekend together claiming they all feel guilty about their socioeconomical status.  As in I was fine before you all came to our huge summer Colonial, but now I guess I'll have to apologize for being so rich since you all knew me as Rainbow Girl fifteen years ago.I mean, are we really supposed to believe they're genuinely confused and tormented by what their lives have become?  Gee...if you go to med school, you become a doctor.  Gee...if you own a regional chain of stores, you make a lot of money.  Gee...if you go to law school, you become a lawyer.And I'm not buying this evolved thing either.  I think THEY felt worse about the affair than I did...uh, no YOU were the one cheated on you dishrag.  And of course the whole studding out your husband...there's a word for a person who would do that  WEIRDO.The only believable character is Nick (Wm. Hurt), who at least has REAL problems...and he's really the only one who pointed out (briefly) the fact that they were a bunch of privileged kids who had it easy back then.  His comments were scoffed at and ridiculed.The two juiciest lines in the filmPastor Is not the satisfaction of being good among our fellow man good enough to sustain us anymore?Well....ISN'T IT???Richard The thing is...nobody said it was going to be fun.....at least nobody said it to me....Well...IT'S TRUE!!!Why Kasdan didn't make these concepts/questions the core of his movie is beyond me...unless he meant to exhibit the pastor and Richard as uptight bafoons who just don't get it.  In my opinion, the group didn't get it.  "},{"Title":"The Whitest Movie Ever Made","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you're looking for something with narrow appeal, you've found it.  50ish frat boys and sorority girls can use this as a vehicle to misremember and overestimate the importance of their youthful antics and superficial relationships.  With a cast consisting entirely of soulless automatons exuding dime-store angst and sorrow, you can look forward to a combination of the vacuousness of a typical chick flick, combined with a yearning desire for critical respect.A complete waste of time.  Two hours of your life that you'll never get back.  When this film is remade towards the end of this decade, look for Sandra Bullock, Hugh Grant, and Matthew McConaughey to be the cloying, overaged brats on the screen, rather than Jeff Goldblum, a random Tilly, and the always unctious Glenn Close.  The role of Kevin Costner, who was filmed but mercifully ended up on the cutting room floor, will be played by a gradefully aging Frankie Muniz.Run away.    "},{"Title":"Laments of souring idealists...","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't like this movie for that reason.  So the lives of the '60s college radicals didn't turn out like they thought.  Well, big deal.  Life's like that, and you deal with it.  No sense wasting time crying about it, which is what the characters seem to do a lot of.  And why do they do that?  Glen Close's character is a trained doctor.  Well, go out and start a practice or work in a hospital helping people.  Jeff Goldblum's character is a writer.  Good, well, go with that and make something of yourself if you're unhappy writing for People magazine.  Kevin Kline's Harold is obviously a successful businessman.  He could use that to do good works if he's such an idealist.  Meg is a successful attorney.  Well, work for the Public Defender's office.Truth is that characters don't really know what they want to be when they grow up, and that seems to be the theme the picture tries to revolve around.  That can only go so far.  And the climax is silly.  Why would a wife ask her husband to impregnate their mutual friend who is desperate to have a child?  Geez, she's a grown woman, perfectly capable of establishing a relationship and building a life with someone.The only likeable character is Jobeth Williams' husband (Richard), who, perhaps because he has had no contact with the others, seems to have them figured out.  He speaks the truth about life (Nobody said it would be fun.  At least, nobody said it to me.) and then is promptly written out of the story.  If only the others would have learned from that instead of wallowing in self-pity and whining.But, that said, it isn't a bad picture, if you can derive the correct message from it. "},{"Title":"I gave it an objective try","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a snoozer!To put things in perspective, I am 39 years old, so I was 20 when this movie came out.  I can't exactly relate to the pass the joint while we have deep thoughts era of the 1960s.  That is the 'era' in which these characters came.I have older friends that swear by this movie.  They say it's one of the best of all times.I found it all a little too creepy.For starters, I hate early deaths in real life.  Anyone who loses a friend who is 30 something is a bummer.  It is depressing.So, why make a movie that takes place immediately after the funeral?  I just found it creepy.Second, the dialogue of each character was a little to serious for a comedy.  These people were taking themselves way to seriously. I know, I know.  It takes place after a funeral so they should be serious.  BUT WHY MAKE THE MOVIE???And finally, when a married woman openly and willingly offers her husband up to get a girlfriend pregnant is way over the top.  CREEPY!!!No, this was a depressing movie that I thought was quite the snoozer. "},{"Title":"Do their egos fit in their heads?","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was born at the tail end of the baby boom -- 1965. I was also the youngest of five in my family, so I spent my childhood with a pack of genuine baby boomers. I didn't see this film until 2005 when I got it off a dollar rack at Half Price Books. To put it mildly, I made it through about an hour and couldn't stand any more.This movie ushered in the flurry of baby boomer flicks that polluted the movie industry for the next dozen or so years. I was actually relieved when Tom Brokaw's book spotlighted the Greatest Generation, since it was a welcome switch from navel-gazing fifties kids whining about their lost youth. Do baby boomers think no one else ever experienced anything -- love, sex, parenthood, grief? The cast assembled for this movie acquitted themselves well in their respective roles -- but they were playing characters I found so shallow, hypocritical, and over-absorbed with themselves that even a good portrayal didn't save them. "},{"Title":"Left Me Cold","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a tedious film this is. Get a bunch of up and coming ( As these actors were in the early 80s ) film stars and put them in a plot where absolutely nothing whatsoever happens plot wise . THE BIG CHILL is so low concept that its six feet under . I can not believe this movie is so well regarded by IMDB voters . If you find a film involving some friends talking about their poor departed friend Alex compelling you may like this . Personally speaking if this is the company Alex kept while he was alive I`m not surprised he topped himself  "},{"Title":"The Big Chill","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From director Lawrence Kasdan (Body Heat, Wyatt Earp) this drama about friends reunited is pretty good. Basically a group of old college friends, now grown up, come together for the funeral of Alex (Kevin Costner, who had all his scenes cut) who was at one time the brightest and best of all of them, but didn't achieve as much as the others. These friends Harold Cooper (Kevin Kline), his wife Sarah (Oscar nominated Glenn Close), Nick Carlton (William Hurt), Michael Gold (Jeff Goldblum), Sam Weber (Platoon's Tom Berenger), Meg Jones (Mary Kay Place) and Chloe (Meg Tilly, Jennifer's sister) after the funeral try to reacquaint themselves. JoBeth Williams as Karen Bowens and Don Galloway as Richard Bowens. Besides the obvious funeral, the scenes that stick for me are the dancing around the table, and because there is no original music, some great songs have been put in, such as Aretha Franklin's (You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman, The Beach Boys' Wouldn't It Be Nice, The Temptations' Ain't Too Proud To Beg (which was number 94 on 100 Years, 100 Songs) and Marvin Gaye's I Heard It Through The Grapevine. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical and Best Screenplay. Very good! "}]