[{"Title":"Keith Gordan and John Stockwell shine in this classic horror movie","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"88 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Ah, do I remember the day that I saw Christine, which is disturbing since I was only 6 years old, but my sister said Do you wanna watch Christine? and I was confused, my name is Kristine, but she told me about this little horror movie and thanks to her I couldn't go near our family car for a few months. This is a movie that has always stayed with me and still scares the heck out of me when I watch it in the dark. Who knew that even before taking a driver's ed class that cars could scare me? But this isn't just any ordinary car, this is a killer car! This is a car with ghosts in it and you wouldn't like them if you make them angry or try to take their owner away. Christine is the car that you definitely don't wanna mess with, otherwise you may have to face those bright lights and loud rock and roll music, what happens next, you may not wanna know.Arnie Cunningham, a typical high school nerd with only one friend, a childhood companion named Dennis Guilder, a popular jock. Arnie's life begins to change when he discovers Christine, a red 1958 Plymouth Fury in serious need of repair. Arnie begins to restore Christine to her original beauty, but as he spends more and more of his time repairing her, those in his life notice that he is changing as well. Formerly shy, Arnie develops a cocky arrogance. Dennis, as well as Arnie's new girlfriend Leigh, discover that the car has a deadly past. The previous owner, Roland LeBay, became consumed with Christine and he paid for it with his life. Leigh and Dennis try to save Arnie from a similar fate. They realize that the only way to save Arnie is by destroying Christine. Christine, however, isn't ready to give up Arnie without a fight.Christine is a classic horror movie that for me will always deliver on the good scares. I still have a hard time watching it. I think the scariest scene for me will always be the last scene where Leigh and Dennis face off with Christine and you see that Arnie just completely gone. I'm honestly shocked that Keith Gordon didn't continue on with his acting career, he just blew me away as Arnie, reading the book I couldn't picture anybody else. He's absolutely incredible. John Stockwell also pulls in a good solid performance as well. This is one of the rare horror movies that is over all very enjoyable and if it doesn't scare you, I still think you will like it, it has a great story and a very good cast and crew. I highly recommend that you see this movie if you get the chance, it's a classic.8/10 "},{"Title":"One slick killing machine.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"62 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  John Carpenter adapts Stephen King's novel with skillful precision. A high school kid becomes obsessive in his feelings for a very strange car he has bought. The car is given the name Christine and repays her owner's adoration by taking care of his enemies.It is fun watching Keith Gordon, owner of Christine, go from wimp to self proclaimed stud. Also in the cast are John Stockwell, Alexandra Paul, Harry Dean Stanton and David Spielberg.It is super cool watching Christine repair her damaged parts. This is an underrated movie that deserves a repeat viewing. "},{"Title":"how could it be better?","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"67 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Let's face it. Christine is far from the best novels of King, especially this creepy dead former owner, sitting on the backseats, and teasing Arnie.Carpenter chose not to put this character into the movie. What a great choice. Which other movie has shown a true love between a human and a machine ever since? I mean, a film with no ridiculous situations and tired old gags. None.Big John created a weird teenage movie, with a great cast (Keith Gordon has never been better) and a hypercool soundtrack. One of a kind you won't easily forget! "},{"Title":"When Complusion Leads To Obsession","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"50 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Remember when you were young and movies where your only friend? Well such is a case in point when it comes to John Carpenter's Christine Now as a rule, and a longstanding one at that, I could never read a Stephen King novel but i could always find time to watch an adaptation of the same, if and when it either came to video as was the thing before the wonders of DVD or if it arrived at the local cinema.My personal highlights from the Stephen King Oeuvre are Silver Bullet if only to see the likes of Gary Busey and Everitt McGill ham it up beyond the call of duty. Stanley Kubrick's version of The Shining complete with a knockout performance from the maestro of barnstorming himself Mr Jack Nicholson, as we already know there have been so many translations from page to screen of everything and anything the king of horror writing has penned some good, some not so good.However, when it comes to Christine it was pitch perfect in every way, shape and form. Directed by John Carpenter, who has been hit and miss down through the years. A wonderful array of golden oldie classics playing throughout the movie itself, a truly wonderful script written by Bill Phillips, containing many a gem which still lingers in the mind even to this day.Which leads me finally to the actors, casting down to a tee, and as i said ably assisted by a good script, well drawn characters, of course from the mind of Stephen King, but brought to vivid life by the likes of Robert Prosky who appears as the junkyard owner Will Darnell, a true standout in the whole movie. Why even Roberts Blossom, think all the way back to Bob Clarks's take on Ed Gein Deranged the man still lends a sense of deadly menace to his character, even though his role is primarily a cameo role but in fairness quite pivotal in terms of progressing the story.However, those two being character parts, we need to see the story unfolds. We begin in prologue fashion, as we see upon fade in, superimposed, the year is 1957, We see a car assembly line, all the new cars are being overseen and given the once over by the foreman, from a distance we get our first glance of how beautiful and intoxicating Christine the car is to look at.Of course that illusion is soon shattered when firstly a foreman shatters his hand, then one of the workers decides to take a little rest and relaxation in the front seat, all the while smoking his cigar, when ash from the cigar drops onto the plastic covering, so it begins, and the true nature of Christine is revealed.Flash forward to present day and we see Arnie Cunningham the nerdish lead character played with aplomb by Keith Gordon, who would later go on to direct the really excellent The Chocolate War as well as many more. However when it comes to acting, Keith Gordon would never better what he had done prior to this or even after.We have all at one point, either been or have known someone like Arnie Cunningham, perennial book worm, not exactly a ladies man, but when he catches first glimpse of the wreck that will forever alter his very being, It is at that point we see that compulsion leads to obsession when Arnie falls under the spell of that 1958 Plymouth Fury.Watch as Arnie emerges from his shell, argues with his parents, something that he would never have done or even finds his first and last girlfriend. All this achieved upon the influence and presence of what would appear to be a car, but for teenager Arnie, it represents his first steps towards independence, but underneath the surface of it all we already know the motive and inevitable end.With wonderful turns by William Ostrader as chief bully Buddy Reperton and Malcolm Danare as Moochie, along with John Stockwell as Arnie's only friend Dennis and Alexandra Paul long before she donned the lifeguard bikini for Baywatch as Arnie's suffering girlfriend Lee.Watch and be amazed, time has not taken it's toll on John Carpenter's finest hour. "},{"Title":"Gotta love it","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I had read the book and loved it, so therefor I was reluctant to see the movie. I didn't want to see the big screen dishonor the book in any way. But, as it happens, I loved it! A lot of people would say This is a horror, it's supposed to be scary!! And a lot of people are right in this regard, it wasn't very scary at all. At least to me. But...the way Arnie turns from such a geek to a cool, tough, bad-ass was pretty awesome. Also I liked the depth of all the characers relationships with one another. It definately stirred some serious emotions when Buddy and his goons tore up Christine. Most of all though, I think the car herself was what made the movie as good as it is. Just the style and freshness of the '58 Plymouth Fury kicked ass. If you're reading reviews (like this one) trying to decide if you even want to see it, I say go for it. What have you got to lose, after all? The hour and a half you would be spending trying to find a review for a movie you decide to see, you could have already watched Christine. That's my advice. "},{"Title":"A Movie Any True Car Lover Can Appreciate","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" There are no words that can truly describe the power and passion of Christine.Anyone who owns an older car will be able to associate with the obsession that takes over nerdish Arnie's life when he restores Christine, the beautiful Plymouth Fury.John Carpenter's excellent directing brings the car to life to such a point where as you're watching, you become so entranced that you forget she isn't alive.The actors are well chosen for the roles they play, and give excellent performances. This, accompanied by excellent photography, special effects, timing and musical score make Christine a definite must-see movie.Please Note The Australian TV edit cuts out some of the best scenes, so this movie is best seen on DVD or video. "},{"Title":"Don't Mess With Christine!","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm not particularly a fan of horror movies and I couldn't fix an ailing automobile if my life depended on it so the workings of cars don't fascinate me.....but this movie fascinated me. The '58 Plymouth Fury, alias Christine, is absolutely gorgeous. What a piece of machinery! This is a horror story but there are no ghosts or monsters nor is there any gore. A car is the star of the film, a very jealous and vengeful one at that. Man, that sounds silly but, if you're reading this you have probably watched the movie so no sense going into details. It's hard to describe the story in a paragraph without it sounding stupid....but it's not. Maybe the quickest way to explain it is that it is about a car that is alive, like a human, and you mess with it, you pay!It is definitely one creepy, well-made, unique and always-entertaining film.The car is a lot better than any of the people, sad to say. No, I didn't like any of the kids in this film (high schoolers who all look 30 years old!) and the language is a little too rough in spots, but that can be filtered out.The car, the '50s music, the unique story, the satisfying revenge angle all make this very watchable. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Teen Angst Love Stories of the 80s.","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" *Possible Spoilers*I hope John Carpenter appreciates what he did with this film. I saw the film before I read the book, and I must say I liked the film better. Stephen Kings books usually have the same why behind the what, and Christine was no different. However, John Carpenter took all of the why element found in the book out and made it a love story between a nerdy teen Arnie Cunningham(Keith Gordon) and a run down car named Christine, which I believe added some substance and improved the story in ways King never imagined. Watching Arnie's transition from nerd to almost greaser is a tense and creepy process, with a huge nod going to Gordon. Carpenter makes the atmosphere with his directing, and the mood is always somber with one of my Favorite Carpenter Scores. While movies like The Breakfast Club and Sixteen Candles were showing one side of the coin, Christine showed the other. What most look at as a killer car movie is really much deeper and in my opinion the subtext shows a side of the teen years that most would be more likely to remember. This is a under-rated movie that shows more about isolation and life in high school than anything that happened in Shermer, Illinois.Check it out! "},{"Title":"Hell hath no fury like a Fury scorned...","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" For my Smart Money, Christine is one of John Carpenter's most underrated efforts (up there with Assault on Precinct 13), and also one of his most effective. Even though its modest look and relative restraint in gore came as a result of The Thing's box-office failure the previous year, and Carpenter has all but admitted his heart wasn't in the project, it ultimately turned out VERY well (if this is an effort from a sleepwalking Carpenter, he's better than most directors when they're awake). As someone who was knocked out by Rob Bottin's intricately gruesome FX work in The Thing, but left cold by the shallow characters, Christine fills in the gaps of suspense and human story with ease. In retrospect, some of the absurd plot elements (a haunted car, as Carpenter constantly reiterates) lends the film an odd humor that doesn't detract from things (and indeed, it was Stephen King's own infatuation with cars and rock music that inspired this story of obsession). Scenes are composed with great skill by Carpenter (making wonderful use of the widescreen image), and there are many striking images sprinkled throughout (the most incredible being the flaming Christine speeding after a villain). The excellent cast gives their all in making a potential B-movie premise glow with A-list polish Keith Gordon's Arnie (the painfully square high-school senior who buys the titular vehicle), John Stockwell's Dennis (the resourceful jock and best friend), Alexandra Paul's Leigh (the earthy girlfriend who sparks Christine's jealousy), and Harry Dean Stanton's Junkins (the snooping P.I.) provide this tale with a lot of propulsive force. In a sense, Christine is a nice even ground between the zaniness of Escape from New York and the FX extremes of The Thing, and exemplifies Carpenter's range as a director. A very underrated effort that is very much worth your time. "},{"Title":"Christine She's a Killer","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a magnificent movie on the theme of Demonic Possession.John Carpenter actually IMPROVES on Stephen King's horror story, wherein the car is driven by the ghost of a Vietnam vet. For Carpenter, Christine (a murderously beautiful '58 Plymouth Fury) is a sentient machine, an incarnation of the spirit of the Fifties - complete with a car radio which will only tune to Rock'n'Roll music - great music!Arnie Cunningham is an insecure but oddly gifted and sensitive kid who is gradually possessed by the car he loves - and actually thinks he can own.The scenes where Christine comes to life are utterly believable -- you will be awestruck by the perfection of the seemingly impossible.Anyone crazy enough to attack Christine has a terrible awakening coming. The scenes where the - Furious - car hunts people down are absolutely terrifying -- and completely believable.Ever since I saw Christine in 1983, my surroundings have resonated with eerie sharp metallic clicks just like those in Christine. Others have noticed them too, and they can be tape-recorded (unlike hallucinations!). COGNITIVE HEALTH WARNING!!!Christine is one of the all-time great movies. Better than sex!Our gratitude goes to John Carpenter for his integrity. The crew wrecked 17 priceless Plymouth Furies in making the film (Christine is in fact a re-badged Plymouth Belvedere, I'm told).Tony Hollick (who usually drives a shadow silver-Gray 1987 Ford Capri 2.8i Injection Special named Tru (after Tru Calling).www.Agora.demon.co.UK "}{"Title":"Christine, The Car-Killer","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" In 1957, in Detroit, a red Plymouth Fury is build and causes two accidents, one of them fatal, still in the assembly line. Twenty-one years later, the outcast and bullied nerd Arnold Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) is getting a ride with his best and only friend Dennis Guilder (John Stockwell) and he sees the wrecked car in a junkyard. Arnie immediately falls in love with the car and calls it Christine. He buys the car and brings it car to the repair shop of the despicable Will Darnell (Robert Prosky) and works hard to restore the classic car. While he works in the restoration, he changes his personality to a cocky teenager and he dates the most beautiful girl in the high-school, Leigh Cabot (Alexandra Paul). Soon Arnie becomes selfish and jealous of the supernatural Christine that kills everyone that is a threat to them.Christine is remarkable and unforgettable feature from John Carpenter and it is difficult to find out who that has not seen this movie at least once. The classic story of a supernatural car that fall in love with its owner is not dated and has outstanding special effects for a 1983 movie. This is practically the first successful feature of the gorgeous Alexandra Paul and Keith Gordon and John Stockwell have great performances. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Christine, O Carro Assassino (Christine, The Car Killer) "},{"Title":"Honk if you like this girl Christine","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I re-watched John Carpenter's adaptation of Stephen King's novel again for the first time in over ten years and it's just as I remember it to be. Not much of a compelling horror film but merely a black comedy and a homage to the typical 50's teenage lifestyle. Carpenter and King seem to share a common interest for the dazzling 50's atmosphere and this perfectly translates itself in `Christine'. First and foremost, there's the beauty of the 1958 Plymouth Fury, a car that almost represents this decade entirely by itself. But also the music, hairstyles and dress codes make you feel like you've landed in the fifties, even though the movie is entirely set and timed in the early 80's.  The nerdish teenager Arnie Cunningham falls head over heels in love with the wreck of a gorgeous car and decides to restore it. Pretty soon, Christine's influence (Christine is the name of the car) makes Arnie go through a complete metamorphosis. Positively, at first, as Arnie impresses girls and turns into an attractive rebel. But it doesn't take that long before he becomes totally obsessive over Christine and starts acting like a psychopath. If you're not expecting an eerie and tense chiller from the creator of `Halloween' and `The Fog', you won't be disappointed. Christine is a totally different kind of horror and not nearly as intense as Carpenter's previous work. I mean, how scary is it to see a wrecked car rebuild itself?? The few exiting scenes featuring in this film are when Christine independently stalks some John Travolta look-alikes who trashed and violated her earlier in the film. Christine should be considered as a fun and well-made satire, with a brilliant golden-oldies soundtrack (watching this film feels like listening to a juke-box) and decent acting performances. Keith Gordon does well as Arnie and Alexandra Paul looks gorgeous as the high-school hottie. Veteran actor Harry Dean Stanton (Alien, The Green Mile) has a tiny role as a police detective. And finally, cinema buffs might recognize Kelly Preston in her meaningless role of cheerleader bimbo.   "},{"Title":"Not Carpenter's best, but pretty good","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Let me make this clear right away I haven't read the book, nor do I intend to. You won't find any comparisons between the book and the film in this review. This film combines two of the biggest names in horror from two different medias; Stephen King is pretty much legendary for his written horror work. John Carpenter is also a pretty well-known name, but as a horror director rather than writer. Having not read the book, I have no idea how true Carpenter stayed to the source material, but I can understand from various sources that he changed a lot, and the changes were very big, so fans of the book might not like the movie. Whenever I hear about a film being made that is based on a King novel my response is usually that of someone who lacks any interest in it whatsoever. When I hear that it's directed by John Carpenter, one of my favorite directors, particularly within the horror genre, I develop an interest. Carpenter does a great job of turning something as potentially lame and goofy as a possessed car into something that you really fear. I was at the edge of my seat for a lot of the scenes, and I jumped at several shocking moments. The story revolves around a nerd buying a car, and the car significantly changing his personality. He changes enormously throughout the film, and I must say, the actor does a great job of capturing the emotion of the character. The plot is great, it doesn't move along very fast, but rather deliberately slow, building up atmosphere, building to a climax that is every bit as exciting as the build-up promises. The acting is great, especially by Keith Gordon, who portrays the nerd-like Arnie, who buys the demonic car. The film has pretty much the same sense of humor that Carpenter's films usually have, albeit slightly less of it is present than in several of his others, less serious films. The special effects are very good, they are almost impossible to tell. Had I not known better, I could have sworn that they were real. They probably could be more well-made had they been done today, but I still think it's amazing how real they look. They don't look the least bit dated. All in all, a good Carpenter film that probably won't be to everyones liking. I recommend it to fans of Carpenter, and fans of atmospheric horror films in general. 7/10 "},{"Title":"You Can't Polish A Turd","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Spoilers AheadFirst, yes, detractors, it is hardly his best movie by a mile. The best way to appreciate this movie is to contrast it with The Car. There is only so much you can do with a Demonic car. What makes this different is the existentially consanguinity between Arnie and Christine. When we first meet Arnie, he is the designated punching bag dweeb at the local high school. Buddy Repperton, who looks like the late Bon Scott of AC / DC, has a whole coterie of hoods who whale on Arnie and really wreck his lunches. Once Arnie spots Christine in some junk-filled creepy old guy's back yard, Arnie's obsession begins that never ends until his dying hand caresses Christine one final time. Notice how the creepy old guy uses Christine's word for humans Crapper only with an S. Carpenter's gift is in transforming this from The Car by having Arnie slowly change ontologically. He loses his dorko glasses; by the end, he is like a Satanic Fonzie. What is clever here is how, as Christine is fixed up by Arnie, Christine begins changing Arnie's personality. At first, this is a good thing; he stands up to his parents and the gang of creeps. Unfortunately, he goes more and more into Night. Soon, he is an icy monster who cares for nothing on this earth but Christine. My header is spoken by Prosky, who steals the movie, when he first looks at Christine. He runs the local junkyard and his hatred for the car turns out to be quite unwise.The other touch is Christine talks to you through the radio. It is always creepy old fifties classic rock. To Arnie, it usually is, You're mine and we belong together for Eternity. To other people, he mocks them,Keep on knocking but you can't come in, come on back tomorrow night and try it again. The car begins repairing itself and then it proceeds to murdering those who vandalized it. Repperton and the fat kid are the first to go. Here is another cool touch the car's movements are quite malevolently sentient as it waits for people in the dark. It silently paces behind them then it jolts forward suddenly. I love how the odometer counts down to zero. This is your life-span with Christine, once the odometer reaches zero, Christine kills you. Also, it is very jealous, as Arnie's new girlfriend finds out the hard way. After she hits the dash and seats, saying, I hate this car. When Arnie comes back with refreshments, at the drive-in, watch what happens. Suffice to say, don't insult or vandalize this car. Repperton's fat friend regrets taking a big poop on the dashboard, believe me. A great director is salient when he can take a very difficult B grade movie and make something more out of it. Here, the parallel between Arnie's darkening personality and Christine being restored to cherry condition is worth watching the movie for alone. The creepy radio, the backwards odometer, the strange noises the car makes near the very end this is why I own the movie. Yes, being a Theistic Existentialist gives me wider parameters; this movie may offend Christians as the car is clearly Satanic. They do defeat the car which is rare for a Devil movie. I won't own The Exorcist, The Omen or Needful Things because the Devil wins in all three movies. Here, while good prevails, there is a warning at the very end that Evil is eternal. Watch for the ominous sign that the car is not dead yet. You will hear the original use of Bad To The Bone by Thorogood in a movie. Cameron copied it in T2. Here, it is much more apropos, believe me. This car makes the Terminator machine look like a girl scout. There is some weak acting in the back cast but Prosky steals the movie. This is Gordon's best role in a movie. He was good in Dressed To Kill but here he carries this movie. His acting is so well done; he literally becomes the personality of Christine. You will be checking behind you at night for this car after watching this. A Good Movie. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"Carpenter brings us some prime auto-erotica.","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I don't care how everyone else views this movie (as a Stephen King adaptation, as a plain ol' killer car flick, as a mediocre 80s relic), I will always defend Christine as one of the finest, most twisted love stories ever filmed with a romance that just happens to be between a boy and his car.Keith Gordon plays Arnie, the little bullied teen who comes across the titular car and just has to have it. His friend Dennis (played by John Stockwell . . . imagine Kevin Bacon without his essence of Bacon) starts to see major changes and it soon becomes clear that the relationship between the car and it's driver has crossed into some seriously weird territory. As Arnie's bullies start to get picked off and other strange incidents occur (including the mistreatment of a girl that Arnie takes on a date) it's up to Dennis and others not enthralled to the automobile to sort out some kind of emergency stop.With a cast fleshed out by the likes of Harry Dean Stanton, Alexandra Paul, Kelly Preston and Robert Prosky (and with two capable actors in the lead roles) the movie gets by and skims over it's weaknesses by spreading out the quality. The actors playing the bullies may be possessing of little talent but, at the end of the day, they're only there to be car fodder. And the car? Well, the car's the star here. Lovingly filmed by the camera and given a stunningly effective special effects sequence it's easy to fall in love with Christine. Which is really the whole point.Fans of Carpenter's style will enjoy a lot of the factors here another enjoyable synth score, great flowing camera-work and marvellous use of every inch of the screen once again. There are a hell of a lot of people who view this as a throwaway movie, a slight piece that was mildly enjoyable at the time but nothing to bother about now. As I said at the start, it remains one of my favourite love stories and I recommend it in that vein.See this if you like The Car, Repo Man, The Wraith. "},{"Title":"Brilliant cinematic reduction of King's great novel","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I lost interest in John Carpenter many years ago because his films started looking and feeling like the work of someone who no longer cared. Christine, on the other hand, is the work of a director at his peak. It is a brilliant cinematic reduction of the King novel's strongest elements. It is still a love story about a boy and his car, and it is still a study of teenage angst and high school cruelty, but it is also spare, stylish and uncluttered. Keith Gordon is totally believable as Arnie Cunningham (a name often mispronounced), a stuttering nerd who is given a supernatural injection of confidence by the mysterious Christine. His transformation into an assertive, confident teenager and then into an arrogant, foul-mouthed, narcissistic a-hole is a pure joy to behold. William Ostrander is simply amazing as Buddy Repperton, an over-sized machine shop jock who takes great delight in the torture and psychological abuse of Arnie. The final comeuppance of Repperton and his gang of mindless goons is deliciously satisfying. Also raising the performance bar is Robert Prosky as the indefatigable Will Darnell, a gruff, gross, cigar-chewing human troll whose garage (for workin' stiffs!) Arnie uses to rebuild his precious automobile. Prosky's numerous dialog exchanges with the nerdish schoolboy -- That's the last time you bring that mechanical a**hole in here, for example -- are hilarious. Arnie's disintegrating relationship with his parents is very well handled by Carpenter and writer Bill Phillips, as is his doomed romance with the stunning Leigh Cabot (Alexandra Paul). Carpenter's score is brilliant and Donald Morgan's cinematography (especially the night scenes) is dazzling. A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Love is more than chrome-laden deep.","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Probably not rated as one of John Carpenter's best (more so middle ground)&#x85; but I thought otherwise as it's definitely my second favorite (just after 1982 remake of The Thing) of his long-listed horror output. Yep&#x85; I put it ahead of his influential 1978 slasher 'Halloween'.Anyhow Carpenter did a seductively low-key and restraint job with this Steven King adaptation, by streamlining it with hypnotic visuals (like the flaming car) and getting able performances from his cast. Keith Gordon and John Stockwell make for a likable pairing, and watching Gordon's character's compelling transformation is convincingly staged from the once placid dweeb to an obsessively psychotic controller that goes on to hurt those who care for him. It's big change in attitude with a downfall spiral that sees him not going back. The basic plot might get on the silly side and move on too suddenly, but Carpenter keeps our affection towards the purring red and white 1958 Plymouth fury and its strangle hold over Arnie (a worthy Gordon). Total infatuation. In the end I liked how it just didn't focus on revenge with it weaving in elements of humane qualities involving teenage angst, rebellion and love. A well told story.Carpenter confidently straight-up direction (which is far from stylish or slick) passionately lets the possessed car take over&#x85; with its own vivid personality and just listen to those swinging 50s rock 'n roll tunes. This car does feel like if it had a mind of its own! Atmosphere is little and while there's a real sinister nastiness lurking underneath it never really shows, to only take place in off-screen shocks. He tries building suspense (mainly those scenes involving Arnie getting revenge on some punk bullies), where it sometimes works and if it didn't it still had the mesmerizing imagery. Watching the car get torn apart in scenes, to only repair itself was eye-candy (if haunting) and it finishes on a bone rattler of a climax. The music score was another interesting touch, quite spaced-out but rippling in affect and Donald Morgan's cinematography held a crafty edge.Rounding off the cast was a solid Stockwell, a reasonably modest Alexandra Paul and a perfectly gruff Robert Prosky. Buddy Repperton was right on the mark as the main goon picking on Arnie. In smaller roles were the reliable Harry Dean Stanton and an early appearance by Kelly Preston. Christine Belford shows up as Arnie's strict, but concerned mother. Also appearing is Roberts Blossom.What can I say &#x85; Christine is number one in my eyes. "},{"Title":"music","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I don't know if anyone has mentioned this before, but the 50s music was interesting in that most of it came from artists who suffered untimely, tragic deaths....Buddy Holly and Richie Valens of course were killed in a plane crash at the height of their careers...Johnny Ace (Pledging My Love) died playing Russian Roulette with a pistol....Larry Williams (Bony Maronie) was killed in 1980 by a gunshot wound to the head; he had been involved with drug dealing for years and it was thought to be a gang execution....I think Dion was still alive at the time this movie was made(I Wonder Why); I'm not sure about the rest of the Belmonts.... "},{"Title":"You Can Run But You Can't Hide From Christine","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" When I was looking for a horror movie I saw this and read the back,the plot was O.K. so I rented.And the minute I stared seeing it to end, I have one word for this movie and its Wow.This movie kicked ass,once again two greatest horror people of all time making a good horror movie wrapped up in Christine.John Carpenter and Stephen King made another worthwhile movie to see,even not the killing parts.This had plenty of great acting and action,good suspense with the creepy song,and excellent killing on the bullies.This is almost like a similar story to Carrie,only this had more Action.They out did themselves with this movie,they were more popular+this movie scared the the s**t out of me when I saw and effects when it rebuild itself would recommend you to watch this movie before they will run out of Chistine DVD's and VHS's. "},{"Title":"My review of Christine","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Of all the movie's i've seen that involve cars (only cars) driving by themselves, Christine takes the cake. I love this movie and I too think that it's neat how 'she' can fix herself. I think they should make a sequel even though Stephen king never wrote a second Christine book because at the end when she is crushed into a cube, she slowly starts to fix herself. Anyway, great movie, great car, great acting. For those of you who who enjoy motor vehicles and horror movies or horror movie involving vehicles like I do, this is the movie for you. Overall, this is one of john carpenter's greatest horror film's that he has ever made in his career. "}{"Title":"King + Carptenter = GOLD!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I loved Christine as a book, but that was in part to the movie, Since I grew up watching this movie. When I read the book I was surprise it was so different. But I didn't have a problem with that, it was a very good adaptation with one of John Carpenter's trade marks Great special effects. I know how they had christine put herself back together, but it's still amazing for the 80's, even by today standards(Because it would be all CGI and look terrible).I am also surprise that not many horror fans (at least around this area) don't talk about this movie or like it. This is one of carpenter's best, it's up there with The Thing, halloween, or Escape from New York. There arn't too many bad Carpenter movies.Stephen King has a lot of good stories that are just messed up when they are made into films, but not Christine. King should just let Carpenter or George A. Romero, do all his movies from now on.P.S. The world will be a sad place once John Carpenter leaves us. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie  , with a good storyline","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" A very entertaining film i really enjoyed the thought of a car that can restore itself. While watching this movie with my wife i made it clear to her it would be great to own such a vehicle considering she wrecked 5 of mine ,,, The car was a true piece of work ,,cars from the 50,s always had an appeal to them ,,i guess the love story angle ,,that we all share a young guy and his 1st car who will ever forget there 1st car? also what brings the movie closer to heart is the buying or obtaining an old junk ,,and personally fixing or restoring it,,many of us had tried it and failed but the dream is there,,and last i do know many guys that would put there car before there girlfriends,,its those reality's that make this film so entertaining,, A great movie with a good storyline "},{"Title":"Beyond desire, is something WAY out of control!","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" In some genres, a certain combination will bring out a pretty good story. In this case, Author Stephen King gave us the equation, as well as the solution. The book Christine is a horrifying story about the psychotic bond between a school geek, and his demonic car. You have a story about a shiny car that was born bad. It's bad enough as is, but it also goes deeper than just a maniacal machine. This car can love, just as well as it can kill. It has a burning desire for the affection it can receive only by the loneliest of men, with nothing else to live for. It is all very depressing, I will explain.Putting aside the opening sequence, we have two friends, full of life. One being Arnie, a stereotypical geek with virtually nothing going for him, the other being Dennis, a literal all-American apple-cheek football jock, the kind of guy to help his fellow man out. We find a nice bond with them. Perhaps they grew up together, or maybe their parents were friends. Whatever the case, it's a friendship worth having. Enter Christine, a blood-red Plymouth fury with an eerie past, and a mysterious gravitation field, effective on the most uncommon of men. Arnie is instantly seduced by this man killer of a machine, and once the final connection is made, there is no turning back. Arnie's behavior begins turning and changing in reflection of this unholy presence that destroys its enemies. A once respectful 17 year-old begins to display the most unbecoming of behavior towards his parents, the public authority, and soon, his friend, Dennis. He also reacts violently against the new girl in town, Leigh, who only wants to help.This film never grows old in it's distinct style and outrageous effects. Acclaimed director John Carpenter of Halloween fame brings to the screen, a stylish, eerie, chilling adaptation that also bears within itself a depressing element of a desire that kills. We have Arnie, who desires Christine, who in turn, yearns for his absolute devotion. Human hearts don't work like such, unless it is Christine they desire. The concept also asks the question, what do you want, and what are you willing to give for it? Soon enough, the character Arnie is isolated in his own desire, that grows with both rage and passion every time someone or something interferes with he and his car. Christine is a deadly temptation, as Arnie is the weak desire. Unnatural love takes it's course, while reality, in the form of Dennis and Leigh, goes on. Only so much can occur before evil vengeance is unleashed in a rage beyond control. What puts the depressing part in motion, is the need of the two martyrs to help, but trying to stop Christine is like teaching a bowl of rocks to fly.Keith Gordon certainly gave us his best as the ill-fated Arnie, which was a long way from almost becoming shark-food in Jaws 2. We see him transform throughout the entire film, from honest decency, to morbid, selfishness, and the unnatural moments of intimacy with he and the car, are too creepy for words to say. John Stockwell gives the biblical impression of a modern day prophet, in Dennis, a teen who plays life by the rules, not only because he is smart, but because he cares. He has a real heart for friends, and the moral law of nature. Bravo! Alexandra Paul is also good as Leigh. Naive and gentile, but also very smart, and pro-active. Harry Dean Stanton turns in a fine performance, as does the rest of the cast.John Carpenter was riding the waves of success as his legacy was continuing from The Fog. He put together a score to suit the film, and a great rock'n'roll soundtrack to fit the conceit of death with tunes of life. All around creepy, and never a dull moment. Christine will serve you with chills and thrills to the final cut. "},{"Title":"Superb phantasy for it's genre!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Sure it's hokum and make believe but extremely well done. The plot is about a 1958 Plymouthbut that's not all by a long shot.  Keith Gordon is marvelous in the role of Arnie Cunningham making the transition from a spectacled nerd to a,weird,handsome,possessed maniac. The friend played by John Stockwell,the girlfriend played the beautiful Alexandra Paul are very real and convincing in their protrayls. Not to be omitted are the three villians of the high school They are menacing. Robert Prosky's crude, rude and profane junk yard owner is a standout.I find no fault in the film. Even though I didn't mention all the cast members they deserve kudos. I'ts fascinating and really holds. Great entertainment! "},{"Title":"Classic...","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" As had Stanley Kubrick with THE SHINING, John Carpenter took from Stephen King what was needed to craft a good movie and discarded the rest (which is exactly what Alfred Hitchcock had espoused throughout his career). King tapped into several of the quintessential Twentieth-century archetypes, and Carpenter happens to have been on the same wave length, filtering it through his own cinematic sensibilities. (And, if you think that's easy, just ask King himself, whose Big Screen version of his short story TRUCKS is something less than tolerable.) Few people have been willing to give Carpenter credit where credit is due. (In fact, in at least one interview following the release and general dismissal of the film- by everyone, including King himself- Carpenter ventured that perhaps he had made some mistakes along the way. I beg to differ.) CHRISTINE happens to be the best cinematic treatment of a King story so far- bar none. "},{"Title":"This is my favorite movie of all time!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Christine is a cinematic masterpiece that certifies the genius of both Stephen King and John Carpenter. Christine is a 1958 Plymouth Fury Sport Coupe with a bad attitude. Keith Gordon does a fantastic job of playing the nerdy Arnie Cunningham and John Stockwell does a great job playing Arnie's jock friend Dennis Guilder. In fact everyone in the film is perfectly cast and is exactly how I envisioned them in the book. This movie has got to be one of the greatest book adaptations that I have ever seen and with a few omissions bring the book to bright red life. In a way, this movie is kind of a love story and the love that Christine and Arnie have for each other is strong. An added plus to this film is a great oldies soundtrack that unfortunatly is not available for sale. John Carpenter's musical score is eerie even for him and adds to the suspense and atmosphere of the film. Harry Dean Stanton makes a small but memorable performance as Rudolph Junkins, the streetwise cop who suspects not everything is kosher with Arnie's car. On a side note, every engine should sound like Christine's Golden Commando V-8. Her exhaust note is music to my ears. Anyway, see the movie, see it now, and then go back to imdb and rate this movie a ten. Anything less would be a crime against humanity. Check out the book too. It's great!   "},{"Title":"Killer Car.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a great adaption of a great book.  The book, however, was more of a ghost story, while the movie keeps the focus on the killer car.  I liked the movie alot.  Buddy Reperton is one of the greatest jerks in horror movie history.  He is a good bad guy, if he could be called that.  And the evolution of Arnie from nerd to semi-greaser is fun to watch.  Keith Gordon was also in the movie Back to School, and did a similar turn.  The oldies soundtrack was good, if you're in to that sort of thing.   A recomendation for any Stephen King, or John Carpenter fan. "},{"Title":"A superb film, perfectly cast and terrifying","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  One of the finest genuine horror flicks of all time, and all the more impressive because it's achieved strictly through brilliant direction, acting and cinematography rather than cheap gore, predictable shocks, and the obligatory silicone tits. I must admit to a bit of bias, since I owned a great many of the awesome MoPar (Chrysler Corp) street-stompers, like this '58 Fury, and I have a great understanding -- nay, sympathy -- for Arnie's obsession with this spectacular breed of car. My twin-carbed Chrysler 300s and Plymouths also evoked a visceral, almost sexual power when you lit 'em up and the tailpipes roared....with the twin four-barrel carbs and 150-mph speedometer, this breed of rumbling metal vampire was as close as Detroit ever got to building a sex goddess. I've just watched CHRISTINE for the umpteenth time, and still cringed whenever she got smashed. I only hope they did most of this with models or tricked-up Belvederes, not Furys...If you've overlooked this gem because it sounds schlocky or just because it's Steven King's -- go rent it. Make some popcorn, turn down the lights and get ready for a Hell of a ride....literally.  "},{"Title":"An Effective,Underrated Horror Classic. John Carpenter and Stephen King at their Best.","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter's Christine is an effective,well-made and underrated Horror Classic and was the first and only collaboration between John Carpenter and Stephen King. A great mixture of excellent direction,great characters,atmosphere and a wonderful Rock N'Roll soundtrack,Christine is Carpenter and King at their best,one of the best Stephen King adaptations and one of the best Horror films of the 80s.Based on Stephen King's novel of the same name,Christine tells the story of a nerdy teen named Arnie Cunningham(Keith Gordon)who discovers a 1957 Red Plymouth named Christine and falls in love. Although wreaked and damaged,Arnie decides to by it and rebuild it. While Arnie rebuilds it,Arnie's best friend notices changes in Arnie's behavior and discovers that Christine is a car with a life of her own and will kill anyone that gets in the way of her and Arnie's relationship. Now,it's up to Dennis and Arnie's girlfriend Leigh(Alexandra Paul)to stop Christine and save Arnie before it's too late.Christine is an excellent Horror film because this film takes the concept of haunted car and makes it truly creepy and the film works because of the story,characters,suspense and atmosphere. While some people wouldn't find the idea of a haunted scary,Carpenter takes Stephen King's story and makes it frightening and believable where you feel like something in Christine can happen in the real world and that you're not safe or secure,where you feel like any character isn't safe from Christine's wrath,rage or fury. Christine is a character in the film that doesn't say a word in the film but has a evil presence that you feel like she's everywhere at anytime and can strike when she wants to and there's nothing you can do about it because she is powerful and in control. The film and story also seems to have,in my opinion a weird sense of humor and playfulness about itself,whether it's the dialog of the characters or dealing with Christine and how serious the characters are about the situation at hand with Christine,so while the film is downbeat at times,the film doesn't always take itself seriously. I also love how the film portrays teenagers and teenage life in the film,with the three main characters dealing friendships,parents,bullying,love or revenge or life in general,whether it's Arnie and Dennis' friendship or Arnie's troubled relationships with Leigh,his parents,his love for the car Christine or Arnie dealing with school bullies and the film doesn't sugarcoat it. The only other Stephen King Adaptation that I can compare to Christine and deals with teenagers is the Brian De Palma classic Carrie,because while both films have different story lines,both films deal with the concepts of teenage life,revenge and death. Both would make a good double feature. John Carpenter is a master and expert of dread suspense,terror and atmosphere and it is on full display in Christine. John Carpenter uses the Christine car to give the movie a sense of dread and fear every time she shows up,because you never know what Christine's going to do in certain situations and that's one of the things that adds to the terror,you are distracted by Christine's beauty as a car,yet we forget that she is pure evil. The presence and fear by Christine is felt throughout the film and not one character in the film can escape from Christine's brutality and vengeance. Horror fans maybe a little disappointed with the lack of blood and gore that's not shown in the film,but the film doesn't need it or require it because Christine like Carpenter's earlier classic Halloween relies on terror and suspense and Christine isn't dark,gloomy or gory like Carpenter's brilliant The Thing where everyone and everything is doomed at the end. Like I said before earlier Christine has a playfulness and sense of humor and after all the film is about a haunted car. Christine is a Horror film but is pretty light in comparison to Carpenter's early films. The ending of the film is great because it ends on a cliffhanger and will make viewers ask a lot of questions and wonder what will happen. The whole cast does a great job. Keith Gordon gives the best performance of his acting career as Arnie. Gordon is frightening and believable as Arnie and his transformation from awkward nerd to psycho is excellent and scary. John Stockwell is wonderful as Dennis,Arnie football jock best friend with Stockwell bringing depth to the role and has a good chemistry with Gordon. It's interesting that both Gordon and Stockwell both became film directors later on. Alexandra Paul does a great job as Leigh,the new girl in school who becomes Arnie's girl friend and hates Christine. Robert Prosky gives a fantastic performance as Will Darnell,an auto shop owner that Arnie works for. Harry Dean Stanton does a wonderful job as cop Detective Rudolph Junkins who's investigating Arnie and murders associated with Christine. Roberts Blossom is great and creepy as George LeBay the man who sells Christine to Arnie. Christine Belford(Regina Cunningham)and William Ostrander(Buddy Repperton)give good performances as well. Also look out for an early appearance by Kelly Preston(Roseanne).John Carpenter's direction in the film is excellent,with Carpenter always moving the camera and giving the film an energy and pace and giving the film a sense of terror and dread when Christine shows up. Great direction,John.The score by John Carpenter and Alan Howarth is effective and masterful and adds to the film. Another great Carpenter score. The film has a great Rock N'Roll soundtrack with songs like Bad To The Bone(George Thorogood and The Destoyers),Beast Of Burden(The Rolling Stones),Bony Moronie(Larry Williams),Come On,Let's Go(Ritchie Valens),Keep Knockin'(Little Richard),Rock And Roll Is Here To Stay(Danny & The Juniors),Not Fade Away(Buddy Holly and Tanya Tucker),Pledging My Love(Johnny Ace),Harlem Nocturne(The Viscounts),I Wonder Why(Dion & The Belmonts),We Belong Together(Robert & Johnny)and more. Great soundtrack.In final word,if you love John Carpenter,Stephen King,Horror films or movies about cars I suggest you see Christine,an underrated Horror classic that is among John Carpenter and Stephen King's best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Christine","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Arnie Cunningham(Keith Gordon, who has never been better)finds a junker Plymoth sitting in a yard for sale. It is shown at the opening of the film to have smashed one automaker's hand with it's hood while suffocating another with carbon monoxide. So we know what Arnie doesn't..that this car whose name is Christine isn't your ordinary Plymoth. Something deep within this car is evil and it grips a demonic hold on whoever drives it. Dennis(John Stockwell), a star football player, tries to warn his best friend to not buy this hunk of junk, but Arnie can not resist it's pull. Arnie's parents do not approve of buying it and his resistance towards them begins here. Arnie is shown as sweet and self-deprecating. He is mistreated by three bullies in machine shop, and the leader plans to assault Arnie, and Dennis who takes up for him with a switchblade knife. They take their anger out on Arnie when he and Dennis report them to the autoshop teacher, by destroying Christine..that will be quite a mistake! The film's main conflict, however, is Leigh(Alexandra Paul)..a hottie who becomes Arnie's love interest. She is truthfully Christine's main nemesis other than the thrill bullies for she comes between the car and Arnie. You see, anyone who comes between Christine and her man must be punished.I believe Christine gets better every time I watch it. Now, I know the story and/or idea of a car with demonic powers(..not to mention her hold on whoever is the rightful owner)might be regarded as silly, but there's something so compelling about it. I guess what comes out the creepiest is Keith Gordon's transformation as the film continues. He's so self-deprecating and timid, we love him at the beginning which makes what Christine does to him even more tragic. We watch as he begins to resist his parents(using foul language towards them in defiance;even attack his father), turns away from possible love with Leighwho deeply cares about him, barking at those who wish to insult his lady, growing apart from Dennis, and seeing this evil slowly overcome him. We truthfully see what Christine does to those who become hers. The film also shows that she can repair herself after serious damage is inflicted on her. When the gang of bullies smash her to smithereens, Arnie ..by this time almost completely psychopathicgives her the extra push to reshape her torso so that they could seek revenge towards those who hurt her.Despite it's reputation, the film isn't graphic for Carpenter wishes to ratchet up the suspense instead of bloodying the screen. We watch as Christine chases down each of the three who caused her and Arnie harm and the car's wrath brings on an investigation directed toward Arnie. That detective is played by Harry Dead Stanton.Dennis and Leigh(who both have now realized how evil Christine is thanks to Leigh's near choking death thanks to the evil car)must try and save Arnie before the car destroys him. But, can Arnie be saved? Ultimately, the film is about obsession. Arnie becomes obsessed with Christine and vice versa. But, perhaps Christine finds certain suitors who are weak and need affirmation from someone when life deals them a bad deck. Certainly in Arnie's case, Christine awakens something sinister, though at first he simply gains courage by asking out Leigh and facing overbearing parents. But, by the end we know that the quiet, hurt young man who just wanted more out of life is erased and all that is left is a monster a certain girl created. "}{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is by far the best movie I have ever seen. It captures the essence of the 1950's and being a teenager. I want to see a Christine part 2 or a movie before Christine met Arnie,telling her story of how she came to be Alive. The book is twice as good as the movie. The book is a must read for any Christine fan. The book is much more detailed than the movie. The movie would have to have been 15 hours long to cover the story in the book. The book concentrates more on Roland D. Lebay possessing Arnie,and Christine is just an instrument of Lebays terror.Also in the book Leigh and Dennis have a romantic relationship that they did not have in the movie,which only fuels Lebays anger because of his obsession with Leigh. "},{"Title":"More mechanical mayhem from Stephen King","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This story bears some similar themes to another Stephen King film, MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE (which, by the way, was based on one of his earlier short stories, TRUCKS, and which was remade more than twenty years later as a film by the same name as the original short story.) The main difference between MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE and TRUCKS (both the short story and the 1997 remake) with the book and film CHRISTEN is that, in the stories about the trucks, lots of different machines came to murderous life, but otherwise stayed the same as they were before, meaning you could still destroy them just as easily. Blow a truck up, it stays blown up. Not so here. There's only one living automobile in this story, but it/she's virtually indestructible.There's really not much I can say about the plot that hasn't been said already. I will say that, in all the dozens of films in which I've heard the song,Bad To The Bone, here seems to be the best place to have it. While the songs in other films seems to refer to a hero who isn't afraid to get rough when he has to (TERMINATOR 2), or a kid with a mean-streak (PROBLEM CHILD 1&2, the PARENT TRAP remake), the song in this film refers to Christen, who really IS bad, and will kill anyone who gets in her way, without second thought. The song is played at the beginning and during the end credits, and the opening scene in the film is one of the coolest I've ever seen in a movie.Lastly, I know this will never, ever happen, but here's a crossover that I always thought would be a funny idea Christen Vs. Herbie, the Love Bug. "},{"Title":"Best killer Car movie so far","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"         This has been one of my favorites since I was in 6th grade.   Christine Has some scary moments, good music, Good acting, and The Car itself is both beautiful and creepy at the same time.   The bodycount was not very high and there wasn't much blood, But it can be scary without so much gore.  The only thing needed now is a sequel.    Now all I have to do is read the book, I am so sorry that I did not before I saw the movie.  "},{"Title":"Watch what you call my car. She's real sensitive.","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Put upon high school student Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon, in his first feature film lead role) is dominated by his parents, and has basically one friend in the world, level headed jock Dennis Guilder (John Stockwell). Then one day he spies an incredible wreck of a car, a 1958 Plymouth Fury that was named Christine by her foul tempered former owner. Believing he can restore her to prime condition, he now has something to live for. But soon his feelings towards the automobile turn to outright obsession, and he changes for the worse. Meanwhile, the car goes out systematically eliminating anybody who's rubbed Arnie the wrong way.Horror master John Carpenter was, at the time, still smarting from the lack of commercial and critical success suffered by The Thing, which this viewer believes to be his true masterpiece. He agreed to take the helm of this Stephen King adaptation. King, at the time, was such a phenomenon as an author that this story got optioned as a feature before it was even published. King had been impressed enough with producer Richard Kobritzs' TV miniseries of his novel Salems' Lot to give the man his choice of adaptations, and Kobritz chose this one over Cujo.Christine is very well made, and lots of fun. Carpenter and screenwriter Bill Phillips understand completely the love lavished by many on their rolling iron, so this is a pretty decent look at a boy and the car he loves. Carpenter & Phillips drop the more outr elements of the novel, almost completely getting rid of the character of the malevolent spirit Roland D. LeBay, and focusing on the car herself. In this movie version, Christine is born so evil that she's maimed one man and killed another before she's even off the assembly line!Carpenters' moody score is one of his absolute best, and he also gets great use out of Harlem Nocturne by The Viscounts. The dialogue is often quite profane, but quotable as well. The special effects by Roy Arbogast are most impressive. The scenes of the ruined Christine repairing herself are the definite highlights of the movie.The roles are impeccably cast. Gordon is entertaining to watch as he makes the transition from pathetic dweeb to swaggering '50s style punk. Stockwell and the lovely Alexandra Paul are good as their characters react to the changes in their friend. Robert Prosky, as miserly garage owner Will Darnell, Harry Dean Stanton, as persistent State Police detective Junkins, and Roberts Blossom, as LeBays' crotchety brother George, are all excellent. William Ostrander is spot on as the Travolta-esque creep Buddy Repperton. Stu Charno (Friday the 13th Part II), Steven Tash (Ghost Busters), and Malcolm Danare (The Curse) are a hilariously unlikely bunch of bullies. It's also worth noting that Arnies' unlikable parents are played by CHRISTINE Belford and Robert DARNELL. Just a coincidence? Maybe, maybe not. Most importantly, the car herself really does become a character with a real presence.Building to an exciting finale where Christine meets her match inside Darnells' garage, this is guaranteed to put a smile on some faces.This was the very first feature to use the George Thorogood classic Bad to the Bone to denote a character that is, well, bad to the bone.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Look out, Rockbridge&#x97;she's hell on wheels","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Based on Stephen King's novel, Christine has a high school nerd, Arnie (Keith Gordon) buying a rundown 1958 Plymouth Fury with a morbid past. His friend, the popular Dennis (John Stockwell) begins to notice personality changes in Arnie, mainly centered around his obsession with his new car, which is called Christine. The new girl in town, Leigh (Alexandra Paul) begins dating Arnie, and also notices the changes. After some local bullies trash the refurbished Fury, it's not long before Christine takes revenge.What is an ostensibly ridiculous story (a killer car, yeah, I know how it sounds) works for two reasons here first, the source novel by King is very well-written; and second, because we have John Carpenter at the helm of the film, steering corner after corner with remarkable finesse. What could have been utter tripe is actually one of the most timeless and well-done horror films of the eighties.I would go so far as to say that Christine may be a technically perfect film, or at least close to it. The film sets itself up as a sort of throwback to the fifties doo-wop culture of early rock'n'roll, drive-ins, and vintage cars, all in spite of the fact that the film is set in 1978. The novel and the film have an equal nostalgia for Americana, something that seems to translate more effectively on screen than it does in literature. Carpenter captures suburbia as effectively as he did in Halloween, though atmospherically, Christine has more in common with a film like Fright Night than it does with the former. The thematic center of the film lies in the car itself, which acts as not just an emblem of American culture, but also as a metaphor as well as an object for projection of Gordon's tortured protagonist.Shots of the small town streets and the ruby-red Fury are aesthetically perfect, and the action scenes are very nicely done. Another element of the film that contributes to its timelessness is the high-brow special effects which still hold up astoundingly well after nearly thirty years. Solid, likable performances from Keith Gordon and John Stockwell up the ante as well, with a young Alexandra Paul supplying the teenage high school crush/eventual comrade. Character performances from Harry Dean Stanton, Robert Prosky, and Roberts Blossom elevate the film even further. A young Kelly Preston also appears in the film as one of the kids' cheerleader classmates. A pleasant mixture of fifties rock all the way to the Rolling Stones and George Thorogood round out the soundtrack, which acts as a nice varnish on the film.Overall, Christine is a somewhat unsung genre classic. No matter how absurd the story may sound, the execution here makes the film impossible to dismiss; it is highly entertaining, quirky, at times thrilling, and beautifully shot. Sophisticated special effects and the alternate-fifties-high-school universe in which the film takes place maintain the film's timelessness. Fans of small-town American horror and car films alike should find the film to be a real treat. 10/10. "},{"Title":"You better watch what you say about my car. She's real sensitive.","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter's excellent adaptation of Stephen King's novel about a nerdy teenager (Keith Gordon) who buys a ragged old '58 Plymouth named Christine and immediately falls in love with it. He works tirelessly on restoring the car, all the while undergoing subtle change to his appearance and behavior. Not all of these changes are good ones and it soon becomes apparent that Christine has a supernatural hold over 'her' new owner and will do anything to keep him all to 'herself.'Christine was one of the first Stephen King books I read back in the day. I enjoyed the novel a lot and I enjoy the film version just as much, if not more so. I'm a big fan of John Carpenter and I think this is one of his more under-appreciated efforts. His talent and style go a long way towards making what is, at its heart, a simple B horror movie into something more polished and effective. Good direction, music, and special effects. The scenes where Christine goes on the attack are exciting and well-staged. The cast is great, with Keith Gordon giving a standout performance in the lead and John Stockwell doing an admirable job as his best friend. Alexandra Paul is lovely to look at and makes the most of her thin role. A young and gorgeous Kelly Preston is also in this in a small part. This is not one of Carpenter's best but it is very good and it's certainly one of the better adaptations of King's work brought to the big screen. Definitely one that fans of either man will want to see. "},{"Title":"Well executed horror","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) is a dorky high-school kid with only one friend in the world, jock Dennis (John Stockwell). Arnie is the type of kid who gets pushed around by bullies and has his glasses stamped on while teachers look the other way as they think it'll probably do him some good. Things change when Arnie stumbles upon a run-down Plymouth Fury and decides to buy it, against the wishes of his parents and Dennis himself, who feels an uneasy presence within the car. The car is named Christine, and as Christine's appearances improves, so does Arnie's - he slicks his hair, wears cooler clothes, and is generally more confidant and cocky. But when Arnie starts the date the school's hot newcomer, Leigh (Alxandra Paul), the car is thrown into a bloodthirsty fit of jealousy.Made on the back of a hot streak that helped turn John Carpenter into a horror icon, Christine is a relatively minor work by his early standards, but is still infused with Carpenter's sense of style and atmosphere. Based on the novel by Stephen King, which went to lengths to explain Christine's psychopathic behaviour, the film instead establishes the red hunk of auto-porn as evil from the get- go as it kills someone before it's even off the assembly line. Perhaps trying to explain why a car was killing people in cold blood and how it possesses the ability to repair itself would somewhat remove the faade, choosing (or hoping) instead to let the audience simply enjoy the movie without the need for clunky exposition. And it works - Carpenter has it play out with a straight face and the film is very enjoyable for the majority of its 100 minute running- time.The film takes time to develop its story and a supporting cast that includes Harry Dean Stanton, Robert Prosky and Roberts Blossom helps things move along nicely. When heads begin to roll, Carpenter delivers a couple of visually arresting set-pieces involving an attack on some bullies at a gas station and the chasing-down of a fat kid, both of which see Christine attack her sweetheart's aggressors with all the grace of a bull in a china shop. There's only so much you can do when your killer is a car, and it naturally takes a lot of bone-head's to let themselves be killed by it. No-one seems to move sideways, run up some stairs or enter a building (unless it's a flimsy gas station). But Christine does manage to somehow take on a personality of its own, and there's always something oddly satisfying about watching metal scrape, crash or burn on screen. It pales in comparison to the likes of Escape from New York and The Thing, which came the two years before, but Christine is a perfectly well-executed horror. "},{"Title":"A pretty good scare...","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I like this movie. It was one of my first Stephen King books-turned-into-movies that I had ever seen. And it did not disappoint. There are other horror movies I like better and other Stephen King movies I like better, but this one is pretty good.In 1957, in a town called Detroit, a red Plymouth Fury is built and causes two accidents, one of them being fatal. I wonder how it did that. Twenty-one years later, an outcast and nerd, Arnold Arnie Cunningham rides past the wrecked car in a junkyard. He instantly falls in love with the car and gives her the name, Christine. He gets the car repaired and because he has a new car, he changes his personality to a cocky teenager. You would think this would be a bad thing and that everyone would hate the new obnoxious Arnie. But he ends up dating the most popular and most beautiful girl in the school. The car eventually starts killing everyone that she sees as a treat. Creepy.Scaryness Rating 8 out of 10. Do they say the title of the movie, in the movie Yes, they do. It'd be hard not to.Overall, I give this movie a 6 out of 10, which in my rating book is Good. "},{"Title":"I liked it better than I thought I would","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was not sure whether this movie was my type of movie or not. I have not read the book and, even though it is considered one of the classic horror movies, I have kind of put off watching it expecting not to like it. I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised.As I wrote I have not read the book and thus I do not know how well the movie interprets the book. In my experience it is usually best, when it comes to movies based on books, not to have read the book though.The story is probably well known by most fans of the genre. To me it was well implemented. Fairly predictable but still enjoyable to watch. Keith Gordon characterized Arnie Cunningham very well as far as I am concerned. His journey from quiet nerd to insane madman was quite well done and at the end he flipped between looking almost normal to madly possessed with an ease that was almost scary.I did like the car as well. As a person that have always liked American cars I have to say that it is a beautiful car if nothing else. Also I actually found myself sympathizing with the car for a good chunk of the movie. Those assholes that terrorized Arnie truly deserved what they got. Then of course it got out of hand when the cars influence on Arnie took on more sinister proportions.The ending was a bit disappointing though. It felt rushed and unintelligent. Up until then both Arnie and the car had shown evidence of some intelligence. That went out of the picture in the last couple of scenes with the car first behaving like a bull with its balls in a tight squeeze and then like it was drugged allowing a slow moving Caterpillar to just move up behind it and start to trash it. That was rather disappointing and it is a star less for that alone.Otherwise I am not unhappy that I spent two hours of my life on this movie. "},{"Title":"Christine is a 1983 horror film set in 1978 and is based off of Stephen King's novel Christine.","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Looking at the movie poster we can't help but get chills as the 1958 Plymouth Fury coldly stares at us. The film captures the audience, horrifying us and making us believe in the terror depicted on the screen. The movie can truly be defined as an effective horror film. Despite the age of the film, it captures us and in the end, we can't help but wish that Dennis (John Stockwell) had never turned around to let Arnie (Keith Gordon) see the Plymouth Fury.After a close analysis of the film and looking further behind what meets the eye, it is clear Christine succeeds as a true horror film because it displays a number of horror fundamentals. Christine doesn't just rely on the brutal killing and abnormality of a car coming to life to shock the audience. There is more emotional tension in the movie as we see the change in Arnie Cunningham. In Laurie Werner's Horror Movies Why We Love to Scream in the Dark, she mentions several devices that seem to scare audiences. In Werner's article, she states that a traditional device has been transformation/metamorphosis that manifests the bestial nature that lies within (Werner 58). What is effective about this in Christine is the idea that Arnie Cunningham is as typical as it gets for a high school teenager. A scene that displays Arnie's change is when he and Dennis are driving in Christine together. Arnie takes his hands off the wheel to show Dennis the great alignment of the car. Seeing Dennis in shear terror, he asks what he's afraid of. I'm afraid of you, man, explains Dennis reluctantly (Christine). Arnie transitions from geeky to cocky to obsessed as Christine gets a hold of his soul, states Nigel Honeybone of Horrornews Reviews. We witness this transformation of Arnie showing us it could happen to anyone in the audience, making it truly horrifying. "}{"Title":"absolutely stunned","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" For sure i thought i would hate this movie but decided to watch it on a late show last night...what the heck ill zap if its boring. Low and behold from the very beginning i was entranced. The story is fun.....the music is good...the actors are excellent....its scary...funny...sad. I just loved it and what a genial ending...the man walking with his radio behind the wreck.Alexandra was a true beauty and in that movie she had the whole package deal.....John Stockwell why isn't he around anymore....now that was a sexy lad...not artificial like some actors of the day. And the actor who played the nerd....felt so dam sorry for him and his facial expressions were so real...i still cringe. Yes a good movie that i should have watched when it came out. OHand lets not forget CHRISTINE wow what a sexy lovely thing. "},{"Title":"Great Stephen King adaptation","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie was a really good book to movie conversion. Directed by John Carpenter it really did turn out great and quite similar to the book. The actors did a great job and it really is quite the creepy movies even these days.This movie is about a young nerdy boy named Arnie. He finds a car he wants to buy and instantly becomes obsessed with it. As he spends time with the car though he begins to see it has a mind of its own...an evil mind that is turning its owner into something evil as well..This movie was made out of a classic book and they did a great job for once. fans of the book watch this because I truly believe it does the book justice. "},{"Title":"Your definition of scary!","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine is one of those movies that is only a horror tale by who made it. A possessed car may not be that scary to some people, but the fact that it's based off a Stephen King novel might scare a few people off. The movie is based around this 1957 Plymoth Fury that was maid in Detriot. The owner is consumed by the car that it takes the man's life. The man's brother who is played by Roberts Blossom later sells it to Arnie who is a young high school nerd kid from the late 70s. He is captivated and it consumes him. This movie skirts the edges of material that you may or may not consider to be horrific, yet in the same manner, it keeps you looking over your shoulder if your in the position of one of the high school bullies. The car itself acts like a stalker and the portrayal of it is really well done. Several visual effects shots were needed to give Christine a life-like for for the devil that she is. Most of these shots were very much cheaply done, yet are seamless when played back in movie-time. There is the argument that some can't see such a beautiful muscle car like her be menacing. The thrills are different for a movie like this with a different pace. Hopefully this will not make the reboot list of 80s movie hits because I certainly can't see this movie getting a remake. It's one of those pieces that is unique and has the quality of storytelling that comes only from the masters who create them. "},{"Title":"I never cared about classic cars until now!","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised by this film. It's been out for years, a bunch of my friends have seen it many times over, but I just had to see it for myself. I thought it was great. The characters, the self- awareness of Christine, and the overall feel of terror that this town and group of people found themselves in with this jealous car alive and running amuck...it's the combination that makes a great horror movie. Hamburger-loving girlfriends beware! Christine plays no second fiddle!First off, the music is so important to the character of Christine. Old 50's rock & roll drives this car along its path of destruction, and it is so clear why Stephen King based the era of its construction of the '58 Plymouth Fury in Detroit as their economic downturns were upon them&#x85; Christine was not a good spokes model for the car industry up there. Second, the special effects were phenomenal. The reversing crumpled fenders, the busted glass, the charred paint job that somehow found the perfect coat of the rarest color around 20 years after the car model originated&#x85;it's a fantasy and a nightmare combined into one.You need to own this movie. It's a delight. The characters are fully fleshed out (my favorite was the mechanic-shop owner, Will Darnell played by Robert Prosky) and very unique. It's too bad Arnie's parents were complete control freaks; they got the hardest job of trying to come between the car and its owner since the beginning. It really shows what car possession means. I would run out and purchase it on Blu Ray (if it becomes available), but until then, DVD will do. "},{"Title":"A Unique Concept in Familiar Territory","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Normally the only unmanned car that works well in above all others is KITT from the 1980's series Knight Rider. But Christine is a very rare exception to the rule. Indeed, she doesn't talk, but she has superpowers impervious to fire, vandalism, etc.This movie is a unique concept because you're wondering why is this red 1958 Plymouth so....you know, evil from the assembly line onward. But that's not the only aspect that capture my interest. It's the connection this car has with the film's main character, Artie who is a rather typical geek/bullied teen. He's pushed around by jocks and gear-head punks at school, led by the merciless Buddy Ripperton(yeah, real threatening name, there?) and criticized by his elitist, cold, snotty bitch of mother, Regina. His only sense of freedom and independence is found in Christine, a '58 Plymouth Fury in which he finds in the yard of an old hermit.The chemistry between Artie Cunningham and Christine is established as Artie himself restores the possessed classic car to her former glory, despite being scoled and harassed by everyone. After Chistine gets beaten, almost destroyed by Ripperton and his goon squad, this is where the magic happens. She(the car)shows her dark side and creates Arnie's as she repairs herself and goes on a mission of revenge and murder killing or almost killing(if you count Artie rescuing his girlfriend Leigh from Christine's unseen choking grip) that interferes their man/machine relationship. You're almost rooting for Arnie and Christine because let's face it The mother's pissy snob, his classmates are brawny hoodlums. Personally, I could identify with this classic case of intimidation. Besides, Seeing this old-school car kick some serious ass is a rather pleasant experience.Christine adds a devilish mystique that is makes a fantasy horror film watchable. John Carpenter did his job in making a revenge fantasy done right from the get go. Finally, where did that evil spirit that was embedded into Christine's sheet metal and frame come from? Your guess is as good as mine. "},{"Title":"Nothing comes between a man and his own pair of wheels...","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter's CHRISTINE opens with a murderous car with a personality killing two men even before exiting the warehouse in which it was produced - the crazy wheels should have been stopped right there. Then follows a careful depiction of teenage life, and focusing in on Arnie (Keith Gordon), a nerdy student who's only got one friend (John Stockwell) and finds himself bullied at school by punks, and controlled at home by his parents. All his turmoil reaches redemption as he buys a ragged vintage car and determines to shine it up - he does, and in the process, changes his entire persona. An unbreakable and quite disturbing relationship develops between Arnie and his car, in which he names Christine, who shows herself to have a thriving and evil-minded personality. Adapted from the Stephen King novel, the film is great entertainment, full with great special effects (especially the celebrated bit where Christine rebuilds herself), broadly painted teenage characteristics, tingling score and Carpenter's nice knack of keeping a tight pace. "},{"Title":"Do not re-make this. Expand on it.","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I loved this movie, great old music. Awesome meltdown into insanity and just a good movie all over. I hope they don't re-make this one. I hope they make a sequel. My idea is simple. I would love to see the original cast back minus Arnie since he is dead, maybe a cameo by Keith Gordon would work but bring back John and Alexandria. The story takes place same town etc etc. They are now married and have a son or daughter, maybe make a daughter to show the obsession she could have as well. Anyways, we all saw the car start to regenerate at the last frame of the original. So anyways, she is now of age to drive and it is obvious where this is going but I can see this image of Alexandria in the kitchen and hearing the car pull into the driveway sounding all beat up like it did when arnie bought it. She looks out side and sees the car in bad shape and playing the song she heard when she almost choked in it. Basically this time the car came looking for them and taking their daughters life will be the ultimate payback for Arty dying. I don't know about where you would go with this. But if you could get the cast back I think this would kick the crap out the stuff Hollywood is putting out now. "},{"Title":"A fairly scary movie.","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is not John Carpenter's best film, but it's not a bad one either. It's a fairly scary film, but i wasn't as impressed as I've been with other Carpenter films, or Steven King stories for that sake. This is probably a better book than film.The acting was good, and the Carpenter way of creating thrills was definitely there. But I also felt the story was a little stiff and predictable. The start was fun, the middle was a little boring, and I really liked the ending. I give this movie a 6/10. Carpenter has admitted to make this film, because it was the only thing available, and i must say it show from time to time. I would advice you to see John Carpenter other films. "},{"Title":"Pleasure to burn","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of the few horror films created in a time when violent on screen deaths and super-gore were commonplace where we are given neither and yet still a healthy meat n potatoes, stick to your ribs film is what we get. I've watched this movie probably 10 times and haven't gotten sick of it yet.One of the things that I feel makes it enduring, much like previous Stephen King books that have been translated to film, is that it differs enough from the source material that, upon learning the plot of the novel, I find the film to be better. Ghostly happenings are eliminated from the storyline, leaving evil Christine to be a bad girl from her very birth. This is one of the better worm-that-turns films, with Arnie Cunningham transforming himself as he rebuilds Christine. Or, perhaps, it is his hard work in rebuilding her that allows her to rebuild him in a more fitting image as her new owner and driver. Little did John Carpenter know that he would be creating such an iconic figure with Christine. If you are lucky enough today to see an exact model of Christine or even a similar body type painted red, the car from this movie is the first thing you will think of. As a kid, after seeing the movie, I wanted a Christine of my own for years because I became obsessed with the chrome and the monstrous engine.Carpenter wisely chose mainly unknowns for his cast or older B movie actors. The car is the star, not the actors. This was back in the day before Carpenter went soft and he could really make a great film with spectacular pacing and masterful shots. His sparse, subtle musical interludes between classic rock n roll pieces are superb. The heavy synth score reminds me of a few light flavors of artists like Goblin. The best use of Carpenter's theme is set during the gas station attack where Christine is engulfed in fire, chasing the hapless bully, Buddy, down a deserted stretch of road. Unfortunately, that scene doesn't hold up all that well after all these years as if you are paying attention to the roadway, you'll see Christine isn't driving very fast while ablaze. That sort of kills the shot, but back when I first saw it, that scene left an imprint on me as one of the best horror scenes. As I said earlier, it's iconic.I've heard rumors about remakes and I'm sort of on the fence about that. Some humble advice I'd give to producers would be to hire someone like George Miller who knows his way around car chases. Make sure the car make, model, and color are the same, but maybe show some gory scenes this time. Not over the top nor with every death, but maybe one or two, like a tire tread rolling over and crushing a head or something. Hopefully, a remake will be a remake of this film and not the novel. I find this movie superior to the book in every way. "},{"Title":"This is classic","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" She can't (and won't) drive 55.... Stephen King's novel about the twisted love affair between a boy and his car gets transferred to the screen, courtesy of suspense master John Carpenter. Although lacking some of the more outr supernatural elements of the source material, this high-octane cinematic tune-up more than delivers the goods, horror-wise (Christine's midnight rampages will never be forgotten)--as well as being a sly expos of the random cruelties within the high-school pecking order. Keith Gordon (who has gone on to become a stellar director in his own right, with films such as A Midnight Clear and Mother Night to his credit) gives a wonderfully controlled central performance. Carpenter's atmospheric original score is backed up by a well-chosen collection of rock classics, including George Thorogood's Bad to the Bone (the titular character's all-too-apt theme song). "}{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Being a huge Stephen King fan, I love his books and like the movie adaptations. Of course, none of them can really compare with the original works. Christine was the first Stephen King book I ever read, and still remains my favorite. The movie really did the book well. It didn't overdo the gore or anything. It was spooky, but also showed the deeper meaning of teenage obsession and the love story subplot. The acting was perfect. The only thing I didn't like was that there were a few main points that they left out that would have made the movie perfect. Other than that, I had no problem with it. Keith Gordon, I have to say, stole the show. He played an excellent Arnie, first being the wimpy nerd and then going to this complete bad ass greaser. I highly recommend this film to anyone who wants a good film, but isn't expecting too much out of it. "},{"Title":"An excellent and underrated John Carpenter horror film","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Hopelessly geeky teen nerd Arnie Cunnigham (a terrific performance by Keith Gordon) buys a beat-up junker of a '58 Plymouth Fury named Christine and lovingly restores the car to its former exquisitely pristine glory. Arnie makes a gradual transition from hapless unhip dweeb to ultra-smooth cool dude. Meanwhile, Arnie's nasty tormentors start meeting brutal untimely ends. Is it Arnie or Christine who's behind the killings?Director John Carpenter, working from a sharp, witty and astute script by Bill Phillips that's based on a Stephen King novel, begins the film as a compelling and perceptive character study of a forlorn misfit individual and slowly develops the movie into a truly chilling full-blown horror picture, with Christine's deadly wrath and Arnie's startling metamorphosis into a bitter sociopath making for a genuinely frightening double act. Moreover, the raw, profane dialogue, vivid high school milieu and credibly messed-up teenage characters all ring true. Better still, the story offers a touching, intriguing and incisive meditation on America's obsessive infatuation with automobiles and the basic adolescent need to fit in, get revenge on everyone who makes your teen years the proverbial living hell, and be a winner instead of a loser. The uniformly strong acting from a top-drawer cast qualifies as another significant asset John Stockwell as Arnie's affable, charming jock best friend Dennis Guilder, Alexandra Paul as Arnie's sweet, gorgeous girlfriend Leigh Cabot, Robert Prosky as coarse'n'crusty slob garage owner Will Darnell, William Ostrander as vicious bully Buddy Repperton, Christine Belford as Arnie's worried mother Regina, Harry Dean Stanton as laid-back, but diligent Detective Rudolph Junkins, Roberts Blossom as the sleazy eccentric George Lebay who sells Christine to Arnie, and Kelly Preston as vapid bimbo cheerleader Roseanne. Donald M. Morgan's slick, polished cinematography (the image of a flaming Christine chasing a fleeing Buddy down the road is positively breathtaking), a splendidly spooky'n'shivery score by Carpenter and Alan Howarth, and the first-rate vintage 50's golden oldies soundtrack are all likewise on the money. A fine and under-appreciated little gem. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Movies Ever","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of those classic demonic possession movies. Christine is one of the best movie... things (would she be considered a monster or demon?), and is pure evil and she kills anybody who crosses her by running them down. She's a literal version of hell on wheels, and is cool. I like the soundtrack to it, which is full of 80's rock which fits the moment. Arnie is a good character and fits the typical nerd in school who ends up getting revenge through Christine. The book, however, reveals him to be possessed by Roland D. LeBay (a.k.a. the old guy who sold him Christine). I read the book, and I like both the book and movie, but in typical fashion, the book was better. However, I think there should be a sequel to Christine (Spoiler approaching), since after they destroyed her and a piece of her was moving at the end. Also, the book ends where there was a report in the newspaper of a hit and run by a mysterious car, and the person that was killed was supposedly one of the guys who trashed Christine.Other than straying from the possession of Arnie part of the book, Christine is a good movie. I recommend it for ANYBODY who hasn't seen it. "},{"Title":"Great fantasy","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter's Christine/1983/***1/2Main Stars Keith Gordon John Stockwell Alexandra PaulFrom the director and music composer of Halloween and the original The Fog brings to you another movie that is very thrilling and unnerving- CHRISTINE. Would I consider this movie a classic? I guess so. If you have not seen this unnerving, suspenseful, mysterious, horrifying, and very entertaining movie yet, then I will tell you right now that the story is ridiculous but I liked it anyway. It's about a car named Christine that kills people (especially women) because she (Christine) has a mind of her own and is very jealous of other women or she wants to get her revenge on bad people that have harmed her owner Arnie (Keith Gordon). She can repair herself if damaged in any way (such as being on fire or not being able to fit through passageways). When Christine can't go through something very narrow (like a passageway), she'll drive through the narrow passageway anyway crushing herself but being able to fix herself in the end. Dennis (John Stockwell), Arnie's friend, tries to tell him not to buy Christine. Arnie refuses to listen to him and buys her anyway from a scrawny old man. Since this movie is based on a Stephen King novel (which is also called Christine), I knew it would be very odd and I expected many weird things to happen. Not many weird things happened though. Arnie was obsessed with Christine though and she seemed to possess him (I wasn't surprised) by keeping him involved with her and no one else and becoming sick in the head but everything else was normal. Well the story itself is way beyond normal, but it was still thrilling, and very well acted. Arnie also has a girlfriend named Leigh (Alexandra Paul). The thing is she is not fond of Christine at all and tells him to get rid of her. But remember he's OBSESSED with her! He can't get rid of her! Leigh and Arnie still care for each other but don't hang out very much anymore. This made him even more obsessed with Christine and he loved her more than anyone even more than his own parents! There was one very well done scene (all the scenes were but this one was the best) when Christine is on fire chasing someone that had been very ugly and mean toward Arnie. All you hear is John Carpenter's music going BOM BOM DO DO DO DO DO DO BOM BOM! All you see is Christine ON FIRE following this bad guy until the bad guy is run over and also catches on fire. There are a few other gruesome killings that Christine had made to other people also in this movie. When you see this movie (if ever) you will catch billions of very inappropriate cuss words and some vulgar scenes. Also you will catch some sexually transmitted scenes and a lot of scary horrifying images. Also a lot of violence and some blood and gore, but that's all. Movie directed by John Carpenter. NOTE THAT'S WHY THIS MOVIE IS RATED R. But if the movie were out in the theaters today, it would (guaranteed) be PG-13. "},{"Title":"One of Steven King's better movies","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine is one of the better imaginings of Stephen King's works.**SPOILERS**In 1957, one of the cars on the assembly line in Detroit seems cursed from the beginning. Strange events plague its creation for over twenty years, where geeky Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) needs to break away from his domineering mother (Christine Belford). His friend Dennis (John Stockwell) agrees, since he's tired of protecting him from the goons at school. While driving home, he and Dennis spot the fabled car collecting rust on a farm and buys it against Dennis' and his parents wishes. Fixing it up causes Arnie to start acting differently around Dennis and his mother, which causes everyone around him to become concerned for him. Suddenly, people around Arnie begin dying in mysterious ways, and a police inspector (Harry Dean Stanton) comes in to investigate the case, and discovers something that defies explanation. Soon, Dennis and Arnie's girlfriend Leigh (Alexandra Paul) have to try to help Arnie from being in Christine's deadly grasp.The Good News This is probably as action-packed a film as Stephen King will ever do, and Carpenter was the perfect choice to do so. He uses such a great style with his trademark of not showing too much and only what is needed is a style that suits this movie perfectly. We get so many scenes that could've been ruined which weren't because of the way Carpenter shoots the movie. His way of filming is the only kind that would've worked for the film. Once we get going, the film is non-stop until the end. Seeing the car hunt down the people who have deserved it are some of the greatest action/suspense scenes ever filmed. Special mention goes to the one scene where it mowed down the lead bully. After killing his two friends earlier, the bully takes off into the night, running down the street. Christine takes off after him, flaming from being in the middle of a fire, and the flaming car is chasing after him down the street. It is a wonder site to behold, seeing the flaming car in action. A lot more action than what was expected, and even some great suspense as well. The radio constantly turning on, the car's ability to simply appear out of nowhere, and the creepiness that follows when you know you are being followed are some great examples. Seeing the car is like a warning that something will happen, and the uselessness of running is seen in the few lives taken in the film. All this aside, the one thing that really got me was the theme. This has to be one of Carpenters most underrated themes ever, and I think it is just as creepy and fear inducing as Halloween's theme was. This is the perfect theme for the movie, as it gets under your skin and keeps you on the edge of your seat at the same time. This has great theme music for the film that helps out to keep the viewer interested in the action and the scene.The Bad News The movie could've had a faster opening, but this is it. The beginning was slow to start, but after that, it was great.The Final Verdict Christine is a major classic that many horror fans need to see. It is a master example of setting up a scene and getting to a level of suspense through characters and action. Required viewing for Carpenter fans and all supernatural fans.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence and mild drug use "},{"Title":"It's a possessed ZZ Tops!","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" It all started in Detroit in 1957. The car's bonnet mysteriously slammed on a worker's hand while he was checking the engine. And at 5 o' clock that afternoon, one of the worker's died in the car while listening to music.Later, two boys named Dennis Guilder (John Stockwell) and Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) who were both victims of verbal and physical bullying caught sight of an old red ZZ Tops and Arnie was the one to check it out. Arnie sure did fall in love with it. When they to it's owner named George LeBay (Roberts Blossom), he told them that the car's name was Christine. Le Bay told Arnie about it's bad history when his brother's daughter was chocked to death in the car5. But anyways, Arnie bought the car $250.When Arnie came home with the car, his parents Regina and Michael (Christine Belford and Robert Darnell) disagreed with Arnie keeping the car due to hearing about the previous owner who died in the car from carbon monoxide. But Arnie insisted on keeping the car. And on the 9th of October 1979, Arnie fixed his car with junk at and from Darnelle's Auto Wrecking. There was a similar attachment with LeBay's brother and Christine as there was with Arnie and Christine. And you should've seen how the car looked when it was complete. BEAUTIFUL! That night, Dennis went to go check out the car, and when he tried to open it, the radio went off, Dennis ran away and then, the radio stopped playing. Now, this was the time when we knew the car had a life of it's own! On the following day, when Arnie rocked up at a football match. Christine made Dennis injure himself. And on the 5th of November, Dennis was in hospital.That evening, Arnie's girlfriend Leigh Cabot (Alexandra Paul) told Arnie that she hated the car. And when Arnie went out of the car, Leigh began to choke in the car while the radio played and everywhere in the car shone a bright white light. And when Arnie left his car inside Darnelle's Auto Wrecking, his bully Buddy Repperton (William Ostrander) and his gang sneaked in and vandalized his car.The next day, Arnie was shocked to see what happened to his car. And that evening, Christine pulled herself back together. And Christine went after one of Buddy's mates who was involved with vandalizing her. He was Moochie Welch (Malcolm Danare). WOO! Moochie sure was spooked out! Christine chased Moochie into a junk yard and she mashed him into a dead end.On the 3rd of November, 1979. There were many complaints about Christine. And one evening, Christine followed Buddy about as he drove to a petrol station, she wrecked his car, and she caused a petrol explosion. She then chased him down the as she burnt with her headlights shining brightly. And, she ran him over and he burnt up. THAT'S RIGHT!! BURN IN HELL, FOOL!!!! When Christine came in, a guy who worked at the junkyard named Don Vandenberg (Stuart Charno) checked Christine out. Don foolishly got into the car, the door closed and it locked, the radio again turned on and the driver's seat which he was sitting on CRUSHED him! And the next morning, Christine was as good as new. WOW!!! Later on in the following evening, Dennis noticed that the car had done something to Arnie. He also saw that the car could steer by itself when Arnie let go of the steering wheel. Later, Dennis and Leigh set a trap for Christine at Darnelle's. He was going to crush her with a bulldozer. And SUDDENLY! Christine shot out from under from under a pile of garbage with her headlights shining their brightest! When Christine went for Leigh, she missed and began to ram the place down! And... SURPRIZE! Arnie was inside Christine. Christine again tried to run over Leigh, she crashed into a little joint of the place and Arnie died due to glass that got stuck inside his body. And finally, Dennis crushed Christine to kingdom come. And the next day, (Wow! I have said this phrase SO many times.) Christine had been compacted. And uh-oh! A song was heard playing from one of the builder's radio's. And, Christine began to form herself again.Christine had to have been one of the most interesting Stephen King films that I have ever seen due to having a possessed car, it effects the owner and those who are around him or her.And everyone knowing what sex the car is. That amused me when LeBay said that Christine smelt like pussy!And having a radio for a car's heart. This film was stunning, ABSOLUTELY STUNNING!!!! "},{"Title":"Well made in some area's, but feels a tad dull in others.","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" A high school youth falls in love with & buys a beautiful old time car called Christine, little does he know, that this is no ordinary car, it's actually possessed and just loves to kill people (Especially his enemies!) by running them over, as time moves on, the youth slowly starts to go insane & the car soon tries to kill those close to him. CHRISTINE wasn't all that bad as a horror movie, in fact it was pretty decent for what it was, the film has this creepy feel running through it that helps to take you along for the rest of the ride (Pun intended!) & the actors really knew their stuff when it came to performing in their roles & Carpenter is on a roll as always with his direction, but with all that out of the way, the film (in my opinion anyways) just felt a little over long in places, with a few spots here & there in the movie that felt like sheer padding, why I haven't a clue, it just felt like that (Could be just me) & the ending to the film felt a bit flat in some ways, especially since the film had some pretty good momentum leading up to it. STEPHEN KING/JOHN CARPENTER fans should have a hoot watching it, just don't ponder the details to much.*** stars "},{"Title":"A car to die for","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Never having seen this film, or having read Stephen King's novel, in which Christine is based on, we decided to take a chance. Needless to say, it paid big time because of the inspired direction by John Carpenter who also composed the background music for the movie. In fact, it was a surprise, perhaps, because of no preconceived ideas on our part.The film is not as much as a horror film, as it is a dark comedy that seems to suit the material Bill Phillips, its adapter, gives to the picture. There are some excellent visual effects that work well within the context of the narrative making the viewer not to lose interest at any given moment.The subject of the film is about a young man who is perceived as a weakling by his peers at school. In fact, just like with another Stephen King novel, Carrie, Arnie Cunningham vows to take revenge in all the nasty things done to him by the bullies in school. In fact, we witness a transformation in Arnie as he becomes interested in restoring the 1957 car he bought second hand and seems to cause a lot of problems for some people who dare to cross Arnie.The film works because of the creepy performance by Keith Gordon, who as Arnie, brings life into the teen ager that goes from being a nerd, easily afraid of his tormentors, into the assured young man who knows about his powers once he is riding his red car. The rest of the cast is good interacting with Mr. Gordon. John Stockwell, Alexandra Paul, the great Robert Prosky and Henry Dean Stanton, who doesn't have much to do in the film.This film will be appreciated by all fans of John Carpenter. "},{"Title":"An automaniac's love story","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" She's mean, she's lean, she's a killing machine, she's Christine, a 1958 Plymouth Fury gloriously restored to assembly-line beauty by a gawky teen in John Carpenter's effectively creepy, if not entirely successful and uneven 1983 horror movie. Adapted from Stephen King's chilling novel, Christine is master of suspense Carpenter's definitive vision of teenage autocidal lust and anguish that's thankfully devoid of immature teen comedy theatrics.The film begins typically enough set on the first day of the new school year in the picturesque suburb of Rockridge, California in 1978, we're introduced to amiable geek Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) and his one and only friend, jock Dennis (John Stockwell). Arnie is the typical geek subject of teen movies he wears glasses (which are conveniently broken at some point during the film, requiring masking tape to hold them together), wears high-riding trousers, is ignored by the ladies, and is constantly picked on by bullies, who give him the deplorable nickname Cuntingham.For the first 45 minutes or so, the film pretty much shares the qualities of most of the teen comedies of the early '80s. The characters are typical of the genre melodrama the hero, the jock, the bully (or four in this case), and there is even a girl too &#150; Leigh Cabot (Alexandra Paul). Of course Dennis, acting on the compulsion of fellow jocks (or hormones?) tries to pick her up first but is shot down.After a harsh first day of their senior year, Arnie and Dennis are on their way home when Arnie spots a dilapidated Fury rusting away in the yard of an old coot. Its (or her) name is Christine; it's love at first sight for Arnie and Christine. The man is glad someone's finally taking the thing off his hands, but doesn't reveal to them the vehicle's sordid and troublesome history &#150; like how those who come between Christine and her owner often meet with grisly fates. Arnie writes him a check and drives it home, much to the protest of his overbearing parents, who aren't the least bit happy he bought a new car without consulting them first.But he's not hearing that though; Arnie's like a kid with a new toy he's determined to rebuild Christine, and why shouldn't his parents be proud he's not out getting into trouble and not failing any of his college-level classes at school? But because Christine is apparently an eyesore, his parents demand he keep the thing somewhere else, chiefly the garage of hard-a** mechanic Will Darnell (Robert Prosky) at his auto-wreck yard. Within weeks, Christine has been restored to her original beauty, and Arnie is suddenly a true ladies man, with cute Leigh by his side.But soon everyone, except love-struck Arnie, realizes Christine is not perfect, and that she even becomes jealous of his courtship of Leigh. Anything that comes between them is automatically against them, and nothing will tear them apart. What's more, it could be that something ghastly lies deep within Christine's chrome-laden frame and fenders, inside her monstrous V8 engine that makes nearly every other classic vehicle featured here cringe with fear.Christine, released between Carpenter's ultra-gory sci-fi chiller The Thing (1982) and heartfelt and sincere mainstream sci-fi romance Starman (1984), is exemplary in that it shows admirable restraint in dealing with the bloodier components of the somewhat disjointed and uneven script. Death by auto is given new definition with Christine, as witnessed in the many nocturnal killing rampages, like when she is set ablaze and becomes literally hell on wheels. Also, the teen romance receives a daring new spin in the vein of true Carpenter fashion.Of course when things start to get interesting, some elements are not entirely explained or explored, like the truly twisted depth of Arnie's blossoming love affair with Christine or Christine's supposed psychic link to her beau. Also, I don't think Stockwell's Dennis is given enough screen time to be terrified for his friend (which is somewhat explained by his football injury and subsequent recovery in the hospital). Lastly, the ending confrontation seemed to make Carpenter's otherwise excellent film revert to formula.The performances are exceptional. Gordon is intense in a controlled yet sympathetic and tragic performance of the boy experiencing the pains of first love, albeit twisted, obsessive first love. He is quite scary, especially in later scenes with the love of his life; I'm surprised he didn't get better work as a result of his role here. Stockwell and Paul are sufficient as the concerned best friend and girlfriend, and genre regular Harry Dean Stanton even drops in as the detective assigned to stop Christine's autocidal rampage.Christine is a chilling exercise in horror from a master, despite a few problems. The ride is fun if not somewhat bumpy, but Christine is definitely one ride you may want to take again and again, if you have the stomach for it, of course.8/10 "},{"Title":"Crysler's Rule!! and So does this film!! Classic Carpenter!!!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" OK, you may think I'm crazy for giving John Carpenter's 'Christine' a great score. However, any true film enthusiast should sit up and take note of 'Christine's' excellent direction, sound and acting. Here is a film with timeless qualities. The classic Crysler befriends the young fragile geek 'Arnie', turning him into a cool, slick and attractive partner; like his new love Christine. Watch this film again if you think that it's crap, cos you'll find a great mystery to life itself. The film score and film songs are great, the revenge scenes are classic, and overall it's definitely not a one watcher and deserves to be looked into. "}{"Title":"Remarkably brilliant","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Again, when translation from book to film very rarely works it's hard to watch films after reading a great piece of work. Christine is no exception. Reading the book was a fantastic piece of writing but surprised that I was, the cut down size to viewing format actually worked.Cuts were made of course but that really didn't effect the film and the point of the film. The love triangle elements between Christine, Leigh and Arnie still strongly exists and you actually feel for the car especially towards the end. The soundtrack to the film is wonderfully selected and executed especially the part where Moochie gets killed. The car sits casually while playing a really cool track with fingers clicking. Then burst to life with fury. It gave the car real character. The actors were also chosen well which made the viewing more comfortable.John Carpenter I think hit home here. To make a car feel like it has real feeling without making it into a spirited monster is surely an achievement.To the book, this film is still a watered down version but a proud film it stands along a collection of horror films. I love it. "},{"Title":"As good as it could be","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter's take on the Stephen King story is in my opinion a pretty remarkable film. I think Carpenter generated as much suspense as possible considering the fact that the evil doer is a car. Christine really becomes a feisty personality, better realised than many actual characters in many films. Through terrific cinematography, music and fantastic (even to this day) special effects; Christine is truly a scary villain.Also well captured by Carpenter is the take on teenage life. Although not all characters are well defined, the main character is both well played and written. Towards the end, he's really a character you feel sorry for, rather than despise, due to the way Christine has treated him.Many classic Carpenter elements are present, his unique way of creating and sustaining a moody atmosphere is well done here but there's simply no escaping the fact that the film is pretty much suspenseless. There is just no way in making a car all that scary. Carpenter does his best and in my opinion, the film couldn't have been made any better. Carpenter makes the car the real star here, and makes the movie just fun to watch. Not scary but fun. "},{"Title":"Decent adaptation","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Lots of reviewers saying they haven't read the book. I've read it numerous times, and seen this movie several. All in all, I think it's one of the better King adaptations. Doesn't compare to either Green Mile or Shawshank Redemption as far as true to original story, but in my opinion it's easily third behind these.I almost wish this film was more recent, because I think more could have been done with today's special effects. But if you've read the book, the movie won't disappoint you -- it conveys the overall spirit of the book, if not all the specifics. Check it out... very much worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Reasonable for it's time but not like the book!","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This adaptation of a novel by Stephen King is just that, an adaptation. If you have read the book you are likely to be disappointed by the film's cut corners and glaring inconsistencies to the written work. It's age shows but that is natural and the special effects are really quite good for it's time. It's casting is poor, again, if you have read the book the choice for the main character (other than the car) Arnie is particularly implausible and the acting in some places isn't quite Hollywood standard. On the whole, however, the film is quite engaging, it moves along swiftly, though it's original UK 18 rating would really be a 15 at least by today's standards so if you're looking for something a little bloody and scary this isn't for you. Here's hoping for a remake that is a little closer to the book, which I'd advise you read after watching this film, not before! "},{"Title":"The Cars The Star","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  OK I have just read every comment on Christine and you guys say the same things over and over again.There's too much on the car.The movies about the car and its story. Read the title and think about the name of the car. Make sense now?OK on with my comments. First off to get all the facts straight not all the cars were destroyed. Twelve of them were and some of them (four I believe) were actual Furys, the other cars were converted Plymouth Savoys and Belvederes. I do not include dates here as they were varied from 1957-1958. The Picture cars are still alive and well today. One was kept by the director himself and another as some of you will remember was a prize for a competition to promote the movie. The rest were sold to a junk dealer and sold for parts then scrap. In other words it wasn't a total waste. Some happy Plymouth owners got to restore their beloved cars with the spoils of this movie. The movie in my honest opinion wasn't bad. As a Plymouth nut I've seen it a few times more than average and have to say that I loved it. The car and yes even the cast )) I read a bit of the book so far and the only thing they should have added was LeBay. It would have made it a little better on the Cast and Plot side of things. Especially the timewarp scene in the book. That would have been damn amazing on screen. I am not a fan of Alexandra Paul and her useless attempt at acting in this movie really shows. She looked like somebody stuck a needle in her butt in her choking scene. One thing I will say was an excellent bit of acting was the friendship between Arnie and Dennis. Reminded me of how my buddies and I were in high school. And the Junk Yard owner Darnell. He was the funniest thing about the move. But Christine got her own back for all the insults he threw at her. A great movie and much needed publicity for the humble Fury. The Cars The Star!!!Y'know Pepper, ya can't polish a turd. Wanna Bet ))  "},{"Title":"Superior thriller, in the grand tradition of Val Lewton","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  In 1978, novice filmmaker John Carpenter wrote, directed and composed the score for a zero-budgeted independent horror film HALLOWEEN. Released with hardly a whisper, HALLOWEEN was brushed off by Variety as routine drive-in fare.  But when it opened in New York City, a prescient critic for the Village Voice gave it a rave review.  The rest is history. Less than two years later, another independent filmmaker chose another holiday with eerie connotations, FRIDAY THE 13TH.  Although crudely done, derivative and awash in gore (by comparison, HALLOWEEN was virtually blood-free), the film delivered the shuddery goods. Unfortunately, the boxoffice blockbuster status of HALLOWEEN and FRIDAY THE 13TH--the first a certifiable classic, the second a cynical piece of trash--spawned a torrent of ripoffs. Most of them were miniscule-budgeted independent quickies, but an alarming number of them were reasonably financed, even bearing the distribution logo of a respected major-studio, with the added come-on of a Stephen King novel serving as its source. (This hybrid was generally as wretched as its independent counterparts.)  But King didn't come cheap; actors did.  After her quintet of screamfests, Jamie Lee Curtis, the then-unknown star of HALLOWEEN, cannily figured she'd paid her dues and moved into other ventures.  Poor, pretty Adrienne King, who played the Curtis-role in FRIDAY THE 13TH, didn't fare as well.  After demanding a salary raise for the sequel, Ms. King found herself relegated to a pre-credit cameo. Among the dozens of clones that polluted theatres for the next decade, however (and the sequels to HALLOWEEN and FRIDAY THE 13TH are now entering their third decade), one movie of genuine quality emerged--only to be somewhat buried (and sadly underrated) by the morass of slasher flicks that tarnished the '80s.  That film is CHRISTINE, a 1983 release that is as finely crafted, meticulously assembled, and gripping a thriller to come out of Hollywood since the output of Val Lewton (Cat People, The Seventh Victim) in his all-too-brief 1940s heyday. Yes, CHRISTINE was based on a Stephen King novel but its makers had the intelligence to cut out the novel's dreck, retain its haunting premise, and embellish its virtues. CHRISTINE is the name a bullied, lonely highschool nerd Arnie (Keith Gordon) gives to a battered 1958 Plymouth Fury he acquires at a used-car garage. Obviously feeling a psychological kinship with the abandoned vehicle, Arnie becomes obsessed with restoring the neglected car to its former gleaming red glory.  But as Christine's outward appearance undergoes a transformation thanks to Arnie's loving care, so does Arnie's. As his sole friend and protector, the warm-hearted, concerned school jock Dennis (John Stockwell, giving depth and quiet strength to a usually cliched character) looks on at first in bemusement, then in increasing alarm as Arnie is gradually transformed into an intimidating, kick-butt stud.  Moreover, Dennis takes notice of Arnie's increasing dependence, almost supernatural obsession with his beloved Christine.  But Christine has a mind of her own, including jealousy.  First, anyone who crosses Arnie's path is found mysteriously slain.  Then, when the highschool beauty (Alexandra Paul, years before her Baywatch days) becomes attracted to the newly refurbished Arnie, Christine swings into a jealous rampage and . . . CHRISTINE evokes its sense of dread by casting a searingly keen eye on the sights and sounds of small-town life, of carefully depicted relationships between teenagers and their parents, and the casual caring and cruelties of highschool life.  The film entirely eschews gore, cheap shocks and CGI special effects, and focuses almost imperceptibly on our most primal fears and joys--of growing up, of falling in love, the anguish of betrayal and abandonment--all the while with Christine observing all that transpires from the background--and zooming into the foreground when it comes to protecting her savior. Director John Carpenter's devious stylistic gifts quietly prick at our nerves--all is nuance (enhanced by a furtively roaming anamorphic Panaglide camera). CHRISTINE creates moments of such suspense that it reminded me of a few other unique thrillers of its era--and, by cross-referencing various movies (on IMDB) that came to mind, I was surprised that all shared one connecting link. First the films SOMEONE'S WATCHING ME, a truly unnerving made-for-TV thriller starring Lauren Hutton as a woman terrorized in her swank high-rise apartment. This little-known gem was written and directed by John Carpenter prior to HALLOWEEN. SALEM'S LOT, Tobe Hooper's 2-part TV adaptation of Stephen King's vampire shocker, released theatrically overseas, featuring one of James Mason's last, most memorable performances. Wes Craven's CHILLER, made-for-TV before the filmmaker went on to commercial success with the Elm Street and Scream franchises. This top-quality trilogy--plus CHRISTINE--were all produced by Richard Kobritz.  His two Stephen King adaptations show he seems to understand and enhance King's work as no other filmmaker has to date, though many have tried and come a cropper (check out both versions of THE SHINING, Kubrick's bloated theatrical version and the tacky TV mini-series, and you'll see what I'm talking about). In an era when directors are instantly credited as the auteurs of their films, I'd suggest that the films of Mr. Kobritz--not unlike those of Val Lewton--show who the genuine auteur is.  In all of his films, the sense of foreboding is evoked through the subtlest of psychological and cinematic terms.  Somehow, these films all have the same unique touch.  In all of the endings, the presence of evil is never entirely vanquished.  As in life, evil is always lurking, waiting to make its inevitable return in some form or other. I congratulate Mr. Kobritz for being perhaps the sole filmmaker to have learned the lessons of Lewton. "},{"Title":"Her name's Christine !","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a fun movie. Far and away my favorite adaptation of a Stephen King novel ever. Christine is a sweet `58 Plymouth Fury with a decidedly nasty disposition. The effects are great and the acting is fine. The soundtrack is loaded with classics from the golden age of Rock & Roll. Fans of good horror/fantasy films should find this film a joy to watch ! "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC!!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Christine is a great little movie that never gets the praise and credit it deserves.  This film tells the tale of nerdy Arnie Cunnigham and his only friend Dennis.  One day Arnie buys an old 1958 Chevy and becomes obssesed with it.  The car is alive and has a mind of it's own with a clearly malevolent personality, and after a while the car infuses Arnie with so much confidence he becomes super cool.  Then car changes Arnie into a downright ass, and he becomes like the bullies that were bullying him before.  Soon everyone that endangers Arnie or the car has a death mark on their head.Much has been said about Keith Gordon's performance of Arnie, and let me continue to praise his job here.  It's magnificent.  Gordon NAILS the role of the unconfident Arnie Cunnigham.  I think that's one reason people love his acting job here, Gordon doesn't overact or give an unreal performance of a nerd (see Urkel and Screech).  While nerds have been portrayed in other movies and TV shows, usually they are over acted nerds.  Most nerdy and loserly people don't act as stupid as Urkel, Horshack, or Screech.  I've met plenty of unconfident losers in my day, and never have they acted as over exaggerated and silly as Steve Urkel, Screech Powers or Arnold Horshack. Keith Gordon seems to know that and he underplays the nerd role, which is why it comes across so damn real and effective.  I don't think anyone's ever met a nerd as exaggerated and fake as Steve Urkel, but we've all met plenty of Arnie Cunnighams.Loserly people DO act as scared, nervous, and unconfident as Arnie Cunnigham does in this film.  And Gordon's complete 180 from nerd to cool guy is just as believable.  It was amazing to watch this once unconfident loser be this super cool guy.  Truly, truly genius performance.  If there ever was award for Most believable Nerd, Keith Gordon should win that hands down. Great performance and fantastic movie.  "},{"Title":"Evil CAR makes for evil teenager","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Now, there is not doubt about it!  The 1958 Plymouth Fury Sport Coupe, especially in red with a white roof, was one mean, boss machine.  And Christine was a car with a mean disposition.  Possessed by John Carpenter's magic, Christine tells the tale of a nerdy teenager Arnie Cunningham (played by a 22 year old Keith Gordon) who purchases this demon possessed machine and restores it (well, Christine basically restores herself) and transforms his own attitude from school campus worm to BMOC (Big Man on Campus).  Keith Gordon, now 41 years old today, gave a flawless performance.  He is totally believable as the meek, mild mannered teen who becomes a diabolical instrument of revenge against any person whom doesn't like Christine.Keith's only real male pal is Dennis Guider, played by a 22 year old John Stockwell (real name John Samuels, IV). Dennis is the typical football jock wearing his school colors on his letterman's jacket.  Texas born Stockwell plays a perfect straight side kick to the unpredictable Arnie Cunningham. Dennis stands by his friend and, in the end, is the man of the hour who saves the lovely heroine from the disaster of Christine.Now, every teen movie requires the nerd to fall in love with the prettiest girl in school and that she also digs him!  This, of course, never happened in our own high schools.  But, in Christine beautiful 20 year old Alexandra Paul (of later Baywatch and Melrose Place fame) plays the teen angel role of Leigh Cabot.  Needless to say, she becomes enamored with Arnie, even though she could have any boy on that campus or any campus, and becomes his girlfriend, even though she won't go all the way at the drive-in!  But the love between Leigh and Arnie is not to be as the jealous Christine requires an exclusive love between the car and it's current driver, Arnie Cunningham.Christine is also an actress in this movie.  Christine has a heart, a mind, and a soul.  Christine knows all that's going on inside her chassis and won't stand for sharing her man with another girl.  Christine is a killer.  And, Christine can't be killed!  I read that as many as 16 - 20 1958 Plymouth Fury Sports Coupes were procured and destroyed in making this film.  What a waste!  This was one of Detroit's most classical body designs. Today's cars are ugly clones and can't compare to the boss cars of the 50s and 60s.  Christine had character and a pure evil disposition.We always like that famous pride of Kentucky, Harry Dean Stanton.  Harry Dean Stanton plays the police detective Rudolph Jenkins investigating the mysterious deaths caused by Christine.  His cool demeanor shows that he actually believes that Christine is evil incarnate.  He takes the explanation of Christine as a matter of fact.  Stanton, now 76 years old, was 57 years old when Christine was filmed.  A veteran of many movies and television episodes, Stanton played the US Army recruiting sergeant who enlisted Goldie Hawn as Private Benjamin into the Army with the condos and country-club style living.  Remember, never believe all that your recruiting sergeant tells you.  Especially if he's Harry Dean Stanton and played along side of Paul Newman in Cool Hand Luke.  In the immortal words of Strother Martin, What we have here ~ is failure to communicate.At the garage, Robert Prosky at 53 years of age, plays a rough, gruff foul-mouthed garage owner with a heart of gold who permits Arnie to store and restore his beloved Christine in a garage stall in exchange for after school labor.  Today, Mr. Prosky is 72 years old and still performing.Oh!  Did I mention that Arnie's parents do not understand him?  A given in all teen movie plots.  His parents only serve to take his abuse at the dinner table.  Of course, Arnie gets tough and makes his stepfather into a wimp.  OK... OK... Christine made him do it!  All teens love their parents ~ right?This film is a classic.  If not for the 1958 Plymouth Fury Sports Coupe then for John Carpenter and Keith Gordon.  But, without Alexandra Paul we would only have 3/4ths of a movie.  See it ~ believe it!  "},{"Title":"Loved the movie","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  First saw this film back in the early 80's, not long after it came out. I loved it immensely.Because I became familiar with the film, I found it very difficult to get into the book. On the other hand, there have been a few books I have read where I found it difficult to enjoy the film, one of which was The Leather Boys with Dudley Sutton.Anyway, I did really enjoy the movie Christine, and found I could relate to Arnie's geeky character and the way he was picked on and stuff because I have been there!One reviewer mentioned that the soundtrack is still available. It is, I have one copy of it, but I was really peeved that not all the songs made it onto the album. I'm going to have to track down some of the others used in the film myself. "}{"Title":"Body by Plymouth, Soul by Satan.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  An excellent and entertaining movie. As is often the case with a movie adaptation of a book, full appreciation can only be gained by reading the book to help relate to some of the story undertones and characters better. A car enthusiast or Stephen King fan will love the movie, the rest should find it enjoyable even if it is classed as horror.While the movie does have it's share of faults, these can be overlooked to some extent. Continuity is a small problem, but when 16-20 identical cars are used to make a movie this has to be expected. Those with a strong knowledge of the Plymouth marque will spot some discrepancies, but after all this is a movie and not a documentary.The soundtrack is excellent, and it IS still available. Don't be surprised if you go looking for it one day soon!If you see this movie in your video store, it is well worth watching! "},{"Title":"Highly underrated.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  In my opinion, this film, like The Shining, is often compared to the novel it is based on and then quickly dismissed as not being good.  I think this is unfair, because I think it is a real task to bring hundreds of pages of written prose into less than 2 hours of master film making.  Christine has really made it in my mind.  It is a great fim based on a great book. The license taken by the director is not only warranted, but justified by the final result of this film.   "},{"Title":"Effective thriller","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Christine comes from the minds of two top talents in the horror department writer Stephen King and director John Carpenter. King wrote the novel that this movie is based on and Carpenter, the man who directed the classic slasher film Halloween, brought the film to life. Some of the good movies based on a King novel include Carrie, Cujo, and Misery. Besides Halloween, other good Carpenter movies include The Fog and Starman. I'm adding Christine on to both of their lists of good movies. This is a very effective horror-thriller about a '58 Plymouth automobile with a killer mind of its own that takes possession of its new owner, a nerdy teenager who starts off wimpy at first but slowly turns mad after buying the car. As the movie progresses, the kid starts to act more and more obsessive of his car, pushing his family and friends away from him. Christine isn't a gruesome film which makes it all the more effective, and has good performances from the cast. Even though Christine isn't a great movie, it's a very entertaining one.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Christine...doesn't get any better than this!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I adore this movie, it is a total 10 to me. I've been watching it since I was around seven years old, about 1986. This movie doesn't have a lot of special effects, but the few that it does have are amazing! I happen to think that Arnie was a very handsome guy at the start of the movie, and after the change. I am a collector of vintage clothing, and I named one of my formal dresses Christine! If you like old music, say from the 1950's to the early 1960's, and 1980's music, vintage cars, and a good scary movie with an amazing plot and wonderful actors, this movie is for you! "},{"Title":"I simply love it!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  One of John Carpenter's best movie, only second to Halloween.Love the story and the elements of rock and roll in it.The soundtrack is great.Another movie that you can see over and over again and fell in love with it.This is a HUGE favorite of mine.I love stephen king's movies!Watch this one in the dark.Really scary and without gore.Simply awesome. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Horror Movie","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is great - although the novel outsmarts it by miles, John Carpenter's immitation was nothing short of a success. The 50's songs used were fantastic yet the actual score for the film was somewhat different, well, bad actually. Anyway, it is a cool movie and has an awesome final fight scene between, shall we say, Satan and the human race. Definately worth owning on video, I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great film with definition cool attitude","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film is one of the coolest horror/thriller films ever made, right up there with Fright Night. The whole film feels like it takes place on one strange weekend. John Stockwell (Dennis in the film)is excellent as the main character's best friend. There is a great scene where he sticks up for his nerd buddy in the high school shop class. The transition that Arnie goes through from nerd to tough guy is very well done, and well acted by Keith Gordon. John Carpenter was a great director in this period of the eighties. His later work like Escape from L.A. should be forgotten, and classics like Christine, Halloween, The Fog, and Escape From New York should be put on a pedestal. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest horror movie from Carpenter,but absolutely worth watching...","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is definitely a pretty good movie.The acting is solid,the script is well-adapted and the music by John Carpenter is(as always)fantastic.The first forty minutes is  a little bit boring and slow-paced,but the rest of the film is very interesting.Not the best flick from Carpenter and his company(The Thing is his masterful work),but worth checking out. "},{"Title":"This one changed my life...","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" ...when I was 18 in 1984. I saw the movie one afternoon, bought the book immediately after leaving the cinema and perused it during the next 24 hours (over 500 pages). I LOVED the book, and I LOVED the Plymouth, Christine. (In 1992, I found a real 58 Plymouth Fury at Cologne, Germany, and it was a great experience driving this beauty through the streets... thanks again, Edgar).The book was about teenagers at my age, how they feel and what they are dreaming of. This was my first Stephen King book and many of them would follow. But when you look at my bookshelf, you see the most worn out is the big red one. I even got the English original.The film omitted the things I did not like in the book. Who is the bad guy, is it the car, or is it LeBay? In the book, LeBay is haunting the car but can act without it, too, so it seems not logical to me why destroying the car should destroy LeBay.In the film, there's just a bad born car. It's a metaphor for how ownership can become possession and many teenagers have a very emotional relationship to their car, many kids are dreaming of a strong friend taking revenge to the bad guys at school. And every car owner wishes cars could repair themselves!The car is a symbol for the wrong thing to adore - it's a thing, it's a toy, and loving a car should always be a game, a hobby, no more. When Leigh appears, she becomes a symbol for the right way, she drives the teenager tofledge.The woman and the car are natural enemies - many men know that -). But Arnie's addiction to the car is too strong - it has to be destroyed. (But when the camera sweeps along the lines of the '58 Plymoth I understand Arnie perfectly, I mean, the '58 is very rare now, and a girl is just a girl, isn't it? -)It's tragical that Arnie can only be divorced from Christine by death. And his friends, Leigh and Dennis, get to know that growing up means sometimes losing something.We don't really know how big the damage must be to prevent Christine from reviving. But I am glad that there were no cheap sequels, no Christine II - because that would have meant another dozen of slaugthered beauties - and I hope to buy one myself, some day. "},{"Title":"WORTH A WATCH!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A nerdy boy finds an old rusted up car and instantly falls in love with it. He cleans it up and soon the car and him have a bond which no one will get in the way of. Not everybody is happy with his new friendship but if they try to get in the way they'll have to deal with CHRISTINE. John Carpenter adaption of Stephen King's novel makes for an entertaining movie without all the blood and gore. Worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Deathride, or How I Loved a Car","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If you don't like John Carpenter or Stephen King, then don't rent the movie. If you never heard who these two people are, then grab the movie and hurry home...I watched the movie on video in 1986, but missed its theatrical release in 1983 and wanted to see it after I read a review about the movie in the German weekly BRAVO and saw some attractive excerpts from the film on German TV. I read the book by Stephen King after I watched the movie (always first watch the movie, then read the book by book-to-film movies). I still have it on video and watch it about once a month...The movie is good, in terms of Carpenter and King, and it could not be very loyal to the book because of time limitations. Hence, this movie is John Carpenter's Christine. Cars are my hobby but after Christine, my life turned into post- and past-Christine eras. I'm in love with the American oldimers and as I live in Turkey there are many of them around, most of them in perfect shape. I learned so much about Christine (a 1958 Plymouth Sports Coup, Two-Door, Pillarless, Twin Four-Barrel Carb. V-8 Engine, Automatic Tranmission with Dashboard Control) that I memorized the car.Arnie Cunningham... Christine could not get a better victim, and Keith Gordon plays it wonderfully. His part of the role he played before he meets the car and that after is much more impressive. I could see a part of myself reflected in Arnie. Note the scene where Arnie gets his father...According to the German BRAVO weekly, about 16 cars were completely or partially destroyed during the making of the  movie, and many parts were made of fiberglass and other easy to shape materials; a '58 Fury was and still is rare.I have the score of the movie on CD. After many years, I could get a brandnew LP of the sountrack. The music is as important and as good as the movie. Some people will watch and then forget the movie; for them another flick with a car. But on some people it will have the effect of a trigger. They will not be able to forget it; the movie, the car, the music, Carpenter and King...But that what impressed and scared me most is that the car uses (lyrics of) popular songs of its time to talk. You don't realize this and have to see the movie again (note You keep on knockin' but you can't come in). And every time you watch it again, you note something new (like the sign IN GOD WE TRUST, EVERYONE ELSE PAY CASH in Darnell's office, shortly before Christine takes him for a Deathride...Don't lose time, turn off the lights and press PLAY. And whatever your car is, sometimes say you love him (or her), and softly touch its hood ornament...Tank you Christine... Forever I love you Forever my life Promise me darling You'll always be mine "},{"Title":"wheel screeching brilliant","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  i thought the film was brilliant! non stop action, as for 'CHRISTINE' she was sex on wheels.she is all in her glory when she is mad and looking for trouble JOHN CARPENTER couldn't had directed the film any better i will give this film a top 10/10 "},{"Title":"This is a really great film for daydreamers","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film is great for sub-conscience daydreaming power-seekers of which I think, behind all the facades, a lot of people are.  People who are everyday normals but at the back of their mind want to be noticed, and this film allows your mind to part sub-consciously day-dream of the power you would have owning a car like the amazing Christine.  This film is truly brill and allows the dreaming but also adds reality, due to the most unlikely event of a car becoming alive, because dreams are often far off from reality and films like this allow the dreaming but keep the world safe because of the un-likeliness of it, rather than films of serial killing maniacs that people may try to emulate.9/10 "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece.","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is MY movie. I mean, my favourite director and my fav writer teaming up. That's a dream come true (I'm still waiting for Spielberg to direct The Talisman, from the novel by SK). This film was underrated by critics and viewers. I think it's a beautiful film. It scares you off without being gory, and I think that's a great achievement. Great atmosphere, fine acting and creepy JC music (always a plus) make this film one of my all-time favs. Score 10. "},{"Title":"When you're running from a burning car...","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" ...get out of the middle of the road! Duh.I really like Christine. It's one of my favorite John Carpenter films.Keith Gordon has done some exception work. See him in All That Jazz, Home Movies, The Legend of Billie Jean, and especially Static to get some idea of his range. He evolved and did some very creative directing, as well.In Christine he works seamlessly with Alexandra Paul, John Stockwell, and Harry Dean Stanton.The music selected for this film is perfect!In fact, as movies go, it's hard to find anything wrong with this one.If you like horror films, Keith Gordon, or just an evening of movie fun...watch Christine. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Stephen King has had much of his output adapted to the big screen. Frank Darabont's three King movies are glowing exceptions to the standards of most of these adaptations, which have varied from barely adequate down to appalling (and I include Kubrick's The Shining in the latter category - as an adaptation, it stinks).John Carpenter's Christine is another honourable exception.King's story of a Plymouth Fury which is displaying its (never explained) malevolence before it has even rolled off the assembly line may well be one of his lesser works, but it is still populated with real people and carefully constructed, even to the first person narration from Dennis (the film does not use Dennis as narrator, but it shows a lot of what happens from Dennis' point of view).The story is tragic in that Artie, carefully constructed to be a victim in his pre-Christine world, is destined to be destroyed by Christine from the moment she gets her claws into him, even though he goes through a period of illusory apparent non-victimhood before being lost (in similar fashion to Jack Torrance being consumed by The Overlook).Carpenter does a solid job of picking up most of the novel's beats and delivering them in slick, atmospheric fashion. The cast - largely unknown at the time - does an excellent job of bringing the characters to life, particularly Keith Gordon who conveys pre-Christine Arnie's nerdiness, post-Christine Arnie's single minded obsessiveness, and the transition from one to the other, all with complete believability.A tolerable job is carried out in using mechanical effects (and film run backwards!) to convey the fact that Christine has a life of her own.And the movie contains one of THOSE moments, you know, the ones which make the hair on the back of your neck stand up, when Arnie says Show me, Christine's lights come on, and the music delivers a creepy downwards glissando. "},{"Title":"Superbly masterful","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This film will be effective and pungent forever. We can regret the reduced presence of old rock and roll music in the film, as compared to the novel. We can regret the absence of the pregnant theme of Arnold's being haunted by the car to the point of the car getting him away from the crime scene when necessary. Then the ending is a lot less pathetic, poignant and powerful. It is even slightly weak. But the film as a whole is a masterpiece. A masterpiece about these teenagers and their only interests in life, the car and the girl they possess, want to possess or aspire to possess, just like they drink beer, out of spite. But it is always a question of possession. King inverts the direction of this fatal element and the owner is possessed by his own piece of property. The depicting of the possessive and tyrannical parents is superb. The magic of the car is beautiful. The bullies and the way they are treated all along and the way they are reduced to trashing a car and defecating on its dashboard is absolutely pitiless and treats them just the way they should and must be treated like trash. We find it a good positive thing that these worth-nothing individuals are crashed and crushed and exploded and burnt to death by the car they have dared insult and trash themselves. Vengeance has such a sweet taste to the virginal tongue of a teenager who still thinks his tongue is done to lick ice-cream cones. There is little more to say about it except that it is obvious adults are giving little damn about teenagers. The film only has five adults. The parents who are aggressively possessive. The workshop teacher who is absent when he should not be and then violent when he should have prevented it by being in his place at the right time that is called duty. Then Darnell who is suspicious, hostile, greedy, rotten and corrupt, and yet impotent in front of such a miracle a teenager kept on a leash by a magical car. Finally the inspector did not understand anything, or rather, if he understood anything, did not do what he should have done put Arnie and his car under surveillance, and even the car in custody, not to say in prison. He let the criminal and its accessory free to go on killing. And that was a state cop, from the State of California. That's what I call a respectable body of the security forces of our modern world. Yet I do prefer the book, even if John Carpenter avoided the pink color of the bulldozer which is in the film a pink kaka-eater. Plain yellow is more visually realistic. A pink bulldozer sounds like a pink panther.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"One of the better King screen adaptations...","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" ...John Halloween Carpenter's Christine has aged reasonably well despite its flaws, and remains worth a watch or two, depending on how much of a King or Carpenter fan you may be. It pales compared to the Carpenter projects it was sandwiched between (The Thing and Starman), but still stands head and shoulders above contemporary King features like Children of the Corn and the lamentable Firestarter. Basically, it's the ol' evil machines gag, this time a bright red '58 Plymouth Fury. Keith Dressed to Kill Gordon plays Arnie, the auto-fixated nerd who rescues Christine from rusting away, John Top Gun Stockwell is the good buddy who eventually saves the day along with Arnie's amazingly faithful girlfriend, Alexandra Baywatch Paul, and reliable character actors like Robert Hill Street Blues Prosky and Harry Dean Repo Man Stanton help keep things moving along. Even Kelly I'm best known as John Travolta's wife Preston shows up in a bit role. All acquit themselves fairly well, although these aging eyes now find Gordon's appearance a bit too stereotypical to believe (his geeky glasses are just waaay too much) and his transformation equally hard to accept (his Cool Guy still registers as little more than uber-nerd). Regardless, the film is more about Christine than any of the humans who grow to love or hate her, and in this respect, it shines. Carpenter elaborates on Christine's genesis with a prequel that establishes the car's bitchiness from the get-go, showcasing George Thorogood's classic Born to be Bad long before James Cameron forever linked the tune to Arnold Schwarzenegger's iconic cyborg in Terminator Judgment Day. The sequence in which Christine restores herself after being trashed by the bad guys is classic Carpenter dramatic ingenuity and presentation, as are several other metal-crushing set pieces. With a radio that plays only 50s hits that express her inner feelings, Christine is a demon on wheels that you'll not soon forget.The recent DVD reissue comes with three nice production features, a slew of deleted scenes, and an entertaining commentary from Carpenter and Gordon (who has become a noteworthy director in his own right; check out Waking the Dead,The Singing Detective, or the remarkable A Midnight Clear to see what I mean).Solid B-movie entertainment that, beyond its typical Hollywood casting of 20-somethings to play teenagers, plays things seriously and refuses to dumb itself down for the brain-dead. I can't rate it higher than a 6, mostly due to limited replayability, but still give it an enthusiastic recommendation. If it ever gets (choke! gasp!) remade, I'm sure it will suffer accordingly. "},{"Title":"Whoever messes with Christine is done","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Although I hate horror films, 'Christine' is good for a terror film and possibly the best of its kind. It isn't a great or extraordinary film, but the story impresses despite its simplicity. Besides, this is probably the only terror film you'll ever see me rating as a 7, which is significant.'Christine' isn't just terror, however. It has also strong elements of drama, thriller, suspense, darkness and action. Does the combination work out? Let's say that is turns to be okay, although impressive in many ways. The movie has also some nasty language, which is excessive sometimes.The story is original in its own way. Yes, the idea of a car with a mind of its own that even drives by itself is not something that hasn't been done before see KITT, Giselle and Herbie, for example. Like these, Christine is not an ordinary car and is baptized with a name but, while the 3 cars I mentioned are good and lovable, Christine is the Devil in disguise. Christine is extremely possessive, jealous, powerful, vindictive, indestructible and kills those who cross her line. Besides, this diabolic car is not only possessed, it also can do something that no other car can to fix itself, no matter how damaged it is. It would be great if in real life cars could fix themselves like Christine. That'd save a great deal of money. But without an evil soul, of course.The image of Christine with its lights on in the middle of the night running fast is spooky and remarkable. And the scene at night with Christine on fire and chasing one of the bullies, running over and burning him is scary.How can Christine possibly be so evil is something I really haven't the foggiest idea or how she is equipped with such a vicious nature. Nevertheless, it is one heck of a car the 1958 Plymouth Fury is a fine piece of machinery and one of the most beautiful American cars of its time and even of all time, without the visually shocking looks of an Edsel, for example.Christine is said to possess those who own her and that's what happens with Arnie Cunnigham from a shy boy, he becomes rude, possessed, totally insane and quite aggressive too. His compulsive obsession for Christine becomes so excessive that it leads to his death at the end. Christine practically becomes his girlfriend, the girl of his life.Even so, it is sad to think how so many of these gorgeous cars must have been destroyed during filming. No wonder these cars's fans got so upset about that.The actors are generally okay for their roles, even if they're not exceptionally talented ones. One surprise here is to see a young, beautiful and completely different-looking Alexandra Paul in the role of Leigh Cabot. I know her better as Stephanie Holden from the popular TV series 'Baywatch'.The film also has some good oldie songs, such as Bad to the bone and Born to be wild. "},{"Title":"Cool Stephen King adaptation, though lacking horror","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I quite enjoyed this John Carpenter directed evil car/possession picture. I read the book some years back and as far as I recall the film does a fairly good job with it. Its more of a likable, well acted teen angst film than a flat out horror though it does have its cool and sometimes funny supernatural moments. All the acting was pretty much spot on, with Keith Gordon a fine lead, John Stockwell good as his friend and Robert Prosky effective as the garage owner. However, the film should have given Alexandra Paul and Harry Dean Stanton more to do. Christine is also basically a character in the film, and she comes off like a crazy lady with a nice taste in old tunes. The special effects are all pretty ace, not scary but very fun to watch. The score is cool, one of Carpenter's electronic ones and the aforementioned classic oldies. All this adds up to a good time, but the film has its shortcomings. The personality of main character Arnie Cunningham deteriorates very quickly and so lacks suspense. The film seems underwritten and to move too quickly through events, so at times I was thankful for remembering the book to flesh things out. Also, there are no real scares, so the film is not really horror and should not be approached as such, even though the supernatural shenanigans prevent it from being to much of a serious film either. Still, its a well crafted good time if watched without too many expectations, with many nifty moments and some good lines, I'd say worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Testosterone, Possession, and Freud","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Carpenter's film about a classic muscle car lends itself to notions of the size of a young man's ego, equaled by the size and value of the car he owns. Although this story has been done before, John Carpenter's tale takes on a new twist that challenges the old song and dance of the bigger my car, the bigger my genitalia, and the longer the list of women made available to me. Christine is a movie adapted from Stephen King's novel of the same name. King has a way of discovering the innermost vulnerabilities of the human psyche, and then splashing them in public for everyone, including the popular kids, to see and revile in; this is the strong point of Carpenter's movie, Christine.The film takes a young, odd, effeminate high schooler, one who is domineered by a harpy of a mother, and becomes empowered via the mechanical, sexual prowess of a classic muscle car of the 50s. This power equation is soon tipped in favor of the inanimate object, a fetish, if you will, of the muscle car, and young Arnie Cunnigham finds himself at the mercy of Christine. Once Christine realizes she has him in her grasp, a ploy she has had all along, since her power comes alive when an insecure young chap like Arnie comes around, Christine turns on her newfound lover, and evolves into the quintessential bitch. Christine replaces Arnie's mother as the domineering female figure in his life, but instead of being satisfied by simply dominating him, Christine completely takes over Arnie'a life, and eventually, she is the cause of his total demise.Although I disagree with the way women are projected in this film (as harpies, bitches, and control freaks), I can appreciate what Carpenter is doing in regard to a young, insecure, outsider high-schooler, and the need for validation in such a crazy world. The credence that Arnie finally discovers in order to make his existence valid, happens to be a car named Christine, and that's as far as gender should be taken into account...arterial, it is just fiction. "},{"Title":"Aconcept before it's time","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" If this story was retold using now days advanced effects it still would not be as good as the original film.The actors were superbly cast and the film setting was perfect to capture the feelings required for the best of King and Carpenters combined work.The question is the book better than the film? causes arguments amongst fans, my feelings on this subject is this- The book was written using every inch of Kings mind and with him having a great imagination he holds nothing back as he wrote it but you can't always make all that imagination feasible so changes to the story had to be made! The book is meant to be read as a finished project and the Film's script was written JUST for the film and was never meant to follow the book! In summery, they were both written as two separate projects neither one should follow the other as if one was the bible and so the film is not wrong according the book and the book also is not a contradictory to the film.The music and the choice of songs concentrated a great film into an excellent production. If only they would release a copy of Christine that would play 50's music as you turn the pages when we read it just before bed.........late at night...........in the dark.............ahhhhhh!.....spooky!God himself only knows why there has never been a sequel, it's left wide open for her return in one way or another! Alianator "},{"Title":"A better Maximum Overdrive","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" As a fan of anything John Carpenter, I wasn't sure what to expect with this film. Would it be another fun horror flick like The Fog, or a great popcorn flick like Escape From New York or Assault On Precinct 13? Nope. Instead, we get an incredibly well told story with some good acting, and a relatively ridiculous story that is made believable through wonderful writing and impeccable direction. Much like Starman, Carpenter spends plenty of time developing the main characters, which separates this horror flick from others. We sympathize with the characters and get to know them, watching them go through changes and developing. It's made all the easier via a good cast that does a good job with the material. Carpenter also succeeds in turning a vehicle (Christine) into an entirely believable character. Much like the ring in Lord Of The Rings, Christine is an object that is lusted after and conquers its owner with greed. Carpenter does a great job creating a sense of dread as well which resonates whenever the bright red car is on screen. This is a very good horror film that is a little different, in the sense that it takes the time to establish it's main characters. John Carpenter does a fantastic job with this Stephen King story. The rating is taken down just a tad by a somewhat anti-climatic finale. "},{"Title":"Christine","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Distributor RCA/COLUMBIA home video Plot She was born in Detroit...on an automobile assembly line. But she is no ordinary automobile. Deep within her chassis lives an unholy presence. She is CHRISTINE-a red and white 1958 Plymoth Fury whose unique standard equipment includes an evil, indestructible vengeance that will destroy anyone in her way.Audio/Video RCA delivers the goods with their good quality VHS videos.Extras None.Final thoughts This movie was not John Carpenter's best and was certainly not Stephen King's best book. But if you are looking for a pretty average thriller on a lazy Sunday afternoon...then buy or rent right now. "},{"Title":"Holes in the Gas Tank.","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Nerdish teenager Keith Gordon obsesses over and is then possessed by a 1958 Plymouth Fury in late-1970s suburbia. And now all around him are in grave danger, even best friend John Stockwell and new girlfriend Alexandra Paul. The movie, based on Stephen King's novel of machine controlling man instead of the other way around, starts off creepy and tense but then turns ridiculous and corn-filled. Horror guru director John Carpenter's tone disappears as the miles rise and the destination seems tame and honestly a bit out of place. Established performers Harry Dean Stanton and Robert Prosky fill dead time. Watch for young beauty Kelly Preston in a small bit part. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A boy and his car","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Having fallen in love with and restored several old cars, I can see the obsession factor with Arny. However, Christine's pure evil is all consuming, as is her love for Arny. Old cars seem to want your love and attention, but I've never had one devoted to me like Christine. What a terrific movie! Edgy, suspenseful, innovative (for '83) and a great watch. I watched it again just recently and it still holds up well, the soundtrack is perfect. The casting is great and I love the story. Alexandra Paul before Baywatch, Prosky before Hill Street Blues, even Spielberg! In Halloween, Carpenter taught us the Boogy Man never dies. In Christine, he taught us no one comes between a boy and his car.  "},{"Title":"Underrated John Carpenter Film.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" The Car was born in Detroit... On an automobile assembly line. But she is no ordinary vehicle. Deep within the automobiles lies an unholy presence. The name of the Car is Christine-a red and white 1958 Plymouth. During the late 1970's, Christine seduced a young nerdish 17 year old Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon), who become fascinated with his first car. She demands his complete and unquestioned devotion. Christine will do anything for Arnie, especially the outsides seeks to interfere with Arnie or the Car itself.Directed by John Carpenter (Big Trouble in Little China, Starman) made an excellent, dark thriller with an sense of humour. This is a fast paced film. Carpenter done some of his best directorial skills in this film with memorable scenes (especially when the car rebuilds itself). Keith Gordon gives an terrific performance as a nerdish teen turns into a creepy young man. Gordon is now a filmmaker, Gordon directed-The Singing Detective and Waking the Dead. Cast MemberJohn Stockwell as Arnie's worried friend also become a filmmaker, Stockwell directed- Blue Crush and Crazy/Beautiful.The DVD Special Edition has an great commentary track by DirectorCarpenter and Actor/DirectorGordon. The DVD also features Three New Feautrettes & Deleted Scenes. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an fine-Dolby Stereo 2.0 Surround Sound. It would have been great if the sound quality was remastered into Dolby Digital 5.1 but we can't have everything. This is a good Special Edition DVD.Christine is Based on a Novel by Stephen King (Carrie, Cujo). Everyone knows from a Book to Film is very different. In fact, Screen-WriterBill Phillips didn't use the subplot from the novel about Christine having the soul of the previous car's owner. It might have worked for the film but they didn't filmed it because John Landis' Instant Classic-An American Werewolf in London. Which Landis' film has a subplot about a rotting corpse is trying to warn his friend that he is becoming a werewolf. This is a One of a Kind film. Most believe the premise of Christine is Ridiculous but it works, thanks to Carpenter's sharp direction. This is also One of Stephen King's favorite film, from his novel to film. Do not miss this underrated sleeper. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Second-tier (great, just not perfect) Carpenter, and one of the finer Stephen King filmic adaptations!","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" One of the most intriguing coming-of-age stories in cinema, and this tends to be overlooked, both as a Stephen King story and horror film, in place of the more sensationalized frolic and mayhem of works such as 'The Shining', 'Carrie', 'Misery' and 'The Shawshank Redemption', which is a crying shame, because a) John Carpenter is probably the finest director (at least Top 3) ever involved with King adaptations; and b) it perfectly conceptualizes, like earlier short experimental films by the likes of Kenneth Anger, the downright uncomfortable sleaziness and fetishism that has existed, mainly in America, between men and their cars.Keith Gordon does some really fine acting here (as he did previously for Brian De Palma in 'Dressed to Kill') as all possible dynamics along the range from nerd to psycho. It's impressive that, while growing up in film, he obviously learned some of the tricks of the trade from such cinematic greats (at least of American film of the past 50 years) and ended up becoming a decent film helmer himself.9/10 for me; Grade A Carpenter. It simply isn't top-tier for me, of his oeuvre, because I know he, like Sir Alfred Hitchcock, De Palma and other greats, is capable of cinematic perfection (Halloween, The Thing, etc.). "},{"Title":"One of John Carpenter's Best","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Despite the fact that Christine is a horror movie of sorts that centers around teenagers in high school, I think it appeals to those with a more mature sensibility. I saw it as a kid in the early 90s and wasn't old enough to properly appreciate it. I caught it again last night, however, and thought it was great. Stephen King's Christine is far from a conventional horror story, and much like Brian DePalma's adaptation of Carrie, John Carpenter didn't set out to make a conventional horror film, either. It's beautifully shot, has an awesome soundtrack and score, and all the lead performances are solid. The film has aged quite well and still stands out as a unique and original piece of work. Christine is both amusing and sad at times, and definitely one of John Carpenter's best. "},{"Title":"This dark and twisted teen-drama love story, based on Stephen King's novel of the same name, is Classic Carpenter!","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Like many of Carpenter's previous works, including The Thing and Halloween, Christine is also one of Carpenter's finest, thanks to his unique and authentically artistic direction, musical scores and glorious Panavision widescreen. Christine is not just a killer car movie, but mainly an expertly crafted character study film that explores suburban teen's affections for an automobile can result in catastrophically horrifying consequences. The significant change the screen adaptation had faced was that the car mysteriously has a life of its own, where as in the novel, the car moves because it is possessed by the malevolent spirit of its deceased owner.Many deem Christine to be horror, but it is not the kind of boo horror movie. The horror is expressed from the character's obsession and fascination with his affectionate inanimate object, where he is seduced by Christine's charms and sexually promiscuous attitude, thereby undergoing a remarkable makeover like the car but also inheriting her hidden demeanour. If anything it's horror in a more dramatic sense. This is actually a teen drama, with elements of thriller and mystery thrown in for good measure and because of that it works beautifully. The horror-thriller elements come in when Christine ventures out on a rampage stalking and murdering whoever has disdained and ridiculed Arnie and herself. Carpenter's direction is a lot edgier in its narrative than King's is and went further into making the tragic love story and repressed sexuality between Christine and Arnie the centre of attention. I found the book focused more on the concerns of Christine's deceased owner and his devious intentions to take over Arnie which is why I found Carpenter's better. That's what I mostly remember when I read the book.Keith Gordon has an interesting career, whose acting works include, Jaws 2, Dressed to Kill and Back to School to well renowned director (The Singing Detective, The Walking Dead, The Chocolate War) was the perfect choice for the disturbed Arnie, who turned in an outstanding performance, that I cannot imagine anyone else playing. Check out Static (1985), which is another terrific performance of his. Arnie was the kind of nerd who wasn't a typical nerd and who wasn't proud of being one and certainly had a dark edge from the beginning. And Gordon gave that (facial expressions included). He portrayed a remarkably classic example of a geek, when he wasn't as yet quite evil, already had an underlying sense of delinquency and menace. Keith has appeared in a few good movies, but none match the brilliance of both Carpenter's movie and the role he was playing. Alongside are John Stockwell, also a director of known surf movies Blue Crush and Into the Blue and Alexandra Paul (Baywatch), who turn in fine performances as respectively Popular Jock and best friend Dennis and the concerned Leigh Cabbot, Arnie's girlfriend and Christine's competition.Carpenter's passion for Panavision widescreen is used to such marvelous benefits and goes even further with such graceful and steady panaglide and dolly shots, which emphasize the surreal and dreamy 80's gone wrong 50's aesthetic. Plus, Carpenter's synthesizer scores are used to wonderful effect. They serve the very dramatically and supernatural, dream-like atmosphere, especially the loneliness and vulnerability of Arnie. One of his more subtle but beautifully rendered scores.Overall, John Carpenter's Christine is a marvelous tale about a teen's mysterious love for such an affectionate and inanimate object any male would love to own and the horrifying monstrosity that he soon unleashes upon himself for better or worse! The dramatization and dreaminess of the love story is perfectly captured and more sensitive than Titanic and the underlying cheeky sense of humour is more devilishly darker than Batman Returns! This proves John Carpenter's unique and artistic style stands head above the constraints of Hollywood and his passion for telling stories about people confronting any form nature ambiguously takes shape. Also featuring atmospherically supernatural music tones with a wonderful stock of 50's rock n roll music that serves an integral part of Christine sharing Arnie's love as well as Carpenter's eye for selecting natural character actors including Keith Gordon at his Oscar worthy and stellar supporting cast of golden era heroes, Harry Dean Stanton, Robert Prosky and Roberts Blossom and a killer car with an insatiable taste and jealousy for reckless love, John Carpenter's Christine is a classic that belongs in his vast category of uniquely constructed genre films. John Carpenter made two love stories with Columbia, being this and Starman, with the latter being more a traditional tale of love. In many ways, the two can be perfectly viewed together by watching Carpenter take on two love stories with completely opposite tones. I personally give Christine a 10 out 10! "}{"Title":"Christine is a Lover not a Serial Killer","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I have read the book and seen the movie several times . There is a world of difference between the two . In the movie version we see Christine more as a victim than a murderer . So what does Christine really want ? Well, mostly Arnie Cunningham's unconditional love which unfortunately turns into jealously and possession . Christine also desires to be respected much like a lady would want to be treated . She does not want to be touched inappropriately . She does not want cigar smoke and ashes dumped in her lap . She does not enjoy being slapped or called names . But most of all, she does not want anything to come between her and Arnie . Christine will protect her lover from harm and take her vengeance out on those who bully Arnie or attack her . Poor nerdy Arnie Cunningham, never gets any respect from anyone until he meets up with Christine . He never had a date and is bullied by everyone including his mom . When we first meet 20 year old Christine she is nothing more than a pathetically battered up old wreck of a car . She is waiting for her prince charming to come along and revive the life that still lives in her . And of course that's exactly what happens after Arnie spots her while on his way home from school after a very bad first day . Christine is driven back to Arnie's house but not allowed to park in the driveway . His domineering mother does not want that old piece of junk anywhere near her nice neat home . So it's off to Darnell's garage which will become Christine's new home where her total restoration will take place . Once Christine becomes brand new again is the beginning of what I would call a most bizarre love triangle . She does not want to be second best . If necessary she will use her powers to eliminate the competition . Christine is also a victim too . One night Arnie's tormentor's sneak into Darnell's garage and nearly pound her into rumble with sledgehammers . She is torn to pieces inside and out . This scene suggests Christine has just been brutally gang raped, mutilated, and beaten within an inch of her life . So do we have any compassion for her assailants when it's payback time ? Certainly not, as we want revenge too ! Unfortunately, there are only three scenes where Christine does her thing . I would have preferred a higher body count as was in the book . During the grand finale, Arnie's best friend Dennis and ex girlfriend Leigh challenge Christine to a duel to the death . Only this time Dennis brings a bulldozer with him which makes the climax a bit predictable .There is a touching scene after Arnie is mortally wounded and dies in Leigh's arms . Christine dims her lights and turns her motor off for a brief moment of silence to show her sadness for her now deceased lover, Arnie . But the fight is not over yet . Christine desperately tries to kill Leigh in the garage but is unsuccessful . The inevitable does happen as Christine is crushed and flattened by Dennis's superior bulldozer . After her death Christine winds up in the junkyard the next day and is compressed into block of scrape metal . I would have liked to have seen some extra scenes added about the relationship between Arnie and Christine . The newest DVD version includes some of the deleted scenes that were missing in the original movie .This movie could have been a lot better if the main characters where better developed . In the end, Christine is little more than a standard revenge movie with the novelty of a killer classic car instead of a maniac wielding an ax . Christine is neither Jason, nor Freddy Kruger , nor Michael Myers . She won't give you nightmares either . I would love to see either a sequel or better yet, a prequel to Christine . Christine, the love obsessed killer Plymouth born in hell and manufactured in Detroit . Love her or hate her, but I think she's one helluva Red Hot Beauty who continues to look better and better with age ! ..........PWH "},{"Title":"A Cool Film","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is fun but scary horror film. And I have to admit that I love this car -- I would still love to have a car like this but I'm not sure if I want a possessed version of it like Christine.The movie is about a nerdy young man named Arnie and his best friend Dennis finds a beat-up old 1958 Plymouth Fury. Dennis is not all that crazy about the car but Arnie falls in love with it. Arnie fixes up the car an turns it into real beauty but there is something very different about this car - and something very different about Arnie after Christine is restored to glory. But what is so different about the car and Arnie now? Watch Christine to find out.If you like the movie Christine then I recommend to you another scary car film from 1977 entitled The Car. Both are very cool films.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A thrilling film from Stephen King and John Carpenter","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm not really a big fan of Stephen King films (except for Dolores Claiborne, Pet Sematary and IT), but I love his novels. I also loved John Carpenter's Village of the Damned and The Thing. With Christine, not only does it share a haunting soundtrack similar to Village of the Damned (1995) but it takes a simple thing we use in life and turns it into terror...Cars.Arnie is a pretty big nerd, but a nice-enough guy, best friends with a jock named Dennis. When Arnie gets the bright idea to buy a beat-up red Plymouth from some crusty old man, everything falls apart as Christine does everything to keep Arnie her's, and her's alone... and Christine is a car, so no one suspects the truth until things are too late.The acting was pretty good, I loved the soundtrack, and I loved the characters. My only statement after watching this thank god I'm not allowed to drive a car for my entire life. (I like counting cars though in parking lots if I get bored, and the headlights always look like eyes). "},{"Title":"No Strawberry Girl, She's Plymouth Fury. CQB 241.","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine is directed by John Carpenter and adapted to screenplay by Bill Phillips from the novel of the same name written by Stephen King. It stars Keith Gordon, John Stockwell, Alexandra Paul, Robert Prosky and Harry Dean Stanton. Music is by Carpenter and Alan Howarth and cinematography is by Donald M. Morgan.How Do You Kill Something That Can't Possibly Be Alive?1983 was a busy year for Stephen King adaptations to the screen, along with Christine there was also Cujo and The Dead Zone, so for fans of the legendary author there was plenty to chew on. Christine tells the story of a possessed car that takes over the life of the school nerd, with devastating consequences. As a story that's pretty much all there is to it, the beauty of the pic is how Carpenter ensures the car really does have a malevolent life of its own. The theme at work such as automobile obsession and the bonkers love story at the narrative heart, are not sacrificed for cheap shocks and gimmickry, but Carpenter rightly made the car the star and she doesn't disappoint.Christine's move from being a knackered old banger to super shiny speedster runs concurrent with Arnie Cunningham's (Gordon) transformation. Where once was the misfit being bullied, is now a supremely confident dude, he even dates one of the school babes. But with Christine's love and protection comes great danger, and this lets Carpenter craft some super scenes. From self healing to fiery vengeance, the director brings his lensing skills to the party. Music, unsurprisingly for Carpenter, plays a key part as well. A ream of 50s Rock n Roll tunes play out of Christine's radio to align with what is unfolding on screen, while the score is distinctly Carpenteresque.Cast are very good in their efforts, though more of the wonderful H. D. Stanton should have been a requisite. Unfortunately the screenplay doesn't afford many character instances to run smoothly, it sometimes feels like the studio demanded that Carpenter hurry up to the next Christine is evil scene instead of building the character bridges! However, it's a film that may be undeniably 80s in tone of film making, but it has aged surprisingly well. Suspenseful, exciting and devilishly playful, this is another Carpenter movie worthy of re-evaluation. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Killing machine","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I haven't seen every movie based on a Stephen King novel butChristine is one of my favorites of the ones I have seen, along with The Green Mile and The Mist. The story revolves around a group of teenagers in Southern California (where the film was shot). Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) is a geeky student with a jock best friend who looks out for him (John Stockwell), especially when he's picked-on at school. After Arnie buys a beat-up '58 Plymouth Fury and fixes it up he slowly starts to change. At first, the changes are good as he starts dating the new cute girl at school (Alexandra Paul), but things take a dark turn when Arnie goes after his abusers.As with most King movies the story takes place in a small town and there's a comic book air to the proceedings and, of course, something supernatural and dark. This is a great teenager/school movie as the social dynamics ring true with slight exaggerations. William Ostrander stands out as Arnie's hoodlum nemesis at school, Buddy. Ostrander resembles a young John Travolta and would've been perfect to play Wolverine (in the 80s and early 90s anyway).Memorable scenes abound highlighted by Christine's stunning attack on the hoodlums at a gas station, the ensuing chase and Christine's supernatural restoration. Stockwell's great as Arnie's best friend and Gordon is excellent as the protagonist turned antagonist. What I mean by that is that the viewer's sympathy is with Arnie in the first act and we celebrate with him in the second act as Christine (the car) gives him the push into cool-ness he needed, not to mention the gonads to stand up for himself. But Christine's malevolence takes over in the last act and, well, you know.Christine ranks well with best teenager/youth films, horror-tinged or otherwise, like The Rage Carrie 2 and Fast Times at Ridgemont High.The film runs 110 minutes.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"Pretty Cars, Cringeworthy Dialogue","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie is gorgeous. No hyperbole, I mean it. There are so many subtle yet stunning flourishes throughout -- that ever so slight cool tinting like this movie is perpetually in a crisp autumn. I wouldn't mind watching it on mute. The soundtrack is OK; sometimes it is superb, but sometimes it is not (rock 'n' roll songs, good; early 80s score, dated). The problem for me is just that it does not do too well in the 'suspension of disbelief'. For me, if a storyline doesn't do it, a good sense of humor will reel me in. But this movie sorely lacks such. It isn't Twin Peaks (the sense of absurd humor is what made me love that first season so much). To give another comparison, I prefer the Futurama parody to this original. The Futurama episode shows an understanding of when a horror story begs to be intentionally comedic.There is a scene in this film where Arnie discovers that the car has been totaled and defecated on. Arnie screams something awful at Leigh, sounding out of character yet unbearably predictable at the same time -- I cringed mighty hard. And if the dialogue does not unintentionally make me cringe, it frequently makes me want to laugh (just not in the good way; more like, I give up and don't know what else to do). I wish the characters would stop talking so much about how creepy the car is because it has the opposite effect on me. But, if this was a silent movie, I think that I would be in love.I don't regret watching it. "},{"Title":"Road Rage Unleashed","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Stephen King was on to something. We call that something road rage nowadays but maybe that's not really what it is. I mean, how do you explain relatively good-natured people getting behind the wheel of a car and becoming stark raving lunatics. Road rage is a misdiagnosis. It's Christine. There are thousands, if not millions, of Christines out there.Christine was a '58 Plymouth Fury that was refurbished in '78 for a movie released in '83 that I watched for the first time in '14. The main character, Arnold, bought Christine as a bucket of bolts and began nursing her back to health. As Christine changed so did Arnie. He went from the high school dweeb to a world class D-bag in a matter of days.The movie was terrific. Stephen King wrote about something that's very relevant. A guy having a love affair with his car and the car turning him into a madman... that happens all of the time! The special effects were pretty awesome for 1983 and the acting was good. Christine featured a poor man's Johnny Travolta in William Ostrander however old he was playing a high schooler. The acting was good, nothing to brag about, but good. I can see why this movie is so often referenced. "},{"Title":"Don't make Christine mad!","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of Stephen King's early horror film adaptations about a possessed car named Christine. Keith Gordon was brilliant as awkward nerdy Arnie Cunningham whose best friend is the high school quarterback. After being bullied in shop, he finds his dream car which is 1957 Plymouth Fury in need of work and a macabre history of death. Arnie's parents refuse to let the piece of junk in their driveway. Arnie parks the car at Darnell's garage. Darnell hates the car but so does everybody else. More and more, Arnie changes too with the car, his beloved Christine, that he cares for so much. When the bullies destroy the car, she shows her power. If anything, I would like to know how Christine came to be a demon possessed. This film is a good adaptation of King's novel. The film isn't that frightening but builds to a climax. The cast is good especially Gordon who shines in the role. "},{"Title":"OK, show me!","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" After churning out classics like Halloween, Escape From New York, and The Thing, director John Carpenter scored again with the effectively, unsettling Christine. Based on a Stephen King novel of the same name, this is a flick about a car (1957 red Plymouth Fury) possessed by evil spirits and the dorky teenager who's life steadily changes after he purchases it. Keith Gordan (no longer an actor, now a director) plays said character (Arnold Cunningham) extremely well. He does a 180 going from shy, self loathing high school geek to remorseless bad boy (basically he changes his persona as the car becomes more and more evil).Despite plot holes that come in small doses, an underutilized Harry Dean Stanton (he does great supporting work as detective Rudy Junkins) and a final 15 minutes that drag a bit, this is still incredibly solid direction from Carpenter. The soundtrack (which he also wrote) is eerie synthesizer magic and most of the players in the main cast, have a hard, cynical edge to them. Based on the aforementioned attributes, this film for me, is quintessential 80's horror fare. Look for the scene in which Christine repairs herself after being vandalized by nasty high school bullies. It gives new meaning to the term show me. "},{"Title":"My Least Favorite John Carpenter Film!","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine is both one of my least favorite Stephen King stories, but also my least favorite John Carpenter film I have seen so far. I have not seen all of Carpenter's films, but from what I have seen, this is the one I enjoy the least. I do not think Christine is horrible, or even that bad, but I found it non-engaging. It is definitely not Stephen King's worst stories, but it is definitely not one of his best either.Christine stars Keith Gordon as Arnie Cunningham. He is a nerd who gets picked on and treated badly by everyone including his own parents. He has only one friend who is named Dennis, played by Jason Stockwell. He comes across an old beat-up car called Christine being sold by this old man. Despite being trashed and Dennis telling him not to he buys the car anyway and takes it to a shop to get it fixed. Little does Arnie know that Christine has a mind of her own and even kills people that are mean to Arnie. Slowly but surely Christine starts taking starts taking Arnie over to the point where he only care about Christine.The film does have some things going in its favor. The effects are decent. I like all the scenes with Christine, whether it'd killing people manipulating Arnie, or the scene where she puts herself back together, which is the best effect of the whole film. The premise of a killer car is a bit silly, but I thought it was fine as a b-movie idea, and I have seen far stranger ideas from Stephen King. . I also like that they kept why Christine is alive a mystery. There is an explanation in the book, but it is very underwhelming and clich for horror films. Keeping Christine a mystery I think was the right way to go.However, there are many problems with the film. The first and biggest problem is that I do not like anybody including the main character, Arnie. Besides being a strait horror movie, this film is supposed to be a tragedy where this innocent kid gets possessed by this evil car and cannot live without it. The problem is that even before he gets the car I never cared for him. He seemed to be kind of an asshole himself. I know he has had a hard life, but all he does is complain about how bad his life is, which makes him look whiny. He hardly cares about his friend Dennis either, even before he gets Christine, despite trying to be a good friend.Dennis is a nice guy, but beyond that he is very bland and boring. Not to mention, the actor Jason Stockwell is a pretty bad at acting. I have not seen Jason in other films, but his performance is very wooden here. That is another problem with the film. Other than Arnie, nobody in the cast can act. The lead girl I do not care for either. I thought she was boring as well, and the actress is not that great at acting either. The other characters are not worth mentioning.Overall, Christine is an okay b-movie to watch as a time waster. I found it to be one of by lesser favorite Stephen King stories and definitely my least favorite Carpenter film. I like the kill scenes involving Christine, as well as the effects. However, there is not much else to this. "}{"Title":"A King-Carpenter Classic","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" A nerdish boy (Keith Gordon) buys a strange car with an evil mind of its own and his nature starts to change to reflect it.This film is today a modern horror classic. Whether you think Christine is a 1957 or 1958 Plymouth Fury (there is room for debate), we all know she is deadly. And as the deleted scenes have started to pile up, we further get the impression this was a fleshed out film -- a Carpenter masterpiece alongside a King master novel.I love that Roberts Blossom was in this film, because horror fans will recognize him as Ezra Cobb from Deranged while everyone knows him from Home Alone as the neighbor with the dark rumors swirling about him... "},{"Title":"Christine edge of your seat thriller","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a great movie Stephen King is one of the greatest Writers in the world and he proves it hear. The Movie starts in the 1958 where the car (a 1958 Plymouth Belvedere) or Christine Injures one factory worker kills another and when you first see its red while the cars around it are white. This scene does more than just show you how Bad to the Bone Christine is. It's a prelude you might not catch on right away but it shows that first of all Christine is demon possessed as Christine can do things on her own even though she is a car. Second she knows what she wants. She doesn't want to be white, to blend in. She wants to be the car you brag about this is Christine and she is one amazing Vehicle. Third Christine can just decide what she looks like. Now let's Jump forward to 1979 and meet Arnie Cunningham. Arnie is a dweeb fortunately he is good friends with hot shot Wide Receiver Dennis Guilder who makes life livable for Arnie literally he almost gets killed by, psycho named Buddy Repperton who is the main bully. But Arnie soon finds Christine the car he becomes instantly attached why you might ask like Arnie said, Maybe it's just that for the first time in my life, I've found something that's uglier than me. And I know I can fix her up. So he dose fix her and there is an immediate change in his character he is now a complete greaser. From his attitude to dressing like The Fonz. Then the bullies brake in and destroy Christine. When he finds out he yells at his girlfriend. Then later he yells at his parent's and tells them it's their fault for not letting him keep the car at the house.He comes back to Will Darnell's Garage the tone of the movie is he is very sad and professes his love for Christine. Christine hills herself and goes after the bullies she kills Moochie Wells proving that she doesn't mind getting hurt in the process. Later on she kills the other boys who hurt her including Buddy. Arnie's Friend's Dennis and Leigh get to gather and decide they need to help their Arnie. So Dennis tries talking to Arnie but decides it's to late and the only thing he can do is Destroy Christine. "},{"Title":"Some cars are born bad","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) is the school nerd. His best friend Dennis Guilder (John Stockwell) thinks he just needs to get laid. Dennis can defend him from bullies, but just can't keep him from buying a clunker.Christine is a rusting piece of junk that Arnie falls for right away. She has a dark history and becomes Arnie's obsession. It's an obsession that turns the nerd into a confident bad boy.For a movie by director John Carpenter and from a Stephen King, I expect lots of blood, deaths, and mayhem. But the action doesn't start till very late, and the middle really didn't have any horror moments. Unless choking on a burger is scary. And some of the kills just don't pass the mustard. A car is slowly grinding along to pin you against a wall. It seems relatively easy to climb on top of the car. Keith Gordon does make both the nerd and the jerk believable. But the final battle is just not big enough. "},{"Title":"For The Love Of A Car.","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter directed this adaptation of the Stephen King novel about an evil '57 Plymouth(Christine) that is discovered and purchased by bullied teen Arnie Cunningham(Keith Gordon, excellent) and restored to its original beauty. His best friend tries to dissuade him, but he doesn't listen, and the once sheepish boy transforms into a confident(and vengeful) man, courtesy of Christine, who wants him all to herself, and murders all those(including the school bullies who tormented him) who stand in the way.Though well acted and even directed, film is curiously ineffective, with few scares and little suspense. Though Arnie's transformation is the most striking thing about it, and the F/X are also impressive, film just misses, though is still watchable for old car lovers who may get a kick out of it! "},{"Title":"When our possessions possess us","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I have said a lot about my opinion of Stephen King elsewhere but I will touch upon it again now. I had a teacher in highschool that pretty much hated anything written by Stephen King and claimed that his books had no literary merit whatsoever. To be blunt, he would refer to them as airport trash, namely books that you pick up at an airport bookshop to read on the plane but not to think too deeply about. Now, ever since he has said that I make a habit of visiting airport bookshops when I am able and I must say that his statement with regards to the contents of airport bookshops, as well as Stephen King novels, is probably one of the most narrow minded statements that I have ever heard.Ignoring the comment about the contents of airport bookshops, this particular story, of which I have also read the book, is a case in point. Christine, in my opinion, is pretty close to what one would consider to be literature. First of all the story has strong characters which change as the story progresses. Further, the main character, Archie, has a fatal flaw, and that is his love of the car that he has purchased. Okay, there is a question as to whether he is possessed or not (he is) but so say that the characters in this story are shallow and one dimensional simply shows that one has not actually read the book.Christine is basically an attack against materialism and is an allegory of how our love of our possessions can dominate us and then in turn destroy us. This particular story focuses on the love of a car, and being American in nature and understanding the American love obsession with the car, it is probably a good object to use in relation to this idea. Okay, in the book itself the car is possessed by the spirit of its former owner (something that didn't stick in my head) but in the film the car itself is simply possessed right from when it rolled off of the assembly line in Detroit.As is the case when you attempt to bring a book across to a film a lot is lost in the translation. There is apparently a debate as to whether Archie was actually driving the car when it was going around killing people. In the book it is clear that he was not in the car, and because I generally always defer back to the book, I would also take the position that he was not in the car. However, one thing that wasn't brought out in the film was the work that Archie was doing for the guy that owned the wreckers. In the film it is suggested that the work was all legit, however in the book, it wasn't. Still, as I have mentioned, when you transplant a story from text to film there is going to be some loss in translation (there always is).However, I thought the film stood up to the book pretty well nonetheless and actually really enjoyed it. Maybe it is because John Carpenter is also a pretty good director when he wants to be. "},{"Title":"Definitely original","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" From the Director that brought you Halloween and The Thing, comes another horror movie that has some legit scares. Christine is about a bullied boy who falls in love with a possessed and extremely jealous car. The guy who buys Christine, was always picked on, until he found one thing that was uglier than he was. He fixes up the car, and it gets him lots of friends and girls, but he neglects his parents, schoolwork, and eventually his best friend, because he finally learns what it's like to be popular. With a couple thrilling scenes, it doesn't live up to John Carpenter's two fore-mentioned films, but is still interesting to watch. It's definitely original. "},{"Title":"Vroom Vroom","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I remember this movie used to be a success on a Brazilian TV channel many years ago, and considering I was just a kid, I used to afraid of this scary story. I surely could remember how the story works, since it's pretty simple-- yet original. John Carpente's movies are usually lame, but Christine (fortunately) is not. Of course a killer car story doesn't seem to be much real, but it is an interesting and innovation story to see. All the cast is professional, and so is directing-- it's the first time I say that to Carpenter. However, it doesn't have THAT good element in horror movies to make this a great picture, ending up being just another regular~good one. Watch for pure entertainment and you won't regret! "},{"Title":"It's the car, Arnie.","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" One of my all time favorite horror films, and for many a good reason. Based on A Stephen King novel, as if that already didn't set up how great its going to be, the basic premise is that a young soon to be high school graduate finds love with a 19658 bright red and white Plymouth Fury, and the car loves him right back in a haunting way. One of the highlights of the movie is its spectacular cast. John Stockwell and Alexandra Paul give very human performances, not overly clich ones, making these characters feel as if they're people you now. Harry Dean Stanton also stars, always enjoyable, and who didn't love Robert Prosky as Darnell? He definitely came off as a hard-ass, but had something softer at the core. The most awesome performance in the film was Keith Gordon because you this very believable and sadistic transformation thru the course of the movie. Though obviously a nerd-esque character, you still very connected to him and that is definitely the strongest aspect of the movie.The cinematography is the gorgeous low-key lighting Carpenter loves to use. The way the camera captures the images creates a very chilling mood throughout. Another highlight of the film is the music. John Carpenter and Alan Howarth do it again, delivering a very ominous and fitting score. It's one of his greatest works. The film also makes use of some great classics, giving the film a true nostalgic feel. I'll always love Christine. "},{"Title":"Classic Cars Never Die!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Keith Gordon, John Stockwell, Alexandra Paul, Robert Prosky and Harry Dean Stanton star in John Carpenter's 1983 horror film based on Stephen King's novel. This takes place in 1978 where we meet nerdy teen, Arnie Cunningham (Gordon) and his jock friend, Dennis Gilder (Stockwell). Soon, they find an old 1958 Plymouth Fury named, Christine that Arnie is interested in buying. Arnie fixes Christine like new and his personality changes. Meanwhile, Dennis meets the new girl in school, Leigh Cabot (Paul) and learns she's dating Arnie. Dennis gets injured in a football game and he and Leigh start to notice Arnie's obsession with his new car. Soon, Leigh and Dennis learn Christine's killing secret and decide they must destroy her. Stanton (Escape From New York) plays detective, Rudolph Junkins and the late, Prosky (Mrs. Doubtfire) plays auto parts owner, Darnell. Gordon is great as Arnie and John Carpenter & Alan Howarth's score is terrific as usual. I recommend this good horror flick. "},{"Title":"Demented Herbie would be one way to describe it","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Overall yes I did like this film. The movie actually doesn't really pick up as a horror flick until about an hour into it, don't let that put any Carpenter fans off. The movie starts with a car being produced in the 1950's. A guy's hand is cut off by a lowering of the hood when looking into the engine.Later a man sits in the car and listens to music and is found dead later (here's the part that I said that doesn't pick up as a horror film). The movie then cuts to 1978 and these 2 teenagers are on the first day of school of the year, One of the kids who is a bit of a nerd gets bullied by people then his friend asks them to stop and one of the bullies pulls out a knife and the principal comes at a moment when he puts his knife away and then they say he's got a knife and you could guess the rest.After that the nerdy kid named Arnold Cunningham sees a derelict car that he then decides to buy off an old man. The parents reaction is that they don't like it (to say the least) and he then says he won't keep the car and then hides it in a workshop that he then starts fixing it up.When the movie starts evolving so does Arnold's character from being a nerdy kid to being kind of psycho (possibly one of my favorite performances of someone being psycho). Eventually the people bullying Arnold total his car and Arnold walks in with his girlfriend and he then later says to the car show me and it repairs itself. Then the bullies start getting killed off one by one.Later Arnolds girlfriend Leigh Cabot goes to Arnolds only friend (in the beginning) Dennis Guilder that then decides to destroy the car because for some reason they know that it is consuming Arnold and they go to the workshop and Arnold tries to run them down which leads into Arnorlds death. The car then gets destroyed repeatedly (due to the car repairing itself) and crushed.Overall this film was pretty good, the work of people (that I have seen other work of) definitely wasn't their best, but it wasn't their worst. "}{"Title":"Off the assembly line and on the warpath","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter's Christine, a movie about a homicidal car, naturally hinges on one's ability to suspend disbelief and accept that a car has a mind of its own. On the other hand, this is a John Carpenter film, and that's not a tall order.It's a simple premise kid falls in love with car, car possesses kid, people start dying. In this case, it's a pitiful loser named Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon). You know the kind stringbean, doesn't have the guts to ask out a pretty girl, gets kicked around by the jocks. He's got two patronizing parents and a best friend since childhood (John Stockwell), but the chance meeting with a disintegrating rustbucket named Christine (a once gorgeous '58 Plymouth Fury) changes Arnie's life forever. Arnie has no idea his dream car is possessed and has killed since before it even left the assembly line. And Christine is a vengeful lover. When the bodies of the school bullies start piling up, a State Police detective (Harry Dean Stanton) comes snooping, and things grow dim for Arnie and his best girl.Carpenter has a knack for building a mystery around the car, as well as a general sense of foreboding whenever she's on screen. Coupled with the downward spiral of a hapless loser like Arnie Cunningham, that's what makes this a great psychological thriller. You know the damn thing's evil and you keep wondering when she'll strike. Keep's you on edge. It takes a while for Christine to get rolling, but once she does, you can't help but watch. Just seeing a car wage a war of revenge makes for a highly watchable experience.Keith Gordon is perfect for the main character. He's able to convincingly portray both a high school doormat, and an uncaring d-bag once possessed. And it's some kind of law of physics that when Harry Dean Stanton shows up, the film just gets better and better. It also doesn't hurt that Christine features both Kelly Preston and Alexandra Paul in their teen years. Nope, not one bit.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" ChristineFrom smashing into other vehicles, to hitting pedestrians, to idling in closed garages, automobiles have always been associated with death.However, the car in this horror movie has taken that morbid correlation to the extreme.While he is restoring a used Plymouth Fury, nicknamed Christine, a high school loser, Arnie (Keith Gordon), begins to transform himself from an introverted geek into a self-assured hotshot.But when his new girlfriend Leigh (Alexandra Paul) and his best friend Dennis (John Stockwell) begin digging up dirt on Christine's previous owner, they learn of her homicidal history.Scared for their brainwashed buddy's life, Leigh and Dennis plot to destroy the car.Unfortunately for them, this self-regenerating, boy-crazed coup isn't so easily written off.While the acting verges on tacky, overall, this Stephen King adaptation is a supercharged scream-fest.And while I have never owned a possessed car before, I have owned a car repossessed. (Yellow Light) "},{"Title":"Never gets into top gear.","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Director John Carpenter slips behind the wheel of a Stephen King classic and like any proud driver of a prestige vehicle he ensures that Christine looks her best, giving his movie the equivalent of a gold wash followed by two coats of wax.Sadly, just like many an owner of a classic car, he's reluctant to really put her through her paces for fear of marking the bodywork or blowing a gasket; as a result, this film is a comfortable enough ride, but it never pushes the pedal to the metal enough to give viewers those all important goose-bumps.The cast are great, the cinematography is wonderful, the effects are cool, and the soundtrack is simply superb, a mix of modern tracks, rock 'n' roll classics, and ominous synth tunes, but still the magic doesn't happen. Part of the problem lies in the script, which alters or omits some of the best parts of the book, but much of the blame must be on Carpenter's less than brilliant storytelling individual scenes certainly impress, but the film as a whole just doesn't get the pistons pounding, lacking the creepiness and scares that we know the man can deliver when on top form.6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"A pretty good adaptation...","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of those movies that I've seen bits and pieces of over the years, but never all the way through, until now. You see, it's always on late at night when I get home from the pub and I either see the start, or a bit in the middle, or the start and the end (having fallen asleep in between). And so, for the first time I've seen it all the way through. It's actually pretty good, not great, but certainly worth watching sober sometime. But more of my thoughts later, here's a brief summary first (summary haters and those that don't wish to know anything about the plot please help Arnie fix that beat up old Plymouth Fury while I write the next paragraph).It is 1978 where Arnie Cunningham is a bit of a dork, he wears glasses and can't get a girl to save his life. His best friend, Dennis Guilder, tries to help him out, but he's just not cut out for that kind of thing yet. After a run-in with some bullies at school one day, Dennis is giving Arnie a lift home when Arnie spots a car for sale. It's a beaten up red 1958 Plymouth Fury nicknamed 'Christine' by the owner whose brother, the former owner, had recently died. Arnie is instantly in love with the car and pays the asking price there and then. His parents don't want the car at home and so he keeps it at Darnell's 'Do It Yourself Garage' nearby. There is something strange about the car that Arnie can't quite put his finger on, but he works hard to bring her back to her former glory. As time goes by he begins to become more and more confident in himself as his obsession with the car grows. By now he has a girlfriend, Leigh Cabot, but woe betide anyone that gets between Arnie and Christine. Now, you remember those bullies I mentioned earlier, well&#x85; Looks like that's all you're gonna get from me, you didn't expect the entire thing did you? Sorry to disappoint.Based on a novel by Stephen King I found this to be a pretty good adaptation of the story. The characters are well rounded and, of course, it's a damn good tale. John Carpenter did an excellent job with the special effects, no CGI back then, but you wouldn't know. Pretty good performances all round, particularly from Keith Gordon as Arnie Cunningham, he really had to ring the changes in this one. John Stockwell did a pretty good job as Dennis Guilder, as did Alexandra Paul as Leigh Cabot. I also have to mention Robert Prosky whose almost comic-book performance as Will Darnell was excellent and it was nice to see a younger Harry Dean Stanton as Detective Rudolph Junkins.At the end of the day the star of the show is definitely the car, Christine. It has its own personality and a big role to play in the film. This is brought across very well by some excellent direction, some brilliant special effects and the performances of the human cast. It's far from perfect I know, maybe a little long, but at the end of the day it's still worth a watch (or two&#x85; preferably sober, but not essential)&#x85; Recommended.My score 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"she's real sensitive...","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Arnie Cunningham is a typical high school nerd who is picked on, overruled by his parents, and has very few friends. Until he meets Christine, a run-down 1958 Plymouth Fury and buys her.Arnie learns that Christine has a thing for him and devotes his time to restoring her to mint condition.But overtime, Arnie begins to change and becomes disconnected with reality and his friends.Arnie's girlfriend Leigh and best friend Dennis find out that Christine's previous owner cared about nothing else when he bought her and find out that Arnie is becoming just like him...Not your typical Carpenter movie. This is very light on scares and thrills, but manages to retain that Carpenter feel his movies have. The cast are good for what they do in the film, and they deliver the cheesy script with a certain aplomb.but it just doesn't come out of second gear and despite some standout sequences (the burning Christine chasing after one of the vandals quietly down a road)it gets a little bit boring after a while. "},{"Title":"It's not a car, it's a killing machine","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" You would like the movie if you have read the novel by Stephen King by the same name. But again, if you have read the book, you will be a tad disappointed. Because the movie lacks the plot development that King so brilliantly effected. When it comes to the novel, easily one of the best efforts by Stephen King. For a huge fan of King, this movie and the novel are to be seen and read again and again, and again. A young, introvert comes across a used car, way past its sell-by date and falls in love with it... err 'her'. Slowly, but surely, the car, Christine, takes control of Arnie's life...And so, Stephen King creates one of the most enthralling stories ever. Trust King to shake you out from your chair with what? a car!....Carpenter, though he claimed that his heart wasn't in the movie, did quite a decent job... Would still give it 10 out of 10, due to the sheer brilliance of the story. "},{"Title":"She Drives Me Crazy","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Poor Arnie just can't catch a break. He's the school's prototypical nerd and resident punching bag for his meathead classmates. Even worse, he can't get a date, can't get his locker open and can't beat his mom at Scrabble. All of that changes the day he meets Christine. Sure, Christine is a little rough on the eyes and she's been around the block more than a few times, but she's got a great body and really knows how to ride. Problem is, Christine has a hot temper and her loyalty to Arnie is matched only by her thirst for blood. Christine is no ordinary girl; she's a 1958 Plymouth Fury and she's taking Arnie for the ride of his life.Keith Gordon plays no more Mr. Nice Guy Arnie Cunningham and watching his transformation from awkward geek to cocky hothead is half of the film's fun. The other half, of course, is watching the film's titular character mow down its owner's classmates in varied grisly fashion. Director John Carpenter - already a certified Master of Horror by this point - steers the course steadily with ample character build-up, signature creepy music and, of course, mounting tension. You sort of forget the ridiculousness of the premise because not only does Carpenter pull out all the stops, but also because Keith Gordon sells his character so well. Of course, the true star of the show, Christine (reportedly played by 21 different cars) steals the thunder with some of the more memorable moments being her birth (witness George Thorogood's Bad to the Bone before it was trite and clichd) and her own stop-motion rebuilding which had to be painstaking yet entertaining to try to film. There are things in the film that you simply won't see elsewhere, guaranteed.Truth be told, Christine isn't without a few speed bumps. In all honesty, it's a little long-winded and there's this nagging feeling by the end of it all that something is missing. More specifically, we never quite find out why Christine is the way she is. Does she need an oil change? Does she have a tear in her upholstery? The film loses a bit of credibility by not at least trying to establish a reason for Christine's madness. Even still, it's a thoroughly entertaining film if you love revenge-fantasies and/or cars. At the very least, it's one of the best Stephen King adaptations amidst some pretty mediocre fare. It won't make you fear muscle cars, but maybe you'll think twice about defecating on someone's dashboard ever again. "},{"Title":"Not Quite Classic,  But Still Very Good","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine, tells the story of a demoniacally possessed car that kills those in its path when tormented, and other times for no reason at all. The film has a strong undertone quality in bringing Stephen King's novel to the screen. Very convincing performances by lead actors, the geeky Keith Gordon, and his best friend, high school jock, John Stockwell make the film very watchable.The plot is predictable. A bullied teen becomes possessed and obsessed with the killer car and begins to exhibit traits of a dramatic personality change. Teen and car literally become one of the same as Arnie turns from bullied victim to withdrawn narcissist. However, it is the car that becomes Arnie's passion and narcissist object. Arnie becomes more and more isolated and short-tempered with his friends as the car seeks out Arnie's enemies, hell-bent on destroying them.One of the masters of suspense, John Carpenter, did very well in transforming King's novel to the screen. The characters and mood all fit. A less noticed role, which is very well done, is the concern of Arnie's Mother, watching what her son has become, and realizing that she can't do anything about it. Had this film been put in the hands of a less experienced director, it could have easily been a B-grade average flick. But Carpenter's direction, and Gordon's performance, make this film memorable.It's not anywhere near as scary or suspenseful as Carpenter's most noted classic, Halloween. I don't know how you could make a killer car movie equal that. But Christine has enough strong characters and some good subtle moments, such as the wide array of 50's songs on her radio, along with Gordon's and Stockwell's acting, that provides viewers with a worthwhile film.A drawback is that the R-rated language is extreme in the uncut versions, and from reports, was forced into the picture to attract older theater patrons at the time of Christine's release. A rare example, where you could remove the bad language from this film and it does not hurt the storyline at all. "},{"Title":"Possessive And Possessed","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Stephen King has been a household name for the horror genre seemingly for forever. His novels have, not surprisingly, provided considerable material for films. At least two (CARRIE; THE SHINING) are considered to be masterworks, while many others have been surprising clinkers (MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE; PET SEMETARY). CHRISTINE, an adaptation of King that came out in theaters only eleven months after the book's first printing, is one of the better King adaptations; for while it is not a complete masterpiece, at the very least it provides enough scares and suspense without resorting to the graphic violence that has so often plagued the horror film since the end of the 1970s.Although the novel's setting has been changed from western Pennsylvania to southern California in the film, the basic spirit of the novel remains intact, as does the year it's set in--1978. Keith Gordon is the gawky high school teenager who manages to fall head over heals for a 1957 rustbucket of a Plymouth that the owner (Roberts Blossom) calls Christine. Lacking self-esteem, and often the target of a group of bullies in school, he presses forward with buying this seemingly decrepit piece of automotive machinery, despite the extreme protestations of his family, and even his closest friend (John Stockwell). In short order, Gordon manages to restore Christine almost to the condition in which it came off the assembly line in Detroit--complete with a radio that plays only the good stuff from the 50s.But what nobody realizes is that Christine is both possessive and possessed. An evil force resides beneath Christine's chassis, and it makes no bones about what it'll do to anyone who gets between it and Gordon. Gordon's new-found girlfriend (Alexandra Paul) almost chokes to death on a hamburger while inside the car; the uncouth garage owner (Robert Prosky) at whose establishment Gordon has kept his '57 jewel dies in it; and several of Gordon's high school tormentors bite the dust at the hands of Christine. A tough-nosed cop (Harry Dean Stanton) tries to connect Gordon to these horrible events, but has only circumstantial evidence. Finally, in fear of their own lives, Stockwell and Paul confront Christine inside Prosky's abandoned garage, hoping to somehow get Gordon out of the car's evil grasp.Apart from a slight excess of profanity in the script (and this is merely a small caveat), CHRISTINE is an atmospheric film, chock full of suspense, thanks to the solid direction of John Carpenter (HALLOWEEN; THE FOG). In contrast to most other King adaptations to come, and the vast majority of Carpenter's own output following it, CHRISTINE relies on plot and tension, with its suburban setting being the perfect place for the terror unleashed during the night. The violence, for the most part, is implied in the Hitchcock tradition; there is only a limited amount of blood and gore. Stockwell and Paul do great supporting work; and while Gordon's performance as the high school kid who becomes possessed is a bit less sympathetic than he should be, it still works for the story. Carpenter's and Howarth's synthesizer-dominated score ups the film's suspense quotient; and the ploy of using a lot of 1950s rock and roll on the soundtrack is very much in keeping with the spirit of King's novel.While CHRISTINE does fall just slightly short of the masterpiece status attained by CARRIE and THE SHINING, one could do far worse, in the horror genre in general and King in particular, than to watch this film. It had become a rarity by the 1980s for a horror film to be anything more than a matter of how much gratuitous sex, violence, and bad acting could be put on the big screen. CHRISTINE eschews that for something far superior great, suspenseful, and terrifying cinema. "},{"Title":"I put a spell on you , cause your mine ","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when I was a teenager,a few years earlier I had seen carie and it completely freaked me out a few before years that i remember hiding behind a settee after watching a part of salem's lot anyway The 1st thing that striked me with this movie was the supa-cool soundtrack . The energy and rebellion of 50's rock n roll is captured well in this film , to a lot of metal kids of today ,they might hear the song bonnie maronie  and say what awful music  this film gives that song real justice and a good insight into how these rock'n'rollers were the slipknot  of their time  ! Stephen king's horror is timeless as it tap's into cultural icons ,be it a nokia mobile phone ,a cigarette or a 50's Chrysler car. match this with the suspense mastery and visual audio chic of john carpenter and its hard to see how you could go wrong . one kill in particular is visually spectacular this is matched with some of john carpenter's own music , which provides another cool mix of cultures suddenly we are in late 70's early 80's synth driven Gothic funk ! this scene would make a great video for so many bands (cmon you you-tubers ! ) the moral code is clear in this film and the car acts its evil often in form of jealously,vengeance . where as in Halloween we get through the mask camera shots , in Christine we get behind the wheel ones , but the pace is quicker , Michael myers is a stalker sneaky , where as Christine is a good time rock chick ! anyway i hope you enjoy this film . and if you do check out cat's eye . "}{"Title":"my favorite screen actress Christine.","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This was one of the first Stephen King movies I ever saw. I went to it in the theater when I was 18. Such a beautiful car, and with a trait that all drivers could appreciate she can repair herself. It was on the way home, riding my bike down a darkened street, that my imagination was kicked into high gear. Coming down the other side of the street towards me was a car with it's high beam headlights on. Two round headlights on each side. It wasn't a 58 fury, but didn't really linger to find out if it was related to Christine either. Let's just say, that bicycle never travelled that fast home before or after! But what a beautiful car. "},{"Title":"One of the best adaptions","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Without a doubt, this is one of the best book to movie adaptions I've seen.I've been a huge Stephen King for many years and have probably read this books 3 or more times- loved it! However, like most people, you're often apprehensive when they decide to turn it into a movie...Don't be, with Christine! It's very well done and pretty much keeps to the storyline.The long and short of it, is Chrisitne is a possessed car that the nerdy kid falls in love with and restores. Thus begins the adventures as Christine begins to dish out revenge on everyone who has ever caused grief for her new owner- and you'd better watch out if you're on the crap list!!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter's Christine from 1983 isn't great, but it's one of my favorites. I wouldn't necessarily consider this a horror film, but there are some scenes that will send chills up your spine. Keith Gordon plays Arnie Cunningham, a complete booksmart nerd who is constantly picked on by all the jocks in school and by his parents who try to make him into what they want him to be. Once he comes across a brokedown, rustbucket 1958 Plymouth Fury named Christine, he has to buy her and fix her up. Once he does, he becomes cool, he gets the popular girl, and totally transforms his look. But what he doesn't know is that Christine has been possessed by the spirits of her dead previous owners. And once she has Arnie under her spell, she sets out to destroy anyone who picks on or does harm to her and Arnie. I thought this was an interesting storyline and the car is beautiful once Arnie has her all fixed up. One of my favorite scenes is where Arnie says show me and she fixes herself up in front of him after the bullies completely destroyed her. That's one of the coolest scenes in the film. There's also another scene where she's going down the highway at night and she's on fire after a gas station explosion. That was almost too wicked but it's cool. Some of the characters could have been developed more, such as Arnie's parents and maybe more of his background could have been told but the main focus is the car and that is what you get. This is a fun film to watch, especially for those of you who are looking for a cheap, non-scary thrill. Christine is not the best adaptation of a Stephen King novel, but it's definitely better than most. This is one of my favorite films and I enjoy it immensely. It won't go down in history as a great film but it's definitely fun. Especially for a car lover! Thank you for reading my review. "},{"Title":"Not the book, but enjoyable","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Being a fan of the book (and owning #58 of the 1000 signed limited editions), I was glad in hindsight that I saw the movie before I started reading the book. And while it is typical that movies often don't capture the spirit of the story in words or imagination, John Capenter's Christine refused to capture many elements that made the King's story a true ghost story. Instead the movie glossed over so much of what made the story frightening, the most notable being the possession of Arnie by both Christine and the deceased first owner, Roland LeBay. I only wish that the screenplay had stayed within that spirit and implemented other various elements mentioned in the book. Had that been the case I have no doubt that the film would've and could've easily joined the ranks of other ghost story classics such as Poltergeist and The Amityville Horror. However when all was said and done, it came across more as wow, cool entertainment.That fact notwithstanding, this is still a memorable and fun film. It also had some very good performances especially by Keith Gordon, Robert Prosky and Christine Belford. Indeed where it missed on being an effective, evil ghost story it definitely made up for it in old fashioned popcorn entertainment. Seven and 1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Thoughts On Christine","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine the book and Christine the movie came out in theaters and in bookstores at around the same time in 1983 (if my memory serves me if was deliberately planned that way.) At the time, Stephen King was going through his drug daze, writing novel after novel in a coke and alcohol fueled haze. This goes far to explain the length of the books he wrote at this time, and it also goes far in explaining why the film adaptation of Christine is the rare instance where the movie is better then the book (although please don't get me wrong - I love the book with all my heart and highly recommend it to anyone who has yet to read it.) You see in the book, King gives us a wonderful (and All-American) ghost story in the form of a haunted car. And not just any haunted car either - Christine (as she is named by her first owner Roland LaBey) is a 1958 Plymouth Fury. And Fury is an apt last name for her (because make no mistake about it, Christine is all woman and as they say hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.) This should be enough of an explanation - The car is possessed by some unknown force. That's it. But King goes on to explain exactly why Christine is the way she is, and this is where I feel he goes wrong. By shining a light on the monster, you make it less scary.The movie does not make the same mistake. What John Carpender (and screenwriter Bill Phillips) do is trim the fat from the story. Christine's mysterious past is once again put in the shadows where it belongs, and what we're left is a love story. As soon as he lays eyes on her rotting away in some backwoods yard on his way home from a miserable first day at school, Arnie Cunningham falls head over heels in love with Christine. And she falls in love with him. And you and I as viewers buy this strange love story completely.At the time it was released, the early-80's teen slasher movie trend (which ironically enough was started by Carpender's Halloween) was in full swing. And while Christine is a movie that focuses on teenagers, it does not fall into slasher territory at all. What you have with this movie is good solid story-telling. From the solid script to Donald Morgan's camera work, right down to the performances (particularly from Keith Gordon chewing the scenes as Arnie). Christine is a great movie that holds up twenty-fives years after her release. Hell, that would make her a genuine antique, although she still smells like new - and that's the best smell in the world. Except for (BLEEP). "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie!","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I love this movie, i've seen it it over and over again. At the first place i love all this American cars from the fifty^s and sixty's, the Plymouth Fury is one of the nicest cars apart from the Chevy Bel Air, De Sotos and Cadillacs. I have a friend he bought a Fury because of this movie! His car looks exactly like in the movie. I like everything in this movie, the cool soundtrack in the beginning, the camera, illumination, acting, everything. Very good and professional job! I would like to see more movies like this. I like this kind of movies. I have this movie in my video collection. I think that anybody who like these old cars, like me, should watch this movie... "},{"Title":"On Adapting King to Screen","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Carpenter did a job that overhauls for film what Stephen King did in writing. I don't mean King's work wasn't outstanding... gee! it was his FIRST novel! But after reading and watching what the other directors did to his work... well, Christine is absolutely gorgeous.Think about some other novels that were made for TV... they're good, but when it comes to convey the whole picture, effects-wise, they're s&$t! (remember The Langoliers?), but the ones that go to film are just amazing.If you like King and if you like his human and creepy side, this is a must see! The best John Carpenter has ever done -visually... just watch what his DOP did! "},{"Title":"Good adaptation of the Stephen King novel","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter displays a fine version of the Stephen King novel, where an unusual tale of love and lust for a huge expanse of metal comes to the fray.Arnie Cunningham is greatly portrayed by Keith Gordon, and watching him turn from the local school wimp to a hard-edged individual who won't take flak from anyone is rather pleasing.Scenes in which 'Christine' come to life are displayed to chilling effect, and is actually quite believable. People who have not witnessed this film will be surprised at the effects. The aptly named Plymouth Fury was the vehicle used as Christine; this car certainly had a lot of Fury! Nobody can get in the way of Christine as she and Arnie reign terror upon those who have made his life miserable. Shocking scenes abound mixed with wonderful ominous music will send even the most laid back viewer into a sense of surprise.Upon first viewing of this movie, I was not disappointed. John Carpenter unleashes a terrifying hell on earth where the uncontrollable wrath of a young man and his car never fails to send shivers down the spine. An engaging film that could be one of the best horror-thrillers of the 1980s. Great! "},{"Title":"Still holds up after 20 years","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" After 20 years, the scenes of high school life in the late 70's and a late 50's auto production line are still some of the most accurate of any Hollywood film. Carpenter's camera work is excellent and the special effects still look great, years before anyone heard of digital effects. You can definitely see a Hitchcock influence in the scene blocking, especially in one great camera move in the Plymouth factory in the beginning of the movie. One of the most overlooked films of the 1980's. Would love to see this remade today, using digital effects techniques. I just don't think there are too many 1958 Plymouths left anymore! "},{"Title":"The Love Bug...as written by Stephen King","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" When I was really young, I saw the Disney movie The Love Bug. This led me to believe that automobile-themed movies could only be cute. But I never could have predicted what I would see in John Carpenter's movie version of Stephen King's novel Christine. This movie has a lot going for itself nostalgia, realization of new strength, and more all rolled into one.At the beginning, we see 1957 Detroit, where some people are building cars; it could be the manifestation of good, hard-working Americans on their way to achieving the American Dream. But then, the hood on one of the cars smashes a guy's hand. A few minutes later, a man sits in the car...and is found dead a few minutes later. Maybe the American Dream isn't really what they say it is (possibly an allusion to the eventual closure of the auto industry in Detroit, turning the city into an urban wasteland).Fast forward to 1978 LA, where young Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) is the bullied school nerd. That is, until he buys the car that we earlier saw getting produced. He quickly changes his look and is clearly getting infatuated with this car. But this car is equally infatuated with him, and anyone who challenges their relationship might not live to tell about it.Probably the best scene is when the car repairs itself. That scene, more than any other, really shows not only what the car is, but also what Arnie is turning into. And the '50s music is great to hear. I would say that Christine is probably the second greatest adaptation of a Stephen King novel behind The Shining. Also starring Harry Dean Stanton, Roberts Blossom and Robert Prosky.Definitely bad to the bone... "}{"Title":"Well worth a watch","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" If you are a horror fan like myself you will not want to miss at least one viewing of this film.On the other hand if you are not a fan but cars are your thing and you like to be scared once in awhile you may still enjoy this version of Stephen Kings novel,Keith Gordon is excellent and very believable as Arnie,obsessed with his Plymouth car,love the rock n roll soundtrack,which is a perfect compliment to the makeup of the movie.The book is one of my favourite King novels having spent many a late night reading it unable to put it down,Christine the movie has all the same elements to keep your eyes glued to the screen.Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"If you think it's like the book, you'll be disappointed...","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" It's not like the book at all, really.However, I think it gets the story across, and quite frankly, if the movie had never been made, Christine would have just been another King novel that probably few people would have read or known about (Except King fans). Now, a lot of people have seen this movie, and many of them haven't read the book.I saw the movie first as a young child, then I read the book years ago while I was in grade school. It was the first novel I had ever read. Hard for a 10 year old (or however old I was then, maybe younger?) to absorb all the details, so I've purchased Christine and I've spent some time reading it at the local 24 hour Starbucks (for safety!).I have one thing to say. If the movie had been turned into a 5 hour saga, ala something like The Stand, much more could have been done. Watching Dennis and Leigh try to save Arnie and his family would have been very touching. Watching LeBay and Christine kill each of the people that were negatively involved with Arnie would have been a very terrifying experience. Knowing that LeBay left Christine at Darnell's during the final fight scene (implied?) to go back to Arnie - and then Arnie fighting LeBay off (and thus dying in the wreck with his mother).And finally, the ending - where Dennis makes the connections between what Mercer told him in the hospital - that Mercer had seen to that Christine was crushes - but that the people handling her had been hurt by her hulk.... and then mentioning that the last bully had been killed by an unidentified car that slammed into the movie theater...You be the judge. Christine wasn't stopped by a crusher. You can't kill a ghost! "},{"Title":"Bullied Student Gets REVENGE !!!","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Joh Carpenter directs this early 80's Stephen King book, of a harried student, who vents Revenge, with a spooky car with a life of its' own.Have you ever been the victim of a school Bully or Bullies ? Did your parents repress your growth cycle, then this movie is for you .High School student Arnie Cunningham(Keith Gordon) has problems , lots of problems ! His parents won't let him grow up, Bullies pick on him at will, and no one REALLY understands him, so what is a young boy to do?, buy a haunted car , restore it and get REVENGE, a perfect formula and vehicle, forgive the pun, for which to give John Carpenter, license ,SORRY,..... to work with .Keith Gordon gives a good performance as the misunderstood teen.Director John delivers a decent effort of a Stephen King novel, with John Stockwell as Dennis Guilder and Alexandra Paul as Leigh Cabot, the misunderstood girlfriend of Arnie. Both actors give good performances, as the good side of the track students, who try to give Arnie the support he needs, to overcome the teenage obstacles that have embraced him.Well, that only goes so far, so Arnie finds solace in Christine , a 1958 Plymouth Fury, which plays 1950's music to display its' feelings of the moment...interesting.As the plot goes , the Bullies get more abrasive and attack Christine at will,at the shop where Arnie restored Christine to its' glory days..Arnie and Christine develop a Special  relationship, and they almost become one in thought !So the haunted car goes on the Attack , getting Arnie the Revenge he was seeking. Sort of interesting, could have used a better music score. His friends see Arnie becoming more distant and try to bring him back to reality. Anyway, if you are looking for a ghostly movie with teenagers of angst, then this movie is for you .This movie rates 7 of 10 , see with a double feature with Fright Night . more teenagers , more angst, a lot of fun !!! "},{"Title":"One Wicked red car.......","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one car, that you do not want to hurl abuse at it, I also think that Arnie was asking for trouble, when that old man sold it to him. If that was my car, I would of had it cleansed of the demon spirit inside it. Then I would of rebuilt it ,like Arnie did. o.k. he did a fantastic job, but he did not know that his nice shiny car was possessed! like an evil version of Herbie! at least Herbie only communicated with you by honking his horn!! and leaking dirty oil on your shoe, if you upset him. Christine hunts you down. Legh, Arnie 's girlfriend was right, to suspect  That Car as she puts it. I also think that Arnie should of had that car cleansed by calling a priest to bless it. and have a service with it being there. he puts a hand on Christine 's bonnet and says a blessing!  May all your satanic demons, be banished from your fine lines and super engine, you are a car, who has been cursed I enjoyed all the music this film has on it, and I thought the Plymouth fury is one cool car! "},{"Title":"A Very Good Movie","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine, while it isn't one of the best King adaptations in the world, is still a very good film. When I heard it was a movie based on a Stephen King novel and directed by John Carpenter, a master of horror, I knew I was going to be at least mildly entertained. But I had heard people say that this movie was somewhat boring, so my expectations were kind of low. I was glad to find that it wasn't boring at all, and that it was in fact, like my one liner said, A Very Good Movie.We have a young man that goes by the name of Arnie. Arnie is young, skinny, wears big thick glasses, and is one of the only seniors in his school that does not have a car. His best friend is a popular jock, and as you can imagine, that probably lowers his self esteem somewhat to see someone that has it all every time he hangs out with his best friend. So anyway, one day he sees a great opportunity. The opportunity to get a classic car for a good price. He jumps on the deal, and now he has his very own car. But, the King style horror begins to kick in, when the car slowly begins to take over young Arnie's mind.One thing that really caught my eye, was the transformation from Good Arnie to Bad Arnie. It's incredible. You sit there and watch this young man change right in front of your eyes. It's absolutely crazy. Overall, Christine is a good film that all King fans and all Carpenter fans will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Not really the soul of the novel. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I recently read the original Stephen King novel on which Carpenter's film was based and found it to be a more rewarding experience than the movie, which was conveniently designed more as a Friday night horror offering.Where the book becomes more disturbing is in the essence of how a car can consume it's owner. Arnie is merely the heir to the throne of the car in the film. Bullied at school, the car becomes his prime source of respect for himself and from others, especially when he gets involved with Leigh. In the book, King wisely takes this idea one step further and makes the characters a little more intense of conflict, notably in the backstory of the original owner.Film-wise, this is a passable, occasionally very funny film, notably in Robert Prosky's supporting performance as the garage owner. "},{"Title":"pretty good adaptation of the King novel.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A nerdy boy becomes increasingly obsessed with a 1958 Plymouth Fury, and like the car's name the nerd's attitude becomes increasingly furiated. His best friend and his girlfriend are concerned that the car may posess an evil spirit within it; as strange deaths begin to pop of all over the city.John Carpenter takes the excellent Stephen King novel and transforms it into an okay 2 hours or so of film. the shocks aren't bad for 20 years ago, and we are given likeable performances from the cast. at times a bit amature, but usually effective performances. The fury is a beauty, and you find yourself actually treating it like another character of the movie. some of the transformation scenes are noteably just reverse filming, but you don't really mind. overall not a bad way to spend 2 hours, recommended just for the car sequences alone.       6.9/10  "},{"Title":"Decent adaptation of a Stephen King book","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  For those of you expecting outstanding, mind-numbing horror from the horror greats John Carpenter and Stephen King - you may want to look elsewhere. By no means Carpenter's best (that accolade belongs to 'The Thing') or for that matter, King's (Shawshank Redemption, Misery, Stand by Me are all far superior), this is still a decent film with good acting by Keith Gordon (who would later go on to direct such truly wonderful films as 'A Midnight Clear' and 'Mother Night') and, playing his best friend Dennis, John Stockwell.I liked the way the movie began. You could really feel the friendship between Arnold and Dennis, and felt like you wanted retribution yourself against 'Buddy' and his band of goons.Christine herself is a very sleek-looking Plymouth Fury, and there are some nice moments of her chasing her prey down thin alleyways, or running the bad guy down at night whilst ablaze.For an '18'-cert, there is almost no gore but plenty of bad language! I wouldn't have minded seeing some more roadkill carnage, but hey! Them's the breaks.All in all, a decent movie with a good soundtrack and an ok premise. Just not very scary.6.5/10  "},{"Title":"Hell Hath no fury like a Plymouth Fury!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  ***CONTAINS SPOILERS***                ***SPOILERS****This movie is based on the Stephen King Novel.  It leaves out some details that if you ever get the chance read the book, they will become perfectly clear.Its a story about Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon), who is picked on a pushed around by the school bullies. Even with the help of his best friend Dennis Guilder (John Stockwell), Poor Arnie just can't catch a break. That is until the day a beat up 1958 Plymouth Fury comes into his life. Through the combined efforts of Arnie, Christine and materials provided by an old crabby Junk yard owner Will Darnell(Robert Prosky); CHRISTINE is reborn into an awesome shinny red hot rod.During the process though, a new evil Arnie also emerges. Perhaps even possessed by the car's former owner. A man who in Will Darnell's words was so mean you could pour boiling hot water down his throat and he'd (go to the bathroom) Ice cubes.During the transformation he gains a girl friend, Leigh Cabot (Alexandra Paul). She is so jealous of the car she actually calls it many bad names, resulting in Christine trying to cause her to choke to death.Arnie is blamed for the expulsion of Buddy Repperton (Willaim Ostrander), who seeks revenge by getting is gang of rotten to the core friends together and trash Christine.It is after this incident that Arnie finds out Christines power of regeneration.  Christine than goes out and seeks revenge on each and every person who trashed her. Needless to say, they won't be trashing anymore cars.The soundtrack has some awesome music, that is a big help in bringing the plot to one big climax.I give this movie a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movies","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Arnie Cunningham is a nerdy boy who brings a car to life, named christine, that has satanic powers, where it can drive and kill people, in macabre, unexcpected ways. I saw this on network tv, a little over a year ago, and was surprised by the title, and that it was a horror movie. Stephen King gives me chills. It haunts you to get in your car, I don't know about you, but I find it really scary when a uy got locked in the car and suffocated from carbon monoxide, by the cars evil powers. Not much of a distinguished cast, and at the end it looks like the cars staring to move, but I'm not sure whether it was 100%, and not just 99.8% dead. "}{"Title":"Christine alive!","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A novel by Stephen King, brought to the screen by the master of horror movies John Carpenter. After reading the book and watching this movie everything was complete. John Carpenter really brought Christine to life. This is a great movie, very very good movie. Keith Gordon, John Stockwell and Alexandra Paul. They all do a great job in front of the camera. Buy this one now, and love it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is awesome if you're like me and don't expect alot out of a movie that is 20 years old. I swear everytime I see this movie I want to visit the junk yard, pick out an old car and restore it, just to see if it will come to life! haha "},{"Title":"Terrific novel,  above average movie","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This was a good movie and the cast did a terrific job, especially Keith Gordon, Alexandra Paul and John Stockwell.  My main complaint was the changes that didn't need to be made from novel to film.  I realize things have to be shortened when making a film from a novel, but why was the movie based in California instead of Pennsylvania and why was Roland LeBay's brother made to look like an old bum in the film when he was a schoolteacher in the novel?  Overall it was a good movie that could have been much better if it had paralleled the book more.  "},{"Title":"Think of this one as Kitt from Knight Rider goes crazy","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Mediocre horror tale about an ordinary looking car that has a murderous mind of its own. Even with John Carpenter directing and Steven King adapting, the dull film offers absolutely no genuine scares or thrills. Yawn. "},{"Title":" Great!! CAUTION BOOK SPOILERS","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I have always been a fan of Stephen King and have read most of his books and seen the movies that were made out of them, and Christine has always been one of my favorites.  This movie was still very good even though it was horribly unfaithful to the book on many occasions, such as when Darnell was killed while sittting in the driver's seat when in the book he was supposed to be killed at his house. Plus when Arnie dies, he dies in Darnell's garage instead of dying with his mother when their car is blown up while driving to college. Besides from the changes made in the movie I think that this was a great movie that any horror fan would enjoy.  "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie thoroughly. It was interesting . But I thought it was alittle weird considering that a car will just come to life and have a mind of its own to kill. That was crazy. But besides from thst it was pretty cool. There was a talented bunch of actors. Such as Arnie who done a good job as being a geek to a dude obessed with his car.  "},{"Title":"Fun Possessed Car Tale","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a lot of fun especially towards the end. Quite  watchable although it is a bit slow-moving at first so stick with it. A young man finally gets his own car for the first time but doesn't realize just how  attached to it he would become and how attached to him IT had become.  "},{"Title":"Not Exactly One of the Best Expected By Stephen King.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine. Hmmm, well just to start, Stephen King could've done better. This movie was not scary and wasn't much like a horror movie. I mean, a living car? I had no problem with John Carpenter's directing, since he directs such great movies, and the acting wasn't bad. I didn't expect this kind of novel/movie by Stephen King to be popular. This movie gets you all scared like it's going to be terrifying, but is not. I give Christine a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sex on wheels","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  There are only a handful of movies where the star is an inanimate object, so it is a tribute to Carpenters mastery of his craft that he manages it with the only screen version of a Stephen King story that really works. As loser Arnies girlfriend Alexandra Paul is in theory the romantic lead, but how could her beauty compare to soaring tail fins, cherry red paint and a radio that only plays classic 1950s hits? With a soundtrack like this and solid performances from a cast who are unheard of nowadays,the movie is one of my faves of the 80s. Long live Rock n Roll! "},{"Title":"Lots of athmosphere in this one","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Nerdy high-school kid Arnie gets bullied all the time at school. He finds comfort in a 58 Plymouth, a red beauty called Christine. Shes rather dusty when he discovers her, but he buys her and fixes her up. His friend Dennis discovers that he is becoming obsessed with the car, and he also suspects that Christine might have a life of her own. Horror-writer Stephen King teams up with horror-director John Carpenter, but the result feels that it could have been even better. But this is not bad, Christine mixes high-school life with horror elements in a nice sort of way. The scenes with Christine has lots of athmosphere, much thanks to the creepy music composed by John Carpenter himself.The lead trio (Keith Gordon, John Stockwell, Alexandra Paul) works well, but these days no one has ever heard of them. Solid actors like Harry Dean Stanton and Robert Prosky supports them.A nice and interesting horror-movie, which doesnt really offers any scares.3/5 "}{"Title":"Classic Carpenter And King.","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  When high-school nerd Arnie Cunningham, and his friend Dennis are riding home from school in Dennis' car one day, Arnie sees a car which he immediately falls in love with. Arnie has to buy it and he does just that. The car, named by it's first owner is called 'Christine'. Even though 'Christine' doesn't look very good, Arnie does it up and makes it look like a great car. As soon as Arnie gets 'Christine', he spends more and more time with 'her' and his friends and family realise a sudden change in the usually quiet and shy Arnie, and not for the better. Arnie has become a horrible and arrogant person. Something to do with 'Christine'......  Keith Gordon and John Stockwell who have now turned directors give great performances in this brilliant movie, which is directed by John Carpenter and adapted from the book (Which is also great.) by Stephen King.Christine is a classic and original horror movie and has been perfectly adapted from the book of the same name. If you're a fan of horror and thriller movies, or if you enjoyed the book, then you won't be disappointed in this movie, which is great. There's some really good eerie music featured here too. "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I know that there have been many complaints on how much Christine strayed from the book.  Let me make it clear.  Christine is my favorite book that Stephen King ever put on paper.  Not only was it a horror novel, it was a story about the disentigrating friendship of a couple of lifelong buddies that captured teenage life perfectly and hit just the right emotional chords.  Even though it was a book, it utilized music perfectly by putting in excerpts from a lot of rock tunes.  It also fleshed out every character to a tee and gave you a background for each of them by giving you their point of view. It's one book that I absolutely HAVE to read every Fall.SOME SPOILERS AHEAD, YA'LL. Christine is the story of Arnie Cunningham.  He's your classic high-school geek.  You know the type.  He's the kind you see scurrying down the hall, between classes, hoping that he would go unnoticed to avoid torment and humiliation.  Arnie has exactly one friend in Dennis Guilder.  Dennis is Arnie's polar opposite.  He's popular, he's a football player, and he's a ladies man.  They've been best friends since child-hood and Dennis has spent the whole time watching Arnie's ass and keeping him from getting beaten. (you see, in the book, the biggest part of the story is told in first-person by Dennis)  Things take a sudden change of pace when Arnie sets his sites on this dilapidated 1958 Plymouth Fury.  Arnie buys the clunker for about $300 and has his mind set on fixing it up, much to his parents (and Dennis's) disapproval.  The car becomes somewhat of an obsession to Arnie.  It also gives him so much confidence that he does a complete 180 turnaround from class-geek to babe-magnet/high school badass.  Pretty soon, anyone who's done Arnie wrong (or anyone who plans on doing Arnie wrong, for that matter) becomes roadkill.  Mess with Arnie, become a hood ornament.  The car, er..I mean, Christine has a mind of her own and anyone who she sees as a threat turns up missing.  Christine also has a wicked jealous streak.None too happy about losing his best friend to a car, Dennis decides to investigate things a bit in hopes of understanding  (and stopping) the transformation in his best friend.  He learns the history of the car and its previous owner, and learns maybe a bit more than he wanted to know.Christine is a damn good flick.  It's a book transfer done right with just the right amount left intact.  My only real bitch is that things happened a bit too fast.  Arnie changed a bit quick and I didn't like how the story of Roland D. Lebay was just touched on.  That needed further explanation, in my opinion.  Oh well, I suppose if I hadn't read the book, I probably wouldn't give a rat's ass.  If you enjoy the movie, then you'll definitely want to read the book.  "},{"Title":"Typical Stephen King Stuff That Works","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I happened to come across this movie quite by accident on a lazy Saturday afternoon and found it surprisingly interesting.The plot is rather outlandish (but then again, this is Stephen King!) Christine is a car with a definite mind of her own, and she has a tendency to get violently jealous of anyone who takes her owner's attention away from her. Bought for $200 by Arnie Cunningham (played by Keith Gordon, who I am not particularly familiar with but who I thought did a decent job in this role), Christine begins to change him. Previously a nerd whose parents were obsessed with not wanting him to grow up, Arnie suddenly becomes cool, attracting both a beautiful girlfriend (Leigh, played by Alexandra Paul) and the wrath of the school toughs. Christine, of course, objects to Leigh, and takes revenge against the toughs for Arnie.What can I say? Totally ludicrous, but a lot of fun to watch. And some serious issues along the way. The dangers of jealousy for one. The value of friendship for another. It kept my attention for two hours.I'd rate it as a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Poor Adaptation","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Chistine is a great book which was my first introduction to Stephen King and I was keen to see the film made from it, especially by a director I also liked.What a disappointment.  The film bears little relation to the book, with some major liberties taken and holds little suspense. There are some good moments but it's all done with far too much brevity. The incidental music is largely low key, electronic and adds nothing. George Thorogood's Bad To The Bone which is part of the end credits,is the best bit of the film and shows what a poor effort this was.Stephen King films rarely live up to the books, probably because of the length, but particularly in this case I wish Christine had been left alone.Read the book, forget the film.  "},{"Title":"Good fun for King and Carpenter fans.","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  While the subtext of the book Christine, which dealt with the previous owner's infusing his own evil into the car(which looks cooler than I imagined from reading the book), was notably absent, the movie was still good fun, with good direction, good pacing, a great '50's rock 'n' roll soundtrack, and some good jump scenes.  The special effects were impressive, as was Keith Gordon's performance, and the 'show me' scene was great.  This was a successful effort, and I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  i'm a big fan of John Carpenter in the 70's and 80's there is no one better than him at that time. and in Christine Carpenter once again shows why he ruled the 80's. not really a scary film but a fun one to watch. Arnie went from geek to cool as the car possesses him. Carpenter did the score and it was really good. i would recommend this movie to anyone who likes John Carpenter and good thrillers i give Christine 8/10 "},{"Title":"a guilty pleasure","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  this is one of those movies i watched and knew it was stupid and yet i have seen guys who love their car more then their girl and that adds a certain quality to this flick. the movie is slickly made and has some funny dialogue. harry dean stanton is always a joy to watch and he is good and funny here as the last owner of the car. this has a great music soundtrack as well.  yes it's kind of a stupid premise but when it was over i had a grin on my face cause it's just fun to watch for the pure joy of over the top obsessions shown here.  "},{"Title":"Easily one of the top ten horror films.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Show me.  Christine's headlights suddenly turn on, just as the music, which sounds like an old Clint Eastwood  western score mixed with John Carpenters horror score, begins to play, and we see the silouhette of Arnie, as Christine's tires begin to fill themselves up with air. Now Christine is no longer leaning on her left rims, she is now completely level.  So begins one of the most  chilling scenes in horror movie history.  To this day, after seeing this movie over 10 times, I still get  goosebumps watching this scene.   The great thing is the entire movie evokes these feelings. As we slowly see Arnie going from the nerd at school, to dating the beautiful new girl at school, to finally  becoming obsessed or with the love for his new  car, that he betrays everyone except for Christine.   He loved his car so much, but she doesn't love him back. She is jealous, and nothing or no one is going to get in the way of that. The movie, directed by John Carpenter based on the  wonderful novel by Stephen King, is a modern masterpiece. It is the kind of movie you can watch again and again and not get bored.  If you have seen Christine, and not read the book; I highly suggest you read the book also.  They complement one another.  If you haven't seen this movie and are a fan of horror, or even if you're not, see it this week.  "},{"Title":"A brief summary on Christine","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  CHRISTINE is set in 1978 California. It stars Keith Gordon as Arnie Cunningham, a nerd who's seduced by a car, well not just any car. CHRISTINE!!! Christine is a 1958 Plymouth Fury that's the temple of an unholy presence. After Christine is restored to it's original condition ( courtesy of Arnie ), she wreaks havoc on anyone who comes between her and Arnie.Excellent film. If it's not in your video or DVD library, get to your local movie store now!!! "},{"Title":"Take it for a spin...","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Having seen this one when it first came out, I was expecting something along the lines of The Car 2 Gasket from Hell.  What I got was nothing short of brilliant.I'm not easy to please with this kind of movie, but usually you can count on John Carpenter to give you at least one scene in each of his movies that will make you leap right out of your seat.  There was one in this.  I won't tell you where, just be ready.Plenty of shocks, surprises and a beautiful chrome dream machine straight from Hell's showroom.  Eight stars.  After this one, you may hate rock and roll, too. "}{"Title":"One of Carpenter's, and King's best!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is good. I think what makes it good is that the teens in this movie are so cool and do a great job of acting. It's underrated, and very cool. I give this movie *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"A complete shot in the dark.","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A few years ago I was given a book as a gift from my grandmother, who has passed away since, I read the book - and despite its unrealistic plot - feel absolutely in love with it.  As a person who wants to go into film I saw this book as an amazing film, just going by the words on the page.  The book, of course, was Christine.  Now the other day I am in the local video shop and pass by the movie of the same name.  I pick it up and rent it.  To my surprise it is one is the worst adaptations and films I've ever seen. What the hell were they trying to do with the excellent story?  They did what ruins all Steven King adaptations and that's straying from the novel. I saw very little of the relationship between Arnie and Leigh and Arnie and his best friend.  It didn't show enough between Arnie and his parents.  And the only notable performance was that of the man that played Darnell.  The movie should have been set up like The Shawshank Redemption whereas the narration is done by their friend, and sort of an outsider.  But instead the movie builds up showing the friend in almost every shot and then all of a sudden he disappears for half the movie.  And why on earth did we learn about the origins of the car so quickly - this should have been done near the end - and possibly in a flash back sequence, instead of just being said quickly - they were important events!!!!  If this movie had have been done right it would have made an excellent film, but it was not so it's a terrible film, which can be put right up there with some of John Carpenter's other work. "},{"Title":"Stephen King meets John Carpenter","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A great author like Stephen King and a great director like John Carpenter should fit together like bread and butter, but something went wrong in the making of Christine.  I am not saying the film is bad, but it is not the best.  Carpenter and King have done better.  The first half of the movie is excellent, but the second half is a bit repetitive and redundant. RATING = 7 of 10 "},{"Title":"John Carpenter rules!!","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  John Carpenter's Christine is one of the best films made from an original Stephen King story. Carpenter has his own touches and the film has a great atmosphere. The use of old rock-n-roll has never been spookier. The scenes of seeing the car coming over the horizon with the bright lights on are amazingly well done. The idea of seeing your own death coming is very gripping and had me on the edge. The car coming down the road on fire is unforgettable. Roberts Blossom is very good in a brief scene when selling the car to Keith Gordon. Once again Carpenter and Alan Howarth do a great job on the score. The cinematography from Donald Morgan is brilliant. This movie does it with atmosphere and very little gore. The concept of a killer automobile is a litte goofy, but King pulled it off fine in his novel. Carpenter has done a great job with the film. "},{"Title":"Decent horror-thriller, but could have been far better","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Decent horror-thriller, but could have been far better.Based on a Stephen King novel, the story of a possessed, evil car that harms and/or kills its owners and anyone associated with them. The movie started very well, with heaps of intrigue and you wondering where this will all lead.However, it doesn't really lead anywhere overly profound or original. The movie simply becomes a vigilante movie, and then a standard action movie (just with a car being the bad guy!). Last 40% of the movie is quite disappointing, especially after what came before.Overall though, intriguing and entertaining enough to be watchable. Not a must-see, but there are worse ways to spend your time. "},{"Title":"The Plymouth that could Purge. (May be Spoilers, Sorry)","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine isn't like your ordinary Plymouth; she is a seductive Plymouth. A Plymouth whose body is by Plymouth and given her life is a soul by Satan.John Carpenters Christine starts out in downtown California, where Arnie and his friend Dennis start out their first day as seniors at their high school as they finish off the day. Until Arnie stumbles upon in a home on the highway, there as rusty and as busted up she lay awaiting for her next admirer as Arnie admires her seductive body.Arnie starts to restore her to her former glory 20 years ago, as Arnie is nearly finished fixing her up these group of bullies smash and trash her beautiful chassis she starts to take revenge on her victims; killing them one by one. Until Arnie begins to be controlled. In the end Dennis and Leigh take the responsibility to destroy her.Christine is perfect for that horror addict, so don't hesitate to watch it. "},{"Title":"Underrated On So Many Levels","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine (1983) *** 1/2 (out of 4) John Carpenter's adaptation of the Stephen King best seller about high school loser Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) who buys a 1957 Plymouth and soon his obsession leads to the car's possession of him. I love hearing Carpenter talk about his movies but for the life of me I've never understood why he's so down on this one here. Yes, the film's not really scary but at the same time I think it's one of the better possession movies out there and I think the film does a terrific job not only in the horror elements but it also works as a coming of age story because I'm sure most people can connect with either Arnie or those around him who see their friend falling apart due to an obsession. Carpenter really does a good job at building up the main characters here and I think this really helps the story once the possession does start. A lot of credit also has to go to the performances and especially that of Gordon who is really believable not only as the dork but also through the various stages that the character goes through. I thought it was very impressive that he could be so believable as this small loser but towards the end you could also fear the guy. John Stockwell adds great support as the friend and Alexandra Paul is also good as the girlfriend. We also get some wonderful character actors in small roles including Robert Prosky, Roberts Blossom and Harry Dean Stanton. Another major plus working for the film is the terrific soundtrack full of wonderful rock and roll oldies. The special effects are another winner as is the always reliable cinematography where Carpenter uses that 2.351 aspect ratio like no one else. CHRISTINE remains an underrated gem but it seems more and more people are coming to appreciate it for what it is. The film is so strong on so many levels that you can overlook the few flaws and still enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Stuck somewhere between liking it and really liking it.","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie definitely is not a perfect horror classic but I still see it somewhat as a semi-classic. Because of its unique story it still remains a very special and unique one, that besides works out really well, for most part.Thing that this movie really has going for it is its originality. The main concept might even sound a bit ridicules and just far from likely. I mean, a car with an own mind, that kills off people? That does not sound like anything too convincing of course. But it does work out well in the movie and its story, probably also because it does not ever over-explain anything. The car is evil, as simple as that. There is no reason for it given and the characters in the movie also don't try to find out how and why the car has a true mind of her own. I guess that by trying to give an explanation for all of it, the movie would had truly become a ridicules and far fetched one to watch, so it in my opinion was the right choice to simply step over it and just take things for granted. It also kept the movie at all times simple and pleasant to watch and also adds to the movie its mystery and tension as well.It's definitely true that all of the movie its 'fun' starts in its last hour. Before that point, the movie is really taking its time, by setting up certain story lines and characters. Not that it's bad or boring to watch all but once the fun kicks in and the final hour starts you are still nevertheless wondering to yourself if the movie couldn't had picked up its pace earlier on already and started off a bit sooner with its horror elements.It are little storytelling elements like this that prevent the movie from being a true great one. But all of this can be brought back to the fact that it's based on a novel, which often features and also requires a totally different way of storytelling of course. It's also the main reason why some characters work out awkwardly in this movie and too often get pushed to the background. It doesn't always feels like a well balanced movie with its storytelling and characters.Also some of its themes could had been handled better and more effective, in the movie. Such as for instance the whole way the car chances its owner's personality could had been done far more subtle and interestingly. It could had also given the movie some more depth but this is just not the type of movie that ever wants to delve too deep into things. It's clearly made as foremost a genre movie and to entertaining and bring some thrills to its audience.And it does not really fail as a genre movie. The car pretty much becomes a real character for the movie and it's being a pretty effective 'villain', mostly thanks to the way the movie got shot by genre expert John Carpenter, who directed the movie.Depite all of its flaws and weaknesses, I'm still willing to give it the benefit of the doubt and call this a semi-classic because of its original concept and the way it got shot by John Carpenter. Also when looking at it fairly you have to conclude that it's being a way better and more effective movie than just the average genre attempt.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Evil Car, fairly good Carpenter flick","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine is a medium-good Carpenter film, as I always say he is a hit and miss director, Aside from Escape from New York, I didn't like his early work, in part because the films were slow and devoid of life. Christine takes a couple steps in the right direction. Here is a story that makes progress at a reasonably convincing rate for a hundred minute B-movie feature. It has its weak moments but not too many. It's hard to imagine shrinking a three hundred page book into a movie of this length. I've seen big scale Hollywood movies that screw up on book adaptations because of story duration issues, and too much content. John Carpenter escapes such pit holes with Christine. Picture if you will, what happens when a boy falls in love with a possessed car, the answer is...the car will kill anyone who gets in the way. Yes folks, the car does come to life, and the special effects work nicely, but is only the second most important performance. Christine requires a lead role of equal ferocity and deviousness. Keith Gordon gives such a performance, although he is aided occasionally by some of Carpenter's favourite lighting tricks to make him look evil. Christine could use a little polishing in the climax, and a couple of other scenes, but it all works as a whole, (for a b-movie at least) "},{"Title":"One of the better Stephen King movies","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine is one of the better Stephen King movies. It isn't as great as The Shining, but it sure is better than Children of the Corn. This is directed by horror movie director John Carpenter. He is a good director and his directing skills are very effective in this movie. I'm not as familiar with the cast members, but I know that the older man from Home Alone plays a car salesman in this movie, and a woman who eventually goes on to do Baywatch plays the Highschool hottie in this movie. This has plenty of Stephen King trademarks, and has a good first half. The music is good, it is a mix of classic rock music and John Carpenter's orchestrated score, both adding plenty of effect to the movie.This movie is pretty weird, but it isn't terrifying like some of the other King films. The age group for this is probably ages 12 and up, even though kids younger than that can probably handle it.There is a good story line in this movie, and it tries its hardest to follow the novel. I'd say this is worth watching, it is one of the better King adaptations, and the acting is good. "}{"Title":"A suspense classic; the best of the Stephen King adaptations!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The astounding boxoffice success of two low-budgeted independent thrillers HALLOWEEN (1978) and FRIDAY THE 13TH (1980) gave new life to the genre, and for the next decade, theatres were flooded with a torrent of copycats. Most of them were low-budget quickie splatter films, but an alarming number were major-studio offerings, many of them Stephen King adaptations as an added boxoffice lure. Emerging from the dross, one movie of genuine quality stood above all the rest--CHRISTINE, a 1983 release that is as finely crafted and gripping a thriller to come out of Hollywood since the output of Val Lewton (Cat People, The Seventh Victim) in his all-too-brief 1940s heyday). CHRISTINE was based on a Stephen King novel, but its makers had the acuity to delete the novel's dreck, retain its haunting premise, and embellish its strong points. CHRISTINE is the name a bullied, lonely highschool nerd Arnie (Keith Gordon) gives to a battered 1958 Plymouth Fury he acquires at a used-car garage. Feeling a kinship with the abandoned vehical, Arnie lovingly restores the battered car to its former gleaming red glory. But as Christine's outward appearance undergoes a transformation, so does Arnie's.  His sole friend and protector, the warm-hearted school jock Dennis (John Stockwell, giving depth and quiet strength to a usually cliched character) looks on at first in bemusement, then in increasing alarm as Arnie's personality is gradually transformed into an aggressive, kick-butt stud.  Moreover, Dennis takes notice of Arnie's increasing, almost pathological obsession with his beloved Christine.  But Christine has a mind of her own.  First, anyone who tangles with Arnie is found mysteriously slain.  And when the highschool beauty (Alexandra Paul, years before her Baywatch days) becomes attracted to the newly refurbished Arnie, Christine swings into a jealous rampage and . .. CHRISTINE evokes its sense of alarming dread by casting a probing eye on everyday small-town American life, of carefully observed relationships between teenagers and their parents, and the casual caring and cruelties of highschool existence.  The film entirely eschews gore, cheap shocks and CGI special effects, and focuses almost imperceptibly on our most primal fears and elations--of growing up, falling in love, the anguish of betrayal and abandonment--all calmly observed by the eerily silent Christine, who zooms into the foreground whenever she senses her savior is imperilled.  As in his classic HALLOWEEN, director John Carpenter calmly but deviously pricks at our nerves--all is nuance (enhanced by a furtively roaming anamorphic Panaglide camera). CHRISTINE creates moments of such eerie suspense that it reminded me of a few other superior thrillers of its era and--by cross-referencing them (on IMDB), I was surprised that all shared one connecting link. First the films SOMEONE'S WATCHING ME!, a truly unnerving made-for-TV thriller starring Lauren Hutton as a woman terrorized in her swank high-rise apartment. This little-known jewel was written and directed by John Carpenter prior to HALLOWEEN. SALEM'S LOT, Tobe Hooper's 2-part TV adaptation of Stephen King's vampire shocker, released theatrically overseas, featuring one of James Mason's last, most memorable performances. Wes Craven's CHILLER, made-for-TV before the filmmaker went on to commercial theatrical success with his Elm Street and Scream franchises. This top-quality trilogy--plus CHRISTINE--were all produced by Richard Kobritz.  His two Stephen King adaptations show he seems to understand and enhance King's work as no other filmmaker has to date, though many have tried and come a cropper (check out BOTH versions of THE SHINING, Kubrick's bloated theatrical bore and the tacky TV mini-series, and you'll see what I'm talking about). In an era when directors are instantly credited as the auteurs of their films, I'd suggest that the films of Mr. Kobritz--not unlike those of producer Val Lewton--show who the real auteur is.  In all of Kobritz's films, the sense of foreboding is evoked through the subtlest of psychological and cinematic terms.  Somehow, these films all have the same unique touch.  In all of the endings, the presence of evil is never entirely vanquished.  As in life, evil is always lurking, waiting to make its inevitable return in some form or other. I congratulate Mr. Kobritz for being perhaps the sole filmmaker to have learned the lessons of Lewton. "},{"Title":"A 1959 Buick would have been more sinister-looking...","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  than a 1958 Plymouth.  I know the movie had to stay with the King book, but imagine a 1959 Buick with its mean-looking front end in Christine's place and you would have a real chiller!  I owned one - red with white top - and had folks commenting all the time of how bad to the bone it looked! "},{"Title":"Dee-troit don't make 'em like this anymore","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If they did I wouldn't be required to get behind the wheel anymore and what a joy that would be. With this auto the owner's body repair bills would be zilch. I loved the flaming car scene; had be rolling in the floor. Actually, I'd love to own this car I would be guaranteed never to be bothered by anyone....ever. Much better than the book and far superior to many of King's adaptations. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Simple and straightforward.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Simple, straightforward adaptation of Stephen King's novel doesn't quite take off, but keeps your interest throughout, mostly because it's directed in a clear, precise style by Carpenter. There is almost no gore in the movie, so those who seek gore should try something else. "},{"Title":"A nice score, but given the pedigree this is pretty uninvolving","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" It's surprising how many movies there are in the killer vehicle sub-genre out there. From classics like DUEL to yawners like THE HEARSE and abominations like WHEELS OF TERROR and TRUCKS, somebody is always ready to make a buck out of a wheeled menace. Stephen King even wrote a whole book about one in his own inimitable style and it wasn't long before CHRISTINE the movie followed. Sadly, it's not one of the master's best because it fails to make the car of the title a threatening menace at all. Sure, it's cool when Christine gets a life of her own and mows down street thugs and repairs herself after being damaged but a scary screen presence? Not at all. More like a few clever special effects and a good driver is what we have and it's a film which left me cold.The biggest disappointment is that John Carpenter directed it, at a period in his career when he still made intelligent, scary horror films. CHRISTINE isn't one of them. This goreless chiller goes for the subtle, almost psychological approach to its horror rather than OTT blood and guts, but a little grue surely would have livened things up a bit. As it stands, probably the best thing in the film's favour is the music, which is typically good for Carpenter and makes the plot suspenseful. The screen is often awash with darkness and shadows but for what? The car isn't menacing, just a nuisance. As the film progresses, pyrotechnics are brought into play (the explosion of the petrol station) as if they forgot it was a horror film and went for action instead. Then there's the drawn-out finale, which seems to go on and on endlessly with little resolve.Keith Gordon is good in the leading part of Arnie Cunningham. Transforming from a friendless geek into a hard-assed popular guy, he portrays the mental possession and obsession of his character very well indeed. John Stockwell is ineffectual as the best friend, however, and Alexandra Paul makes very little of her part as the girlfriend-in-distress. Even usually reliable veterans like Robert Prosky and Harry Dean Stanton are wasted in nothing parts. The scene in which Christine rebuilds herself from a total wreck to a car in pristine condition is memorable, yes, but nothing about the film really shines. At the end of the day it seems both slow-moving and lacking in real chills. Watch it only for the music. "},{"Title":"Quickie Review Christine","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" If you've seen Christine and thought it was crap, ask yourself this &#x96; How could a movie about an obsessed car killing people because they got too attached to the car's owner be any better than Christine was? Though directed by a not-so-interested John Carpenter (apparently it was the only thing he was being offered at the time) Christine remains one of the most entertaining films in his filmography. The characters are all generic 80's cardboard cut-outs, but are well-defined enough to be relatable and believable. Keith Gordon's decent into madness due to his obsession with his beautiful new car Christine is well-handled, who becomes something of a deranged antagonist in the latter half of the film after we followed the movie through his and best friend John Stockwell's viewpoints. The closer Gordon gets to Christine, the further away he movies from his friend and family, and in doing so opens up the chance for the viewers to side with best friend Stockwell, who is apprehensive of Gordon's fixation with the car. In other worlds, the bullied geek loner we can all sympathise with becomes the guy we're all rooting to die&#x85;or well, see the error of his ways at least. Little does Gordon know Christine is as jealous as most women unnaturally are, and kills to stop people coming between her and Keith. By the time he discovers this, he doesn't care much. Why? Because he's now also a killer. Hell hath no fury like death on four wheels. Or something. The movie's best attributes (aside from Carpenter's funky soundtrack) is a number of thrilling scenes in which killer Christine chases and mows down her pray, sometimes with Keith Gordon in the driver's seat and sometimes without. There are a notable number of clever scenes, from where the car rebuilds herself after taking a beating to inventively killing a fat man by squashing him between the front seat and dashboard. The movie carries a sense of faux nostalgia &#x96; it was clearly made in a time where Americans, especially teenagers and young adults, thought of their cars as companions and people. Because of this the time in which the movie was set plays a big part. I could imagine myself at a drive-in cinema watching a film like Christine (much like how the characters do in the film) even though they were before my time. Plus, Christine is sexy as heck Let's just say if she and I were alone in a garage, I'd strip bare whilst stroking and spanking her boot, before greasing up her exhaust pipe and &#x96; I'll stop there.Best Scene Christine goes on rampage in the dead of the night in order to take out the leader of Gordon's bullies, and in doing so takes out an entire service station. "},{"Title":"Hollywood, you are too lazy or stupid","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This premise has been the butt of many jokes and to a degree, rightly so, c'mon, its a car that kills. If you give the book half a chance, it's a beautiful horror story with great potential. As a miniseries Christine would be perfect, but only on Showtime or HBO, network TV is too hampered by a punitive and puritanical FCC. There are fantastic metaphors in this story that are unique to the American experience shaped in car culture and rock'n'roll. Give Steven King credit for putting into a pulp horror tale shining glorious moments, the story within Christine is quite powerful and touching. Although the book only hints at it and the movie skips it all together, it's simply a coming of age story framed within the construct of a boy's first car, and that car just happens to be evil- this concept contains so much dormant energy and as yet no one has figured out a way to tap into that energy. Hurry up and make a better version of this movie you jive turkeys. "},{"Title":"* * * * out of 4","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" In 1957, one of the cars on the assembly line in Detroit seems cursed from the beginning. Strange events plague its creation for over twenty years, where geeky Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) needs to break away from his domineering mother (Christine Belford). His friend Dennis (John Stockwell) agrees, since he's tired of protecting him from the goons at school. While driving home, he and Dennis spot the fabled car collecting rust on a farm and buys it against Dennis' and his parents wishes. Fixing it up causes Arnie to start acting differently around Dennis and his mother, which causes everyone around him to become concerned for him. Suddenly, people around Arnie begin dying in mysterious ways, and a police inspector (Harry Dean Stanton) comes in to investigate the case, and discovers something that defies explanation. Soon, Dennis and Arnie's girlfriend Leigh (Alexandra Paul) have to try to help Arnie from being in Christine's deadly grasp.Christine is a major classic that many horror fans need to see. It is a master example of setting up a scene and getting to a level of suspense through characters and action. Required viewing for Carpenter fans and all supernatural fans.Rated R for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter has done better--and worse","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" The story takes place in 1978. Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) is a nerd in high school. Kids pick on him and his parents treat him rotten. His only friend is (inexplicably) a handsome jock named Dennis (John Stockwell). Arnie discovers Christine--a beat up 1957 Plymouth Fury. He buys it--unaware that previous owners have died in the car. The car starts to possess him--turning him into a handsome, confident but amoral guy--and Christine will kill anybody who tries to stop them...OK--the Stephen King book wasn't great. It was basically a short story dragged out to a novel. Unfortunately that's the problem with the movie--it's a good 90 minute film dragged out to almost 2 hours. This film is also woefully miscast in the lead role. Gordon was a good actor in the right parts--but this isn't it. He's believable as the nerd but not as the evil guy he becomes. Also the change happens way too quick (and off screen). The rest of the cast however is good--Stockwell is very handsome and believable and Paul is beautiful and quite good despite the fact that she is given NO characterization. Also Christine's evil is never explained--it is in the book but not here.On the plus side this movie portrays its teenage characters believably (even though Gordon, Stockwell and Paul are obviously in their 20s). It is well-directed with a good music score and a well-chosen collection of oldies. The special effects of Christine repairing herself are still impressive too. If you're thinking of watching this for blood and gore, forget it--there's no gore and very little blood. However there is TONS of swearing.I loved this in 1983 but found it slow and too long now. Not a disaster but it could have been better. I'm giving it a 6. "},{"Title":"Classic horror film.","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine is a film that's impossible for me not to love. Stephen King's book is one of my favourites, and I think John Carpenter is a great director. Christine tells the story of a geeky teen who spends his college fund on a busted up car from the 50's, and is determined to fix it up. Little does he know that the car contains an evil entity that possesses him more and more as time goes on. Those around him think it's obsession, but when bodies start to pile up, they realize it's much worse.John Carpenter knows how to make a good horror movie. Using the right angles, the right style, add on to that his chilling music, and it makes another classic Carpenter creation. Of course, the movie is changed quite a bit from the novel, but Carpenter does it in a way that keeps the spirit of the novel while making it sensible as a film. One of my favourite changes is changing the car from a haunted vehicle to a vehicle driven by an unknown force. Another interesting thing about this movie is how human the car seems to be. The songs that play on its radio is a form of communication with human beings. The car actually displays love, rage, and jealousy. It's really neat to see a love triangle unfold between the teen, his girlfriend, and his car.All of the actors do well in their roles. Keith Gordon was really believable as Arnie, and Harry Dean Stanton was good as the detective. This is really one of those horror films that you can appreciate and enjoy every time you watch it. John Carpenter and Stephen King are genius's of their genre.8/10 "}{"Title":"Just Get Off Of The Street You Idiot!","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" First of all I am a John Carpenter fan. I think John Carpenter does a terrific job directing this picture, but let's be honest here, a murderous automobile isn't the best premise for a horror movie, and in my opinion the thought of being chased down by a renegade Ford Fiesta with a taste for blood doesn't exactly shoot terror pains throughout my body. Given this ridiculous concept though, Carpenter makes the best of it. As the movie progresses our main character Arnie goes through some major personality changes thanks to Christine The Love Car. This is charted nicely by Carpenter with the help of some overacting by Keith Gordon. The rest of the thirty something's portraying Arnie's high school friends do a decent acting job given the subject matter. Overall I think this is as good as car killer movies can get, which is saying a lot. Oh and by the way, if you ever find yourself being chased by a driverless demon car, don't run in the middle of the street, go where cars can't follow, like the other 95% of the planet that aren't streets. "},{"Title":"Something's evil on the road!","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Great novel, interesting movie. Christine is one automobile I would rather avoid buying. This car has the reputation far worse than The Car, and any owner would sell that sedan for lots of money. It's a surprise that the car would survive two decades then suddenly it would catch the eye of nerdy Arnie(Keith Gordon). He absolutely restored Christine and would later be a part of her, one way or the other. This car was so jealous, that his single life would be complicated. The no good punks winds up smashing Christine, then suddenly, she would rebuild herself, and seek revenge on them. And you thought drivers with road rage was bad, Christine was worse enough! She squeezes herself through a loading dock and killed the fat one. Then she decimates a garage with flames on her, knowing that she's a messenger from beyond, burning the other punk, then take on this strange blue color if I'm wrong, to in the garage a smoking gray. I think Christine was just a engine of mass-destruction, and mayhem. Killing the guy in the garage by asphyxiation. The heroes were Arnie's friends. They didn't feel like that because the failed to save Arnie, but it was Arnie's own undoing that led to his demise. His life should have been more important than a car. The car was stopped that's it, don't worry about the rest. I would say. The movie seems to give advice about buying strange cars, if it doesn't feel right, keep on shopping! Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I can't believe it's not awful!! Surprisingly Slammin'!!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I gotta tell ya, when I first heard about this, I thought the plot sounded really lame. I actually remember groaning out loud in annoyance, and rolling my eyes at the ceiling. And I was all of 12-13 years old! I never read the book, but the movie turned out to be AWESOME, and I've seen it a zillion times! As Arnie, Keith Gordon had an incredible, commanding presence, becoming more and more palpably ominous as the story progresses. Once his eyes develop that I've been up on speed for a month! blue shadow, Arnie's face becomes truly mesmerizing. I've loved Keith Gordon in everything I've seen him in. As for the car, I don't know how Carpenter did it, it grows scarier and scarier looking as the story unfolds. Those two were meant for one another! The show me scene never fails to send shivers down my spine. Other than Arnie's main antagonists at school, the rest of the characters were pretty much uninteresting cardboard cutouts used to populate Arnie and Christine's world. And Alexandra Paul's Leigh was downright annoying; everything she said sounded whiny. And none of it really matters, because Gordon and Carpenter's Fury are so awesome, it more than makes up for all other minutiae. Well worth anyone's time and attention, it is an ass-kicking surprise!  "},{"Title":"Much worse than I was expecting","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" John Carpenter is a director whose films I generally like; 2 examples being The Fog and Big Trouble In Little China. This film is also based on a Stephen King novel and again I have generally liked many films that have been adapted from King's novels. Therefore I was sure when I sat down to watch Christine that it was going to be at least mildly scary and relatively suspenseful. Yet sadly it wasn't....The screenplay for this film has been adapted by Bill Phillips and I'm unsure whether that's part of the problem with this film. The start of the film is quite dull and seems to start out as some weird 'teen dramedy' - some of it is needed to explain the 'revenge' aspect that we see later in the film, but the first half of the film just seemed to be way too drawn out for my liking. As mentioned, the characters are either annoying or unlikeable and I found myself becoming more and more bored with this film as it trundled along.Things do pick up slightly in the second half of the film when 'Christine' is let loose on all those that have wronged her. The tension is cranked up slightly and it at least becomes a little more exciting and enjoyable. Sadly though you have to sit through an hour of pretentiousness, dull dialogue, and a boring romance etc before the film even begins to take a darker turn. Although the second half of the film was mildly engaging, it wasn't particularly scary and the wrap up was also formulaic and far too predictable.Ending on a positive note, I thought that Keith Gordon was superb in the lead role. He had the difficult task of taking on a very complex character and was effective as both the nerd we saw at the beginning and was also great as his much darker alter ego. Robert Prosky was also great fun as Cunningham's ruthless boss. Both of these actors were clearly much better than the film itself. I'd give this one a swerve. "},{"Title":"An edit would have fixed it.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  'Christine'  is a pretty stylish, compelling film. However,  10 minutes of foul language,  sexual references  and general stupidity are used as character development  to start the movie off.  Totally unnecessary garbage...   as is the case with a lot of celluloid nowadays.   The evil car  and  main character's  obsession  are directed  and played pretty well,   so it's a shame they ruin the film  right out of the box.  "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Well cast flick about a teenage outcast buying an old used car and restoring it, but it seems the car is possessed and is controlling his behavior. The car also kills anybody that torments him or anybody that is close to him. Good first half shows promise of being one of the better Stephen King adaptions, but alas it gives way to a second half that feels cold, mechanicel, and by the numbers.Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"A minor success for Stephen King","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Adaptations of Stephen King books tend to be disappointing; a bit like films directed by John Carpenter, so I guess this production was doomed from the start. With their previous form in mind, it came as a big surprise to me that this collaboration between King and Carpenter not only doesn't disappoint, but is actually quite good! The story is pure kitsch, and it follows a dorky young kid who falls instantly in love with a 1958 Plymouth Fury, and quickly buys it - against the better judgement of his parents and best friend. It isn't long before our hero is impressing the ladies with his new car...but Christine doesn't take well to competition. It's hard to take this sort of plot line seriously, but, for a change, Carpenter makes good of it through use of original music, the American style and some really nifty special effects. The songs used in the film create just the right mood, and help the story to cement itself in the latter half of the 1970's. The way that old 50's songs are played during the darker scenes is very eerie, and this provides the film with it's main selling point.Naturally, egomaniac John Carpenter has lavished his own trademarks on the story, and those provide much of the reason why this film can't be considered much more than 'good'. His original score isn't up to much, and just like it would do in the likes of Assault on Precinct 13 and Prince of Darkness; the score kills much of the tension. My major gripe with Carpenter is the fact that all of his films have a very dumbed down, horror for kids sort of feel; and this one does too. In that respect, aside from a few scenes - it's hard to really call this horror. When compared to modern horror directors the likes of Dario Argento et al, Carpenter just doesn't cut it. While Argento will make his films scary through his use of the camera and atmosphere - Carpenter merely films the screenplay. Like most of his oeuvre, Christine is patronising for the adult audience it is supposedly aimed at; but on the other hand, the aspects that work do outweigh Carpenter's shortfalls in the directorial talent department, and this still represents a minor success for Stephen King's list of film credits. "},{"Title":"Christine In some aspects King's novel is adapted well","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Well ... instead of doing what Peter Jackson later did with Tolkien's work, semi-master director Carpenter didn't try to make Christine just the same as King wrote it. So instead of doing everything wrong, he gets some scenes really right and his music is spellbinding.The film goes truly defensive and low key by not putting Roland LeBay in it, instead George LeBay (Roberts Blossom) becomes a double part in some way; borrowing characters traits from booth brothers portrayed in the novel. For Roberts Blossom, this part just might be one of many in his career, but seldom have I seen acting better done. I think he could have been booth LeBay brothers, with different costume and make up.Read the novel if you want to enjoy the film. To realize what it might miss. But don't blame Carpenter. He did an excellent job with a flawed script/adaptation.Rating 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"Mediocre King Transmission","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Yet another adaptation of a chilling Stephen King novel and yet another mediocre result. Horror novels' most innovative scribe delivered the goods with this unusual tale of a demonically possessed car that permeates the soul of its owner and then proceeds to consume them from the inside out.The car in question is Christine, a 1958 Plymouth Fury whose wrath is only surpassed by her jealousy. When young Arnie first sees her he is completely taken and must have her. Soon his obsessive, paranoid 'love' for her begins to destroy his life, though he doesn't know it.Director Carpernter does have the skill to create some tension and uses the menacing car to good effect. However Bill Phillips plot only enables Carpenter to shock us, never really getting under our skin as King's novel did.The special effects team have a great time crushing and burning Fury after Fury, but other technicians have little to do.Keith Gordon makes the most of the lead role as the nerdy Arnie who quickly becomes the disturbed owner of Christine. Support cast, including John Stockwell, Alexandra Paul and Harry Dean Stanton have precious little to do, though Robert Prosky does a good job of being gross.Over all a disappointing spooker!Sunday, February 9, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"Interesting but so-so direction, and very poor acting","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" WARNING spoilers. WARNING spoilers. WARNINGspoilers. *********************************************************Story the story is great, and while not believable, makes sense in the universe of fantastic films. A car that has such force that its owner can fall in love, change, and become madly possessive, that's pretty striking. A car that can have feelings, defend itself, attack, kill, that's also pretty good. Of course Christine is not the only living car in movie history - Herbie would be another example - but Christine is way more possessive. Even beyond Christine herself, the film is great at showing what to exclusive loves can do to the lovers.Filming average, very average. The images do their job like on any B-series but there are few above average shots. Except for the one of the burning Christine chasing one of her killers - a classic.Acting the acting stinks. It's poor, it's sometimes hardly believable at all. I guess it gives a sense of freshness, of I hired pals from high school to do it. But it's really below par, and makes the film less pleasurable to watch. Only the leading part, that of loser Arnie Cunninghma, is a bit credible, at times - but even he is not that good. At the end of the day it's either a few secondary parts - the garage owners - or more importantly, the car, that are the better acted parts.Directing does the job, but nothing stunning.Editing the pace is generally OK, does its job though nothing to write home about.Bottom-line great story, would be well worth a remake with a better director, better filming, better actors - all of which should not be too difficult to get. Maybe they spent too much time / money / energy on the several cars needed for the film, and saved too much on the rest. "}{"Title":"not either King or Carpenter's best by far, but I didn't mind watching it","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" I haven't read Christine by Stephen King, and after seeing the movie it's not on any kind of list of books by the prolific author to seek out anytime too soon. Maybe the book explains things a little more (i.e. great fantastical depth ala Dark Tower), or maybe not. Maybe part of the fun of Christine is to just take on the ride, ho-ho, that a car is possessed right from the assembly line and is almost like a true mechanical incarnation of the twisted, mad woman out for blood in Play Misty For Me and Fatal Attraction. King also has fun, as does John Carpenter, in exploiting the stereotypes of the jocks, the bullies, the hot girls, and of course the losers, most particularly here played by Keith Gordon as Artie Cunningham. Gordon, who can be quite good as a straight-player in 80s movies, most notably in Back to School and Dressed to Kill (the latter in a somewhat similar role), here has to trade off between the helpless nerd and the crazed, over-protective master- or servant perhaps- to his real madam of a car.Carpenter, as usual in his tough-as-nails 80s form, doesn't let things slip much with the style, but there's something else that is sort of 'off' with the film. While I was open to the idea of a horror movie all predicated on a homicidal automobile, which can think and, more often than not, get into rages that end up squeezing itself into a small spot to kill one of its victims in one case, it isn't too scary. For a man coming off of such a hot streak with Halloween and especially the Thing, I wondered how Carpenter must have been able to keep a straight face with some of these set-ups. I did find it watchable for its hokey, OK cast (with Harry Dean Stanton popping in as a detective, always a plus to have him in if only for a bit) and Gordon doing what he can with a demented character, but it didn't draw me in as much with the attitude or real shocks and scares of other films by the director. Part of the problem, also sad to say, is in King's material itself. He mines the basics of the nerd vs bullies struggle of high school movies and stories, and has a bit of a 50s sci-fi serial novel in the back of his head. But it doesn't connect as strongly as it could, or would.Not that Carpenter and King don't at least mine some nice opportunities for some dark humor. It was always funny to hear the 50s rock songs pop up, leading to the final line I hate rock'n'roll to bring out a really by laugh. And sometimes such moments of meant-to-be-horror come off better as black comedy anyway. It'll probably hit off more for people with a love of old-style cars, and nerd revenge pictures, and it's not a bad match made for an author with such a crazy, creative way of making up stories, with a filmmaker who always takes on stories that are silly but meant to be taken seriously. Christine is slight, goofy, assuredly B-movie contrivance done on a Hollywood scale. "},{"Title":"Glen or Glenda?","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" OK, so you're asking yourself why am I talking about an Ed Wood movie like Glen or Glenda? in association with a movie like Christine? What's that got to do with it? Well, everything. Stephen King is a master of subtle commentary and with one word he sums up this entire book Christine. Did anyone stop and wonder why he called the car Christine? I did. Why not Peggy Sue or Mary Lou or some other sappy name from the 1950s? Well, it was obvious. To me at least. Maybe I'm way off base. No one can actually know what's going on in his mind, nor would we want to I suspect. But Steve and I are the same age, we were both old enough in the 50s to appreciate the fantastic cars that were produced during the latter part of that decade as well as the world wide scandal that rocked moral minded people everywhere. Maybe we didn't understand it, but the news was rammed down our throats day and night by the media and we knew something was not quite right here. Christine Jorgenson had become a woman thanks to a sex change operation. What? How could this be? This man went beyond God's laws and changed his sex. So Ed Wood, bless him, conned his way into directing Glen or Glenda? which was supposed to cover this story, but instead he used it as a showcase for himself, to tell people he liked to wear woman's under panties and dress in pink sweaters. He often directed his films wearing a wig and dress but in now way tried to be a woman. He was just eccentric and loved woman's clothes. So what's the connection between that and Christine Jorgenson? Simple change. The timing was perfect. The assembly line at the Chrysler plant producing the 1958 Plymouth Fury, one of the sharpest cars ever to leave Detroit and one of my personal favorites. The 50s were a time or change and unrest. The cold war, sexual freedom, the bomb, beatniks, outlandish cars - such as the '59 Caddy with tail find 10 lower than the roof! Why name a car Christine? Simple answer again change. The possessed car could change right in front of our eyes, repair itself, renew itself, and each time the miles on the speedometer would go backwards. From 99,000 miles it suddenly reached 88,000 miles. This was a car lover's dream come true! Well, I won't give away any plot details and it's far different from the book. Like there's no dead guy in the back seat speaking to the new owner. They saved that for Pet Semetery. But if you like classic cars this is the film for you! The Fury also destroys a Camaro which I was also fond of. After seeing the movie I asked myself, wouldn't this be a great car to own? It goes out by itself, gets rid of people you don't like, returns home and repairs itself! An insurance man's dream for sure. No costly repair bills to pay out. Great movie, watching the transformation of the wrecked car and it's nerdy owner is worth the price. At the end I don't know if I felt more sorry for Arnie or the car. "},{"Title":"Sub-standard King adaptation","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" While this ~is~ a good movie, it qualifies as one of the many truly bad King adaptations. Mainly, there is no mention whatsoever of Lebay, focusing rather, on Christine. While, in my opinion Carpenter did about the best he could have with that book, I guess...it is definitely worth a mini-series remake. The book was so much more in-depth, so much richer, fuller, and had so much more substance than this movie, even though this is still a very enjoyable and creepy film.But with another director's name in the title (or even in the subtitle), such as Kubrick's The Shining, and so on, it's ripe for being remade. Mr. King doesn't seem to particularly appreciate sharing the by-line, even if he has to ruin a superior film, as in the same production I just referenced, to correct that condition.The premise of this story is good a nerdy, unlovable, moronic dweeb buys a car which is a rolling piece of junk, invests far too much time and money into it for lack of a life, and feeds so much of his energies into the car, that he causes the dark spirit of the car to become reanimated, even as the entity contained within the car, possesses him.This is a pretty good plot line which, unfortunately, was far superior on paper than this endeavor on film.However, without comparing the movie to the book, the movie is quite enjoyable. I've recently watched this one again, keeping in mind not to do the comparing thing, and the movie does stand alone quite well.My suggestion is, as always with King, watch the movie first. That way, you'll still enjoy the movie AND the book, which always seems to be better.It rates a 5.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Somewhat Bad to the Bone","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Boy, King loves his demonic vehicles ('From a Buick 8,' 'Maximum Overdrive,' 'Trucks') and his high school chums vs. bully stories ('Stand By Me,' 'It,' 'Carrie.') Here, 'Christine' was a prelude to the rest, it seems. Despite coming out 26 years ago, this is my first viewing and, though crazed/ghost cars aren't my thing, I gave it a shot. And it was worth a single viewing. Good, but not entirely great, and even at its time, seemed a little stale and clichd. They did, however, have decent special effects as the car rebuilds itself. That was one of the things I did find weird If it could do that, why not the first few times it seemed headed to the dump in the first half, i.e. why wait until the audience finally finds out she's more than a piece of metal? It's probably more explained in the book (of which, I haven't read) as Stephen King loves to write chapters on single subjects. Most likely, it was used for tension, fear, I suppose. Arnie spots a car already labeled as a mysterious entity in the opening production line and has to have it, despite objections from his best friend, soon-to-be girlfriend and parents. Supposedly, the car changes the owner into someone spiteful and eventually consumes their life into caring for it. Basically, it's one jealous machine. My problem is, though I do see Arnie growing darker as the film progresses, he wasn't a great individual to begin with. So, there wasn't too much to root for. And his girlfriend really cares for him, when in reality, it was the confidence the car gave him that she must've been attracted to. So, that, too, was unbelievable. Nevertheless, it's worth viewing for die-hard King fans as its contains classic King signature traits.Side Note With 'Jaws,' aside from just not going in the water, it would be harder to get away (or swim) from the shark. Here, it's painfully obvious how to avoid this evil-Bumble Bee demon. For instance, a character's blocked in a shallow dead end alley, and the car pushes its way into slicing the person in half when he could have simply jumped on the car and out the other side. And another character simply runs down the middle of the street away from it? The obvious John Travolta-wannabe (Copy Cat Carrie, will you?) might have just laid a trail of lug nuts down to direct the killer machine. "},{"Title":"Not all Novels Make Good Movies","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" These comments refer to the 2003 20th Anniversary DVD release.In a way, Stephen King and John Carpenter deserve each other. Each has produced an uneven body of work. Halloween, for instance, despite its forced sequels, was a truly heart-pounding thriller. The Thing was a gross-out bomb. Christine stands, in my opinion, as King's most enduring work. By contrast, Pet Semetary was also a gross-out bomb. John Carpenter's movie version of Christine is somewhere in the middle between success and failure. It is successful because, even if one hasn't read the book, a viewer will stick with it simply to find out how everything turns out. It is a failure because it tries to use shorthand to fill in for the material that made King's novel worthwhile. In interviews with this DVD both Carpenter and writer Bill Phillips proclaim that they decided to eliminate the Roland D. LeBay back story in favor of making the car the centerpiece. They try to fill in by introducing LeBay's brother, George, as a sort of surrogate, right down to Roland's filthy back brace. Readers will connect the brace with the Roland character in the novel, but in the film it merely distracts from the rest of the scene. They also try to fill in by crafting a completely original opening assembly line sequence that supposedly introduces the evil that is present in the car that would one day be called Christine. This one decision loses the impact of the novel, whose point is that the evil which possessed the car came from Roland LeBay's own poisoned soul--and that evil persisted after his death. By placing the evil in an inanimate object (and then attempting to persuade us that car is somehow alive) Carpenter and Phillips cause us to cease to care. Each of us has dealt with inanimate objects which appear to have a will of their own, but Christine is stretches us beyond the limit. The deleted scenes included with the 2003 release show evidence that, in limited ways, Carpenter and Phillips understood this. For instance, in one hospital scene, Dennis has Arnie sign his cast. In a deleted scene, occurring a bit later, Dennis asks for another signature. The point, of course, is that the two are completely different. Arnie is possessed by the evil soul of Roland LeBay. The minutes devoted to the opening sequence should have been used to flesh out this back story.Readers of the novel know that King set the story in a working-class suburb of Pittsburgh. The complexity of that setting is itself a kind of character. Within minutes, we discover that the movie is set in California, a part of America that most Pittsburghers would perceive as particularly shallow. Carpenter undoubtedly did this to avoid extensive winter sequences, including one particularly brutal blizzard. It's but another short cut that trivializes the story. King's novel is a highly effective meditation on the persistence of evil. The movie inspires no terror and no dread. It isn't even particularly humorous. Instead, we stay with it just to see how it comes out. The great strength of King's novel is that it was about people and only marginally about the car. In casting unknowns, and then buying 24 1958 Plymouths, Carpenter asked us to focus on the car. It doesn't work. Here is my proposal Let's ask Frank Darabont to take a run at a remake. He did a wonderful job with the King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption (shortened to The Shawshank Redemption for the film) and the serial novel The Green Mile. Those films work because Darabont took King's work seriously in terms of time and place, and because he took the time to develop the characters. A remake of Christine at Darabont's hands, at about the same length as Shawshank or Green Mile, would be worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A savage statement on how possessors become the possessed, or merely another stupid horror-thriller? You decide.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This film, based on a novel by Stephen King, focuses on a nerdy teenage boy in high school who comes into possession of a bright red 1958 Plymouth Fury - a car which, at first, he is merely impressed by, but which soon begins to overtake every aspect of his life, ultimately making itself the owner of him and altering his personality into that of an arrogant, mean-spirited jerk.The message isn't too subtle - it's a comment on how humans often become possessed by their possessions. We love our cars, or our entertainment systems, or any aspect of our lives, and soon they begin to control us.But I'm not sure it totally works. The message isn't subtle, as I mentioned above - it's just a bit too obvious and direct. And although it has strong moments, a good deal of the material simply turns into standard horror-thriller moments - anything you'd find in another King novel.King really likes the idea of evil cars for some reason - he went on to write From a Buick 8 later on in his career. You know you've got some type of obsession (or you're running out of ideas) when you write two separate novels about killer cars.But despite its lack of subtlety, I found this to be an entertaining enough movie. Although it caters towards the typical shocker/jump moments all horror films from the '80s had, it's also quite original as far as far as concepts go. Until From a Buick 8 is made into a movie, it's probably the only film you're going to find where an evil, demonic car tries to kill someone. "},{"Title":"Christine (1983) **1/2","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" This film's reputation as being John Carpenter's first misstep after an enviable run of outstanding films he made between 1974 and 1982 has kept me away from it until now. Or maybe it's because I'm not too keen on cars &#150; I don't drive&#133;something which has also kept me away from, for example, Monte Hellman's TWO LANE BLACKTOP (1971)! Anyway, while CHRISTINE definitely falls short of reaching the heights of Carpenter's best work or, for that matter, the other Stephen King movie adaptations which had been made until then, like CARRIE (1976), THE SHINING (1980) and THE DEAD ZONE (1983), it remains a skillfully mounted and reasonably entertaining ride.After a prcis of Christine's antics in the past, the films starts out almost like a male version of CARRIE with the nerdy Keith Gordon &#150; fresh from a similar role in Brian De Palma's DRESSED TO KILL (1980) &#150; getting picked on by his schoolmates among whom, incidentally, is a John Travolta-lookalike! However, his transformation into a slick ladies' man and, later still, a vengeful, nihilistic, self-destructive wreck of a man, all seemingly under Christine's evil influence, comes off as rather too rushed and somewhat unconvincing.To counter this, however, three supporting roles are vividly brought to life by consummate character actors Robert Prosky as the foul-mouthed, unsympathetic garage owner, Roberts Blossom as the seedy brother of Christine's original ill-fated owner who sells the ravaged car to the hapless Gordon and Harry Dean Stanton who makes a belated appearance as the investigating officer of the sudden outburst of teen killings. While the ending where Christine is crushed at the hands of Gordon's best friend is well-staged, I was disappointed that Stanton did not participate in it in any way and as such his part becomes somewhat redundant given that we know from the outset what is behind the murders! The sequences depicting the elaborate attacks perpetrated by Christine are the best in the film, particularly the choking of Gordon's girlfriend, the cornering and crushing of the fat guy in a desolate alley and, above all, the spectacular garage explosion and subsequent chasing/mauling of Buddy by the fiery Christine. Also, Christine's automatic recreations after each beating, not to mention its breathing at the very end, are decidedly creepy. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's From the works of Stephen King. A film by John Carpenter.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine (1983) is another in a line of flawed Stephen King adaptations. This story is about a car that has a supernatural grip over a teenage boy. Since this movie was made by John Carpenter, I was over joyed and ecstatic to watch it. But I was disappointed by the flaws. I mean how hard is it to keep to the original storyline? When you try to hard at something you'll always fail no matter how good your intentions are.The movie take place in the late seventies. Two teenagers Arnold Cunningham and Dennis Guilder(John Stockwell & Keith Gordon) are driving home from school one day when they drive by a dilapidated car. For some reason Arnie is fascinated by the vehicle. His buddy Dennis knows that the car is trouble but Arnie wont listen to him and that's just the beginning of it. What has Arnie got himself into? A better question is why did John Carpenter even bother making this movie?A tepid adaption that has none of the cool stuff in it that made the book so interesting. The characters are not fleshed out enough and the actors aren't even motivated. john Stockwell doesn't even look like a football player and Arnie doesn't morph into a throwback character like he did in the book. That's just scraping a little off of the surface. I could go on forever. I love John Carpenter's work but this one is extremely flawed. Maybe they'll adapt this one into a mini-series. Until this people will still fawn over this movie for reason unknown to me.Not recommended (unless you're a die-hard Carpenter fan). "},{"Title":"Outside Evil","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Stephen King was a hero of mine when I was a teenager. I greatly appreciated his themes of childhood/teen alienation and the imaginative license (pun intended) of novels like Christine. Horror grants a lot of creative freedom to the author.But King can't satisfy a mature palette- his simple outlook is outgrown. For instance, he believes in evil as an objective absolute, the opposite of good of course. The existence of both these things has long in doubt philosophically since Nietzche, those professing belief in it (e.g. Bush denouncing the 'evildoers' of the world') are strange anachronisms for many.It might not even be too gauche to speak of 'evil' if King didn't frame it as an outside force. His evil is a pure evil that comes in from the cold and sits down at your table. Christine on the factory assembly line is breakin' bones from the first 'cause she's Bad To The Bone. And then Arnie simply has the misfortune to happen across her, murdered by supernatural evil.David Cronenberg pioneered a different form of 'evil', an internal force, like evolutionary mutation that can spark ruination from within, a betrayal of the worst kind since no man can live outside himself.  Cronenberg inspires a claustrophobia that King never could because Cronenberg's adversary is the self, not a mean machine sitting next to a rural squat.Worse, this film is terribly acted. Alexandra Paul is completely inept, unreactive, she doesn't (can't?) get into character. I can't imagine what she was thinking about during her scenes, perhaps the nascent Hollywood career in store for her, maybe her paycheck. She managed to say her lines, but that's it, a below minimum performance for a feature film. Same goes for Dennis Guilder.Carpenter's direction can't save this one4/10 "},{"Title":"Did They Copy This From The 1977 Movie The Car?","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine a red 1958 Plymouth Fury, unlike the Car a black Lincoln Sedan, both were killer cars. Arnie a misfit and outcast in school restores this car like brand new. However the car is controlling Arnie. He looses his girlfriend, disrespects his parents and the car seeks revenge on Arnie's enemies. It's hard to believe that when Christine was on fire burning with flames went out on the road and ran over, one of Arnies enemies. Also the car cornered another enemy in a building corner. Even though it was narrow Christine squeezed in hitting the boy decapitating his legs. I know cars are only machines. How about The Hearse? "}{"Title":"Could have been a lot better...","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  With the special effects now a days, I think this movie should be remade. Since the book has 'Christine' driving up someones stairs to get them, and also the death of the thugs that trashed her were better in the book. And the death of Arine and his parents ( In the book much, much better...) Try it again, you guys... Even though I stopped reading or buying any Stephen King book, because he is a racist, I still loved the early books. My favorite, was 'The Stand' , but I stopped buying them after I realized that every single time he described an African American, they always had to be discribed as 'Ni**ers' I wish there were a way to get all of my money back. But, oh well. "},{"Title":"Smells like The Car","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Hmmm, what do we have here? Another one of those demon auto horror movies, like The Car (which was ripped off the Stephen King book) and Trucks. This is just like those other movies, and the formula's pretty tiresome. However, it did have a fairly solid cast, and some pretty funny scenes (e.g. the flaming car, and the car when it's smashed down); yet I'm not sure how funny they were supposed to be. All in all, it's not exactly a good way to waste the 2+ hours this movie lasts. "},{"Title":"deadly vehicle round 2","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" From the eighties onwards, it became trendy to adapt one of the most prolific and popular American writers, Stephen King for the silver screen and the telly. I must say that I'm not a devotee of his work at all. Ditto for John Carpenter whose filmography didn't embellish the horror/fantasy genre except maybe at a pinch Halloween (1978).The tenet of a cursed vehicle that gives the ones who have the misfortune to stand in its way a hard time isn't novel. Steven Spielberg's debut movie, Duel (1971) revolved around the same thrust with the difference that it was an enormous truck instead of a car that tracked down Dennis Weaver and the film was gripping in its dramatic progression. Spielberg's making nearly evolved on the razor's edge and Duel is one of his finest cinematographic moments to date. And his movie kept a part of mystery was there really a driver in the truck or not? In Carpenter's flick, this zone of shadow is clarified Christine is possessed by devilish forces and can drive (and mend) itself. Carpenter's film is nearly a rehash of Spielberg's film. Yes, technically the director keeps an attentive eye on his work and his efforts on the camera work, lighting, tightened scenery are palpable with some spooky special effects in the bargain when the car turns on the radio to play some rock n'roll music of the fifties/sixties or mends itself, it gives goose pimples. But the film is handicapped by a weak scenario which doesn't carry much weight. Take a timid, hung-up teenager named Arnie who is the scapegoat of the riff-Raff of his high-school, make him fall in love with an old car which epitomizes an exit to a sultry familial household, change his behavior and then... Well what to expect? Nearly nothing as soon as we make the acquaintance of the main characters of the film and their various relationships with Arnie and his car. The story is as linear, predictable as one could wish. Hence an absence of dramatic progression. But there's perhaps this ambiguous (and positive) side all the same is Arnie really in love with Christine? Isn't he rather manipulated by her?And still this tepid music that Carpenter persists in writing. If you want a good dose of shivers with a deadly vehicle, why not doing justice to Spielberg's film? "},{"Title":"Cars just aren't scary to me.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Yes, when I think horror, cars are the last things I think of.  This movie has a nerdy guy buying and restoring a car that is cursed.  The car kind of rubs off on the guy and he becomes more popular and stuff, he also becomes obsessed with the car.  We find out that not only does the car have a curse...it also can repair itself and chase after and hit people.  That is about the gist of it...this movie is probably better than it should be thanks to John Carpenter's touches to it.  He does set up a good mood and I like the way the car's radio always would start playing music to fit the moment.  Other than that though, I just didn't enjoy the movie all that much...in fact I thought it was a bit boring.  If you are a Carpenter or King fan though don't let my review scare you off, it may not have worked for me, but it might for you. "},{"Title":"Some good old fashioned scary monster stuff, but has a dumb premise","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Entertaining, but silly. It's not that possessed automobiles haven't been done both before and after this film, but those others at least made the possessive spirit something to be feared.Others were possessed by psychos or demons. This one (ready?) falls in love with its owner and gets jealous of him. Christine's a girl car, you see. With a female name. She's an oldy but goody 50's vintage car, and lives in the past apparently. Her old AM radio plays only old songs. Oh, and she's red. What a poetic reference that is. Bullies who bug her owner? One guess what happens to them. People other than her owner who get in the car? Guess. The local dumb cop? Of course. Another girl getting close to her owner? You guessed it. Anybody else that rubs Christine the wrong way? The same.If the car gets mangled, some of the phoniest looking special effects ever put on film repair it. It likes to turn its lights on when it wants to scare somebody. The owner guy changes from a nerd to a 50's greaser. All clichs. All pretty mainstream. A few scares, just enough to rate this one a 5. "},{"Title":"Potential for a winner, but simply falls flat","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine was first released in 1983 and stars Keith Gordon as a teenager named Arnie Cunningham who spots an old car whilst driving with his best friend played by John Stockwell, he instantly falls in love with the car, a 1958 Plymouth Fury, but his friends also start to notice a change in Arnie, a dark change.So what did I think of this movie, well I didn't think that the film was as good as it could have been, I thought that it didn't spend enough time of Arnie's transformation from high school nerd to charismatic hipster nor did it show more of Christine as the car from hell, both of were good ideas but they didn't have the oomph that they should of.One thing I did like though were the few scenes with Christine as the satanic car who does away with her victims, the direction by John Carpenter, who later made Big Trouble in Little China works best in these moments.Out of 5, I will give this a 2 and a half, it had some great ideas in it that sadly didn't reach their full potential. "},{"Title":"They butchered another Stephen King book . . .","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Even though they hacked the book to pieces (like Hollywood always does,) the movie was still a lot of fun! I loved watching all of Arnie's dirt-bag enemies get it, one by one. And when Christine had Moochie Welch cornered in the alley and the butterball pulled a switchblade and sniffled and blubbered you're a dead man now!, I just fell out on the floor! I laughed so hard I almost pooped. I mean, here's this 3,600-lb. demon-possessed metal killing-machine, and he's making threats! Useless machismo at its finest.Anyway, they used (I think) six different cars in the movie to cover all the wrecks, and the regenerating car was made of plastic. Way cool special effects for the time. They still look great, even now.I have issue with one thing, though near the end when Arnie wrecks Christine into that metal beam and he comes flying out through the windshield, what the heck were they thinking of by using flat candy-glass? Car glass is either safety glass or laminated safety glass. (It was invented in 1928!) One other blooper in one of the many scenes where they showed Christine's speedometer, one of them was scaled to 150 MPH. All the other shots showed a limit of 120. Oops. They slipped a shot of one of the police special cars in.There was a British fan who wrote in recently (Audril-4? Did I get that right?) who said that Roland Le Bay was a Vietnam veteran. Nope. In the book, he joined the Army in 1921 (I think) and got out in the 1950s as an old man. He was a veteran of World War II and of the Korean war, but not Vietnam.Still, I really liked it and it was fun! I have it on tape and I watch it every now and then.Boris Ratnik "},{"Title":"Worst of Stephen King","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe how bad this film is. No suspense, no scares, no entertainment and no gore. What kind of horror was this. Oh my god! A red car what a menacing villain! A car that can fix itself after getting smashed to bits? Full marks for realism; not.The plot is a geek byes a demon car. Demon car starts killing geek's enemies. Geek's friends get concerned and tell him to sell car. Oh my god what a scary plot! I might not be able to sleep tonight thinking about that! What a terrible plot.I can't believe the author of Children of the Corn, The Shawshank Redemption and The Shining wrote this crap but what I can believe is that the director of Village of the Damned directed this crap. 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If you want to fart you go out in the junk yard. Very silly Stephen King adaptation.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine starts in 'Detroit, 1957' where a brand new red Plymouth Fury rolls off the production line, as a mechanic works on it his fingers become trapped as the bonnet shuts on them & in another incident later on that day a man is found dead in the front... The film informs us that it's 'Rockbridge, California September 12 1978' & Arnie Cunningham (Keith Gordon) is your average typical school nerd complete with dorky spectacles & who gets picked on by Buddy Repperton (William Ostrander) & his gang of mates. While driving home from school one day with his best friend Dennis (John Stockwell) he notices a beat up car for sale, a red Plymouth Fury. After talking with the cars owner George LeBay (Roberts Blossom) Arnie decide to buy it & fix it up himself at a do-it-yourself garage run by the overweight foul-mouthed Will Darnell (Robert Prosky). Within a few weeks the car which is now known as Christine is as good as new & Arnie has undergone a transformation, he is now confident, doesn't wear geeky glasses anymore & is dating Leigh Cabot (Alexandra Paul), one of the prettiest girls in school. Then Arnie changes even more, he becomes selfish, forgets about his old friends, he becomes aggressive & uncaring as Christine takes over his life. When Buddy & his gang smash Christine up Arnie & Christine set out for revenge...Directed by John Carpenter I really didn't think too much of Christine as a whole, although certain aspects show the idea had promise & potential. Christine was in fact based on a novel by Stephen King & was one of three King adaptations in '83, the other's were David Cronenberg's thriller The Dead Zone (1983) & Lewis Teague's rabid dog horror Cujo (1983), King was so popular at this point that the film Christine apparently went into production before the book Christine was published. The script was written by Bill Phillips & I have to admit right now that I have not read King's book that Christine is based upon, it's only been a few hours since I finished watching it & all I can think about is how silly a premise it is. I mean a possessed car that can rebuild itself? Quite why Christine is possessed & by whom or what I don't know as the film never explains this which is odd considering that in my opinion it's a pretty important aspect to the plot. Christine is a little on the slow side too with not much happening during the first half of the film while Buddy & his gang sometimes feel at odds with the rest of the film & only ever appear to either be antagonists or to be killed off as they otherwise get no screen time. Apart from Buddy & co. the character's in Christine are actually very well developed & surprisingly I found myself liking & caring for them from the beat upon nerd Arnie & the cool cop Rudolph Junkins (Harry Dean Stanton) to the funny foul-mouthed Darnell, some really good acting also helps. I was also pleasantly surprised to find an original film for a change & something just a bit different, I don't think I've seen another film quite like it anyway. Technically Christine is polished, with a supposed budget of about $9,700,000 it's certainly well made with some great special effects when Christine rebuilds herself & a cool ending scene with Christine against a Bulldozer. The cinematography is fine, the synthesiser type music reminds heavily of Halloween (1978) & the production design is nice enough. Director Carpenter creates some good sequences especially as a flame covered Christine hunts Buddy down chasing him & eventually running him over. There is no gore or violence really, a burning body & a broken slither of glass in someone's stomach, that's it. The acting is strong throughout which helps bring the character's to life. While Christine isn't exactly a brilliant film, it's slow & very silly, it entertained to an extent & at least it tries to be different & have strong character's. Hard to recommend but I think Christine has some merits that unfortunately are lost within & outweighed by it's negative aspects, worth a watch for King & horror fans alike but everyone else should probably give it a miss I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"Death Cab for Nerdie (spoilers)","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Tyler Durden's warnings in Fight Club are relevant here--The things you own end up owning you. Some teenagers can't wait to get a car, but king nerd Arnie Cunningham (played by Keith Gordon in a super-annoying fashion) develops a strange fetish for his new car, which is possessed by a strange evil spirit. Anyone who messes with Arnie will face the wrath of hell on wheels. Cutie John Stockwell (who for crying out loud, never shows any change in emotion) plays Arnie's friend, the one guy trying to convince the kid that Christine is bad news. Unforutnately, this John Carpenter horror, base on the Stephen King novel (which closely resembles Maximum Overdrive--which was a bit more fun) is predictable from beginning to end. "}{"Title":"Evil, it was evil.","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This was an evil movie. The gore was unbeliveable. I would not recommend it. It is just plain bad. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic sludge, processed like Swiss cheese...","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Stephen King's books (and the movies adapted from his books) are likely to divide audiences more so than any other works from a universally popular writer. King, who began as sort of a cult figure on the horror scene, had gone completely commercial by the time his Christine rolled around, so it's no surprise that John Carpenter directed the adaptation (Carpenter's career in movies followed in much the same pattern). The combined influences of derivative, processed schlock thrills and instantly-recognizable cars and music (and a plot about a have-not who becomes a blood-soaked geek king) targets teen audiences who have no use for subtext and no regard for subtleties. Carpenter sets up this story pretty well, but his maliciousness has no sting, and lead actor Keith Gordon isn't handled at all well (Gordon is too trained at this sort of role; I would have preferred clean-cut buddy John Stockwell in the central part, which might have given viewers a transformation they could believe in). The possessed car who overcomes its owner, a 1958 Plymouth Fury, ends up giving the film's best performance, but Carpenter keeps muffing the suspense--until it all looks no more menacing than a late-night TV show. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Wake up, it's not the same story!","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Christine is my all time favorite book. When I tried to watch this movie for the first time on TV, I gave up after the first five minutes. I hated the way the movie handled the relationship of the two main characters. Their dialogue exchange in the car in their first scene... It was a real disgrace. I got so angry, I actually ran away from the TV and I didn't want to see how the rest of the story was handled by the director.That was about 4 years ago. Now, I calmed down to a level, I could watch the entire movie. And I'm angry again. But now I can handle it...The whole movie is just a vague shadow of the story of the book. The character's names are similar, some similarities in their story here and there, but nothing serious.1. Dennis and Arnie are reduced to two testosterone-driven jerks. WTF? In the book their relationship is so detailed, you can breath the same air they're breathing. When I read the book I was there. I was freakin' there! In the seventies! In the book, Dennis never saying anything like he says in his first scene. I won't even quote that line, it's not worth it. The entire conversation is pointless and goes nowhere. Their relationship in the movie is just lame. It doesn't justify anything that happens, and when Arnie dies, you can't feel sorry for him. You never knew him, why should you care? Why should Dennis care? Why should anybody care? In the book, the outcome of the events carried such impact, I've never read in any book ever. It's a brilliant masterpiece. In the movie there are ruins of a decent killing car horror flick. The book is not a killing car horror flick. No, it's not. The book is about growing up and having issues with yourself. None of this could make it into the movie. I would be ashamed if I filmed such a piece of garbage from this book.2. The origin of the spirit in Christine. In the book everything makes perfect sense, in the movie even the simplest thing is illogical. Who bought the car originally? We meet a guy called LeBay, who had a brother, who bought the car which turned out to be a killer car, killed everybody, including the poor guy, and what does his brother do? He sells the car! Let's endanger some other people! In the book, the guy who sells it, bought it, and it's his spirit which made the car an instrument of killing, and when he is about to die, he sells the car, so his spirit can live on in it. This is basically it, but in the book it's so much more detailed, and it's simply brilliant all the way.3. The characters doing nothing in the movie. Buddy Repperton is a villain, that's about the only OK point of the movie. Dennis isn't aware of anything, he just lays in the bed in the hospital, hardly sees Christine, hardly hears anything about her, and despite all of this, he knows everything about her, makes contact with Leigh, and they plan to kill her. But it doesn't make any freakin' sense! It's totally ridiculous Dennis never saw anything remotely suspicious about the car, he doesn't have a reason to believe it can run by itself, etc. He just says Ok, let's waste it!. Ludicrous! 4. There are so much more distasteful changes, and blindingly obvious plot holes in the movie, that I don't even want to go into them. There is no 4th point.Here's what I'll do I'll forget this movie entirely, and when I'll read the book for like the 20th time this summer, I won't remember it.This movie shouldn't have been made.2/10, because it's at times watchable. By no means decent, but watchable. "},{"Title":"Good concept,, lousy directing","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" Everyone's seen this movie--a great concept, that of a car imbued with evil intent. Carpenter's direction is so (typically) lousy that it makes the movie a parody of itself. The people in the film rarely act even remotely as real people would under the circumstances (accounting for suspension of disbelief that is assumed to accept the premise)---the protagonists are often seen standing around waiting for Christine to do her thing, rather than reacting as any normal person would, and it becomes --- well, boring, because you wait with them. The camera lingers WAY too long on faces that are supposed to reflect horror, and you find yourself thinking C'mon, get with it. This movie would be a good one for a course on how not to direct. "},{"Title":"Disgrace!!!!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Being an avid Stephen King fan and lover of the book Christine I was simply fuming watching this movie as it simply destroyed and changed many elements of the book that made it such a fantastic tale. As with the terrible IT and criminally inept The Stand it appears that producers and filmmakers seem to buy the rights to these stories just to get Stephen Kings name at the top of the title and then disregard the films main key points (eg. Stanley Kubricks movie The Shining made absolutely no sense at all). Many of SKs novels have been plundered and ripped apart, if youre going to adapt one of his novels or short stories at least have a decent crack at it. Besides Shawshank Redemption, Stand By Me, Carrie, Delores Claiborne and Misery there are really no other SK adaptations that not only dont live up to the books but are just terrible B-Grade trash as stand alone films. To finish off the recent Hearts In Atlantis was probably the worst of the lot and Im waiting with bated breath to discover how the upcoming Dolans Cadillac is going to be handled. "},{"Title":"the reasons why","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Horror","Review":" i think that Christine is like many adaptations of Stephen King stories, they just cannot compete with the books. several adaptations, like the Shining and Misery are great films on their own but they are just rubbish when you compare them to the books. the one exception to this is the Shawshank Redeption which is the exact copy of the story. in the film Christine however i think that the way Buddy Reperton and the others are killed in the gas explosion is totally lame, in fact the whole film gives the completely wrong impression about the car. it doesn't explain to the audience why the car kills people, or rather why and how the car is used to kill people or even why Arnie is drawn to the car. all in all i think that the director should be ashamed of himself for totally trashing a masterpiece of a story. "}]