[{"Title":"Pure magic...","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"124 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have no idea what provoked me to see this film in the theatre lo those many years ago, but I am grateful to the serendipity which has brought this piece of magic into my life. I am constantly amazed that a piece of fiction (and not even a written one) could have such an impact on my heart and soul.From the edgy humor of Happer's encounters with his analyst (I will always consider this to be Mr. Lancaster's most charming performance in a body of excellent work) to the poignant scene in which (an albeit drunken) Mac confesses his coveting Gordon's life, this film draws me in like no other. Whenever I am asked my favorite film, I answer Local Hero without hesitation - there is never a question of its position on my list.I must confess, I am surprised there are no other reviews of Local Hero by women. I've always found the lyrical nature of the film to have a distinctly female sensibility. But on the other hand, I don't know any other women beyond myself who have seen it (or recall having seen it). The best recommendation I can make for this film is, when I find the world closing in on me, I watch Local Hero. I smile. I laugh. I even cry a bit. But most importantly, I come away knowing that I might someday find that very possible magic in my life. "},{"Title":"Simply the best, perfect little film ever made.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"98 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A real sleeper of a movie. I rented it without knowing anything about this film beforhand and was taken prisoner from start to finish. I honestly didn't want the movie to end. Full of interesting and amusing characters, a terrific musical score, wryly satirical without being demeaning of anyone; it invites you into a totally believable world where you begin to care about the fate of everyone and there are no false notes in the script, direction or performances.If anyone ever doubted the importance of a screenplay in the success of a movie or thought that a big budget, lots of pyrotechnics and loads of special effects could cover up a movie's shortcomings - see this film. It should be required at all film schools as an example of what can be accomplished on a little budget but with good ideas and lots of talent. A perfect 10 - times 2!   "},{"Title":"A Classic From (But Not Of) the 80's","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"95 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I consider this one of the 10 best movies I've ever seen (and to paraphrase John Cleese from LIFE OF BRIAN, I've seen a few).  It is definitely the funniest movie of the 80's, just ahead of RAISING ARIZONA.  And although LOCAL HERO and RAISING ARIZONA are quite dissimilar films, they do share one distinction  they were both made in the 80's, yet they go totally against the grain of movies made during that decade.  All the shallow, cheap, go for the simple-minded lowest common denominator audience garbage that was so much a part of the 80's is missing here.What is most special about LOCAL HERO to me is how it not only respects it's audience, but seems to show an against-all-odds affection for humanity that INCLUDES the audience.  Bill Forsyth cares about every character that inhabits his film, and in a very gentle, open-handed way he seems to want to share his characters with the audience so that the audience might see the best of themselves in some aspect of those characters.I can understand why Forsyth didn't develop into a major moviemaker in Hollywood, in the same way that I can understand why some people find this movie boring.  But somehow, to me, keeping this movie alive along with all its' other fans is part of a cockeyed optimism about people that, these days, seems to be very much against-the-grain.  "},{"Title":"Quirky brilliance","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"74 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some may be turned off by the apparent disregard of plot.  Amazing characters, scenery and music make this a truly brilliant movie.  It's a movie that may not be fully appreciated until you've seen it three or four times. Burt Lancaster steals the show in a small role.  Peter Riegert is perfectly cast as a lost American who finds a place where he belongs. The memorable scenes are countless  the aurora borealis show, the eccentric beachcomber who offers to sell for a dollar per grain of sand in his hand, the injured rabbit, Riegert proposes to trade places with Gordon, etc., etc., etc. Mark Knofler's music is worth the price of admission alone. Definitely one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"A captivating sleeper.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"72 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie 1,000 miles from home.  I was on business, staying in an outlying hotel, no car, no evening plans.  So I walked 1/2 mile to a local 2-plex (!) theater.  The choices were Max Dugan Returns and, starting 15 minutes later, Local Hero.  The theater manager said the first one was a real good comedy, and he didn't know what Local Hero was about.  I said I'd start with Dugan and switch if I didn't like it, and he said OK.The Neil Simon, Jason Robards, Marsha Mason movie was ho-hum, totally predictable, formula claptrap, so I ducked into Local Hero.WHAT A SURPRISE !!!I was alone in the theater, laughing continuously, thrilled by this wonderful movie.  What a joy!When I left, still smiling, the manager asked me how I liked it.  I told him it was a sure Oscar winner (wrong, alas) and the best film I'd seen in years.  He was amazed.  I hope he sat in on it.  I hope you do too.Here's the key - - EVERY TIME I encounter this movie on TV I stop what I'm doing and watch it.  I once arrived at a hotel after midnight, tired and with a meeting at 800 am.  I flipped on the TV while I unpacked and there it was, just a little past the beginning.  I sat on the end of the bed for an hour, then pulled up a chair.  I finished unpacking when it was over!Just whose baby is that, anyway?  You'll find out!  -) "},{"Title":"All-time favorite movie","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"58 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply my favorite movie ever. Never fails to warm my heart, even after many, many viewings. Beautifully written, filmed, acted- everything works. I loved the whole movie, but especially the last scene. It just sums up the whole movie for me- friendship, not the material, is ultimately all that matters.Great writing; a dozen well-developed characters. Gentle good humor, without demeaning anyone. A beautiful score, that fit the mood of the movie perfectly. Can't say enough about this movie- see it, see it, see it!  "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Wonderful Movie","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"51 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really cannot praise Local Hero enough; it is simply one of the best films ever made and certainly, without any shadow of doubt, my number one favourite movie of all time. Fans of Ealing Comedy will relate to this film instantly. The humour is extremely subtle, going for the quirkiness of human behaviour rather than prefabricated belly-laughs. For example, the two farmers arguing which is the better vehicle for transporting winter lambs, Massarati or Rolls Royce. And the African preacher who has to explain that he's not Scottish either but still has the surname McPhearson. At first glance, the story of Local Hero is hardly one which would engage fevered interest. A big Texan oil company wants to buy a huge chunk of Scottish coastline and a representative is flown over to close the deal. Chosen because it's thought he is of Scottish origin, McIntyre (Peter Riegert) complains to a colleague that he could do the deal over the wires in an afternoon and that his parents chose the surname when they got off the boat from Hungary because they thought it sounded American. But what grabs the attention and is the fundamental beauty to the film is Mac's journey from a materialistic Texan yuppie to one who falls in love with the simple things of life and by the film's end, when Mac returns home, has been changed forever by his trip.Mac plays his part very well from a character who depends on his expensive suits, his Porsche, quad hi-fi and personal health insurance to one who collects shells on a Scottish beach and drinks 40 year-old malt whisky in the bosom of the small community that he suddenly finds himself a part of. Burt Lancaster plays the wonderfully eccentric oil company CEO who is more concerned with dicovering a comet of his own than making millions of dollars. Then of course there is Denis Lawson as the estate agent / taxi driver / hotelier, Peter Capaldi as the bungling company trainee and Jenny Seagrove who prefers being underwater to life on land, along with all the various yokels and locals that give this film its very unique charm. And the plot twist? A fabulously subtle one-liner that gives the whole thing away. But of course, one cannot talk about this movie without mentioning the soundtrack. Many years ago I felt compelled to watch this movie because (being a big Dire Straits fan at the time) i had the soundtrack and was instantly hooked. Mark Knopfler does sterling work in adding musical flavour to the film. Lazy acoustic guitars match perfectly the breath-taking scenary that the director, Bill Forsyth, has captured of the Scottish Highlands. Overall, I would have no hesitation in recommending this film to people. Every recommendation I've made has been met with the same response a gem of a movie that simply cannot be ignored. Local Hero will be my own personal number one for ever!10/10 "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better than the Brits.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"45 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This cinematic piece of enchantment has been aptly praised in the other reviews preceding this one.  I really didn't know what to expect when I saw this on cable, but it became an instant favorite.  It is so true, so touching, that I felt pangs of sadness when it came to an end.  A hopeful end, to be sure.  I used to wonder about the casting of Peter Riegert in the lead (I think Dennis Leary would have been perfect in this role).  But after several viewings, I have grown to like and appreciate Riegert's performance very much.  (I'm one of those superficial twits who perfer good-looking leading men like Sam Neill and Brad Pitt.) And Riegert's non-Scottish appearance is taken care of in the script.  Any movie that can raise the consciousness of its audience without preaching is a rarity, and this beautiful film manages to do just that.  Certainly one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"A simply beautiful movie","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film in 1985 only because I had heard that Mark Knopfler did the soundtrack.  After watching Local Hero, however, I was ready to pack my bags and move to a picturesque seaside village on the coast of Scottland. I fell in love with this movie.  There is subtle humor, gorgeous scenery, a great story, and memorable characters.  When the TV show Northern Exposure came out, I was amazed at the similarities between the show and Local Hero. An American professional accustomed to fast paced city living finds himself in a quirky town in the middle of nowhere.  Even the resemblance of Peter Riegert playing Mac and Rob Morrow as Fleishman is striking.  But when the episode of Northern Exposure aired where the famous Russian comes to town and performs in the local bar while the female store owner swoons, I nearly laughed myself off the couch.  There was an identical scene in Local Hero. Local Hero captured a certain magic and mystery; haunting and poetic while remaining lighthearted and warming.  One could not blame the creators of Northern Exposure for wanting to capture that same magic, but they could have been just a little more original.  I love Bill Forsythe's movies.  He is truly a master of the simple movie that tells a terrific story.  Less is more.  Also, Mark Knopfler delivers some of his finest music ever. "},{"Title":"An inspired little film","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A refreshing change of pace; a whimsical, off-beat comedy with just enough plot to keep it going, just enough surprises in it to keep it interesting, and lots of great characters played by actors who really deliver.The music by Mark Knopfler of Dire Straits adds richness to the experience, and the cinematography vividly contrasts tangled, sterile, modern-day Houston with the cool, gorgeous, emerald green Scottish landscape and the peaceful, pristine coastal village of Furness.Well worth the trip. "}{"Title":"nothing else like it","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There's the great movies with a capital M (Casablanca, Strangelove, Kane) and then there's the great movies which feel like they've been made for the deepest, quietest, quirkiest parts of you and you alone - the small gems. And this one, in my view, is the sparkliest of these gems - a little masterpiece of a rumination on just how beautiful things can be when disparate paths in life intercept each other just the tiniest bit out of phase, never perfectly according to plan, and on how the deepest transformations seem to proceed from the smallest disjoints of orientation and expectation. It is a beautiful dollhouse of a film, whose success lies in its excruciating attention to and understatement of detail. Beautiful Mark Knopler strains suffuse the film's quieter moments, while subtle performances and simply lovely dialogue provide the backbone.  "},{"Title":"A good film to make you smile","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a nice entertaining movie to watch. The humor isn't in your face or dark. It sets a comfortable pace and you get to watch one guy's journey from having everything he wanted to finding what he did not know he needed(well, two if you count his boss played wonderfully by Burt Lancastor). The main character's's change throughout the movie isn't even realized until it's nicely hinted to when you see he does not miss his expensive watch left on the sea shore. All the characters are the kinds of people you wish you knew. And it The music is haunting and scenes are beautiful of the Scottish countryside. Both go a long way to making the movie on you want to see over again. "},{"Title":"Technophile goes to remote village and finds the real world.","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a lovely, quiet film this is. Mac personifies modern man--out of touch with nature,out of touch with his own soul,  who needs electricity to function. He is all technology of that period. Although he is a telex man (this was before the computer-cellphone era), he reluctantly goes in person to buy a village in a remote area of Scotland for the glory of oil production. The place he finds is paradise. No urban sprawl. No locked doors.  Gradually, Mac is seduced by nature, which culminates in the death of his electronic watch--it drowns in a tidal basin after he removes it in order to collect sea shells. By degrees, he sheds his identity, represented by his business suit and fashionable shoes, and becomes a beachcomber. He is amazed when he sees the Northern Lights for the first time, a celestial phenomenon the locals take for granted. Mr. Happer the president of Knox Oil and Gas, is Mac's opposite--Happer inherited the family oil business and has done well, but his eyes are on the stars, the things of nature. He allows others to run the company while he watches the sky in search of comets. What makes a film memorable are great moments, and this film is a series of great moments that stay with you long after the film is over. I will offer no plot summary. You must see this magical  film for yourself. But be forewarned if you are in love with all that modern technology can offer, you will not like this film. You may find it too slow; too outdated; too sentimental. But, if (like me)you yearn to be away from the horror that modern technology has created in us and around us, you will love and dream of your own remote village by the sea. And it is very funny, too. Wonderful characters. "},{"Title":"A beguiling, smart & totally compelling clash of hopes & dreams.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Forsyth has written & directed a beguiling film with smartly written characters facing a splendid array of dilemmas that are both soulful and funny.  The actors (some familiar faces and some not to an American audience) are all terrific -- seeming to relish the problems that the plot puts in their characters' path and thoroughly enjoying the riches of a script with sharp dialogue, a moral center, and a sense of humor that doesn't belittle anyone.  This is a story that tackles the fragility -- the seeming impossibility -- of any of us ever having our most cherished dreams come true.  The final scene could break your heart a little.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"My Number One Favorite Film","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film in 1983 when I was living in Chicago. At every line of dialog, I expect the trite or cliché and, in every instance, I am subtly drawn into the filmmaker's viewpoint and away from my own cynical, sarcastic, pessimistic viewpoint. I laugh at myself and my expectations and I am charmed into experiencing the many dimensions of human character that I find in this film.I am thrilled to find so many others who appreciate this film. It is one of the few videos that I own. I watch it every year and I have never been dissatisfied with it. And, for the record, I am female.When I toured England, Wales and Scotland, I was completely unprepared for the beauty and magic of Scotland. This film has become more dear to me since then, because it reminds me of Scotland. The scenery is beautiful, but always secondary to the human landscape.The underlying strength of the film is that all the human beings, in their unexpectedness and diversity, are equal players in the tapestry of the whole. Many of the value systems of humanity today are portrayed in one village. But the happiest person is the one who works for his living by harvesting the gifts washed up by the sea. (And, in his shadow persona, pockets all the fresh baked goods at the ceilidh -) )Now I live in Kansas City and view life from the heartland. I come away from Local Hero wanting to view humanity from the heart, not from the trite or the cliché or my prejudices. This is quite an accomplishment for a film.Added in 2013 After 30 years, I still love this film. I finally know what the final scene means to me - but I will let you figure that out for yourself. I finally appreciate, consciously, the soundtrack - which was just part of the whole for the first 20 viewings of the film. I am still charmed by this beautiful, magical subtle work of art. I hope you like it too! "},{"Title":"Possibly the most delightful grown-up film ever made.","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero is one of my ten favorite films, and an absolute delight from the beginning to the arguably ambiguous ending.  It's quirky, offbeat, and absolutely human.  All of Bill Forsyth's films are worthwhile (even the not-up-to-par Being Human), and this film, along with Gregory's Girl and Housekeeping, tops the list.  Warning you may fall in love with Scotland (a Scotland that may exist only in Forsyth's imagination) upon seeing this.  Do it anyway! "},{"Title":"Beauty is in the eye of the beholder","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've done three things today. I ordered a DVD of Local Hero (which led me to this site), I read most of the comments about the film and I watched a telly programme about a mobile phone salesman from Wales (Paul Potts), who went on a TV talent show and is now topping album charts across the planet. While millions of people absolutely love his rendition of, Nessun dorma, certain opera critics are putting the whole business down, because these fans don't know anything about opera.I don't know anything about films - and for that reason, I'm not qualified to comment on the direction, script or characterisations of Local Hero. But then, unlike some of those who have criticised it, I don't feel any burning desire to take the film apart and put the bits under the microscope. All I know is that it makes me feel great, like a walk in the countryside on a bright spring morning. It makes me feel happy, positive, warm and hopeful. It makes me love the world even more than before - I want to rush out into the street and invite passers-by in for a cup of tea. It hits the soul-button that, as an atheist, I shouldn't have. So who cares about the plot or the pace or where it's going? It touches me ... in the same way that it's obviously affected a great many other people.Yup, I reckon it'll be my favourite film of all time.Mind you, I did think the casting was perhaps a bit.... "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oddly enough, from the comments thus far about the film, nobody, as in not a single viewer, has commented on the absolutely stunning performance by Peter Riegert. It is the best of right on low key performances of all time if somebody told him that leprosy had just overtaken the island he might have batted one eyelash. Yet no matter how low the key it is never off key. And yes, yes, it has a lot of other things going for it, but nothing like his performance. Somehow the director got the right guy for the job, so much so, that it is impossible to conjure anybody in all Hollywood that could have done so well. Moreover, the movie moves about him so tightly, and he takes the load so effortlessly, it is almost not surprising that nobody has noticed just how good he is here. In fact were there even a smidgen of fireworks from him, this would just be another movie. Time is gonna treat this film very well, when ninety percent of most films are forgotten, this will continue to rise in the ranks of the remembered. "},{"Title":"one of my all time favorite movies","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just bought the DVD of this flick recently.  Having not seen it for a few years, I was pleasantly reminded why this is one of my very favorite movies. Short synopsis  Big time Texan oil deal negotiator sets off for rural coastal Scotland to pitch a deal to buy the town and bay for a big project...with hilarious consequences.  Just the best casting ever, as is usually the case with British movies, I find.  Peter Riegert is great (as always) in the lead role of a successful executive who really feels a sense of emptiness until he meets the eccentric townspeople.  Burt Lancaster is fine as the (also) eccentric star-gazing CEO of Knox Oil and Gas, who ends up in the village himself, and under the spell of the place and it's people. Just a wonderful flick.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"If you want a great story, subtle comic genious wrapped in a beautiful-yet-odd setting, this is THE movie.","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you add one good film to your repertoire of movies this year, let Local Hero be the one you add.  Although it was made in 1983, the subject and story are timeless.  From beginning to end, it captures your attention. The writing is brilliant, the acting even better and the locations (especially Scotland) are magic.Do yourself a favor and watch this movie!  I consider myself a film nerd, and I would categorize Local Hero in my top twenty favorites, easily. "}{"Title":" still charmed all these years later","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just happen to be watching the tube late one night, surfing for some content in the sea of visuals, and I happened upon Local Hero just starting. It had been years since I last saw the film and I wondered if it would still engage and please me, in it's wily manner of 1983. I wasn't disappointed. The film still manages to capture a sense of the otherworldly without being off putting or quirky for quirkies sake. It is, I think, a subtle but persuasive look at values, appropriate for the beginning of the excessive 80's and the equally acquisitive 90's and beyond, and what truly brings pleasure and meaning to our daily lives. Money and material wealth aren't disparaged, but are put into the context of friends, home and the simple pleasure of looking up at the sky and seeing wonders. So after almost 20 years, the film still charms and makes you want to at least visit N. Scotland and more importantly see yourself in a new way.  "},{"Title":"Minor Classic","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In this cynical age of image counting for all and increasingly small minded audiences being baffled by anything approaching subtlety, this film represents a much needed haven for the more cerebral viewer. It's pitch perfect lampooning of the massive gulf between supposedly similar cultures is a joy to behold over and over.That fact that not much really happens is, in fact the whole point. It is a modern comedy of manners, the humour being in how characters react to alien situations. It is exactly the kind of film Ealing studios would have produced had they survived into the 80's, and as such is to be praised for trying to show how simply taking an off centre look at real life can inform and entertain more eloquently than those who shout their satire from the rooftops. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Magical Little Film","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My all-time favorite, Local Hero tells the tale of a big city oil man who tries to buy up a picture-perfect fishing village in Northern Scotland. What he doesn't know is the challenge before him might not necessarily be as difficult.  Throw in a CEO with his head in the stars and a mermaid, and you've got one of the most gentle little comedies ever made. With a memorable score by Mark Knopfler (of Dire Straits fame), you'll quickly feel as though you're there with our hero, Mac.  Look for little things along the way (our hero's slow ease into the laid-back culture, a motorcyclist who stops for nobody, a baby everyone cares for, the red phone box, the Northern Lights) and never say no to the man who offers to sell you a beach at a cost of a pound per grain of sand in his hat. If you've ever known the feeling of going home after a special trip, you'll appreciate the magic that this film delivers.  My favorite! "},{"Title":"A quirky, fun little film","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I always thought of this as Bill Forsyth's masterpiece -- when Northern Exposure came on U.S. television in the early 90s it quickly put me in mind of this film.  (Too bad the residents of Cicely, Alaska didn't stay as charmingly eccentric as the residents of Furness, Scotland as that TV series wore on.)  This one has it all -- memorable performances by the great Burt Lancaster, a young Peter Riegert, Peter Capaldi, and Denis Lawson; an ethereal soundtrack by the incomparable Mark Knopfler; and scenery to die for.  Every time I see this movie I long to visit the coast of Scotland.  I thought Norman Chancer was absolutely hilarious as Moritz, Mr. Happer's psychiatrist, especially the I'm still here! sequence.  Also, Christopher Rozycki gives an inspired performance as Victor.  I loved his rendition of Lone Star Man at the ceilidh, as well as his questions to Old Ben about Ben's ownership of the beach (Any papers? -- sounded like a cheery KGB officer).  A friend of mine told me that he saw numerous parallels in the dialogue and events in the film to Thomas Mann's Magic Mountain; I wonder if anyone else noticed this.  If you like offbeat humor, you'll love this wonderful movie; give it a watch. "},{"Title":"Perfection? Well, it's close.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm never quite sure which genre this outstanding movie falls into. Is it a comedy, a drama, a love-story? I can't make my mind up and I've seen it how many times? Double figures I think! Maybe its secret is that it's a near-perfect blend of all three.Whatever it is, it's truly outstanding. A great array of characters, some superb performances from many lesser-known performers and a show-stealer from the unlikely Burt Lancaster. A great sound track penned by Mark Knofler of Dire Straits fame adds a great deal, but I guess what I like most is the weird, quirky humour that fills virtually every scene - never obvious and 'laugh out loud' funny, but always there, bubbling away in the background with an ever so slightly twisted take on reality.This film can't be summarised or described to someone in a way which can possibly convey it's many qualities. Go and watch it! "},{"Title":"A modern Fairy Tale","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The First Time I saw this movie I was a little boy.  It's one of my father's favortie movies and I watched it again.  This is movie is one of the quirkiest films ever.  The way it's funny is unique, The characters are so real that they can be you or next door neighbor.  Mark Knopfler's music only adds to the greatness.  3 of the most memorable scenes are when Mac (Peter Riegert) and Danny (Peter Capaldi) run over an injured rabbit in the middle of driving.  Another Great scene is when Gordon (Denis Lawson giving a great performance.) Cooks the rabbit, and the final scene is one of the greatest in film, when Victor (Christopher Rozycki) Sings Lonesome for a Lone Star Man like Me.  I can't get enough of that scene it's just perfect.  If you want to see a modern fairy tale today see Local Hero. "},{"Title":"I bought my couch based on this film.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the summary line has been used in an attempt to qualify this entry as upbeat and interesting.  But it is true, I did purchase a modular couch unit because the hero in Local Hero has a scene where he reclines in a couch while on the phone (his is cream, mine, mindful of stains is blue).  This little anecdote symbolises the effect this film has had on me.  I first saw it at the impressionable age of 14, and have watched it pretty much on an annual basis ever since.I don't know how, or why it has proved such an hypnotic film, maybe it is due to the fact that there is not a sordid event in sight, that every scene reamains soft and innocent, without becoming fantasy.  It could all happen, to me, or you and it is totally unthreatening.  Not a fist fight, mugging, or domestically violent vision to behold.  The film is like a memorable weekend where you know you've experienced something special.You have to set the right mood, this film is definately a red wine with candles film, not one of the beer and pizza variety.   "},{"Title":"Best movie ever made","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am heartened to read others claim Local Hero as their personal favourite, as do I.  This film shows how comedy can be subtle, it teaches patience in return for a big reward; it demands, nay compels, attentiveness because the quirks of the characters are quick and droll.  I think this is more of a thinking person's movie in the same way that Real Genius is.  Fun and funny, where the total effect is greater than the sum of the parts.  It makes you GLAD to be alive, it restoreth thy spirit.  A perfect 10! Everybody should see it, and in turn, they will see the world differently. "},{"Title":"The Masterpiece No One has ever seen","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every so often a movie is made that you can relate to, you can look at it, and maybe see what no one else can see.  One of those movies is Local Hero, staring Peter Riegert (Animal House), Denis Lawson (The Star Wars Triology), and Burt Lancaster (Field of Dreams).  Local Hero takes a Texas oilman to a small scottish town to negotiate for their land.  Both parties think they are taking advantage of the other and in turn a wonderful beautiful story takes place.  How many people can relate with Mac (Riegert) a no body in America who comes to this small town and becomes a hero.  If you want to see a wonderful film, invest the 90 min in Local Hero.  Even Roger Ebert gives Local Hero four out of four stars.  This movie is by far the most underrated and in my mind one of the greatest movies of all time. "},{"Title":"A Wry, Quiet Gem","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mac, a telex  kind of guy is forced to get up close and personal with the townsfolk of a small village in northern Scotland and gets his whole life perspective turned around. This relatively obscure little film from 1982 is pure pleasure. It has so much working for it. The characters are irresistibly eccentric, whimsical, warm and authentically human. The story has a refreshingly wry sense of humor. Taking a few jabs at the emptiness of big corporate business, big city life and juxtapositions it against the humble, naive simplicity of the country life of northern Scotland, yet the big corporate executive and the local small town hermit are not quite so different after all. The music of Mark Knopfler adds just the right touch.  Don't miss this forgotten gem.     "}{"Title":"a local hero in a happy place","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A big American petrochemical company contemplates the construction of a oil refinery in a Scottish isolated fishing village. A young executive (Peter Riegert) from the Texas is sent there and with the Scottish representative of the company tries to negotiate with the local authorities to buy the ground. But things don't go exactly as planned. Indeed, the two men are more and more seduced by the easy life that reigns in the village while the inhabitants are tempted by the company's initial plan in order to grow rich. Then, the manager of the firm (Burt Lancaster) arrives in the village to settle the question with surprising results.Bill Forsyth made an ecological tale full of charm and sensibility. He enjoys describing with a discreet and subtle humor the daily life of this Scottish village which seems to be virtually cut off from the outside world. Like the main protagonist, relaxed way of life that reigns in this fishing village gradually overcomes us. But we can also understand Forsyth's work as an invitation to the pleasure of the senses. Indeed, Riegert enjoys the food he eats and the whisky he drinks; he is charmed by the beauty of the landscapes and what he finds by the seaside (his collection of shells) and especially the rare phenomenon of the northern lights. Ultimately, his stay will do him good since he'll fully become integrated with the inhabitants. There's a small detail that says a lot about it Riegert will put in his cupboard his American suit to wear instead a sweater.Bill Forsyth has also written the screenplay and the merits we ca attribute to it is to have avoided the traps the topic was tending a rejection of Manicheism and the characters globally escape caricature. The character acted by Burt Lancaster is more passionated by astronomy than his firm and the power of money.Local Hero is a breath of fresh air and just like Peter Riegert, we would like to prolong our stay in this Scottish fishing village far from the stress of modern life, far from the Hollywood imperialism. "},{"Title":"If you hated this movie you weren't paying attention","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 2 pages of negative reviews and 15 pages of raves.Says it all really.This is Forsyth's masterpiece in a criminally underrated body of work, full of eccentric but believable characters, deftly scripted and always shot through with the director's characteristic lightness of touch and sense of place.Lyrical without being sentimental, satirical without ever resorting to cheap shots, stunningly photographed, hip (for its time) without being tabloid, this movie will charm you from start to finish.The recurring teenager on a motorcycle sight gag is quite simply the funniest thing I have ever seen on celluloid.Thank you, Bill, for making me smile, again and again and again. "},{"Title":"I want to see this film one more time before I die","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Difficult to add much to the reviews already posted, but since it's one of my two favourite movies (the other is Wim Wenders' Wings of Desire), I feel I ought to put in my two bob's worth. In its own quiet, understated way, this is one of the funniest movies ever made. It is one of those rare, rare films that, far from becoming predictable and boring with repeated viewings, if anything seems to get better. Having seen it about ten times, of course I know all the deliciously funny moments before they come; but that doesn't detract from their humour &#150; if anything, the reverse. The whose baby is that scene mentioned by someone else is my favourite moment; but it's barely ahead of You mean you've never liked the music?; I'd make a good Gordon, Gordon; What lovely long eyelashes you've got; 'Do you think Gordon and Stella do it every night?; not to mention Marina's toes; the motorbike; Reverend Macpherson; the expression on the face of the elderly local woman watching Victor sing&#133;; and of course the whole premise of the film a brash, city-dwelling, American oil man coming increasingly to regret the fact that he is the instrument by which the inhabitants of a tiny, remote, Scottish fishing village are to become, as one of them puts it, stinking rich &#150; and what that will mean for the place he has come to regard, in the space of a few short days, as home. Of course, this will mean nothing to those who have never seen the film. All I can advise is rectify that glaring omission as soon as possible! "},{"Title":"Offbeat humor and charm","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Local Hero, Scottish director Bill Forsyth allows us to see the environment not as something to possess or control but as a privilege granted to all. A young corporate executive for a Texas Oil Company, Mac MacIntyre (Peter Reigert), is sent to a small fishing village on the coast of Scotland to work out plans to buy a piece of coastal property that includes the entire town as a drilling site. The great Burt Lancaster plays Mac's boss, Felix Happer, a starry-eyed tycoon of Knox Gas and Oil who is more interested in the stars and getting rid of Moritz (Norman Chancer), his abuse therapist than his business. Strangely, he asks Mac to keep an eye on the constellation Virgo when he reaches Scotland to see if he can see a comet in its vicinity. MacIntyre meets up with his Scottish partner Danny Oldsen (Peter Capaldi) and they rent a room at an inn run by the local accountant Gordon Urquhart (Denis Lawson) and his wife Stella (Jennifer Black). Eventually, Mac and Danny settle in and get to know the town, walking the beach, talking to the black pastor of the village church, and meeting the idiosyncratic villagers. Mac slowly and without any expectations develops an attachment to the town and its people while Danny falls for Marina (Jenny Seagrove), a marine biologist with webbed feet who dreams of building a laboratory for biological research. When Urquhart agrees to act as the intermediary between MacIntyre and the locals in the negotiations, we are set up to expect the ruthless exploitation of country folk by the big city capitalists. Ironically however, it is the villagers who are captivated by the prospect of the money and more aggressive in its pursuit than Big Mac. The deal seems ready to be consummated when it is discovered that Old Ben (Fulton MacKay), who lives in a shack on the beach, actually owns six miles of beach property and does not want to sell. When the townspeople threaten to turn into an ugly mob, Happer arrives from Houston in his helicopter to add the final twist to a most unpredictable plot. Local Hero creeps up on you slowly then delivers its payoff so convincingly that, by the end, you feel as if you have a lifelong relationship with the characters. Mac's transformation from being a corporate sycophant to a caring individual who experiences a sense of belonging, perhaps for the first time, is one of the great pleasures of the film and reminded me of a similar transformation in Kiarostami's The Wind Will Carry Us. Supported by a wonderful score by Mark Knopfler of Dire Straits and beautifully photographed by Chris Menges, the film captivates with its offbeat humor and charm and reminds us of what it means to be human without resorting to sentimentality. If technology is seen as an imminent threat to humans, Local Hero allows us to focus our attention upon that which is most threatened respect for people's individuality, reverence for the land, the sea, and the sky -- and really good Scotch whiskey. "},{"Title":"A beguiling, smart & totally compelling clash of hopes & dreams.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Forsyth has written & directed a beguiling film with smartly written characters facing a splendid array of dilemmas that are both soulful and funny.  The actors (some familiar faces and some not to an American audience) are all terrific -- seeming to relish the problems that the plot puts in their characters' path and thoroughly enjoying the riches of a script with sharp dialogue, a moral center, and a sense of humor that doesn't belittle anyone.  This is a story that tackles the fragility -- the seeming impossibility -- of any of us ever having our most cherished dreams come true.  The final scene could break your heart a little.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"It never fails to get to me","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All of the previous reviews of this wonderful movie  have said it all.  I just want to add that every time I'veseen it (and believe me that is a large number) I get  choked up.  In fact reading the reviews gives me the  same feeling.I find it impossible to understand the view point of  those who pan this movie because of lack of plot or  satisfying ending.  They would throw out most of Shakespearebecause plot was always secondary to characterization in hisworks.I heartily reccomend Local Hero to anyone with a heart.It will be touched "},{"Title":"Understated Classic","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As well as being beautifully acted and making great use of a stunning location the subtle humour is beautifully pitched - at least for my taste. The excellent cast and offbeat story line come together to memorable effect. This is a film which improves with repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local hero is my favorite movie of all time. Every time I watch it, I discover something new about it that I missed before. It is funny, poignant and extremely well written. Great acting by all, including all the bit parts. Bill Forsyth's best movie. Absolutely recommended!! "},{"Title":"Charming and Low-key","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero is a charming, low-key movie with a wry and sly sense  of humor typical of director Bill Forsyth's work. The humor sneaks up on viewers through the first half hour or so, then stays at a satisfying simmer. Peter Riegert and Burt Lancaster are great, and are supported by a perfect ensemble of lesser-knowns. The soundtrack by Mark Knopfler is very evocative and quite outstanding. I cannot possibly recommend this movie more highly. It has a permanent place in my personal Top Ten. "},{"Title":"really great - my favorite movie","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't have much to say about Local Hero that hasn't already been said, so I guess I'll just echo that it's a really awesome movie that's been #1 on my list for a long time.  Victor singing at the celidh has to be one of the funniest moments ever on film.  It frustrates me that so few people have heard of this wonderful movie.   "}{"Title":"magical!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Warning I give away the key plot details in my comments. But plot is not exactly something that matters AT ALL in this film.Here's a film that defies genre. How can a comedy with the melancholy or tragic sensibilities of this one leave me with eyes twinkling every time I see it? I think it's because every single character in this film is someone I want to be life-long friends with. Felix Happer, New-Age tycoon. Mac. Even Trudy (not the rabbit, but the ex-girlfriend we never actually meet!) I think it is because, despite his best intentions, Mac doesn't succeed. At least not in swinging the deal! The village, while not perfectly spared from the depredations of Knox O&G, definitely dodges a bullet. Gordon and the rest of the villagers know how much they love the things they briefly, desperately want to trade for glitz and action and dollar-signs. Old Ben Knox saves the day, living in a tumbledown shack that lacks even a front door, and owning an unimpeachable claim to the prime beachfront real estate Knox is after by virtue of some equally-shady dealings several centuries before the story takes place. Cowboy/Sea-captain Victor, who knows what dockside life is like in Murmansk, is tossed from the sea (along with many other remarkable things) to tell the natives (and us!) you can't eat the scenery. Danny chases after Marina with a gawky futility we all recognize - and she turns out to be a real live mermaid. And Stella...ohhhhhh, Stella......I'd make a good Gordon, Gordon... "},{"Title":"We can now call it a classic","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now that it has been, believe it or not, nearly 25 years since Local Hero was released, we can finally refer to this warm, quirky comedy as a classic. Bill Forsyth was known for his quirky films, but this film defies facile description. It could be classified as a romantic comedy but the object of desire is coastal Scotland. It certainly is comedic, but with a subtle wistfulness that is more akin to drama.The performances are unexpectedly powerful given the loose character development. Peter Riegert reached an apex in his role as Mac but Denis Lawson, and the cast of Scots steal the show. While on first viewing Burt Lancaster's character (among other elements in the story) might appear contrived, there is an inner congruity about this film that knits all these elements as essential threads into its story.Mark Knopfler's music alone would make this film a must see for fans of compellingly scored films; the blend of moods evoked by the guitarists themes will ensure that this film is etched into your memory.This film should be on your list of must see films of any era and certainly ranks as one of top films of the 1980's. "},{"Title":"Still true.","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film when it was released and it is still one of my favorites. I watched it again this week, on video, with my young teenage children. They were confused as to why I liked it so much. They said it had `no point.' The scenes where McIntyre's watch is beeping incessantly remain true today, except that today it is cell phones (my kids thought, at first,  that that is what was beeping).  Of course, if there were cell phones back then, there wouldn't be the wonderful scenes with the phone box. This film, for me, is full of wonder and makes me long for the simple life. I feel it is even more pertinent today than when it was released. I believe it talks to all of us in this hectic, modern age. It is timeless...  "},{"Title":"Simply delightful","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film in a small independent theater some time after its initial release on the recommendation of my father. I had seen and enjoyed Gregory's Girl, another of Bill Forsyth's films, so I was expecting something fairly good from Local Hero. And I was not disappointed.Each time I watch this movie, I get something new from it and appreciate it more. From the character development and attention to detail of so many of the characters to the beautiful settings which are brought out wonderfully by the cinematography to a simple but charming plot and a nice little message on life, I love this movie.This is a movie that everyone should make it a point to see at least once. I bet you'll want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Haunting, charming, profound","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must say, as time passes I am moved more and more deeply by this film. Of course, it's not the film that changes it's me. Which means it had something to say to me at 30, at 40, and again now, 26 years later.But isn't that true of great art? And this IS great art. Every time you go back to it, it has something new to reveal.And this film says so much about us--our values, our behavior, our sentimentality, our needs, our choices, and about what makes us human. If there was one film I was allowed to send to an alien civilization who wanted to learn about us I would choose this one.-- SPOILER FOLLOWS -- One point I would like to make about the plot,and I think this is an important one many like to look beyond the ending, to ponder what, if anything, Mac, might do. Many see a positive extension of the film, that is, it is Mac phoning at the very end, saying he is coming back.My take is that he does nothing. He is trapped in this netherworld, still not sure who he is or what his place in the world is, and as such, never achieves true self actualization he is a tragic figure in the grand sense. And the longer he stays in his old environment, the more he will become part of it. As he peers out into the darkness from his terrace back in Houston the phone in Verness is begins to ring..who could it be?...it is Mac's soul, crying out, yearning for the peace and simple truths he had discovered in that small coastal town of Scotland. "},{"Title":"An impact on many levels, disturbingly symbolic","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Warning SOME SPOILERSThis movie, though a comedy, wasn't exclusively this.  There are ironic situations and many quirky characters in it, which enhance it.  However, its greatest meaning for me comes from its non-comedy elements.The contrast between the natural beauty of the land, sea, and sky (e.g. northern lights) vs. the alien-ness of technology and civilization  The marvel of the helicopter squatting on a stark, desolate beach.  The super-sonic jets flying overhead, and the motor bikes (which nearly run over the characters whenever they step out of a building) disturb the scenic calm of the countryside and the seascapes.  Also The rabbit injured due to being hit with a 2-ton automobile.  Old vs. new The skyscrapers and yuppie lifestyle of Houston vs. the simplicity of the old Scottish town.Seemingly symbolic is Mac's intentional or unintentional abandonment of his wristwatch, with its beeping reminders of meetings and schedules back in the new world.  He exchanges it for a collection of seashells.One of the main attractions in any film set in Scotland is the scenery. It's interesting to observe the sharp difference in color contrast in an older film set in the countryside (due to Technicolor, etc.) vs. a newer film like this one shot in unaltered colors.The film often depicts or describes Scotland's ecology.  There were many familiarities to me due to watching recently a PBS series called Irish Voyage.  Due to tourism and development, places like Scotland are probably not nearly as ruggedly scenic as they were in 1983.One of the marks of a great film is that it gives the feeling that there is depth and diversity in the characters that extend far beyond what is shown on camera.  The camera shows us the highlights, enough to stimulate our imaginations to fill in the gaps of what goes on in the many hours behind the scenes.  In Local Hero, an example of this is that many of the minor characters contribute memorable moments.  One man says that he has all this new money, but he's surprised to find that he doesn't feel any different. These kinds of insights add to the depth and enjoyment of this already wonderful and panoramic film.  "},{"Title":"This is my favorite movie. I've seen it at least 6 times.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everything about this movie was perfect, for me. The characters are quirky, diverse, and unforgettable. I loved it so much that I made a special effort on a side trip while in Britain to visit the film sites in coastal Scotland. If you happen to love astronomy, Scotland, or Burt Lancaster at his curmudgeony best, or are just fed up with city life and stress, this film is for you. I laugh just as much every time I see it. It has absolutely the best comic/romantic ending I've ever seen.. although there is no one there. "},{"Title":"Life as we wish it were","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero, a sly, subtle comedy, is an American's dream of small town life. Everyone who sees this movie immediately wants to find the town, move there, and become one of the local characters.  Facing the impossibility of this wish, instead I watch the movie repeatedly, especially on cold winter days.  The endearing quirks of the characters and the intricacies of the relationships warm any day.Peter Riegert is perfect as the over-technologized American who desperately wants to become part of life - any life - and will gladly trade job and possessions to become Gordon Urquhart and putter around Scotland.  Burt Lancaster, as Mr. Happer, the owner of the oil company, has seen it all, done it all, and is not impressed by any of it.  He wants to be remembered not for his money and power, but for the discovery of Comet Happer. However, it is not the Americans who are interesting in this movie.  The Scots (and the Russian), every last unexplained one of them, continue their lives during the disruptions caused by the visiting Americans and provide the sheer joy of this movie - people watching at its finest.  Bill Forsyth resists Hollywood's need to explain every last detail and the film acquires a mystical, mysterious quality which enhances the comedy. "},{"Title":"Gore calls it the best movie ever made","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have always considered this one of the finest movies, so I was pleasantly surprised when questioned by Oprah last week, Vice President Gore acknowledged Local Hero as his favorite film of all time. I thought this picture had kind of slipped through the cracks and been forgotten, but after reading the comments here it's nice to know that many feel the same way as I do about it. Recommended viewing!!!! "},{"Title":"A quiet film with subtle, offbeat humor and first rate true-to-life performances by the whole cast.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero is my feel good movie.  I watch it often, especially when I'm felling stressed out. In my opinion, the film is flawless. Burt Lancaster, one of the greatest actors of all time, is perfect in his role as oil tycoon/astronomer Felix Happer.  Peter Riegert is an actor that should have worked much more than he has and Bill Forsyth should direct all films. Lastly, Harry/Trudy was superb in his/her portrayal of the rabbit/Casserole de le Lapin. "}{"Title":"Penetrating character study as comedy","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Warning -- possible spoiler!!!Many of the comments previously posted touch upon the outstanding but obvious aspects of Local Hero -- the beauty of the scenery, the understated but penetrating humor of the script, the whimsy of the characters, the wonderfully evocative Mark Knopfler soundtrack. With all of this I concur. It's an amazingly multi-layered film. With every viewing -- and there have been dozens -- it seems that something I failed to notice before catches the eye. And what also becomes more apparent with each viewing is the underlying melancholy that permeates everything and everyone in the film. While ostensibly a comedy, this to me is really a study of loneliness and alienation. Happer, isolated in his penthouse, seeks succor in the stars and assurances from his therapist that he hasn't wasted his life. Mac, the workaholic, wraps up mega-deals with ease but is uneasy and fumbling when it comes to dealing with people. Danny pines for Marina, who finds meaning only in the sea. Even the minor characters -- the frustrated scientists in the Inverness lab, the storekeeper swaying as she watches Victor sing, the two women sitting alone, wistful and sad, at the ceilidh -- are marked by yearning, feelings of something not attained. The ending drives this home -- the empty apartment high above the bustle, the ringing phone unanswered. It's all very subtle and not so easy to decipher, cloaked as it is in humor and eccentricity. And it only adds to the luster of one of the best-written, best-acted and best-directed movies ever. Ten out of 10 without a doubt. "},{"Title":"Heartened by your comments","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was heartened to read so many positive reviews of such a wonderful film. My high school film students failed to embrace Local Hero and, though the film led to spirited discussions, I have considered not showing it again this year.  Your positive comments here may make me reconsider. "},{"Title":"Warm & quirky comedy.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sparkling and witty, this little bit has a new trick up it's sleeve every minute. It can get a little long at times but it's worth sticking around. There's an added treat for Star Wars fans our favorite X-Wing pilot Wedge shows up as the nympho innkeeper/jack-of-all-trades. This is a charming little flick, enjoy. "},{"Title":"Practically Flawless","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the first few minutes, during the Houston scenes, you'll be wondering whether you rented the wrong movie. But this is an almost flawless film which never fails to choke up even the most coldhearted viewers at the end. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful quaint movie, depicting the transformation of a big city American businessman sent to Scotland against his wishes.  Gradually he is won over by the simple life and quirks of the Scottish villagers (while they become a little more like Americans, but in a subtle and humourous, not tragic way).  He is changed for the better by his experience and hopefully so will you.  A very peaceful movie.  "},{"Title":"Mans eternal search for himself.","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The most beautiful and lyrical film of my film lexicon. The humor, the music, the acting, Lancaster, Scotland; everything that makes it such an intoxicating piece of film ART. I adore this film.  "},{"Title":"Let's Get Native.","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An easygoing, gentle,and thoroughly successful comedy. Peter Riegert is an executive at the Houston firm of Knox Oil, in the employ of Mr. Happer himself, Burt Lancaster. Lancaster has a terrific plan to develop an oil refinery on the Scottish coast and sends Riegert there to negotiate the deal with the presumably naive villagers who own the beach and the land around it. Riegert runs into some genuinely weird Scottish folk and winds up in love with the place. Lancaster arrives to take over the arrangements himself but is entranced by the night sky and sends Riegert home, telling him, I'm glad I got here in time to interrupt YOUR refinery caper. Riegert sadly goes back to Houston, having sampled for a few weeks the single-malt heaven of being at peace with himself.That's the story. Pretty simple in itself. But Bill Forsyth, the writer and director, has imbued it with a fey quality suggestive of pixies and fairies and will o' the wisps. It's totally charming. I'll mention just a few features that are liable to catch the eye. Or the ear, for that matter. The Scottish accent in the end makes itself at home in your vestibular canals. It will be the petrochemical capitol of the world comes out as It wheel be the pay-tro chemical capitol of the wurruld. The stunning Jenny Seagrove plays a mysterious rubber-suited SCUBA diver who is creating a biological map of the bay. Her would-be lover, kissing her rubber-suited knee, is only slightly put off when he notices that her toes are webbed, a sea-girl wreathed with seaweed red and brown. Two men are watching her walk away. Nice pair of lungs on that, remarks one. Yes, great assets, comments the other. This scene, like every other one, is played absolutely deadpan. Every utterance sounds earnest. There are very few smiles and the only person who laughs on screen is a friendly visiting Russian fisherman.An example of more humor, just so that you may see that this is the other side of the moon of the Marx Brothers. Two men are sitting at the dinner table. One tries to squeeze his half lemon on his fish and a squirt hits Peter Riegert in his left eye. Riegert winces and claps his napkin to his wounded eye, brushing off the other's apology. Then Riegert squirts some lemon juice on his fish and hits himself in his other eye. Cut.The newly arrived Riegert decides to get to know the villagers and starts schmoozing a knot of fishermen on the wharf. They are friendly but a little wary. A baby in a nearby stroller begins to whimper and Riegert smiles at the tot and asks, Whose baby is that? The men all go silent and stare at their feet.Two old geezers are grumbling over their beer about how fast things are changing, how the old days will soon be gone forever. One of them asks conversationally how much the other has been offered for his land. The second guy rattles off a complicated payment scheme like One million from the front end with a two percent trust in structured derivative instruments. Back in Houston, Lancaster has hired a shrink who visits him regularly in his office. The shrink is determined to force Lancaster to get in touch with his feelings or some such nonsense. In the middle of a session, the shrink comes up with something like, You know, you're really a stupid son of a bitch. Lancaster is shocked. No, really, you're a terrible a**hole. Lancaster throws him out, still swearing, and the shrink takes to climbing the outside of Lancaster's office building and posting signs like Happer is a mother --. Lancaster orders his secretary to call the police and have the madman shot, precipitating his flight from Houston.The air in this tiny Scottish village is as strange as the sea that throws up on its beach oranges from South Africa and coconuts from the Bahamas. Out of the sky come meteors, Aurora Borealis, RAF Harriers on practice bombing runs, and helicopters with a bright light in front, like a living eye.The performances are as liesurely as the unfolding events. No one runs around or shouts. Lancaster in his silver age is fine. The villagers are completely convincing. It's all reminiscent of one of Ealing's comedies from the 50s, without any manic element. More deliberate, like The Maggie. It's not a masterpiece but it's an enthralling and whimsical piece of life -- modern and benighted -- seen through a ludic prism. "},{"Title":"one for the time capsule","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" somewhere a college freshman is watching this going -- isn't that the guy from Animal House, hey, isn't that the old movie star -- HEY, THIS MOVIE IS REALLY GOOD.and it is.how some films end up endlessly lauded, and others are secret handshakes, I'll never know, but knowing about this one puts you in the club. all the sub-parts work, from Lancaster's relationship with his shrink, to the romantic moments in Scotland. The town as a character, has never been done better.the humanity of this film is what's sterling. everyone else can crow about helicopter shots, backwards tracking, etc. i prefer films which capture humanity. "},{"Title":"Understated brilliance","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No film quite captures the sense of life as inexplicable yet joyous the way Local Hero does, yet it is not a feel-good movie in the clichéd Hollywood way. Its charms are all the stronger for feeling earned, and truly lived. I love this movie more than life itself, and you will, too, after you've seen it as many times as me.I wish I could do adequate justice to the humor and poignancy the film captures. It's correct to say there are no real laugh-out-loud moments, at least not Something About Mary-style belly laughs. But there are some real chuckles to be had, and not all of them on the first viewing. An example It took me until tonight, and viewing number ten, before I caught a brief exchange between Mac and Olsen. The two stand in a graveyard outside a church, which must be centuries old. Olsen very cheerfully tells Mac this is where they are putting the commissary for the planned refinery. Mac just nods.Mac is a rich central character. I love Peter Riegart's declamatory way with lines, and the way he manages to go local without losing the sense of being the alien in the film. At heart he is like all the Bill Forsyth characters, namely Gregory and Dickie Bird, a lonely man for whom a relationship with the opposite sex is but a pipe dream, and not an oilman's pipe dream, either. He doesn't even find a prospect, as Stella is married and her happy marriage to Gordon seems to exist only to torture Mac with visions of domestic bliss unfulfilled. Mac manages to hold onto his dignity, and a sense of rightness that makes him a privilege to identify with, but there is never any easy Hollywood clinch to relieve us of the feeling Mac is going to be any less lonely than the rest of us. Local Hero is a great film to watch while having the blues, not so much as remedy but accompaniment.A lot of people make the point this is about Americans trying to corrupt Scots. We do hear a bit in the beginning about Mac's Salinas deal, and the fact this time they are dealing with people like us. The sense of capitalist exploitation is never far removed. But for most of the film, its the Scots trying to exploit the Americans, who in turn seem the ones with the problem following through. Gordon's innocent advice to Mac to walk the beaches for a while ends up queering the deal for everyone, for it is by walking the beaches that Mac makes his connection to the area's natural beauty and particularly its starscape. When he tells all to Happer, of course, then Happer arrives with his plans for an observatory, which means work and money but no instant millionaires among the locals, who have had dollar signs dancing around their eyeballs from the beginning. Even Victor, the Soviet fisherman, has a clear materialist perspective You can't eat scenery.The scenery is magnificent, as is the music. The direction is what stands out most, though, and remarkable in that Bill Forsyth managed such a thoroughly accomplished movie without ever coming close again. Even Gregory's Girl was amateurish and sloppy in places, but Local Hero is a classic of the first water. Why could he never manage even a good film after a great one like this? Stonehenge is less of a riddle. "},{"Title":"Like visiting an old friend","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First saw this movie in an art-house theater back in the 80's. Saw it again a few years later on cable, and just watched the DVD tonight. Seeing Mac and Danny and Gordon and Stella and the rest were like revisting with old friends. The characters here are so well drawn that you truly feel you know them. The movie is very subtle, slowly revealing the layers of its characters. The plot here, while quite good, is almost secondary. Its really a we don't see this kind of movie anymore. Bravo to Bill Forsyth! "}{"Title":"Local hero makes good...","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I feel very guilty being Scottish and never having seen Bill Forsyth's smashing film before, all I can say it was worth the wait.A gentle comedy-drama, beautifully shot and crisply acted throughout, it sees American gopher Peter Reigart inveigled into the local community to which he's been sent by eccentric, skywatching US oil-billionaire to buy up for a new refinery which would naturally completely butcher the local landscape and environment. Not that the locals care too much, following in the time-honoured example of their Whisky Galore cinematic ancestors, they sniff a profit, big profit, but naturally there's a fly in the ointment and the best laid plans stand to be thwarted by one irascible fisherman, who just happens to share the name of billionaire Burt Lancaster and his eye for the skies.Given recent events in Aberdeenshire involving Donald Trump's big cheque-ed and bigger chequered attempts to convert a swathe of land into a golf course, the story, watched today, remains surprisingly relevant and contemporary. The characters are skilfully moved about by writer / director Forsyth who displays a fine eye for detail and a finer ear for dialogue. One or two of the background scenes don't quite work, but the big ones do, plus there's a lingering sense of mystery in one or two of the loose ends - whose baby is it anyway, why is the local minister a black African and are water-baby Marina's feet really webbed? The acting too is pitch-perfect, the mostly Scottish troupe all acquitting themselves well with restraint and mostly avoiding the parochial ticks which could so easily have blighted the production. Neither are they overwhelmed by their proximity to Hollywood legend Lancaster who sensibly plays it natural too.A subtle examination of human needs and greeds, this is a delightful film and worthy of comparison with any other British comedy-drama film you care to mention, past or present. "},{"Title":"A Touch of Home","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was born just a spit along the coast from Pennan (filming location) in 1983 and grew up in Aberdeen and as such I can attest that this film, one of my all time favourites is as much documentary as anything else. The characters in this film can be found up and down the North East Coast the scenery is spectacular (although I would have to be bias and say my own home town of Cullen is much more stunning than Pennan lol). Filmed at a time when the oil boom in Scotland was pretty much at its height there we were used to the sight of high flying Americans, most of them would fall in love with the North East and many are still there to this day, taken prisoner by the scenery and the people. Local Hero goes down as one of my top 5 movies of all time especially now as I am working in the middle east, watching it gives me just that little reminder of home that always brings a smile to my face. For me the standout moments of the film take place in the Lab scenes, Ricky Fulton did not do many movies but his performance as the scientist was small but excellent. RIP Ricky...... a great Scots comedian sadly missed. Burt Lancaster was also fantastic... as was Fulton MacKay (best known for his portrayal of Mr MacKay the prison warder in the legendary Porridge series starring the legendary Ronnie Barker). Oh and for those of you unfamiliar with Scotland in the 1980s.... the visit of the Russians despite the cold war? Not uncommon..... 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Wistful Masterpiece","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Local Hero is a special movie. The plot is basically about a love affair between a man and a place. A Houston oil company executive named MacIntyre (Peter Riegert) is sent to Scotland to supervise the purchase of a remote coastal community so his company can tear it down and build an oil refinery. When he and his Scottish counterpart (Peter Capaldi) arrive they discover a quaint little fishing village with a quirky population, including a omnipresent speeding motorcyclist, a marine biologist with webbed feet, a Russian fisherman, and a baby of uncertain parentage. The local hotelier/lawyer/real estate agent/waiter (Denis Lawson) draws out the negotiations, hoping for a windfall for himself and his fellow citizens, giving the oil men a chance to develop a fondness for the remote seaside burg and it's eccentric residents. Reigert goes from button-downed businessman to seashell collector and star gazer (with each day he spends in the town MacIntyre sheds a piece of business attire - first his tie, then his coat, then his watch). He is seduced by the town and it's understated magic. The President of the company (Burt Lancaster) eventually flies in to help wrap up negotiations, albeit with a few major changes.Local Hero moves at a leisurely pace which allows the audience to enjoy subtle character development and to simply observe everyday life. Director Forsythe injects a wry sense of humor and an unexpected sense of wonder into the film. One minute a man is doing his Jimmy Stewart impression, the next minute we're marveling at the beauty of the Aurora Borialas. The film works it's charms on us just as the town does with the oil men. As the movie winds down you'll find yourself wistfully sad that the experience is over, but much richer for having made the trip. "},{"Title":"Making A Living Isn't The Same As Making Money","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Often, the more you think about a movie, the more you realize how lame or shallow it was, and how many problems there were with it. Local Hero is quite the opposite. The more I think about it, the more appreciation I have for it. It's a low-key, deliberately paced quasi-comedy with good dramatic content that deals with questions of lifestyle, and the relationship between lifestyle and money.The ostensible star of the movie is Peter Riegert as McIntyre (I can't even remember if he had a first name; it seems to me he was always called Mac or McIntyre.) He's a pretty high-powered sales executive for a Houston based oil and gas company who gets sent to Scotland to negotiate the purchase of an entire town, because the company has decided that the beach and surrounding area are the perfect location to build a refinery. Mac doesn't want to go, but he has no choice. It turns out that the locals are quite willing to sell - there's nothing left for them, no employment, no future that they can see - and they're happy to take the money and run. But the strangest thing happens. Mac starts to fall in love with this place. It seems to start when the car he's in injures a rabbit, and this high-powered sales guy adopts it and tries to bring it back to health, only to have it killed and fed to him by a local - after all, here they eat rabbits. That whole incident brings out Mac's softer side. As the movie progresses, Mac evolves dramatically. It takes about an hour, but that was the point at which I suddenly realized that Mac - who always wore a suit and tie - had suddenly lost the tie. Then the dress shirt was replaced with a sweater, then the jacket was gone, then he grew a beard. He likes the calmer, slower lifestyle.If Riegert is the star, the protagonists are essentially Fulton Mackay as Ben and Burt Lancaster as Happer. Ben is the monkey wrench in the town's plan to sell. He owns the beach (his family has owned it for 400 years he says.) Aside from the beach, though, he doesn't seem to have much. He lives in a ramshackle home that looks ready to fall down. Mac assumes that a bit of money will convince him to sell, but it doesn't. The offers get higher and higher, but Ben can't figure out why he'd want to leave. He loves the beach. Mac tells him the company will buy him a beach - in Hawaii or Australia. But what would I do for a living? Ben asks. Mac is confused. He'll have lots of money after the sale; he won't have to do anything for a living. But there's the point - for Ben, what he does for a living isn't money or employment; it's about lifestyle. He doesn't have much, but he's happy. Happer, on the other hand, is the owner of the oil company. He's filthy rich, but he also understands that life is more than money. He's an amateur astronomer - he tells Mac to watch the sky over Scotland and keep him up to date on what he sees. Finally, to close the deal, Happer comes to Scotland and meets with Ben, supposedly to close the deal, except that another plan emerges - one that will save both the town and its lifestyle.The closing scene is powerful. Mac has returned to Houston. He pins up pictures of his time in Scotland in his kitchen and stands on his balcony, clearly not all that enthralled to be back, as he looks at the bright lights of the city and sirens wail in the background. Then, the movie cuts away to a scene of the town in Scotland. It's ambiguous does Mac give up his high-powered life in Houston to go back, or is he left wistfully remembering the place where he was so happy.I could relate a bit to Mac's dilemma. I grew up in Toronto, then lived for three years in a tiny fishing outport in Newfoundland. There's something about those kinds of towns and that type of culture that gets into you; that you never really get over, no matter where you end up. There were a couple of minor characters that are worthy of note here. Christopher Rozycki plays the Soviet sailor Victor, who seems to have a far better sense of capitalism that Mac does. They become friends, and as Mac is struggling with his dilemma, Victor simply says (not callously but realistically) you can't eat scenery. Then there's Gyearbuor Asante as the ironically named Reverend Macpherson. He came to the area from Africa as a student minister, he tells Mac, and he just couldn't leave. Which is the whole point of the story.If you need a lot of action and adventure and excitement, this isn't for you. But it's a great human story that deals with the important question of what really matters in life. It also has some great shots of the Scottish coast and the village in which it's set. I thoroughly enjoyed it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A subtle little gem","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a twist on an old theme of sudden wealth dangled in front of the inhabitants of an out of the way village.The villagers embrace the whole concept of being wealthy, even down to the level of arguing about the kinds of cars they will use to transport livestock - a Massarati or a Rolls Royce.There are no 2 X 4s here and the laughs are ongoing for the village is full of surprises and what you think is going to happen often spins off into unexpected areas.The plot involves a massive Texas oil company that wants to establish a refinery in an outlying coastal area of Scotland. They send a man by the name of MacIntyre (played by Peter Riegert) as they think he could establish a rapport with the locals with his obviously Scottish ancestry. It turns out his name is invented by his Hungarian parents and there is no understanding of the Scots in him.The small slow changes in Mac are what drives the film, the transformation from a perfect yuppie with a perfect lifestyle in Huston to an unshaven, dancing shell collector and star gazer.He fits in well with the oddballs in the village, the mad biker who nearly mows down everything in sight and the Gothic teenager with her baby surrounded by all the men who could possibly be the father of the child. Wonderful stuff. The lack of moral judgement and the acceptance of the unusual in small villages that rings so true.Burt Lancaster plays the oil company CEO whose hobby is astronomy and more specifically finding a comet to call his own and who can't remember Mac from minute to minute and is haunted by his shrink (the only performance that I found over the top and quite irritating).But other parts are beautifully cast the local hotelier and general factotum of the town Denis Lawson playing Gordon Urquhart and Peter Capaldi as the oil company underling who enchants the marine biologist Jenny Seagrove.Bill Forsythe, who also did such a great job directing Gregory's Girl, directs and shows off the magnificent scenery to full advantage. Makes one want to race there and settle down in the wee village.8 out of 10. Not to be missed. I'd watch it again. "},{"Title":"the music in the restaurant scene","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" an absolutely amazing film.... I am trying to find out if anyone knows the title of the music in the restaurant scene.... its the same every time he goes in there whether he's having breakfast,lunch or dinner.... does anyone know the title of it?I adore the film, and everywhere i search i can only find the mark knopfler sound track..... there must be a way to find out where the song came from.... but it is not part of the original score.... there has to be a fan somewhere who knows this information,i simply must know!!!!!!I love its whimsical, twee loveliness.It truly is a beautiful film to watch over and over again....it gets better every time. "},{"Title":"Ambig-a-doon","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An oil magnate (Lancaster) bowls into a small Scottish town with his flunky (Riegert) in tow, with the purpose of wresting the property out of the locals hands. To everyone's surprise almost all the locals can't wait to unload it and get rich.An older friend recommended this movie to me in my teens. I didn't hate it but I didn't quite understand it either. Hundreds of previous typical Hollywood plots and scripts had absolutely ruined my ability to actually think while watching a movie. What was I to do with a movie that didn't just foist brainless moment-to-moment stimulation on me? ...that didn't end with a climactic duel or explosion? ...that didn't scapegoat some 2-dimensional villain? ...that asked me to pay attention and be present? ...that asked me to consider scenes that weren't designed to guide the dumbest viewer's perception to a facile, foregone conclusion? This movie started me on a lifetime of asking more from movies.For Peter Reieger to take this role after Animal House is to his credit; it's just astonishing to go from a silly crowdpleaser to something so ambiguous. The last scene, which would usually be omitted, is refreshing in its honest bleakness. As a good company-man Riegert has to be the first to leave the party. He fies back to America, tosses his keys on the table and the films holds for a few beats. He opens a beer, goes out on his balcony and the tone strongly hints that he wants to be back there. This is the a really lovely ending, getting at the essence of travel. At the end of it, you get a few seconds of relief at being home followed by the powerful longing to be back in that different, more stimulating world.Rushmore is the most recent iteration of this type of film. I really need to review this. "},{"Title":"Another Brigadoon?","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching Local Hero put me in mind of that other Scottish based film with that wonderful Lerner&Loewe score, Brigadoon. That one concerned a Scottish village that got itself raptured out of time and space and certainly is spared the critical decision that this village and its inhabitants have to make.An American oil company, active in North Sea offshore drilling, wants to buy the town literally, tear it down and build a refinery and dredge the harbor to make it deeper for ocean going ships. And they're willing to pay, they've got gazillions to spend.Looking to close the deal is young and aggressive executive Peter Riegert who I guess went to this line of work after graduating from that university with its notorious fraternity. He likes to do things by telex, saves him from the human contact.But human contact he gets here and it does make him rethink things.I met Peter Riegert a year ago when he was touring with his film King of the Corner, which by the way is a gem, and asked him about this film and working with Burt Lancaster who plays the oil company president and amateur astronomer.What you saw on the screen is what you got with Burt. He sounded exactly in normal conversation like he does on screen. He was in some awe of him, telling the audience that he grew up watching Burt on the screen in such films as The Crimson Pirate and Gunfight at the OK Corral. What I remember best was Riegert telling us of that piece of career advice he gave him. Alternate your films as he learned to. Do one for yourself and one for the poke as Burt Lancaster put it. I can just hear him saying it too.Local Hero is a good piece of entertainment, but I wondered why no one in the village suggested the Brigadoon option as a way of having your cake and eating it too. "},{"Title":"Top Ten","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Friends have seen this and not been as impressed, but being Irish I probably get more of the humor. The score is terrific, scenery gorgeous and the characters richly drawn. This is one of my all-time faves. ...and there are two G's in Buggin' Off!! - just one of the many memorable lines....The plot, thin as it is, actually is more than enough to support the film's treatment of corporate impacts to the environment and culture as well as the film's homage to Scotland and it's treasures. See the film, don't expect wiz-bang or shoot-em-ups, just look forward to a good feeling afterward and lingering desires to see the aurora borealis, swim with a mermaid, work the beach and write music like Mark Knopfler. "},{"Title":"Marvelous 'fish out of water' film","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With an excellent score by Mark Knopfler (Dire Straits) and a literate and amusing screenplay, this is one of the best fish out of water films you can find. Burt Lancaster's near-cameo role as an oil baron ranks up there with his work on Rocket Gibraltar or Atlantic City. And Peter Riegert's work as the frustrated oil company executive sent by Burt to buy a remote Scottish village so Burt can build an oil refinery/depot spotlights how underappreciated Riegert is as an actor. Director Bill Forsyth nailed down a not-so-minor classic with this effort. In a small role, Jenny Seagrove shows why she is not only beautiful but extremely talented. The cinematography is incredible as well. Don't miss it.  "}{"Title":"A gentle, fun movie.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie you watch with a smile on your face. There are so many fun, or cute scenes throughout. But the movie has a bite too. At the end, when Peter Riegert's character ends up back in his apartment in Dallas with all the noise, the lights, the people and the pollution in contrast to the town he just left, it really gets to me.Besides all the quirky characters and beautiful scenes, you have to watch for Burt Lancaster's parts. Each time he's on the screen it's magical. "},{"Title":"Film Locations","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For those who cannot gen enough of the scenery - there has been confusion over where sections of the film were actually shot.As mentioned earlier by a previous respondant, the 'Village' is indeed Pennan, on the north-east coast of Scotland (on the B9031) between the township of Banff, and the larger town of Frazerburgh.The major disappointment for many visitors is that the Telephone Box used in the film was brought in especially for the filming - this can be easily spotted wherever it is shown on the film as it has simply been 'placed' on the ground, rather than 'sunk' into the surrounding ground. There IS a similiar box located elsewhere within the village, but it is not the prop used in the film.Anyone wishing to visit the delightful beach may get tired walking from the village to the shore - it is not (as the film implies) just past the headland. When the villagers head off to the shore, they're actually travelling 180 miles, to a section of coast near a different village (Morar) on the West coast of Scotland (on the A830) nearest town is Fort William, and better known for being the location of the UK's highest mountain peak, Ben Nevis.Morar, and the white sands are extremely beautiful, and when the weather is fine, the distant islands 'twinkle' in the sea.  Finally, only three locations were used in the USA, the driving sequence with Reigert driving into the office, the street scene where Happer (Lancaster) arrives by car at the Knox HQ building, and the final scene with Reigert in his flat, looking out on the skyline.Happer's office interior, the stairs and the planetarium were all built from scratch inside an industrial unit (small empty factory) on the norther outskirts of Fort William. The Texan vista was a panoramic scene blown up and lit to give the appearance of a US location. The reason?Lancaster's schedule.  There is a story (not confirmed by anyone) that Lancaster was happy to work on the film, but was only prepared to devote a few days for filming, whilst he got on with the serious business of playing Golf.  The scene outside the Knox HQ was the only section showing Happer on US soil, everything else what shot in Scotland, and crafted to fit round his schedule.The church, located on a small grassy headland not far from the beach (where the locals held their meeting to negotiate their financial deals with the oil company) was build by the film company for the shoot - it was a complete face, held up by scaffolding, and there were problems of high winds blowing sections of it away.  This explains why there were to recognised paths to the door of the church - it had just been popped onto a grassy field.  Once filing of these scenes had been completed, the church was taken down.Finally, the scene with the water tank, where coastal erosion and environmental impact tests were undertaken, was alluded in the script to be 'in Inverness'. It was, in fact, Glasgow, Scotland's industrial capital. "},{"Title":"Local Hero A Greatly Amusing and Entertaining Film","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A small and humble cult film, Local Hero gave birth to the careers of many of its participants, as well as heralding the arrival of this branch of low-key, location dependent comedies.Based on his soi-disant Scottish ancestry, up and coming Texan oil representative Mac is sent to the small and unassuming Ferness in Scotland to coordinate its sale and the installation of a new refinery in its place. Dealing with a host of bizarre characters on each side of the Atlantic, he comes to slowly notice and appreciate the differences between the two.I think the fact that I went into Local Hero knowing absolutely nothing about it was instrumental in creating the final impression it had upon me. For a reason entirely unbeknownst to me, I was expecting some sort of small scale character drama. As such, I was rather taken aback to find myself laughing at the ensemble of eccentric characters before me, each of them hilariously entertaining in their own way. From the skyward facing mustachioed magnate to the adorably clueless-in-love Scot, the film is rife with delightful characters, presented by an equally wonderful cast. The plot is fairly straight-forward and uncomplicated, paving the way for the film to prove itself with its wit. And it does just that, and thensome. Be it the strange interactions of Happer and psychologist, the simplicity of the village folk, the pathetic but endearing attempts of Oldsen to woo his beloved Marina, or the small and genius tidbits of incidental humour which perforate the narrative, the film never fails to entertain. The characters are each very enjoyable, their eccentricities complementing each other greatly and making for a pleasing string of interactions, most particularly in the enduring patience and politeness of Mac towards the invasive populace. And, to appease that originally misled section of my mind, there is a running element of drama in the form of Mac's adaptation to the considerably different Scottish life. His slow realisation of the downsides of capitalistic avariciousness and the concomitant emptiness and lesser quality of life forms a moral backbone to the story, supporting us as we are ensnared by the ribcage of comedy.With a fantastic wit, Local Hero brings the best in comic characters and performances and combines them with a neat storyline and undercurrent of social conscience. All these ingredients intermingle to create a greatly amusing and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"The film meanders around with little tension and the ending was not believable.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Local hero I felt it was really a weak exploration of a Scottish village with an ending that made absolutely no sense. What hero?Instead of a strong plot with tension and release, it felt like the movie stumbled around a field dodging cow pats, finally heading towards an exit until all of a sudden it starts hallucinating, trips over and lands face first in a steamy pile of horse manure. If you just want to see a Scottish village then maybe you will enjoy it.The spoilers here mainly relate to main plot and the nonsensical ending, and don't discuss the Scottish village. So I hope that if you still decide to see the movie after reading this review, it will spare you the disappointment of the terrible ending.***PLOT OUTLINE (MINOR SPOILERS)***The main plot consists of an oil company trying to buy a piece of Scotland so they can drill for oil. They describe how don't have much money to pull it off this time (so expensive fantasies are surely out of the question?).So throughout the movie you wonder if/where it will come unstuckWill the villagers will oppose the destruction of area? Will the villagers not want to sell? Will the villagers want too much? Will environmentalists oppose the oil platform? Although all these questions are explored I felt there was only serious tension in the third one.And then the movie quickly ends in the most unlikely way...*** MAJOR SPOILERS & PLOT TWIST ENDING ****Finally after over an hour something happens.We have a hold out. In this area, magically the aeroplanes that bomb the beach next to the village have disappeared. Serene and peaceful all of a sudden in the evening light. Yet negotiations don't seem impossible...Enter the eccentric manager/CEO! Lets get a deal going and let the credits roll!Er. no. I like plot twists, but can you believe that the eccentric manager decides to build offshore, and wants to waste money on an observatory, and then the second salesman pipes up 'can you build a fish farm(?) for this hot lady down the beach so I can get into her pants?'. Everyone cringes and the manager says 'What a fantastic idea! Lets do it!'. The movie quickly turns into a mush about the salesman for the last couple of minutes, it was so bad I could barely watch it (nothing to do with fish lady) and the credits roll.Unfortunately we don't get to see the part where the board of directors fires the manager for wasting money, the villagers unhappy because they aren't paid, and nothing is built because the hold out didn't sell. "},{"Title":"Haggis Envy","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Growth for the sake of growth is the ideology of the cancer cell. - Edward Abbey Bill Forsyth directs Local Hero, one of several films released in the early 1980s credited with rekindling the British film industry. The plot? A gang of big city oilmen attempt to buy up an idyllic Scottish village with the hopes of turning the location into a hotbed of commercial exploitation. One by one this gang convinces our lovable Scottish locals to sell and give up their property, but are stopped in their tracks by an elderly oddball named Ben Knox. Ben refuses to move.The film stars an ageing Burt Lancaster as Felix Happer, the chairman of the oil corporation. His henchman is Mac MacIntyre, played by Peter Riegert. Both men go to Scotland with the hopes of laying the foundations for dredging, but come away with a deep appreciation for Scotland instead. It's an archetypal anti-urban, anti-corporation comedy, our yuppie, big city slickers falling for the beauty of nature, community, the allure of life in the slow lane and the charms of rural countrysides. If this all sounds familiar (Cars, Doc Hollywood, Mr Deeds Goes To Town, The Englishman Who Went Up a Hill but came Down a Mountain, Powell and Pressburger's I Know Where I'm Going etc) its because it is, but Forsyth's style is unusual and he delivers the tale as best as it been done.Much of the film watches as the villagers become bewitched with the idea of becoming rich. As their greed grows, MacIntyre begins to shed his materialistic lifestyle. His changes are subtle, and conveyed visually he stops wearing a tie, he stops wearing a suit altogether, he starts drinking with locals etc. This gentle, affectionate tone permeates the entire film. Forsyth slowly draws out the peculiarities and graces of both his rural folk and city folk and aided by musician Mark Knopfler, creates a mystical quality, a superb sense of location, and memorably contrasts Houston, Texan and Scottish skylines, the latter of which is beautifully enhanced by the Aurora Borealis.Films like this were a dime a dozen in the 80s, reacting against the oil boom, Reaganism, Thatcherism and rise in Yuppie and Wall Street chic. It's one of those films which words like feel-good, sentimental and heartwarming are routinely applied to, complete with a fantasy ending in which oil barons stop dredging and start saving communities. This fantasy, of course, does not correlate with our world. Big Oil murders for money and has no moral compass whatsoever. Local Hero's style, however, is very special; Michael Mann meets Ken Loach and an 80s synth band. Ironically, Forsyth would give up film directing after finding experiences working in Hollywood to be soulless, greedy and distasteful. He'd retire to the countryside.8.5/10 &#x96; Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one proof that a good story to tell does not imply in having two hundred million dollars to make a movie from that All is good in Local Hero. Many scenes to remember. The rabbit, the baby, all the people with 2 jobs in a so small village, the fishermen discussing about the space on the backseat of an Italian Maseratti. The traffic represented by a single motorcycle. The piece of the refinery miniature the scientists offer to Mac to take (a very similar scene was on Woody Allen's Love and Death from '75). The Russian fisherman that operates on the stock market... Casserole au Lapin, the black priest named Mac on Scotland.A film to see many times. And the music from Mark Knofler is really beautiful... "},{"Title":"Gentle gem","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a wry, gentle, eccentric comedy about an attempt by a Houston oil company to buy an entire coastal village in northern Scotland. The acting is first-rate, as is the directing. The Scottish scenery is breathtaking. The film begins very slowly, and one wonders what, if anything, is going to happen. The corporate head, played by Burt Lancaster, is encountering a nutty psychologist who favors personal abuse as a tool of his craft. A young executive is being ordered, along with an aide, to travel to the Scottish site and along the way the pair runs over a rabbit. The inn-keeper at their destination seems primarily interested in having sex with the young female owner of the establishment. The aide becomes fascinated with a beautiful young scientist who seems always to be in the water during research--and has webbed feet. But it all makes sense, in time, and the film turns out to be a total delight. The movie is recommended especially for Anglophiles, the sort of people who enjoy Whiskey Galore and the Secret of Roan Inish. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Movie That's Not For Everyone","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I had to choose one favorite movie (and I'm glad that I don't), Local Hero is it. But I've found that it's not everyone's cup of tea, and I don't usually recommend it to others. It's a quiet movie, with slow progressions of plot linked with humor that rarely rises above the subtle level. The performances are extremely good--Peter Riegert portrays the fish out of water role with a quiet nuance, and it's fascinating to watch his character develop through the course of the movie. Supporting characters, from Gordon Urquhart on down to unnamed villagers who are on screen for only seconds of time, are absolutely wonderful. The screenplay, which includes dialogue that helps to round out all of the characters as much as their actions do, is a marvel. Mark Knopfler's soundtrack could not possibly be better--it's as much a part of the film as the lovely scenery. The fact that many points about Local Hero remain unexplained--why the motorcyclist roars through the streets, why the woman in the boat is screaming at Victor as he's dropped off at the village, and, of course, what the ringing phone at the very end means--only makes the movie a more engaging experience for the viewer.Local Hero is not perfect (or even really recommended) for everyone, of course; my tastes aren't superior to anyone else's, but this film is perhaps a little too quiet and slow-paced for most people. In my view, however, Local Hero is a perfect movie. "},{"Title":"Quirky but funny with great performances","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first rented/watched this movie in 1984 I wasn't sure what to make of it. It was nothing like I anticipated. What really stood out was the musical score - particularly the music over the ending credits. If you are a fan of Mark Knoppfler (Dire Straits) be sure to watch and listen to this movie.Upon watching the film a 2nd time I was additionally taken by the writing, the acting and the beautiful Scottish landscape. This movie is a treasure but perhaps because I am from the U.S.and at the time had never visited any of the British Isles. I say that because there was a Scottish woman in our town who owned a local Scottish bakery that thought the movie was just 'dreadful, and made the Scots out to be stupid and heavy drinkers. Nonetheless, in the summer of '85 my, then, wife and two children and I went to the British Isles and visited the area(s) where the movie was filmed. We even stayed in the same hotel as the actors and crew (Banff Springs Hotel - no affiliation with the hotel in Calgary by the same name). The hotel was very proud of their 'participation' in the making of the movie. It was fascinating to drive down the main road, to that small seaside village on Scotland's North Sea (Pennan), just like Peter Reigert (Mac) did in the movie. The village is at the base of the cliffs so it is not visible by land only from the sea. I wanted my picture taken by the red phone box across from Gordon's hotel. Alas, the red box was flown in for the movie and was just a prop. But I digress.The movie has a certain charm, innocence and softness, quite unlike the movies of today that are 'in your face.' It appears to be going in four or five possible directions at one time but in the end there is one constant - secure the land.As someone else noted, Mac learns a few lessons about life and apparently comes home a better (albeit enlightened) man from the experience.It's not for everyone, but I found it very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Surprising movie...","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow..what a wonderful movie. I would love to find this little town in Scotland and visit for a day. For once, no overpowering computer generated special effects that take the place of plot accompanied by the hype before release. An actual movie that makes you think as you watch. And a great cast. Not to mention the sound track. Mark Knopfler provides hauntingly beautiful music. It's perfect. The best thing is, you totally escape into this movie. And it's even better after the fifth viewing. I've seen it multiple times and it's incredible how you'll notice some new little thing you missed the first time around. If you've never seen it before, watch it. If you like to watch people and their idiosyncrasies, you'll not be disappointed. It'll sneak up on you and make you smile. "}{"Title":"A film making wonder, a feast for the eyes","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are few films that I consider perfect but this is definitely one of them. There is so much to see and appreciate in this film that words fail me. The acting, the story, the scenery, and the cast of quirky characters all make for a cinematic experience you will never forget. There is no violence or special effects that are used these days to get the audience in the door. This is how movie used to be made; just a great story with great acting. Its the story of an American businessman in Scotland and the wonderful transformation he goes through on his journey to discovering what is truly important in life. You need to rent this movie and sit quietly as the story unfolds. This is not a movie you watch with 6 friends who insist on commenting on every scene. This is a film you watch alone on a rainy weekend afternoon. You will love this film. I do. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies, and a perfect example of a character-driven comedy. Another reviewer complained of its lack of plot, and that person missed the point. This is about people, and the universality of their wacky, greedy, oddball natures. It's also a film which requires several viewings to appreciate fully; there's a lot going on which isn't easily caught the first time. Local Hero is a film for adults not because of what's called Adult Material, but rather because one must have a certain perspective on life and human nature in order to appreciate it. Kids, if you don't like it now, wait 5 years and watch it again. It's a film which is still great after dozens of viewings, and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of All Time","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time. I was a teenager in the 1980's when I saw it for the first time. Burt Lancaster quickly became my favorite actor of all time and Mark Knopfler for musician. In our dog eat dog American way of life, this movie brought fresh air with human compassion and mystery. Juxtaposing the natural beauty of the night sky to that of the oil industry is perfect. Also, when this movie was made, we were still in a cold war with Russia and I liked how they brought the Russian fisherman into the story as a good and descent human being. It made me think. It made me think that not all the world was horrible. Maybe there are other ways for one to live a life. Maybe I'll find my own adventures and mystery along the way. "},{"Title":"Subtly beautiful & gently marvellous","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie more times than is reasonable and I always go back for more. I love the subtle performances and character interactions, the eccentric awkwardness that Bill Forsyth seems to be able to capture so well. The film is a delight from start to finish. Little unexplained characters and reoccurring jokes like the guy on the scooter rushing past the hotel every day almost always killing them. the mystery baby, the surprisingly money obsessed locals, and then Voctor the Russian comes to town. I remember when I first watched this film at this particular moment I thought what the hell is going to happen here? The on going crazy phsciatrist gag. and such a funny performance by Burt Lancaster. One of the two best lines in cinema during the Ceilidh with Victor and Mac. 'You speak a lot of sound for an oil man, cheers.' & 'Mac you can't eat scenery, cheers.' Just about as good a character story as you'd hope to see. With an apt storyline fantastically told. A triumph. "},{"Title":"Naive but nice","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This David Puttnam production - his first fully funded film - is a joy to watch because it brings together two mono-dimensional concepts (the oil industry and quaint Scotland) and teases out the unexpected similarities between them. Oilmen are renowned for their obsession with the 'bottom line' but Gordon Urquart - hotelier, accountant and part-time taxi-driver - runs them a close second. And MacIntyre (Peter Riegert) the king of the telex deal (this was before emails), is shown to be more sentimental and naive than the bunch of 'culchies' that he has been sent to exploit.At a script level, there are some nice touches, but also some fairly obvious ones... having the two principal women characters named Stella and Marina is maybe just a bit too twee.But, all in all, this is a lovely warm and humorous film that any cinephiles in their right minds should regard as fairly essential viewing. "},{"Title":"A slow-paced but wonderful film","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The pace is slow, there are no rapes, firefights, spectral monsters, or computerized special effects, but this is a wonderful movie nonetheless. Mark Knopfler's music is as always brilliant and appropriate, nearly all of the acting is perfect and natural, and Burt Lancaster is at his very best. The young US representative sent from Texas to buy up a lovely, traditional Highlands coastal town in order to build a oil terminal port finds himself falling in love, not only with the fantastic scenery, but also with the simple life. All of the small points of village life ring true, the emotions are honest, and the conclusions are heart-warming. Most of all -- most of all -- there is the scenery, stunning coastal Scotland, which would be worth the price of admission even without the plot and characters -- like The Railway Station Man's coast of Donegal. "},{"Title":"Great, Great Movie (and your kids can watch it)","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well take this as a fact. This is probably the first movie I am writing a comment about. And I have seen many good movies. So I must have liked this one.My friends know me for being bad about stocking up on cheap DVD's. If I see those piles in Wal-Mart with DVD's for $4.96 I try to write down some of the names or remember and then check the rating on IMDb. I buy a lot of them either because they are high rated here or because I know something about the movie. So anyway I got this movie from one of those clearance DVD's baskets. It stayed on my shelf for may be a year or two before I unwrap it.I normally find fairly good movies that way. But this is a brilliant movie compared to many I have seen ever. This movie is - beautiful (picture, scenery wise), - funny, - full of general goodness, - a great story, - you can watch it with you kids (id this with everybody? - I find it so difficult to find movies to watch with my 12yo daughter). "},{"Title":"I made it","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I see this film was the 14th march of 1984. It was in Paris and I was very sad no being in Brittany. So when I went out, after the film, I had got the same feeling than Mac looking the town in the night in the end of the film. So that is a very special film for me.Now I live in Brittany, working on tourism development in a magnificent region (like in the film, but in Brittany). Mac's dream I've made it.In august, I've planned to travel to Scotland I will phone from Pennan...For those who like Local Hero and British films, try the previous Forsyth film Gregory's girl. It's a very great little film with plenty Scottish accents. The hero is John Gordon Sinclair the man on the motorcycle and playing drums in Local Hero... I've also seen Gregory's two girls, but I don't like it. This sort of film is not for sequel...Bye. Kenavo.  "},{"Title":"Growing up","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Many interesting things having been said in the past comments and I'd like to throw my 2-cents in. Of course this film is about capitalism and big business trying to fiddle with less fortunate people and wrecking their lives, like the people from the small fishing village on the coast of Scotland (Inverness). But it's also about a lonely, emotionally impaired man (Mac MacIntyre), who has no real friends and even his ex-wife won't talk with him without ending up in an ugly dispute. His life is all about his work at Knox Oil & Gas and his toys (the Porsche, the stereo, the condo and even the eletric briefcase) but his real feelings are deeply shuttered in. When his Scotland mission begins, so does his road to maturity as he relaxes from the work pressures and begins to appreciate people for what they really are, not for what they have. He finally realizes that although he lives in a big US city (Houston), he's more lonely and unappreciated there than in Inverness, a small town where he comes to know and be known by every one there, finding warmth and companionship for the first time in his life.Mac situation parallels with his boss (Ben Happer), a powerful, lonely and very private man, whose lifestyle resembles a lot Mac's, with no room in his life for anything but running his company and his hobby, astronomy. He feels bad about it and even tries therapy, not for solving his problems but to ease his guilt. There's a a very revealing dialog between Happer and Moritz, his therapist, when he offers his patient a rather clear and precise diagnosis of the situation and then he caves in, telling him to go along with this situation, for the fear of losing a wealthy patient.In the end, Ben is as hollow and imature as in the beginning of the movie, compared to Mac, who ends up in peace with himself, strong enough to try fixing his life and understanding much better what's really important for him; Ben is still emotionally a child (he's excited because now he has a new toy, the village of Inverness) but Mac is now a man, ready to be happy. "},{"Title":"A real gem of a film.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A complete delight. One of those rare films that has no real point but still succeeds in staying with you. A snapshot of a rare, absurd moment and place. Beautiful locations and subdued, charming performances make this a keeper. "}{"Title":"let me in !","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie only twice  in 1983, and today. The pleasure is the same, even if I'm rather different now of what I was when I was fourteen. The plot is clever  a texan petrol industry worker comes to scottland (he's been sent because is name is MacIntyre - actualy he is not scottish at all) where he has to buy a whole fishermen's village to build a petrol-tankers terminal with refinery, etc. But nothing works normaly  the people of the village are not oponents to the project (they're okay with becoming rich). MacIntyre's Boss (Happer, by Burt Lancaster) is actually interested only in wich stars MacIntyre sees from scotland. Everybody have many jobs. McIntyre's assistant fells in love with some kind of a local mermaid who wants to create a sea study foundation. A guy called Ricky spends all his days and night doing tours with his motorcycle... Yeah, as you can guess there is no serial killer or no mad terrorist in this movie. It is quiet and soft, but never boring, because it has a lot of humour in, and because it is a very good movie. I wish I could go to this little scottish place and stay there, people are genuine and the landscape is great. I don't know if a real scotts harbour is like that, if there are black priests, tramps who love telescopes and girls with palmed feet. But watching the movie, you doubt of nothing. I guess the director of Saving grace have seen Local Hero a lot (I actually love both movies, but Local Hero much more). "},{"Title":"The Perfect Film","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the perfect movie. It's funny, quirky and poignant. There's no gratuitous sex or violence (well, except for a poor rabbit).Local Hero trivia quiz (and no fair watching the movie to get the answer!) What are the call letters of the radio station Mac is listening to in his car during the opening credits? If you've seen the movie and think about director Bill Forsyth's weird sense of humor, you'll know it. "},{"Title":"Human virtue IS possible","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mark Knopfler's music career has faded somewhat since his glory days of the late seventies and early eighties, and his filmwork has never equalled the stuff on these tracks. The soundtrack to this movie is probably the best Dire Straits album ever recorded. An absolute must-have in your CD collection -- and excellent for long drives in the car.The film has a magical quality about it. It is literally shimmering, especially as it nears the end. I'm not sure whether this owes more to Menges' photography, Knopfler's music, Lancaster's performance, or the story itself. The scenes on the beach at sunset are unexpectedly beautiful -- and recall the lighting in Ryan's Daughter. Call it a great conflux of talents all working at the height of their powers.This film is not a trivial experience. This is one of the most charming movies ever produced, and it's certainly the very best romantic comedy of all time. Most of today's romantic comedies are certainly just cynical fodder, so brace yourself there's more genuine feeling in this movie than you might be ready for. The fact that it is so understated fools some people, and as our lives become more harried, the film challenges us to slow down and take it on its own terms. If you need a little help with that, you might want to pour yourself a glass of fine single-malt scotch -- or two -- and keep the bottle at hand for top-ups along the way.One of those rare gems that makes it own light. "},{"Title":"Quietly wicked little gem","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero is one of the true gems a wicked little movie that sneaks up on you with its little truths that seems frightfully large when you ponder them.  The plot summary is available anywhere boy goes to buy foreign land and falls in love with foreign land.Peter Riegert, better known these days as corrupt Assemblyman Zellman in `The Sopranos,' is Mac, an anxious, highly wired (`I need electricity.') oil company bargainer sent to northern Scotland to purchase an entire town & environs for his company's North Sea oil project.  He is initially put off by the town's unorthodox habits his bargaining opponent (caddish Denis Lawson) is the local CPA, runs the bed & breakfast where Mac is staying, & `doubles as a cab driver;' & Mac discovers that an ageing beachcomber actually owns his beach.Mac just wants to close the sale & go home; the townsfolk want to close the sale too (`&#133;face the fact that you're gonna be filthy rich.'), but their excessive charm & good nature gradually draw Mac into their collective bosom.Whereas too many movies want to be novels (preferably the agonizing `War and Peace'), Local Hero is a kind of short story; whereas too many directors place their loud symbols out there for characters to rally &#145;round, director Bill Forsyth's characters produce the symbols.  Mac's inability to maintain a long-distance phone connection with his office is symbolic of his gradual cutting of ties with his life in Texas (of course, he isn't even a native Texan).  When Cal (`You've only been gone a day.') hangs up the phone after losing a connection with Mac, you know Mac is gone.  But if you miss that, there's always the singing watch (`Meeting time in Texas.') drowning in the tide incredible!Mark Knopfler's soundtrack winds tightly thru the movie the final phone booth (a symbol of both connection & distance) image as the closing theme thunders in always makes me shudder.  There's also the cadre of wonderfully quirky characters Happer (Burt Lancaster), the dreamy, stargazing V.P. of Knox Oil & Gas; Moritz, his incompetent therapist (`Look at me, Mr. Happer I'm not married!'); Ben Knox (`Did you say Knox?'), the beachcombing ersatz astronomer; Rev. Macpherson, the African missionary (`I'm not Scottish either.'); and Oldsen, Mac's counterpart in Scotland.  If you'd like some quiet enlightenment with solid entertainment, pick up this early 80s classic.  "},{"Title":"The best feel-good movie","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film just after it was released on video when I was looking for something on a two-for-one hire deal.  (Can't even remember what the other film was, even though it was the one I really wanted to see at the time!) It was in the Drama section and it appealed because I'd seen the shorts for it in the cinema and remembered the theme music.  I was instantly hooked and have seen it scores (literally) of times since then.  It is the movie I reach for if I am sick or miserable because I know it will cheer me.  Each time I watch it I find something new even though I can quote whole sections of the film verbatim.  I love Gordon he is such a character, and I can relate to many more of the characters in the film.  Of course, I wanted to move to Furness or somewhere very like it and after a recent holiday to Scotland still feel the same.  My favourite scenes - the rabbit, Victor at the ceilidh, the Ceilidh waltz, Mac offering to be a 'good Gordon, Gordon' and the shampoo!  The scenery is great, the characters warm and human.  I know of some people who find it the most boring film and I really can't understand that - I'm not sure what they are looking for in a film.  I find it interesting that there seem to be many more males and females who love this film and relate to it.  Luckily for me my husband enjoys it as much as I do and we quote lines at each other at times especially Gideon's 'No' when he is repainting the boats name. Who could forget Mark Knopfler's wonderful music.  Each time I hear it I find chills running up my spine and it takes me back into the film.  I even get a little misty eyed.  I still haven't worked out whose baby it is though and that's one of the mysteries I am happy to let the film keep. I can't get past Local Hero and Casablanca for my favourite all time films - give them a go! "},{"Title":"It is a classic","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can I say, it is a classic.  I mean, Denis Lawson play yet another great role, and the soundtrack, created by that musical genius Mark Knopfler really stirs something inside.  What else can be said but, Classic! "},{"Title":"Saw it again and re-voted from 9 to 10","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a magical masterpiece. It is heart-warming and touching, filled with quiet magical moments and sophisticated comedy. But most of all, it is about people and (modern) life. Well, everybody knows it´s kind a fairy-tale, but this is okay to me, as long as it reminds me that there are more precious things in life than a decent job, city life, Porsche etc. Take it as a holiday from this. Just enjoy this great movie.10 / 10 Macaulay J. Connor "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Without movies such as this, cinema would be an empty art. The distance between the concocted plots of Hollywood and gems of this type has never been more apparent. Movies like this are not only enjoyable, they're good for the soul - they cleanse it after one too many cheap formula sagas. This movie is subtle and can drag you in more than you know, and it won't be until the final scenes that you realise how much you have come to agree and empathise with the main character, as the impact of circumstances hits him and you. There are great values in this movie, and although the Scots see them clearly, the American MacIntyres most likely do not. "},{"Title":"The first movie I ever bought.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In some ways this is a simple movie but I think it is actually more symbolic than most people realize.  This is one of the few movies that when it ends you (like Mac in the movie) want it to continue.  I first saw the movie 16 years ago and I still see it every year or so.  _Comfort and Joy_ is also worth watching (same director and sound track by Mark Knopfler also). "},{"Title":"One of the sweetest films ever made.","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never place this film in the genre comedy, for me this film is drama albeit handled with kid gloves by the inimitable Bill Forsyth. The area on the Banffshire coast by Crivie and up around Tongue I know well, and Chris Menges captures all the marvels of light and shortened perspectives. The music of Guy Fletcher and Mark Knopfler haunts, and whenever it is heard sends me winging back. The storyline and the characterisations run deceptively deep like the clear cold waters in which Marina dives. Strangely haunting too is the notion that Marina knew all along the fate of the bay at Furness. > "}{"Title":"Buckets of Charm","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero has been charming me for over 10 years now. I first saw it on TV during the late Eighties and its charm and simplicity have held me since then. It is very nice to read that so many in the U.S and Canada can appreciate such a very British film. This typically marvellous Bill Forsythe effort lights up the screen with universally great acting and a tender screen writing. As a Celtic country dweller, the characters made sense, and I continue to look on with affection. The side story involving the local punk girl, and the whispered debate between the local lads on the identity of the childs father, is hilarious (it reminds me so much of here!). A perfect film to curl up on a cold night to watch. Its warmth and humour an antidote for the blues. "},{"Title":"Lovingly spontaneous, poignant, and hilarious","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero is an excellent, quirky little movie; it's as spontaneous as anything you'll ever see. Every character has sides the movie only touches on in passing, and I developed a real fondness for several who had only one or two lines. Despite several meandering subplots, when the crux of the plot comes along you find you've really invested yourself.Bill Forsythe had a decent career going directing these little Scottish character comedies before attempting one or two bad Hollywood prefab products. He's extremely self-assured here.Another of these user comments was right; fans of Northern Exposure's first two or so seasons will respond very favorably to Local Hero. The movie is much less self conscious than the TV show.This movie has perhaps a single false note, involving the Burt Lancaster character, which lasts for perhaps five seconds. Otherwise it's perfectly great fun. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and anti-romantic at the same time.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Part of the genius of Forsyth is to produce a work that is both beautiful and anti-romantic at the same time -- quite a feat! Cultures and localities cannot be kept pure and sealed in airtight categories any more than people can be simply categorized and dismissed. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and funny film that inspired many imitations.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorites, a beautiful and funny film that inspired many imitations (the TV series Northern Exposure being the most notable). The key word here is subtle, as Texas oil company employee Mac encounters a group of exceedingly quirky and easy-going townsfolk while trying to purchase the town and surrounding area to build an oil refinery. What he doesn't know is that they can't wait to sell, and are already counting the money.. . "},{"Title":"The Most Feel-good Movie You'll See This Side Of Star Wars","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As I mentioned in the tag-line, to me this is the greatest feel-good movie this side of Star Wars - period. Never since these two excellent films have I seen a film that comes close to touching me, both mentally and spiritually, as these ones. Being a Scot who has lived in England for over 7 years now, Local Hero always reminds me why Scotland is so different ( as if I needed reminding ). Don't misunderstand me, I love England and its people, but my home country is just a world apart. A world that Bill Forsyth captures perfectly.  From the stirring yet mellow soundtrack, to the stunning scenery, through to the relaxed demeanour of the Scottish inhabitants of the village, everything points to the beauty of Scotland. A place where we may seem a bit naive at times, but dig a little below the surface and you'll find we truly are  a canny breed . Although there are many throughout the film, the standout scene for me has to be where Old Knox, played by Fulton McKay in one of his finest performances, railroads MacIntyre, adeptly played by Peter Riegert, by comparing grains of sand in his hand to the millions of pounds on offer for his beach. It is this simplistic rebuttal to capitalism that characterises the whole film. Man may conquer mountains, split atoms and explore space by monetary backing, but beauty, nature and the gentleness of the human spirit will always shine through. All in all, a masterpiece that never diminishes, regardless of how many viewings. As my peers would no doubt rally,  Wha's like us ?!? Overall Rating  10/10   A Timeless Classic       "},{"Title":"Great location, music, film and book","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw the film a couple of days after it first came out in Melbourne, mainly because of Mark Knopfler's music. It remains my favourite film, 15 years on.David Benedictus did a great job of converting Bill Forsyth's script into an entertaining novel, but I've always found the ending of the book to be at variance with the way I've always looked at the ending of the film. The book ends with a comment that the photographs wouldn't last long in the harsh Texan light, a far cry from the optimism engendered by the ringing telephone in the phone box and the up-tempo going home Mark Knopfler track. I was fortunate enough to be able to stay in Pennan, Scotland whilst on my honeymoon. A collage of photographs covering a 180 degree scan of the bay hangs on a wall in my home. If you do get up to Scotland, do make the effort to get up to Pennan, but don't expect to see all the locations used in the film. They are scattered across both the east and west coast of Scotland.Peter  "},{"Title":"Greater than the sum of it's parts","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero is a gentle, un-hurried fable of how a non-clichéd Texas oilman is drawn to saving the small town he's been sent to buy. The locals want to take his money and run, and therein lies the irony. This is a first-rate example of comedy without jokes, which stimulates a constant smile rather than belly-laughs. The characters are realistically oddball without going over the top and the music is just fabulous. The script has a few welcome huh? moments but the ending is so wonderfully optimistic and without sentiment, it has become my favourite film of all time. Totally uncontrived, without cliché and devoid of cloying sentimentality. "},{"Title":"Smartest movie in English of the 80's.  I'm expecting great things in Virgo.","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The finely tuned ear of David Puttnam and the deft vision of Bill Forsyth produced in Local Hero one of the most intelligent and gentle comedies of the decade so original that it went over the heads of the Motion Picturea Academy and to this day has not had proper critical appreciation. The film is not a realist or naturalist exercise at all it reaches for the mythic and the holy within 20 minutes of the opening credits and stays there through it's wonderful deus ex machina ending arguably the best use of the machine since Athena herself. Bill Forsyth weaves elements of Shakespeare's Pericles and The Tempest into what is essentially film poetry. So many of the questions raised by those who view the film betray the awe of having seen something wonderful without full comprehension. On the surface, the story is a mild ecological morality tale of a hustling disingenuous and pecuniary employee (played brilliantly by Peter Riegert in the best role of his career) of a major oil firm being sent to negotiate with the poor but hopeful residents of a small Scottish coastal town to give up their homes to allow construction of an oil refinery and terminal that would blight the land and gravely disappoint the young female marine biologist employed by the Company to do field research at its office in Aberdeen. The film follows the episodic and seemly unconnected process of that negotiation as the man from Houston goes native in the process of a negotiation that begins to unravel the closer it gets to solution. Lying just beneath the surface of this ostensible story is the work of magic in language and myth. Mr. Forsyth's labors created one of the 10 best original movie scripts in the English language of all time. The eccentric head of the oil company (Happer in French to grab up violently) played winningly by Burt Lancaster is only interested in visual astronomical observation, specifically looking for a new comet in the constellation Virgo. He sleeps through board meetings planning the deal, and admits that his ancestors had purloined the Company from a Scot named Knox whose son you learn, is master of the land at stake. As the highland mist closes around the protagonists on the road from Aberdeen the movie races down a rabbit hole to a world were rules of society, logic and nature do not apply (and yes, there is a rabbit). The true nature of the film is an examination of the corrupting power of money balanced against the purifying power of human physical and spiritual love. The number of visual and auditory wonders in this magic realist film boggle the mind. It helps to know a bit about the oceans, and some Russian and Japanese watching this. It helps even more to know your Shakespeare. You will then recognize perhaps the echoes of Miranda and Marina, of Caliban and Prospero in the central characters. This film is one of the few to issue from America in the 1980's that made this humble clerk weep for joy with his eyes wide open for the Northern Lights. I quote from this film in my daily life to this day nearly 30 years later. The vision of the destruction of a wristwatch by the incoming tide as it plays its alarm the Yellow Rose of Texas. The facetious dialogue Can you imagine a world without dry cleaning chemicals? The warnings of meaning pressing but not quite becoming conscious (you will always be run over by a speeding motor scooter when you exit any building). The haunting beauty and gentle heart of this film will not leave you in your lifetime. When it is working (as it does more often than not), the film approaches the liturgical. Seeing Local Hero is like going to church after a long absence. "},{"Title":"An Enveloping Film","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When this film was released I had just become a teenager. At the time I was a big Dire Straits fan and knew that Mark Knopfler had written the soundtrack and I had the theme 'Going Home' on an album. This was the background, and the reason, for deciding to watch the film when it was broadcast on TV.I'm so glad I did. There are weaknesses to the film. Indeed, no film is perfect. I can even understand why it doesn't appeal to some people. I can also see it as being quite British with (maybe) less appeal to those outside the UK. But then that's the same with all art forms - they appeal to different people. To me it's a little gem.I found that as the film went on it just sort of enveloped me. I could relate to characters in the film, and the community they lived in, from growing up in a small village myself. It was a place where I could quite happily have found myself. I think the ability of the film to take you into it's heart is part of it's charm.It made such an impression on me that when I was in the area I took my family to Pennan (the village where it was filmed) just so that I could see it for myself. Back then the village had no phone box - it was a prop in the film - but one has now been installed, although in a slightly different location. I even have the number in my mobile!Whilst my wife and kids found with Local Hero that once was enough, I did not. Put simply this is one of my favourite films ever, and I never tire of watching it and drifting away to Furness once again. "},{"Title":"So much more than just a meek comedy about an out-of-his-depth American situated in a European nation.","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Local Hero is actually a rather touching film about one man's bedding into a space, a space that should be as alien to him as a towering Wall Street skyscraper would be to an everyday, highlands local, and how the individual comes to be quite fond of it. Of course, these stories demand it be alienating to him early on before he undergoes a procedure, but what struck me most was the execution of the 'getting there'; the manner in which the film's lead gradually becomes more accustomed to his surroundings. The transition is very gentile; it's very relaxed and it isn't a loud and proud journey involving lots of people and incidences that are supposed to deliver on a visual level but not much else.If Local Hero were to be remade today, producers would probably wedge in an antagonistic force trying to steal the oil that drives the narrative as the protagonist is forced to come to terms with his new surroundings as well as battle the heavily out of favour odds he faces &#x96; it may look a bit like Three Kings meshed with Kingdom of Heaven. But instead, we have downplayed comedy and realisation of both predicament and scenario. The lead must negate motorcycles coming close to running him down every time he steps out the front door; he must come to realise that there are not phones on every desk within sight as was in his office and that a telephone box is the only means of communication to the outside world, but he must also realise an alternate way of life &#x96; a calmer and more down to earth method of living, in which time is taken to appreciate the finer things and attention is payed to people and things around him. Much like the beautiful, colourful skies above him at certain points, MacIntyre will learn to observe.The lead is 'Mac' MacIntyre, played by Peter Riegert. He works for a large oil company owned by Burt Lancaster's Felix Happer, a company called Knox Oil and Gas. MacIntyre is sent to Scotland and the village of Ferness from his solid Texas based lifestyle on the basis of purchasing the entire place for sake re-building, re-brandishing and re-inventing; that is to say, the Knox company want to build a refinery there.Boss Happer may only be in the film for so long, but his presence is vastly important to the overall study of MacIntyre, for it is he that gives MacIntyre a secondary task; that being to watch the skies above where he is travelling to due to the astronomical activity, something that really excites Happer and his love of space, planets and the stars. The skies refrain from their light blue, vapid look and give off all sorts of hidden pieces of beauty as lights, colour and movement is apparent. It is the nucleus of MacIntyre's journey; an observation of things seemingly mundane or everyday and observing the hidden beauty, the 'real' beauty, of said object. It is linked to what I mentioned about MacIntyre coming to love the village and coming to realise his eyes have been opened.Of course, the moral decision is pushed to a certain breaking point related to MacIntyre's fondness for the village that grows increasingly evident and the fact he's there to practically force them out of house and home, for a price. Along the way, he meets a Scottish Knox representative in Danny Oldsen (Capaldi) and one of the more memorable web-footed female characters in cinematic history, called Marina, played by the aptly named Jenny Seagrove. On a huge plus side, the film does not divulge off into a series of daft scenes driven on British/American banter designed to pry out a few cheap laughs on the audience's behalf. This is one of those 'Americans in Europe' films that requires a certain respect if you're to either 'get' the humour or understand the predicament the lead is in. I think the burning question MacIntyre asks himself at some point is to do with where all these people will end up, and why get rid of something so small and so harmless when everything's fine anyway.Instead, the locals seem to embrace the change. The film is, in essence, all about modernity &#x96; the want to move on and build over 'pre-modern' settlements, be they fields or in this case beaches and a middle-of-nowhere seaside village. As the film does close, it became apparent to me that never before had I seen a film that pays so much attention to both land, sea and sky. It is a strange study of both the development and moving on of the land; the using of the sky as an initial study of looking at what you see everyday and observing something beautiful at the right moment as well as the use of the sea as a different sort of home for the object of MacIntyre's rare gaze, that being Marina. You might say the quaint village makes quite an impression on MacIntyre and to some of us, the film makes an impression just as significant. "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the best film ever made! It is exceedingly funny, the acting is superb, especially the performances by Peter Reigert (who, in my opinion, gives one of the finest performances of his career), Dennis Lawson, Burt Lancaster, Fulton MacKay, Peter Capaldi and Trudi the rabbit. It is very well directed, even better than Gregory's Girl, for which Bill Forsyth always receives a lot of praise. The music, provided by the exceptionally talented Mark Knopfler,is sublime, with The Mist-Covered Mountains and Wild Theme being particularly good. I would recommend this witty, warm and whimsical comedy to anyone who wants to see an exceptionally good film. "},{"Title":"Like visiting an old friend","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First saw this movie in an art-house theater back in the 80's. Saw it again a few years later on cable, and just watched the DVD tonight. Seeing Mac and Danny and Gordon and Stella and the rest were like revisting with old friends. The characters here are so well drawn that you truly feel you know them. The movie is very subtle, slowly revealing the layers of its characters. The plot here, while quite good, is almost secondary. Its really a we don't see this kind of movie anymore. Bravo to Bill Forsyth! "},{"Title":"One of the best 80's films","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Possibly one of the best 10 films of the 80,s. As with Gregory's Girl much of the humour is in silences and mannerisms. Based upon a good story concept which in itself is unusual., it's deadpan offbeat humour keeps coming in the form of bizarre individualists who sometime act normally. The repressed and materialistic American in a quaint English, or in this case Scottish culture setting, is a well used comedy situation but this film's dry,tongue in cheek dialogue is unique, laughing at everything and everyone with such empathy that it engenders a love for the place and people. At every point that you are about to settle into the storyline something comes up to upset the applecart. It is somewhat like a very drunken person attempting to walk 100 yards home and taking an hour and a half, in weaves and circles, to do it. A mad psychologist on the roof of a skyscraper, an even madder oil billionaire, an ever present motorcyclist, a minister named Macpherson who is African and a mermaid marine biologist. It goes on. But the fact is that Bill Forsyth understands the human condition in all it's forms. While mocking it gently he illuminates it's strengths and weaknesses in an engaging way. At the end of the film we are left feeling the emptiness and sadness of a man who supposedly has it all but finds there is far more to more to life. Again the Mark Knoffler music is so beautiful that it only embellishes. The acting on all levels is superb. A wonderful film from a master.  "},{"Title":"Whimsy galore","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whimsicality walks a tightrope in the cinema your cute is my twee. Bill Forsyth's attempt to update Ealing comedy falls off the tightrope because the screenplay, his own work, is muddled, compromised and fails to give the audience the steers it needs and deserves. His whimsicality irritates.Forsyth is so in love with his subtlety that he cannot be seen to make his mind up about anything. Take the basic plot premise Knox Oil & Gas, stridently established in the opening sequence as a money-mad Yankee corporation, is hellbent on turning a bleak but charming spot in western Scotland into a dock and refinery. (Curious siting for North Sea purposes, incidentally, but perhaps Arisaig and Morar were more photogenic than Helmsdale). So is this US invasion a good or bad thing? Ecologically sound, disruptive of a traditional way of life based on crofting and fishing, philistine? Or just what these backward folk need to shake them up? We don't know at the off, and we don't know at the end. Do the villagers welcome their windfall, dread the loss of their community? We don't know- ever. They seem, apart from Lawson their omnicompetent negotiator, indifferent or obtuse like a herd of sheep, barely differentiated. Even Fulton Mackay, who threatens to derail Knox's plans by hanging on to his beach, seems to be more baffled than outraged by the business.And here is the crucial way in which Forsyth differs from Sandy Mackendrick in Whisky Galore!, the comparison for which critics grasped. The islanders of Todday are agents, not victims. They plunder the Scotch and hoodwink those who come to retrieve it by a hundred clever means while wearing down Captain Waggett's moral resistance. And this is illustrated by a brilliantly plotted and photographed collection of incidents.It may be objected that Forsyth's is not a message film about pollution or cultures clashing, and that we should study the human interest instead the loneliness of the long-distance go-getter, and how it is chastened by contact with a more authentic, slower, saner way of living. But that noble-savagery stuff is not a strong enough to carry almost two hours of what is meant to be a comedy.The sentimental nostalgia to which Macintyre succumbs at the end of Local Hero is based on no such re-orientation of the audience's sympathies as occurs in Whisky Galore!, and is depicted with no such skill. He does not soak himself in the hamlet's way of life; he remains a pratfalling, gawping tourist when he is not briskly haggling with Denis Lawson, an accountant who apparently has plenipotentiary powers to sell the property.When Latin American novelists lapse into implausibility, it's called magic realism. There's a wee dram too much of MR in this screenplay are there no wider concerns about Knox's plans, no government inquiry, no save-the-harbour protests? Forsyth and Puttnam picture Riegert and his Scotch quisling/sidekick like Catholic friars trafficking with the Indians in The Mission. It is patronising to them and insulting to the intelligent spectator. A film supposedly rooted in what is real and abiding, contrasted with Happer's neon-lit inferno, should have more respect for the givens of modern life, which include planning procedures.With this film Forsyth and Puttnam began to court America, and one can almost hear the Hollywood money urging them to beef up the belly laughs for the multiplex crowd. Hence, one guesses, the subplot about Happer's demented shrink matter so coarse and stupid that it is fit only for the likes of Terry Gilliam. Lancaster became more and more intense vocally as his physical vigour waned, and he overbalances this movie you keep waiting for him to turn up in his chopper and shoot a little vim into the wan, whimsical string of incidents.Riegert appears bemused throughout as if the switch from Animal House was too much, too soon. As usual in a Puttnam production, the women are remote goddesses or walk-ons, and the subject is male befriending and jockeying. Other meeting cute moments are tossed in, such as the Russian fishermen's visit, to compensate for the lack of real tension and jeopardy in the primary encounter.The trademarked off-beat moments are mainly cursed by the magic-realist taint too. Why would Urquhart hide his second role as an accountant? What is the frisson in a character as undeveloped as Seagrove's having mermaid toes? What besides PC dictated making the minister black, a circumstance as unlikely as the demographics of 'Ballymory'? The cinema-going public never got on to Bill Forsyth's wavelength. He duly went Stateside, along with Puttnam (for a brief reign as the Savonarola of Columbia Pictures) but Forsyth was no defter at conveying the moods of quiet places and lives there than in the Highlands. Since 1993 his only feature has been a sequel to Gregory's Girl, the film which bankrolled Local Hero.He might have fared better if he had stayed in Scotland, gone into TV drama and cured Scottish Television of its obsession with Glasgow murderers. But there is a gulf of snobbery between telly and film, and Forsyth tumbled into it. "},{"Title":"Nice laid-back and quirky comedy set in Scotland","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This laid-back comedy takes a company executive from the fast lane in the oil capital of Houston, to the wilds of the north Scotland coast. Local Hero is a sort of tale of redemption or rediscovery of the important things in life. Peter Riegert is MacIntyre and Peter Capaldi is Oldsen. They are the two Knox oil company advance men. Mac is ordered to Scotland from his job in Houston, and he meets Oldsen in Edinburgh. Burt Lancaster is Felix Happer, the company owner and boss. His character is the epitome of power and wealth where he lives almost in seclusion &#x96; at least from the working class of his company. But in his penthouse office and home, Happer has the latest technology to pursue his fascination with astronomy. His ceiling is a planetarium. He has a visiting psychologist who seems to be a neurotic in his own right. He has a problem that we don't ever have explained. While powerful and wealthy, he doesn't live the high life. His passion and interest, aside from the occasional hand in operating his company, is the heavens. So, when he send Mac to Scotland to acquire an entire community and bay for Knox Oil to develop a huge oil drilling and refining project, he tells Mac to watch the sky and to report directly to him on what he sees. The story then settles in on the small community on the north end of Scotland. Several local characters are played superbly by a supporting cast, many of whom have sizable roles. Denis Lawson is Urquhart, the local hotel and tavern operator, public accountant, and acknowledged spokesman for the town. Jennifer Black plays Urquhart's wife or mistress (and owner of the hotel and tavern). Fulton Mackay is Ben, the permanent beachcomber and owner of the beach. Numerous other characters add color and fun to the scene. Warner Brothers filmed Local Hero in more than two dozen locales in Scotland. The scenic shots are fantastic. And some of the shots with the Aurora Borealis (real or special effects) and night sky shots are very good. The locals hope to get rich off their land, but if the project doesn't go through they'll be just fine continuing in their laid-back, but honest working lifestyle. One of the main fishing catches in the village is lobster. Mac asks one of the fishermen if they ate them. Too expensive, he replied. He says they get shipped out where folks in the fine restaurants of Edinburgh and London have them for dinner. The local town has a couple of quirky characters as well. This quirky and easy going comedy gives a nice little slice of what life can be like in small communities away from the big cities. And how much one can enjoy such life out of the fast lane. "},{"Title":"I've got nothing' but love for this; the best little movie I've seen in a long time","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Throw open the dictionary to the word 'likable' and there's Local Hero. Or at least it should be, seeing as this movie is the very definition of the word. None of the laughs are ostentatious; they come about organically, mostly from everyday working people and great characterization. It's small town life in an almost otherworldly seaside village; a place where even a city clicker from Big Oil can lose himself. You can tell these characters were created with love and that's exactly where the movie derives its charm. And it features an ending that's deceptively melancholy. But don't let that fool you; this is one enriching movie indeed.8/10 Also, how 'bout a hand for Denis Lawson? Wedge almost steals the whole thing! "},{"Title":"An Under-appreciated Gem","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's a great deal of satisfaction to be found in the discovery of subtle charms and humor within a movie. It may be something simple that you alone laugh at. It may be something you don't figure out until a second or third viewing. But it's usually something that the filmmaker has put in the movie without drawing a lot of attention to it, which by itself shouldn't draw the kind of laughter we eventually bestow upon it. LOCAL HERO is filled with these moments, beginning when Knox Oil CEO Mr. Happer (played by Burt Lancaster) is seen sleeping through a board meeting, forcing the other executives to whisper their plans for a refinery in northern Scotland. It's better (and funnier) to whisper the dialogue than to wake Burt Lancaster up from a nap. The scene is played straight and without even a smile on anyone's faces. And it's exactly this straightforward approach to comedy that makes the film so memorable.Once the film arrives at the small Scottish village that is destined to be acquired by Knox Oil, it becomes a feast of comedy and hilarious supporting characters. There's the group of locals who hang out by the dock, including an unclaimed baby in a stroller. There's the old man constantly re-painting his boat. There's the fella up on the inn roof, perpetually pounding away on the wood shingles. And there's the speeding motorcyclist who just happens to be passing along whenever a pedestrian exits a building. Add out-of-place fighter bombers, a wacky Russian fisherman, a continuously horny couple and an adorable rabbit and you have a recipe for charms galore.While Lancaster gets top billing, his character is more of a supporting one, appearing mainly at the bookends with a few scenes in the middle. His Happer is bored with oil but obsessed with the stars, and his direction to his subordinate, McIntyre (played by Peter Reigert) has nothing to do with oil but with comets. Keep an eye on Virgo! he demands. I want reports! Lancaster's role is a wonderful addition to his amazing filmography, and he is in full 'Burt Lancaster' mode here. Despite the fact that he was 70 years old at the time of the film's release, he looks and sounds like the Lancaster of old (or at least like an older cousin of Elmer Gantry).Peter Reigert is the actual star of the film and he does a great job with it, transitioning from hotshot urban businessman to small-town local 'hero' as the story unfolds, and his McIntyre falls in love with the seaside village. You can actually see the emotion is his eyes, and he is the able straight-man for all the comedy surrounding him. We showed LOCAL HERO to our children and they loved it as much as we do. It has almost no objectionable content and is a great movie to share with your family. "},{"Title":"Al Gore","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An American oil company sends a man (Peter Riegert) to Scotland to buy up an entire village where they want to build a refinery. But things do not go as expected.There is much to like about this film. Burt Lancaster as an astrologist, a man who is (innocently) mistaken for a Scotsman, an actual Scotsman whose name is Olson. There is an environmental message here, which prompted Al Gore in 2000 to say this was his favorite film. (The theme is a bit obvious -- an oil company trying to buy pristine land, including a church.) Allegedly, the Mark Knopfler soundtrack did better than the film itself. That would not surprise me. Had it not ended up on the IMDb Top 250 (somehow), this film would never have come to my attention. "},{"Title":"Local Hero  One of the most important British cinema classics which deserves to be known more outside of UK !!!!","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the course of human civilization, it has been keenly observed that the activities of buying and selling are not as simple as one expects them to be. This is due to the fact that in any financial transaction, apart from the exchange of cash and properties, human emotions are also involved. Keeping in mind this aspect of financial transactions, Scottish director Bill Forsyth directed Local Hero, a film where more than buying and selling of goods, a precious exchange of human emotions take place in abundance. 'Local Hero' oscillates between comedy and drama as it contains elements of both genres. There is a lot for both critics as well as viewers to learn from an American's visit to a Scottish fishing village in order to negotiate the sale of land which would be used to construct an oil rig. One gets to watch how an ordinary American man becomes completely besotted with the simplicity of a Scottish village to such a large extent that he expresses his desire to swap his American existence for a much quieter stay in the fishing village. Director Bill Forsyth is a keen watcher of human foibles which he has succinctly shown in his film. One watches bemusedly how two lonely men feel the need of female companionship. Apart from ubiquitous concern for environment and nature, there is empathy towards animals too. In a moving scene there is string indignation when the American discovers that he has been made to eat his pet rabbit as food. Local Hero has celebrated more than 30 years of existence. It would be remembered by future generations as a film about local people who are neither hostile nor overtly nice. This is something which works in this film's favor as more than a single 'local hero', there are numerous 'local heroes' who care for their surroundings. "},{"Title":"Kind of boring","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oil billionaire Happer (Burt Lancaster) sends Mac MacIntyre (Peter Riegert) from Houston to remote Scotish village Ferness to secure a bay to build a terminal for the North Atlantic oil fields. His family is not actually Scotish and he'd rather do the deal through fax. Once there, local rep Danny Oldsen (Peter Capaldi) teams up with him. They meet marine biologist Marina (Jenny Seagrove) and Danny falls for her. The locals led by Gordon Urquhart (Denis Lawson) team up to negotiate a deal as Mac tries to adjust to the town. Then Gordon discovers that beachcomber Ben Knox (Fulton Mackay) actually owns the beach that is integral to the deal.It's a quirky little quiet Brit indie. My major problem is Peter Riegert. He's a great character actor but he can't really pull off a lead. It's also odd that he's not the one with the romance. Meanwhile Burt Lancaster is back in Houston for most of the movie. I think it would be interesting to have him in the town much more. This has a cast of slightly off characters but they aren't so quirky as to be funny. I just find the movie to be a slow moving bore with characters that I don't connect with. Everything is done with such a light touch that nothing is really ever intense. "}{"Title":"Charming, quirky film set in Scotland","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Local Hero is a genuine cult movie, the kind that has a small but devoted following of fans, though it's not popular among other people who don't get it. It concerns a trio of executives from a huge Houston corporation (led by Burt Lancaster, who is excellent in an unusual-for-him comic role) who travel to the remote Scottish Highlands to negotiate the purchase of an entire village as an oil trans-shipment port. The film's appeal is hard to explain much of the humor is of the dead-pan, shaggy dog type, and the atmosphere continually verges on fantasy without quite showing anything that's literally impossible. The well-photographed Scottish landscape is extremely beautiful. All in all, a very enjoyable, unfairly neglected film. No particular advisories, though much of the humor will be beyond children. Warner Home Video DVD transfer very good. "},{"Title":"a heart-warming film","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Local Hero has been one of my favourite films for years, and will always remain so. And it's nice to see how many of the reviews on here are positive as well. This is such an understated (and often misunderstood) film. The main thing to say all those people complaining that the film is really slow and doesn't seem to go anywhere, clearly you've never lived in a small village. It's a pretty much perfect depiction of life in such a place. Nothing really happens, and it's all very sleepy. That's the whole point of the film! The acting may not be overly theatrical, but again that's the point. The script doesn't really leave room for grand performances, and so everything is kept on a very real level. It's true, the comedy is very subtle and some moments can easily be glossed over and missed. But the gentle nature of this film is part of its charm. The story itself is also gentle and takes its time. Just let it wash over you and you'll be swept away in no time. The director certainly did a good job of utilising the stunning locations, and the shots of the beach are just incredible. And I have to tip my hat to Mark Knopfler as well. This has to be one of my favourite soundtracks of all time. If you're inherently a city person and can't fathom the attraction of the country, this may not be the film for you. But to anyone else out there who's not seen Local Hero, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"This movie is a gem that touches you on many levels","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a lovely film that comes out of nowhere and captures your imagination. Films of the same ilk are Trout Fishing in the Yemen, Waking Ned Devine, the Decoy Bride, and Field of Dreams. If you like these, you will like this film. It takes a subject of little interest to most, the capitalization of an isolated village in Scotland for profit, and because of brilliant characterization and dialog, creates something lasting that you can comment on 25 years after you watched it for the first time. I don't know why I chose to see this move initially. I do know why I rank it as one of my favorite films. The soundtrack is haunting, with Mark Knoffler at his creative prime. The characters are truly unique, the script natural and intelligent. I loved seeing a senior Burt Lancaster at his very best. That is saying something for a man that stole the scenes in so many great films over his career. The scenery is spectacular and filmed in such a way to convey the both the harshness and the vulnerability of Northern Scotland. - Daryl P. "},{"Title":"Wonderful GentleTtale","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of my all-time favorite movies. Such a sweet, gentle tale with an incredible Mark Knopfler soundtrack. The scene at the end where Mac is back in Houston with all the city noises, posting his pictures in his kitchen and then phoning Furness, reminded me of how I feel every time I come home from Scotland. Timeless and magical. The scene where the pastor distracts Mac while the whole village runs from the church after their meeting is so funny....the whole idea of the village fleecing the big oil company exec who thinks he's fleecing them is wonderful. Little details, like Mac almost getting run over by the same motorcycle every time he sets foot onto the street, and Mac's increasingly casual clothes and the fact that he doesn't even notice when his high-tech watch ends up in a tidal pool, are priceless. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie- and yes I vote Republican","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time. Acting, humor and no although I did not like the ending much, it was subtle. I watched this for the first time in college, and although many years have passed, and my political view have changed, this movie has stood the test of time in my heart. Loved it, and want to visit the area it was filmed. The humor is exquisite. Mark Knoffler's soundtrack is phenomenal. Ever see him in concert? He play's going home- check it out on You Tube. One of his best works ever! If you're in the mood check out another touching film called Daisy's in December...similar humor, message will last you a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Not Just the greatest comedy of all time. Not just the greatest British film. But the greatest film of all time.","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story is cynical Knox Oil employer Mac Macintyre is sent to Scotland to buy a village to set up an oil refinery. However, Mac is then swept in by the beauty of Scotland.This film is actually sort of surrealist- for example it includes a mermaid. The film is also a total laugh fest.This film is just so perfect. Some snobs might be reading this review saying He thinks this is the greatest film of all time, what low taste. Has he seen a Yasujiro Ozu film? What about Tokyo Story? Don't get me wrong, I love Tokyo Story, it's just it can be rather tedious at times. And why do we watch movies? To be entertained, and Local Hero is certainly entertaining.The performances are also great, especially from Burt Lancaster. But most of the credit for this movie has to go to Bill Forsyth, for his brilliant script an direction. The location scouting is also brilliant. "},{"Title":"A highland comedy drama that manages to avoid sentimentality","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When Houston oil executive Mac is told to go to northern Scotland to buy the village that stands where Knox Oil wants to build its new refinery he doesn't think it is an important job; he believes he could do it just as well via telex. When he gets there he initially maintains that view as local lawyer, and hotelier, Gordon Urquhart, tells him that he thinks the locals could be persuaded to sell if the price is right... the truth is they are all keen to sell and understandably want to make sure they get the best price. During his stay there he goes to like the place and its people... but not enough to change his mind about the project; that would be overly cliché. Mac is accompanied by Scotsman Danny Oldsen who works at the company's Aberdeen office and he does end up somewhat conflicted when he falls for marine researcher Marina who believes Knox wants the site to build a research facility not a refinery.This is a delightful film populated by a fine array of characters including Felix Happer, an oil executive who is more interesting in finding comets; Marina, a web-footed marine researcher; Happer's psychiatrist who believes he is paid to insult his employer; Ben, an old man who lives on the beach and could scupper the project and just about everybody in the town. Director Bill Forsyth did a great job keeping the story fun without slipping into sentimentality... the fate of Mac and Danny's pet rabbit is anything but sentimental; it is funny though! This isn't just a visual treat; the sound is great too with a haunting score from Mark Knopfler, the regular peeping of shorebirds and the occasional roar of RAF Jaguar jets that shatters the tranquillity in a way that stops us from thinking the village is perfect. Peter Riegert puts in a nicely understated performance as Mac which went well with Burt Lancaster's and Denis Lawson's performances as the larger than life Happer and Urquhart and Peter Capaldi is good as Danny. I'd certainly recommend this; the plot might not be deep but it is all the little moments that make it great. "},{"Title":"Scotch with a dash of........Brilliance","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Local Hero was written and directed by Bill Forsyth, and he did a great job. This is humour with soul. Humour with a very large Scotch and Ginger ale. Forsyth gets wonderfully natural performances from the cast and they deliver some very funny lines with aplomb. The personalities of the major players are gradually flushed out, and there are some really wierd & strange people to examine here !! Veterans Burt Lancaster and Fulton McKay are brilliant as the total opposites (financially), and the close pals in their love of the night skies. This is one of those movies where the humour is not stupid. Not many of these are made in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Favourite for Many....","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This little gem of a movie is more universally loved than almost any other film I know. More friends cite 'Local Hero' as their quiet favourite and have nothing bad to say about it. At all.It may not be the most dramatically grandiose (though the sight of the Northern Lights in the Highlands certainly counts as such) or the most elaborately scripted, but, boy, does it gather a punch and a half when it comes to sheer charm.There are many reviews here and I haven't read them all but I'm sure there are many that give detailed narrative descriptions. I really want to just add my voice and echo those who also think that Local Hero is one of the best British films since The Third Man. Sure, it has many competitors to that lofty title - Four Weddings and a Funeral, The Queen, The King's Speech and Chariots of Fire all spring to mind. But somehow, this amusing cross between Whisky Galore and Donald Trump Buys a Scottish Golf-course (NOT a real film, I hasten to add!) is more universally appealing and 'different' than any of those. You could show it to both Granny and the Tarantino fan (as I am) and both would be mesmerised and enthralled.It's a pity that director Bill Forsythe has only made two great movies - this and his previous, the debut, Gregory's Girl. His list is short and sparse and hasn't seen an inclusion since the poor sequel to Gregory's Girls, 1994's Gregory's Two Girls. Whatever he's doing now (according to IMDb, he's still alive and is now 66) I wish him success and say to everybody, buy this DVD as he may need the royalties! "},{"Title":"Local Hero-Take The Express On This One **1/2","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A young, good looking Peter Riegert stars in this 1983 film. He is sent to Scotland to buy up a village for an oil company. Burt Lancaster is the owner of the company who is also an astrological nut-case. Who is the guy who is constantly harassing him throughout the movie? What happened to this guy in the end? I don't even want to think of that.The poor people of the town can't wait to sell so they can be rich. All seems to go well until it's determined that the beach is owned by an older gentleman, quite eccentric, whose family has owned the beach for four generations. He doesn't want to sell and when Lancaster arrives, the two realize their affinity for astrology and Lancaster wants the beach to be used for research purposes as Riegert goes back to Houston.There is brief romance between the innkeeper's wife and Riegert but that goes by the board.The film is thoroughly boring. Who really cares about Aurora Borealis? "}{"Title":"Sky From The Ground","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The plot is basic a slick, Porsche driving negotiator from Texas is sent to a small town in Ireland to strike a deal that will make all the locals rich. Their land and beach is the perfect location for an oil refinery, and Peter Riegert, as Mac &#x96; chosen for the assignment because of his Irish lineage &#x96; enters the town whose inhabitants already know of their impending fortune.The subtle performances of Riegert and resident accountant Denis Lawson (Wedge from the original STARS WARS trilogy and Ewan McGregor's uncle), as they wander around the gorgeous exterior discussing what prices go where, happening upon a bevy of townsfolk including a seemingly insignificant beach bum, takes up most of the film &#x96; but it's the quirky charm that envelopes this tale with a magical aura thanks to Burt Lancaster's eccentric character who, although in a relatively small part as the Houston-based oil tycoon behind the deal, has a fascination with the stars that, once Riegert experiences a meteor shower and the aurora Borealis, becomes the focal point to a quirky tale that, if made today, would most likely push the environmental theme to a preachy level.But in this fascinating modern fable written and directed by Bill Forsyth and backed by Mark Knofler's earthy score, everything remains genuine and grounded, even when those heavenly lights shine above. And after watching, or rather, experiencing this movie, you'll never see a phone booth the same way again.For More Reviews www.cultfilmfreaks.com "},{"Title":"a little gem","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Had always wanted to watch this movie as I considered Gregory's girl to be one of the funniest British movies ever made. Local Hero is a more sophisticated work but just as charming. The performances were great. At first, i didn't like the main actor but it's actually a subtle performance slowly revealing a man who had no idea how unhappy he was. The ending is definitely bittersweet and if Mac learns a lesson it is that happiness is not easy to find. The film doesn't offer any simple solutions. You never feel that Mac could return to the village and find contentment. But you do feel that the memory of his time there could lead him to reconsider his life and perhaps find a way to change it for the better. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric film - see it,  if you haven't already","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gets my vote as one of the best films ever made and it captures completely the psyche of remote parts of Britain (and Ireland) untouched by mass consumerism. It also presents the clashes of modern life and its desire for all the symbols of achievement and wealth, symbolised by the Houston scenes, with some very real moments of peace and fundamental humanity, particularly the scenes where Mac is unshaven and has slowed down. It has a great movie score which evokes the big skies and the wondrous seascapes. And it has superb cinematography. Praise has to be given for the superb casting mixing well known stars and relatively unknown actors. But underpinning all of this is the script - what excellent writing.Where is Bill Forsyth - why is he not making movies now? "},{"Title":"A complete favourite","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is just about as good as it gets. Twenty years on I ask why -and it is hard to put a finger on it.What I love about this film are things such as the central theme of the successful businessman realising that materialistic life isn't that satisfying while conversely the locals believe that wealth will dissolve their problems.There is also a marvellous sense of whimsy and a kind of surrealism except that in distant coastal towns what we citifolk often see as strange or surreal is often the norm. eg people only having one job in the city! Add to all this the best scenery, best music and a superb acting lineup and I guess maybe it isn't so strange that t the film remains a great success. Happily I give this film 10/10. "},{"Title":"A lovely film with some great lines and characters","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought local hero was a lovely film with some great characters and the music by dire straits just adds that little bit more to it. I thought the actors that played the main roles were great especially Burt Lancaster as Happer. It just tells us that live in the city that although we are surrounded by people we can be so alone. It is my favorite film and I think it has just enough comedy action romance and drama. I think the messages in this film are subtle yet they get the point across very well to the audience. The characters in the film just give the right touch to the film some comedy actors some serous actors. I especially liked Happers psychiatrist Mars when he constantly tries out new types of treatment on Haper. "},{"Title":"How much is the beach worth?","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw Local Hero in a mostly empty multiplex in 1983. It was slow and not overly endowed with plot, but charming, beautiful, and funny. Significantly, it passed my two subjective tests of a good film (1) I didn't look at my watch during the screening, and (2) scenes stuck with me for days afterward. After getting married in 84, I subjected my wife to Local Hero on video several times, and the first few viewings she fell asleep halfway through. I wondered if our marriage was doomed. But the third or fourth time she made it all the way through and later confessed that she liked it. One just needs to give it time.True, it starts a bit slowly. The early scenes of Mac's successful but lonely existence in Houston, and the trip to the Scottish village to acquire some property in the area, are important for setting up the plot and characters, but not spell-binding. The film rises to a new level when we're introduced to Gordon (We tend to double up on jobs around here) Urquhart and his lovely wife Stella. It kicks into high gear with the appearance of Ben, who lives alone on the beach, and Victor, the Russian sailor, who arrives for the ceilidh. All this time Mac is being seduced by the charms of village life, and we see it reflected in his interests &#150;he goes from financial negotiations to shell collecting &#150; and in his progressively casual dress. And McIntyre...get yourself a shave!The ceilidh itself is the high point. All the characters come together. Victor sings a song about Texas, sending women into rapture, and Mac dances with Stella while Gordon plays a mournful tune on the accordion. Ben, standing apart and seemingly oblivious to the party, fills his pockets with sandwiches and buns. Right afterward comes one of the film's perfect scenes, where a tipsy Mac, standing in the bar lit only by an amber glow through whiskey bottles, makes an odd proposal to Gordon that somehow seems reasonable after the magical evening. It ends with, I'd make a good Gordon, Gordon. After that there's a crisis, a Deus ex machina in the form of oil boss Happer and his helicopter, and a resolution that's both sad and happy, like life itself.If you can go away uncharmed and unmoved after watching Ben laugh himself breathless in response to Mac's question, How much do you think the bay is worth?, you're a more cynical person than I. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"unrealistic and good","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I will say that Local Hero's premise (an executive suddenly seeing the error in his ways) isn't the most realistic one, but the movie is still worth seeing. In a role far removed from Boone in Animal House, Peter Riegert plays Mac, the representative from the Houston company sent to Scotland to develop some land, but who eventually has a change of heart. Burt Lancaster, as the CEO, shows that he could still do a great job in any role. It almost seems that the idea behind this movie could only go so far Mac falls in love with the land in Scotland, and meanwhile Houston remains trashed. But either way, this a movie definitely worth seeing, even if it is far-fetched. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Charming movie about an American oil company trying to buy a Scottish village to build a refinery. Riegert is the company rep sent to negotiate the purchase. Lancaster is a delight as the company boss who is far more interested in astronomy than his company. The story unfolds leisurely as we get to know a quirky cast of characters in the Scottish village. There is a funny scene where Riegert gets drunk and offers to trade his life (expense account, nice car) for that of Gordon (the Scottish lawyer/hotel owner), even promising to be a good husband to Gordon's wife. It is understandable why he's so smitten with the laid back lifestyle of this wonderful little village. "},{"Title":"They don't make films like this anymore!","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Burt Lancaster may have an important role but he's not the leading role. THat role goes to Peter Riegert who plays Mac, an American businessman, who goes to a small Scottish community to broker a deal. What he finds there is something he never expected to find, a sense of belonging and a home that he never had in his native America. At home in Houston, Texas, he has a beautiful home and car and a good paying job. Something most of us would crave for but something is missing in his life. When he goes abroad to a small village of 300 inhabitants, he begins to belong with them like the Russian fisherman who comes to fish the waters. I am upset with what happened to the injured rabbit, Trudy, who they bring up there to take care of. That to me was horrible. To me, I love rabbits and Trudy was truly worth watching. They treated the rabbit like a human being. At the village, Mac plays the important role of making the locals to become millionaires. Plans don't go easily when there is an eccentric holdout who wouldn't sell his property--the beach front for all the money in the world. The end of the film is obscure and I can't make sense of it. Although Burt Lancaster gives a memorable performance of a rich American businessman, it is probably one of his finest later performances in film. Not much goes on that it would need an R rating if it has one. This film reminds me much of the early 1980s films where they were played continuously and repeatedly on new cable stations like HBO and Showtime. This is a very reserved film in the British tradition. They don't make films like this anymore and boy, do I miss the 1980s. "},{"Title":"Love this Movie","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Years ago I made a mistake and rented this video but it was a serendipitous happening and I have really enjoyed this movie over the years. It is nice to go back and view the movie every so often because the film is well acted, it is humorous and the scenes of Scotland are enchanting. More than anything else this film really does make you question the tug of war that goes on in our daily lives. This is a nice film for a rainy day. Just put a fire in the fireplace, make some chocolate or tea and tuck into a some shortbread while you watch. Also, it's fun to see the Houston I used to know directly compared to the Scotland I love. Cheers. "}{"Title":"The perfect feel-good movie","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a film about magic, the conjunction of the stars, love, loss, life, happiness and nature, not necessarily in that order.In my eyes the local hero is Mac, who saves the locality. Like lots of heroes he doesn't get any thanks or reward. But he has been touched by a special magic of place, a ghostly reminder of which he carries with him for evermore.There are mermaids masquerading as beautiful young women, there's Prospero masquerading as a beachcomber and there's a businessman who finds himself as a stargazer.Combined with the mysticism is the wonderful hard-handed pragmatism of Scotland and its inhabitants. Scottish whimsy isn't as sentimental as Irish, but it's extraordinarily compelling and beautiful. See this and then read Greenvoe by George Mackay Brown, then emigrate to Scotland. "},{"Title":"A slow languid film that grows on you","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film on it's original theatrical release and again once on TV years ago. It is not available on DVD and is now very hard to get. This is a great pity as it is a wonderful film with a marvelous performance by the ensemble cast. Filled with quirky characters, harsh Scottish coastal scenery, and human warmth. A real feel-good movie. The soundtrack by Mark Knopfler is excellent and I have listened to the CD many times over the years. The standout memories for me Burt Lancaster as Happer the zany astronomer/oil tycoon, Gordon Urquhart the pub owner and his wife Stella, the Russian fisherman, the scenery, the slow pace and charm of the film. "},{"Title":"life in a Scottish seaside town","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this when it first came out, and just finished seeing it now on DVD - 22 years later it's lost none of its charm. The music by Mark Knopfler is wonderful; it's just a little bit of a shame that more people know the music from the CD soundtrack than know the film. The interplay of the village folk, from the baby whose parentage is only obliquely implied (if that) to the nameless motorcycle rider to the old man at the ceilidh dance wistfully reminiscing Four generations of working that farm, digging and draining and planting - years and years and it comes to this . . . and the his friend asks him how much he's been offered. One and a half million in cash, plus 2% of the relocation fund, and a share in the oil field revenues, takes you into the flow of the town life, and you really don't want to leave.Ah yes, strange times indeed.From the unexpected fate of Trudy (or Harry) the rabbit to the final resolution of just what *will* happen to the town, director Bill Forsyth's light touch and pacing lets you slide into the rhythm of this small Scottish seaside town - not quite a Brigadoon, but my revisiting it after 22 years found it just as fresh and delightful.I must admit, though, that I'm still not sure what to make of Moritz, the unconventional therapist in the first part of the film; he does serve to highlight eccentricities that Happer has, and there are are some amusing bits with him, but it took me out of the film somewhat. I found myself wondering more what might have inspired Bill Forsyth's writing here than carrying me along with the story. "},{"Title":"Splendid!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't say enough about this movie. Firmly embedded in my top 10 of all time. If I were a director, this is the film I'd want to make. A terrific script, a terrific story, unobtrusive direction, and a cast of wonderfully quirky and interesting characters. Every time I watch it, something new is seen. And even though I know the outcome, I'm always left with a smile. Incredibly uplifting for its celebration of people at their oddest. And the soundtrack is one of only three that I've ever bought. Mark Knopfler at his best. Plain and simple, a true masterpiece. Hollywood wouldn't know where to begin in making a movie like Local Hero. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this film, it is set in a lovely part of the world and has great scenery and characters, my favourite is Gordon Urqhuart. anyone who longs to pack in the rat race of city life should enjoy this view of what is available outside of New york or on or any other large city.Scotland at its best, great film One of the best lines in the film is  is there 2 Ls in dollar? I don't know is there 2 Bs in Bugger off.The beach scenes are excellent, Fulton McKay is brilliant in this film. I love the soundtrack and it runs all the way through the movie with a real sense of mystery.Have I mentioned that I love this film oh yes I think I have a few times, If you only watch one film this month make it Local Hero. "},{"Title":"Prepare to be entertained.","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can I say about this film?Is it one of my favourite films of all time? Off course it is! Why? I don't really know if I can tell you why. It's not the funniest film of all time. I did not fall of my chair laughing, but rather, I smiled my way through it from start to end. Typical dry Scottish wit is how I would describe it. Bill Forsyth took the genius that was 'Gregory's Girl', added just a dash of Hollywood sparkle, and produced a Gem.Look out for classic one-liners like Are there two G's in bugger off?, The reverend says, news travels fast here, and I would make a good Gordon, Gordon.Think I'll go and watch it again. "},{"Title":"You have to watch this film 9.9/10","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, I suppose I should start by saying that this is my most fav film of all time so i will be coming at this with a slightly bias mind.There is no sex, there is no killing, there is no nudity, Bad language, Guns or scary moments. However this film has bucket loads of class, is brilliantly acted and of course has a great script. You tend not to laugh out loud but you smile within the first five minutes and you don't stop until the film finishes.Some of the humour may not translate across the Atlantic as it is very dry, but the story, cast and scenery make up for everything.I should also mention the soundtrack by mark Knopfler...excellent.So if you want to see what happens when the big Texas oilmen come face to face with the lobster fisherman of Scotland it is well worth a look.'Breakfast is not until 8am, 7 in the fishing season..........it's not the fishing season'  "},{"Title":"Upbeat fish-out-of-water tale (spoilers)","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Local Hero is a strangely little known but still very relevant film about a Texas oil rep MacIntyre (Peter Riegert) sent to a remote Scottish fishing village to negotiate with the inhabitants the release of the land, which is intended for use as an oil pipeline. This sets the scene for a potential culture clash as the fish-out-of-water American struggles to communicate with the streetsmart village residents...Bill Forsyth wrote and directed this movie, and in light of recent American expansionism, the story comes across in today's world as bit of fancy wish-fulfilment. This is especially true when MacIntyre's boss (Burt Lancaster) forsakes the safety of his high-rise office to visit the village for himself. Like MacIntyre, he becomes taken with the townsfolks' way of life and decides to change his plans to their advantage. An unlikely scene, but very well played.The film features a gallery of popular Scottish actors. Denis Lawson stands out as the canny innkeeper/accountant, who is always one step ahead of MacIntyre. Peter Capaldi is on hand as MacIntyre's assistant Oldsen, and the late Rikki Fulton appears as a jovial marine scientist. There are many other popular Scottish stars of stage and screen here including Kenny Ireland, John Gordon Sinclair and Tam Dean Burn.The film boasts a brilliant soundtrack by Dire Straits guitarist Mark Knopfler. This works well when Oldsen and his marine biologist girlfriend Marina (Jenny Seagrove) observe the 'Northern Lights' in the sky above the village, and the finale where MacIntyre considers his empty urban existence against the simple pleasures of the life he's left in the village, seguing into the rousing tempo of the closing credits sequence.A likeably upbeat Scottish tale, and good fun. "},{"Title":"My favourite feel-good movie.","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love films, I always have.  Films are about relaxation and a break from the real world, and this film really delivers on that score.  I find this a very entertaining film, with humourous undertones, spectacular scenery, and some very lovely ladies!  It's a pure escape from the humdrum of everyday life.  It has a top-quality cast, who keep the story rolling with the many cliches, although there is a slight anti-climax to the ending.  I don't think it was ever intended to be taken seriously.  It's pure entertainment, and not too badly dated considering it's 21 years old.  All I can say is if you don't like it, then there is one phrase from the film I'd say and that is there's two g's in bugger off!   "},{"Title":"Wonderful,gentle British comedy-reminiscent of the Ealing hey-day.","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Hero is a wonderful film,it reminds me of the Ealing comedy hey-day.The dry humour of writer/director Bill Forsyth is sustained right through and all his characters have a true endearing quality.It's so easy to fall into the flow of the film and identify with the age old story of the small fry outwitting the big fish,but done in a refreshingly well written way,blending gentle comedy with madcap and slightly mysterious episodes and twists.Excellent acting too,Lancaster and Mackay are superb,and the cast shine under Forsyth's direction,add to this some lovely photography of the Scottish landscape(some of the filming was done on the west coast near Arisaig) and music from the great Mark Knopfler,really makes this one to watch.  "}{"Title":"Relaxing, beautiful whimsy.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Local Hero is a strange film on a certain level, because it is almost two hours long and virtually nothing happens during that time, yet somehow it is still a totally enjoyable experience. This charming, sleepily paced whimsy has enough lovably oddball characters to keep it going, and the script by director Bill Forsyth is quite wonderful. Business man MacIntyre (Peter Riegert) is sent by a massive Houston oil company to a secluded corner of Scotland to buy up a village for a future oil refinery. He gets the job on the strength of his Scottish ancestry (though his parents were actually Hungarian refugees who assumed the name MacIntyre simply because it was the first name them heard when they got off the boat in America). Most of the villagers are quite excited about the money they are going to receive for selling; a few others would prefer to stay put. Against his own expectations, MacIntyre finds himself falling under the spell of this beautiful place - but can he really afford to turn this place he has grown to love into a huge, ugly oil refinery? Great performances (check out Burt Lancaster in particular, as a billionaire Houston business boss) and gorgeous scenery; lovely moments of wit; off-kilter characters who are immediately appealing and fascinating; and a haunting music score - Local Hero has everything you need, without ever once deeming it necessary to up the pace. "},{"Title":"My favourite film","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is not just the scenery, or the characters, or the sound track, or the comedy. Sometimes a film gives you just a little bit more than you expect and it leaves you wanting to be a part of the script. A life lesson is Local Hero; we don't always know what we want until it is with us no more.Witness Mac's slow slide into the comfort of the Scottish people and their wonderful surroundings, and compare this with the local folk as they dream their impending fortune away. Not just that. Bill Forsythe knows Scotland, and his vivid depiction of small town life (as it was then, and is now) is as accurate and romantic as any film I've seen.I have watched this film so many times, but still find myself catching new quirks to make me smile. I find myself quoting lines from the film and marvel at how many people recognise them, reassuring me that I am not alone in loving it so much. You can visit the places in the film too, and they are every bit as fantastic as you would expect.If you haven't seen it, then do so. If you have, then you'll know that some things in life are more important than money.  "},{"Title":"Unique, Gemlike, you have to love it","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies you can watch an unlimited number of times, because you'll never run out of things to appreciate about it.  Local Hero is director Forsyth's most conventional yet subtle and romantic movie.  I didn't get the title until my second viewing, if you can believe that, but then again nothing about this movie is overstated, and you are left to enjoy the scenery and puzzle things out for yourself.The other poster's comparison to Northern Exposure is a good one, and you'll find a resemblance in tone, but although Northern Exposure was fine television, Local Hero is superior in all respects.The Scottish town where most of the movie takes place is a dreamlike, isolated world (which we initially enter, in a vaguely Shakespearian way, through a fogbank) and you have the sense that all things are possible, or at least that not many things are completely out of the question.  You have the feeling that if you live there, all you have to do is keep your eyes open and every day you will see something extraordinary.There isn't an ugly frame in the movie and most of what you see is downright beautiful.Although there's no shooting and there is some sentimentality, this is not a chick flick.  It's a subtle, beautiful, and exceptionally clever comedy with Shakespearian overtones.  It's pretty good the first time and better the tenth.  "},{"Title":"A Film You Want To Live In","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Local Hero at a theatre when it first came out and I try to watch it once a year if I can. It's one of my desert island movies. Ever since I first saw it I've wanted to live in Furness and hang out with the locals and most of all go to a celidh (kay-lee) the party they throw when the Russian sea captain shows up. This film sucks you into its universe and in the end you don't want to leave. The comparisons to Northern Exposure are natural and I thoroughly enjoyed both. If you want a movie that will make you want to live inside it's story forever, see Local Hero! "},{"Title":"A touching wee movie, heartwarming, and the best depiction of everyday Scottish life ever captured on cellular.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Written and directed by the multi talented Mr Forsyth, this is a modern day fairytale, of riches beyond belief, being brought to a small fictional Scottish town called Furness. The Texan Knox oil and gas company decide that they need a new site for a new refinery, and the small town of Furness is just perfect. So they use `middle man`, McIntyre (Peter Riegert) to fly to bonnie Scotland and try to convince the natives that they should sell out for a worthy fee. They all gladly oblige, except one, old Ben, a recluse who lives on the local beach. He won`t sell for anything, so Knox boss, Happer (Burt Lancaster) flies over and decides to try his hand with .negotiations...........This is a wonderful story, set in the beautiful backdrops of the eastern scottish coast. One of those `feel good` movies we all love. Very witty at times, this is a light hearted look at the diverse lifestyles of the American and Scottish people. And Peter Reigert (Animal House) plays the `fish out of water` type character so well! Music is by the one and only `Mr Dire Straits`, Mark Knopfler, his original haunting highland melodies sound almost traditional, and fit in just perfect. And what can i say about Mr Bill Forsyth, except that he is one of the true great British directors. With such classics as Gregory`s Girl (and his 2 upcoming girls), Comfort And Joy, and That Sinking Feeling, he put himself firmly on the directorial map. A touching wee movie, heartwarming, and the best depiction of everyday Scottish life ever captured on cellular. If you ever decide to visit the actual town where this movie was made, look for a little village called `Pennan` on your map..Its right above Aberdeen, and quite near Peterhead. "},{"Title":"A gentle comedy with a beautiful haunting score by Mark Knopfler...","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of my all-time favourite comedies; not only for the gentle understated script, but also for the beautiful haunting score by Mark Knopfler. It picked a few awards in its time, amongst them, Bill Forsyth won the 1984 BAFTA for Best Direction and Mark Knopfler was nominated for Best Score. Here's a brief summary before I give you my thoughts.Knox Oil in Houston, Texas is exploring for oil in the North Sea and need a site for a new refinery. A stretch of coastline is selected but it is inhabited and so they send young executive MacIntyre out to make a deal with the locals. It seems the locals already know he is coming and are keen to make a deal. The local accountant Gordon Urquhart agrees to liaison with the villagers leaving MacIntyre to enjoy the scenery. Over time he falls in love with the place, but knows he's there to do a job. With agreement looming they hit a sticking point when they discover that the beach is owned by the local beachcomber, Ben. Unable to persuade him, MacIntyre's boss, Felix Happer arrives to conclude matters. Could this mean the end for the beautiful fishing village, or is there another twist in the tale? Of course I'm not going to tell you here or them Spoiler Police will be taking me for a ride in a boat.This is the first time I've watched this with a view to reviewing it and, I must say, I found the script much more subtle than I had noticed before. Apart from the obvious comic elements, I got much more out of it this time around. Great performances all round; Peter Riegert did a good job as MacIntyre, as did Denis Lawson as Gordon Urquhart. I should also mention Burt Lancaster, who did a sterling job as Felix Happer and Fulton Mackay who was really great as Ben. And finally, an early role for a young Peter Capaldi as Danny Oldsen, better known these days for his role in the TV series The Thick of It, and the 2009 film, In the Loop. There are many others I would like to mention, but I would be here all day if I did.It does look a little dated and it's very obvious there wasn't much of a budget to play with after Mr Lancaster had been paid. But even so, it's still a fine piece of work and one I would be very happy to watch several more times in years to come. It's interesting to watch MacIntyre and how his appearance subtly changes throughout the film, I love that way that was done. But enough of my prattlings, I think you've probably already guessed&#x85; Recommended.My Score 8.6/10 "},{"Title":"Soothing","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every now and then you need to kick back and relax, and this is the perfect film for that. It's smooth, funny, wonderfully filmed and full of interesting and benevolent characters. Plus there's a magical soundtrack from Mark Knopfler.Cleverly satirising and at the same time rejoicing in the rural idyll, there are some genuinely funny moments so subtle you may miss them. Pay particular attention to the boat being painted! The icing on the cake and the mortar in the joints is provided by screen legend Burt Lancaster, one of a handful of names that can be mentioned in the same breath as icons Gable, Stewart and Grant. His effortless parody and subtle humour are a joy to watch.Definitely one to watch. "},{"Title":"Slow, but beautifully filmed and the leads are superb","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can understand why this mayn't appeal to some, it is quite slow sometimes. However I think Local Hero is an absolutely beautiful film. While it does have moments of whimsy, it expertly avoids over-egging it. Essentially it is quite lyrical and mystical in its tone, with a great, poignant story, a thoughtful script and a sure directorial touch from Bill Forsyth. And the cinematography and scenery are absolutely gorgeous and the music pleasant and sensitive. The performances I can't fault, all of them are funny, ironic and moving all in equal measure. There are talented actors such as Denis Lawson, Peter Capaldi and Jenny Seagrove in the cast but it is the leads that captivate, Peter Riegert is nicely understated while Burt Lancaster is just superb. Overall, a beautiful film. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Local Connection","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This little film has a big personal connection for me. The location where the village is supposed to be is where I am from in the highlands. One of the stars, the character of Ben Knox (played by Fulton Mackay) is my fathers cousin and it's often said the character was based on my father.Local Hero, apart from being a fun, enjoyable and innocent film in it's own right, captures a life gone by in the highlands of Scotland. The highlands have changed so much in the last 25 years, largely due to a huge influx of settlers from further south. I remember many characters like Ben, with a slow accent but three steps ahead of anyone talking to them.If you are looking for a great film to watch where you can slip away into another world and transport yourself to the comings and goings of a highland village, then Local Hero is that film. After all, there was something magical about the older highland way of life, an innocence and honest way now lost forever. However, it lives on in this funny, enjoyable and fantastic little film. "},{"Title":"Top 5","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In early 1985 I went up to Stein in Waternish (Skye) for a walking & sailing holiday. I was absolutely smitten with the place, and with the Inn whose combination of first-rate food, whisky, song and 'guid crack' beat anything I could remember. (It still does, though years of heavy tourism in a small locale have taken the shine off the Inn.) When I got back to my job in Saudi my neighbor, Jim Rae, with perfect timing, brought over a film he thought I might find entertaining, you whistling 'The Mingulay Boat Song' for 3 incessant days, an a'. Never having got a recommendation from Jim that wasn't good, I poured us out a couple of glasses of our local poteen (siddiqi, meaning 'friend', & well-named) and we sat back.I never name any film the 'best ever' for fear of painting myself into a corner but without giving anything away I can safely put this one in Top 5, the highest bracket I own, and no fear it'll be displaced any time soon. Sweet, funny, full of surprises & unexpected left-turns, it's one of the few pulled off the shelf from time to time for a re-run, all for the sheer delight of it, of the craft & good fun that went into it, & Dire Straits at their best, bearing it all up. Nothing is overlooked and if your heart's not basalt with an overlay of granite it'll have you grinning & yearning by turns, with even a little tristesse for good measure. You won't go wrong with this one. "}{"Title":"LOCAL HERO (Bill Forsyth, 1983) ***","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although I had intended to watch at least three more Burt Lancaster movies as part of my ongoing tribute to the late, evergreen Hollywood legend, I eventually rounded up an even dozen with this acclaimed Scottish comedy. In fact, writer-director Forsyth, best-known for his previous film GREGORY'S GIRL (1980), won three international awards for his screenplay and direction and both Lancaster (in the Best Supporting Actor category) and the film were nominated for BAFTAs. The main theme of the clash between American globalization and the simple, lethargic way of life of the Scottish islanders instantly brings to mind the classic Ealing comedies of yesteryear, particularly my own personal favorite example of the series Alexander Mackendrick's WHISKEY GALORE! (1949). To that age-old template, Forsyth adds his own disarming brand of quirky, low-key humor that elicits more smiles than it does belly-laughs but, admittedly, I did laugh out loud on a couple of occasions eccentric stargazing American tycoon Lancaster undergoes with his shrink Norman Chancer a masochistic therapy (akin to the relationship between Inspector Clouseau and Cato in Blake Edwards' PINK PANTHER series!) in which the latter keeps calling the former foul names and, in one instance, Lancaster is on the phone in his office as an unheralded Chancer, in full window cleaner outfit, is on a scaffolding on the outside of the edifice pasting a banner stating that Happer is a Motherf&#x85;!! Lancaster sends his Scottish negotiator MacKintyre (Peter Riegert) to buy off the properties of some twenty islanders with the intention of building an oil refinery plant on that stretch of land; helping him in the deal is local representative Oldsen (Peter Capaldi) who immediately falls for a web-footed(!) marine biologist aptly named Marina (Jenny Seagrove). Under the shrewd guidance of the town's restaurateur-notary-mayor Urquhart (Dennis Lawson &#x96; who even feeds Riegert his own 'accidental' pet rabbit at one point!), most of the islanders are all too happy to sell off their miserable abodes and soak in the millions promised by the American buyers (another big laugh is generated when Riegert asks a crowd of villagers to whom the toddler in their midst belongs and they just exchange baffled looks!); the only exception is hermetic old codger Ben (Fulton McKay) who wants nothing more than to look after the beach his family had owned for successive generations. This unexpected hurdle elicits the helicopter visit to the island of Lancaster himself but, eventually, the love of astrology (Riegert is also instructed to provide long-distance reports of comet sightings directly to Lancaster!) that both Ben and Tapper share unites them in a new venture of the construction of an observatory and, thanks to Capaldi's new-found recognition in Lancaster's eyes, a marine laboratory!! The whole slyly satisfying package (marred for me somewhat by recurring freezing issues during a five minute segment in mid-screening of the copy I acquired) is underscored by Dire Straits' Mark Knofler equally relaxed (and BAFTA-nominated) rock score. "},{"Title":"Background and foreground","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bill Forsyth is a director famous for making two much loved films in the early 1980s, his coming-of-age tale 'Gregory's Girl' and this movie. If you wonder how someone can make two such popular films, and then disappear, there are clues to be found in 'Local Hero', for whatever its merits, it's certainly not slick. The plot is familiar (cynical businessman comes to destroy a beautiful place, but falls in love with it) but its execution departs from the formula in a slightly bumbling (and apathetic) fashion. The scenes set in Texas seem lacking in energy and are unconvincing; Peter Riegert's deal maker is insufficiently hard-hearted at the beginning for his subsequent transformation to achieve maximum impact; while the portrait of the locals are portrayed as both canny and naive ensures that the actual clash of cultures is far less direct than might appear in outline. But these apparent flaws are arguably the cause of the film's charm that it retains its own individual qualities, even the point of superficial perversity (from the perspective of pure storyline), allowing a low key humour to flourish in the background. Indeed, the background (rather than the plot) is really what 'Local Hero' is all about, both in Forsyth's fabulously imagined version of Highland life (with both differences from, and similarities to, his rendering of a new town in his earlier film) and in the gorgeous highland scenery (although some of the locations supposedly within the village are in reality on opposite coasts!). If you love Scotland, you can't help but love this film as well. "},{"Title":"This has been my favorite film since I first saw it in 1983.","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has been my favorite film since I first saw it in 1983. I had friend in the Scottish Highlands (sadly deceased) and recognised the West coast and sampled some of its flavour again. Another friend saw it and ended up living a couple of miles from Penan! He says most of the village is now 'holiday' housing owned by (relatively) wealthy fishermen from down the coast. I've seen Local Hero again countless times on video and DVD and seem to find more in it every time. How is it possible to get so much into what seems a too short a film? In a 'Culture Show,' screened by the BBC this week (on the 25th anniversary of the film's release), Bill Forsyth said he had not seen it for 23 years! He watched it again, with locals and Mark Kermode, in the Pennan Village Hall. I could have sworn I saw tears in his eyes. This is an ultimately optimistic film that warms the heart and soul. "},{"Title":"Puttnam meets Forsyth and the result is intelligent whimsical splendour.","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Eccentric Texan oil tycoon Happer, has his sights set firmly on the remote Scottish fishing village of Ferness for his next big refinery. He dispatches his number one negotiator Mac to close out the deal, but what Mac finds is a wonderful array of characters who are clued into his plans, and this coupled with the amazing lifestyle that Mac observes the people of Ferness leading, means things are not going to go as expected.David Puttnam is known for producing the likes of Chariots Of Fire, The Killing Fields and Midnight Express, so how odd that he should team up with the director of off beat cult favourite Gregory's Girl? Yet it's a union that produces one of the 80s most adroit and more importantly.....appealing films of the decade. Laced with humour, surprises and the right balance of sentimentality, Local Hero is as much a film lovers movie as it is a film maker's one.Technical aspects of the film are excellent, the location work evokes the glories of Whiskey Galore!, where here the cinematography from Chris Menges is as good as British work goes, at times beautiful and at others quite wondrous, the Aberdeenshire location is a character all of it's own, and it's thru this that we perfectly understand the confliction that protagonist Mac goes thru. Local Hero contains little sub-plots that enhance the bigger picture, Happer's running feud with his psychiatrist is wonderful cinema, a characters infatuation with an oceanologist has mermaid like whimsy, whilst blossoming friendships, that at first seem unlikely, then flesh out to become positively essential to the films success.Looking back on it now it's not hard to see why many American's embraced this film on its release, it would have been so easy to paint the American characters as greedy pillagers of natures beauty, but here is one of Local Hero's strengths, for the residents of Ferness are only too happy to grab the cash, nothing is ever quite as it would seem in Local Hero. There are no characters wasted, every single actor in the film, no matter how small the role, is as crucial as our main protagonists. For that reason alone I refuse to single out performances, my only minor quibble being that the big bloke playing Happer was so good I just wish the character could have had more screen time, but hey, it's as minor as it gets. I must also mention Mark Knopfler's gorgeously poignant score, warm and highly effective, it's theme tune alone is out of the top draw.Some harsh rare critics of the film point to Local Hero owing a debt of gratitude to Powell & Presburger's 1945 beloved picture, I Know Where I'm Going, yes that may well be, and for sure the P&P movie in its own right is truly wonderful, but I'll be damned if Local Hero hasn't got the better narrative! 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Climb In","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Forsyth's genius in the gentle, humorous, sincere art of telling stories is best on display in the sequence of films from Gregory's Girl through Comfort & Joy, Local Hero and Housekeeping. But it is this film that affects me in the same way that its small Scottish coastal town setting affects Peter Riegert's character, Mac I want to climb into the movie and take up residence there. This is the film we run in my house when we want to sit close together, sip a wee dram o' comfort, and forget the world outside. Every scene offers an opportunity to smile at least and frequently to laugh, and every situation suggests that honesty and intimacy are available if only we will acknowledge their presence. Do I even need to go into the brilliance of Burt Lancaster? "},{"Title":"I love this movie - but my family thinks I'm crazy","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. That's saying a lot since I'm pretty picky about films, own lots of DVDs, and I teach a film course. Of course, nobody else in my family likes Bill Forsyth's masterpiece of understated comedy. If you like small details, appreciate irony and satire, and think we Americans could take things just a little easier, then this film may just make your day. There are so many wonderfully quirky things about this film, but I have to admit that among my favorite are the motorcyclist, Peter Capaldi's quasi-multi-lingual Oldsen, and Mark Knopfler's beautiful score. Just the fact that Forsyth was able to get Burt Lancaster to play the maniacal Felix Happer should be enough to give this film a chance. Oh, I could go on, but if you're in a good mood, and if you can watch this film without being interrupted, I believe you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Local Hero","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From BAFTA winning director Bill Forsyth (Gregory's Girl, Housekeeping), I spotted this title and was instantly interested because of the star of Birdman of Alcatraz and it being four stars out of five, so I tried it and stuck with it. Basically American oil company billionaire tycoon Felix Happer (BAFTA nominated Burt Lancaster) wants to secure the property rights for an oil refinery on the coast of a village in Scotland. So he sends Knox Oil and Gas representative 'Mac' MacIntyre (The Mask's Peter Riegert) to the village of Ferness start negotiations, and while there he teams up with local Knox representative Danny Oldsen (Peter Capaldi). As times goes by however Mac is taking a liking to the village and its locals, and they are taking a shine to his fascinating Americanism, and even if the build is to go ahead, they have to get past hermit and beach scavenger Ben Knox (Fulton Mackay) who lives in a shack on the beach. Happer seems to be more interested in hearing about the solar activities, i.e. the Northern Lights, and Danny is taking a fancy to the surreal web-footed Marina (Jenny Seagrove). Mac is obviously used to the Houston, Texas office setting much more, full of fax machines and stuff, so he has to negotiate on Ben's terms, but in the end the plans do not go ahead as Happer turns up to opt out. Also starring Denis Lawson as Gordon Urquhart, Norman Chancer as Moritz and Rikki Fulton as Geddes. Riegert is a nice guy most of the time, and Lancaster gets his time as the slightly odd old man who enjoys star gazing and not much business, I will admit I did not laugh very much, as it is not the most funny of material, the more poignant stuff did relatively well to interest me, it isn't the sort of thing I could see watching again, but it is a likable enough comedy drama. It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Film, Best Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Score for Mark Knopfler and Best Original Screenplay for Forsyth. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"See this movie and learn","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one good movie in all its simplicity. And I regard it as a movie touching a nerve that is very raw among very many in Norway, the acute sense of BEING AT HOME and LONGING FOR HOME.IMHO, it is possible to see it as a learning movie, it demonstrates vividly the reasons why it is hard to see any majority in Norway in favor of joining the European Union. Even though Norway is a rather urbanized European country the rural life is still not far behind in the consciousness of very many, there is a saying that you can take me out of my home village but you will never be able to take my village out of me. Urban Europeans sometimes regard the EU-fearing majority in the country as hopeless green romantics, this movie demonstrates the allure of the utopia this majority is seeking A society where most people knows most people and everyone will lend a helping hand and nobody is left alone.I am highly aware of that this dream is merely an Utopian idyll, the movie doesn't show the intolerance, the pettiness and the nefarious intrigues such societies often indulge in. And it downplays the poverty, the youthful desire to break out of such confines and the often unimaginative lack of development common there.Being a man moved out of such an environment I know when I see a good description of it - had it only be a little more full in its presentation. "},{"Title":"A film that captivates & grows, & like a fine port, gets better & better.","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm well aware of the fact that everyone on here comments from their own point of view, and with their own tastes and judgements in mind.As I grow older I realise that just because I don't like a movie, it doesn't make it 'Rubbish.I'm also aware that films are like visual memories that sometimes become firm favourites in your memory because they remind you of a time when something good was happening in your life even though you don't remember what.For me this film may have started that way, and if it did, I couldn't tell you what that event was. However now, the film is in my top three of all time. Watching it makes me forget completely those other things that are going on in my life and makes me feel that things just are not as bad as you think.The whole film is subtle and soft, and yet by the end you care for every character in it. No one is demeaned and everyone seems vital to the films progression, until you find you just don't want it to end. You want to move there and become part of it.I truly truly love this film and I'm not altogether sure why. I just know that I'm always pleased to have watched it, and frequently do.If you try it, I can't promise that it will strike a chord with you, and if it doesn't, I suspect you'll find it boring and dull, but if it does I suspect just as strongly that it will live on with you as one of your 'A' list movies and possibly your number 1 'A' list at that. "},{"Title":"Ah, Scotland, its people, its beaches and the Atlantic !!","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I could sit on this beach forever, talk with the locals, eat clams, sip whiskey, dance with the girls and watch the Northern lights. This story has been told so many times in so many different ways. A remote village on an idyllic spot somewhere on earth. Threathened by the advance of modern age. And saved by the ageless wisdom of a local eccentric. The producer succeeds in portraying individual characters with great clarity, yet never places them out of context. The local music is genuine and the colors of the photography, with an abundance of shades of grey, are superb. Burt Lancaster as the Texas oil magnate at the end of his career, accepts the fact, that money cannot buy everything. In fact, towards the end of life other things matter. "}{"Title":"A strange mixture of surrealism and whimsy takes too long to get started...","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If one were to believe the fantastic raves this film has received on this site, it ought to have won at least ten Academy Awards. The truth is, it's a thinly plotted, understated comedy that takes its time in setting up the plot, wandering aimlessly until its hero reaches Scotland, where nothing normal or predictable ever happens. If this sort of quirky charm does the trick for you, fine, but I found some of the running gags a bit on the tedious side.PETER RIEGERT is pleasant as the young man sent by oil representative BURT LANCASTER (in a good supporting role) to buy a Scottish village with plans to turn the seacoast setting into an oil refinery. For purposes of comedy, Lancaster is under the care of a weird psychiatrist who resembles comedian Billy DeWolfe, a totally unpredictable man who seems to relish using abusive techniques on his client. These early scenes are overplayed and quite a contrast to the quiet but still eccentric humor that settles in once our hero reaches Scotland to carry out his plans. The motorbike roaring by every time someone exits a dwelling is supposed to be hilariously funny. The innkeeper's signal to let the hammering begin whenever he's indulging in sex is no more than mildly amusing with repetition.Nothing much seems to happen for at least the first forty-five minutes except that we learn the village is full of eccentrics who seem oblivious to the fact that they ought to be happy in their Brigadoon surroundings rather than fixated on how much money the oil scheme might bring their way.The photography is gorgeous and the quaint village is nice to behold, but none of the storyline seems as enchanting as others have suggested and the quirky humor is poured on as thick as the Scottish accents.Summing up For some tastes only. "},{"Title":"Idiosyncratic,quirky,eccentric?Yes.Perfect?Not quite.","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Idiosyncratic.Quirky.Eccentric.Three words most used to describe Local Hero,well,yes,to an extent I agree,it is all those things (even if they didn't more or less mean the same - basically).To them I would add self - indulgent if only slightly.I'm all for a good running gag, but the guy on the roof hammering to cover the sound of the couple having sex and the motor - cyclist pointlessly racing round the village, the continual repainting of the name on the fishing boat quite quickly lost their appeal for me.Spotlight  must have been scoured for actors who could do eccentric within a one hour driver of the West Coast. The only vaguely normal inhabitant of the village was the lady who ran the shop,and she had a crush on a Russian sailor who was driven ashore in a rubber dinghy piloted by a girl who never stopped shouting at him,presumably in Russian,then disappeared for ever.(Quirky). Mr B.Lancaster graces the film with his not inconsiderable comedic talents,refusing to take it seriously but obviously enjoying his walks along the beach.Mr P.Reigert is outstanding as the Company Man who undergoes a Damascene conversion and returns home,perhaps to spread the gospel.A young and devastatingly handsome Mr D.Lawson dominates the movie as The village Innkeeper,Solicitor and General Factotum.It is he (and his wife) who tears Mr Reigert's loyalty from Knox Oil and directs it to the village and its inhabitants. The very beautiful Miss J.Seagrove plays a marine biologist with a very shiny wetsuit.She is clever enough not to attempt a full - on Scottish accent and is all the more effective for having only a quiet rather sweet burr. Mr F.Mckay resists the temptation to under - act and in long shots resembles the John Mills character in Ryan's Daughter,but fortunately takes rather more care of his teeth despite living in a shack devoid of amenities at the mucky end of a deserted beach. None of the foregoing means that I didn't enjoy Local Hero.It is a nice,well - intentioned film made with a faith in the basic decency and fairness in life that not many today reflect.I recognise the motor cycle in the street/penguin in the school corridor progression and was delighted to see Gregory himself put in a wee appearance.But I did find Mr Forsyth's eternal search for the different to be a little.... well,self indulgent.Not to say quirky,eccentric and maybe even idiosyncratic. "},{"Title":"A charming film but rather thin","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Local Hero is a fine variation on the tradition of British nostalgia films. Some corporation / government agency / rich American / modern capitalist wants to change a traditional way of life against the wishes of the locals, who gradually either win the developer round to their way of life, or else manage to outwit them - and everything ends up happily (ever after?). There are a few excellent films in this genre (my personal favourite being the minor Ealing Comedy, 'The Maggie', which also happens to be about an American in Scotland), but it is so overplayed a theme that for a film of this type to work requires something special.Local Hero does this by having the characters not adopt their traditional roles. Is this enough? Well, possibly. There are some fine moments and generally a good script, but the plot of this film was always going to be rather thin. What the film needs is good characterisation. Unfortunately, the very role-reversal which makes the film worthwhile is also its downfall, as it more or less forces the characters to be pretty much one-dimensional.The film tries to fill the weakness of plot and characterisation with some comic vignettes. Reading the reviews and message boards, it appears that people's views of the film depend very much on whether they enjoyed these little scenes. Personally I tended to find them stereotypical and overplayed - asking a group of local men whose baby it is, for example (they remain silent, looking a little awkward), or the occasional (but not sustained) surrealism of the inevitable near miss by a motorbike.Having said that, there is quite a lot to this film. It is simply made, the slow pace is exactly right, and I can quite understand some people naming it as their favourite film - their praise may be deserved, but it doesn't quite do it for me. "},{"Title":"Pleasant whimsy","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A charming and often beautifully shot film. The acting's a mixed bag with some best-forgotten turns by latter-day household names. I was impressed by Riegert though - there would have been a powerful urge to play the Yank abroad with big strokes, but it's much more measured than that.The internal tensions of the film are rather lax, I thought. The small romances that add up to the big one are almost documented, rather than staged. This low-key approach is in keeping with the population of well-drawn individuals in the town but undercuts the big name and big theme of the whole. Equally the editing is a bit rough. I also felt that Mark Knopfler's (phenomenally successful) soundtrack made the mistake of veering too close to an arrangement of Danny Boy. That's more like the Yankee-error the popcorn muncher in me was expecting! 5/10 "},{"Title":"Wicker Man","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" People love this film. It is gentle, somewhat relaxing. Sweet, at least superficially. No character in this entire story isn't at root a good person at heart, even the one Burt Lancaster plays. It seems to end happily, with money all around, the Lancaster character redeemed and a ne research lab established.But look closer.The backstory is that Happer (Lancaster) had a dad that cheated a Scot named Knox out of an oil company worth hundreds of millions. Now the son, Happer wants to buy a village and Knox's son is the holdout. Happer hates himself, naturally and is obsessed with skygazing.The main character is an underling of the oil company sent to buy up the town. He falls in love with it, but at the end is exiled. We end with his bittersweet return to a disgusting Houston. We know that the townspeople hate their town, hate their lives, hate that the Air Force uses the surrounding area for bombing practice.At the end we know they will not be able to move as they had hoped. The Russian smuggler will be the only one whose live will not get worse.It is a sweet film that leaves you bleak afterwards, rather like the Wicker Man of a decade earlier.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"I'm too Ignorant for this movie","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I won't specify reasons for hating this film, but moreover my lack of knowledge for the large amount of praise it receives. Perhaps myself being of a younger generation, i did not see much of the concept of the movie, or why it manages to amaze so many people.Perhaps this is just my own ignorance.I shall admit, it works as a good character study, which is likely most of the reason why i must comment on this title during my exam, but i still see little in this film that is substantial for it to be an amazing film. Only that the soundtrack is pretty cool, and that the film does not have such a large hype.Overall, i find this movie average for me. Not something i would personally go out to buy. But that doesn't mean it isn't good. I'm sure it is, but i just fail to think so. "},{"Title":"Another failed ending","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In rating a film, I always look at three aspects the setup, the plot and the ending. In Local Hero, I thoroughly enjoyed the set up. I believed that this little town in Scotland existed (much like the underrated depiction of a small South Carolina town in Doc Hollywood). The beginning of the plot also had a lot of promise. The towns people (by and large) were fixated on selling out for millions, not realizing how happy they already were and the Peter Riegert character's (Mac)ability to immediately comprehends this. However, the movie stalls at this point. Burt Lanchaster's character is absurd - a corporate executive of a major oil company that doesn't give a fig over whether his company can purchase a beach it desperately needs for a refinery. I could think of numerous ways of ending this film which would have been more enjoyable and comprehensible than the ridiculous ending employed here. Therefore, while I really enjoyed parts of this film, it was ultimately disappointing. "},{"Title":"lovely to look at","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just can't see why this film was named as some sort of artistic sleeper by so many critics after its release. I saw this movie with two other people and afterward we all looked at each other and said a collective huh?. It just seemed very dull and detached from start to finish. Its all about an American oil company wanting to secure oil in the middle of nowhere in Scotland. Performances by Burt Lancaster and Peter Riegert just couldn't jar me out of the boredom that set in as I watched the film. By the end, I just wanted them to go back to America and for the movie to end. It's too bad, because I am the type person that usually LOVES movies that are anti-Hollywood like this one--I really WANTED to like it.UPDATE--4/15/06--originally, I scored this movie a 2. One IMDb user asked me to reconsider my score, so I wrote him that I would see the movie again and change my review, if appropriate. While I enjoyed it more than I first did, I still think the movie is rather pretty to look at but not all that interesting. But, considering that there are so many that LOVE the film, maybe it just isn't everyone's cup of tea but to SOME it's a great film. As for me, it was mildly diverting and that's really about it. "},{"Title":"Very 'Northern Exposure'","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this film was too long for what it was trying to do. What was it trying to do? I don't really know. But, of course, I don't see many films like this one. Plus, my thoughts are a little scrambled right now since I am in the presence of a bare-chested man, who made me watch this movie to begin with. So, I suggest to you, dear reader, if you find yourself at the start of an evening such as mine here tonight, at the beginning of watching this film, find yourself a nice bottle of 2001 Bordeaux (don't worry, it gets better), and, most importantly, a bare-chested, office colleague of yours, and settle down for a nice, long, and warming, fleshy session along with this film. Oh, and the movie is a warmly whimsical little gem that treats the country-mouse/city-mouse theme with an engaging idiosyncratic charm. "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie does have a cult reputation and Quentin Tarantino has this movie on his list of greatest movies. Peter Riegert plays a man working for an oil company and he is sent to a village in Scotland to buy to up so his company can build a refinery. When Riegert arrives there it doesn't take him long to get the village interested in selling, in fact they are more then willing to sell. Everything is going alright until they find out an old man who lives on the beach who turns out to own the beach and won't sell. Burt Lancaster plays Riegert's boss who shows up to check it out and then has to deal with the old man. This isn't really a comedy and even though Lancaster has top billing its only a supporting role. This movie is overrated and i just don't see why so many people like it. "}{"Title":"Cinematic garbage at it's absolute worst.","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Are the first people to review this colossal stinker all paid shills, are just on mind-altering drugs?? The only reason I gave this piece of crap one star is because it was the lowest rating possible, unfortunately. I have never in my entire life seen such a grand concept reduced to such an inane, perpetually boring train wreck. There are so many disastrous problems with this film that it's impossible to list them all. Suffice it to say that I've never seen such amateur acting since watching my last NYU student film. And the writing was so cliché-ridden, that the screenwriter, at the very minimum, should be barred from the Writers Guild for the remainder of his professional life. As far as the fatal flaws in the casting of this turkey went, let begin with poor old Burt Lancaster -- his character, an oil tycoon with a pathological fixation on astrology and the stars. If he represented the actual mindset of the typical oil baron, we'd all still be getting around on horse drawn carriages. Then, to see this once mega star lowering himself to his final scene, spending one Scotch-infused night with The World's Oldest Living Beach Bum, emerging the next morning to tell his shell shocked cohorts in crime that he has suddenly changed his mind about building a gigantic oil refinery worth billions of dollars to his company, and now wanted to build a planetarium and oceanographic institute there instead? In reality, he'd be reduced to the office janitor, if he was lucky. The only other high point of this monstrous waste of good film stock was the brief introduction of a rabbit who started as potential road kill, only to be resurrected as dinner. Fortunately for the rabbit, he died a swifter death than this movie did. It's rather short length (111 min.) felt like watching a back-to-back screening of Gone With The Wind. But the most tragic part of this cinematic pile of excrement was in it's utter failure to turn it's high concept theme into something of true value. Instead, it lowered itself to the level of say, Julia Roberts' fantasy showboat, Pretty Woman, that sent thousands of prepubescent school girls flocking to Hollywood, believing that whoredom was the fast track to happiness and success. It's shame that no one realized their blunder until it was too late. "},{"Title":"VERY DISAPPOINTING","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really do not enjoy being negative about films because I really respect the people out there who make the effort to make a movie. Sometimes however, movies are just so bad.This film certainly has an interesting premise but I don't believe this film was much good. There seemed to be a lot going on in this film which made no sense at all. You couldn't even call some of the events in this film subplots because they seemed to be no part of the movie.I couldn't understand Jenny Seagrove's role in the movie. Jenny is a very good actress but I couldn't understand the point of her character. One of the other things I didn't like about the movie was it's let down of an ending.This was a chore to sit through. It ran for under two hours but it felt more like four hours after the film had finished. All the actors in this film are very good and have starred in other superb films. I cannot recommend this film however. "},{"Title":"Terrible ending!","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ***This review may contain some spoilers - please be advised***Ok, this is an average comedy/drama for the first half of the movie. A couple of good characters and a promising plot, but then it fizzles, fast.The main character, Mac, works for a huge international oil company called Knox oil, which was coincidentally started by a Scotts. The CEO of this company, Felix Happer, is an eccentric single tycoon played by Burt Lancaster who is avidly interested in astronomy. When Mac goes to Scotland to secure a small beach for a new oil well, he ends up falling in love with the small town. His eccentric boss shows up at the end to meet the one person in town who won't sell out, a man who lives on the beach named Knox. Little is made of this reference and a potentially good plot really starts to suffer. The town who is anxious to sell, presumably because of the military jets that constantly fly over, is upset with Knox for net selling.What happens? Nothing. At then end, everything is pretty much the same as it was in the beginning. Mac returns to Texas and continues in his old life. The town is much the same but with the promise the business from a new marine aquarium (although the planes still fly overhead). All in all, a lot of plot points are left hanging in the wind and the characters do not change from the beginning of the film to the end.A lot of potential, but not much substance. "},{"Title":"Entirely mediocre","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film never got started and went nowhere.  You may think I did not like the movie because it lacked the usual action, sex and violence.  The point is the film was entirely mediocre. Maybe it's me. For those who liked it, my wife thought it was very good.  "},{"Title":"Pointless!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to say I was disappointed.  After reviewing this film on IMDB and seeing the glowing review and high marks, I expected a good film.  Instead, when it was over I wondered why I wasted two hours.  Very little about this film makes any sense.  It appears to be building towards something, but never materializes and then gives you a total let down for an ending. Seriously, I almost think there was no script!  While the film presents a picturesque Scottish coastal town and it's people, there's no story line, no plot, no resolution, nothing.  If you want to see a good film about Scotland, try to find I Know Where I'm Going! "},{"Title":"A very boring film !","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   The original script idea was good !!   But the film was far too much slow paced, to point of boredom !   You seriously risk falling asleep.     And I don't see how people can find it such a good film !   After almost an hour and a half...... I stopped the video tape, I had had    enough....even the CNN is more interesting !     Definitely, a 3 vote.    "},{"Title":"I can't believe this film was created.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just don't understand how it got so many rave reviews from people who seem to know what they're talking about. This film was so slow that I would occasionally leave to get some food, and return to find the same scene still on the screen. My girlfriends eyes were glazed over within the first half hour. First of all, Burt Lancaster was horribly corny, especially the scenes with his shrink that had nothing to do with the plot of the movie, or even helping to establish his character. I was expecting Mac to be one of those corporate characters who falls in love with the town and ends up saving it or whatever...but it didn't even give me that sappy pleasure. The big bossman comes in at the last minute and justifies the writer's inclusion of this whole keep an eye on Venus crap by having him get all passionate about the place in the very last scene.It pretty much discounted the first half of the movie that (I'm assuming) was intended to get me to care about the people in the town-- which it didn't do a good job of at all. 90% of the characters took up much of the film's time, but weren't integral to the plot at all. It was made up of a bunch of disjointed scene that left me wondering what else I could have been doing with my evening. This wasn't even the type of movie that is sometimes enjoyable for kitch sake...it wasn't ANYTHING! It was never funny even once, the only thing worth NOT scrutinizing is the technical end, the filming. That was at least run-of-the-mill.I beg you not to waste your time. "},{"Title":"Aside from a few 1-liners, it was terrible!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow.  It came so highly recommended, and let me down so much.  Really had no story, and all the elements that you thought would play together by the end never went anywhere, leaving me feeling cheated and disenfranchised.  The random scenes were supposed to be funny, but just made no sense.  And don't get me started on webbed feet. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read all these wonderful reviews posted earlier and I wonder - did I see the same movie? I think it's one of the most unremarkable movies ever shot.  The plot is almost non-existent, the dialogs are weak, the actions of the characters are so illogical, that had this movie been more talented - I'd call it surrealistic.  Sorry, I can't believe that energetic, Porche driving Mac can fall in love with a tiny, sleepy fishermen's village on the outskirts of the world. It's one of the movies where nothing ever happens - as a matter of fact the same scenes, i.e. walk on the beach, dinner, motorcyclist, etc. repeat over and over again almost unchanged.  As one of my friends said during the movie It's like deja vu.  If they show them walking on the beach one more time - I'll scream! "}]