[{"Title":"Another Underrated Movie Due to its Name","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"159 out of 208 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never have been a fan of the Halloween series. Not to say that I don't like slasher films, but Michael Myers just never did anything for me. I would rather watch a Friday the 13th film any day over this series. Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is the only movie from the series that I just didn't enjoy, but is actually one of my all time favorite horror films. Partially, because Michael Myers isn't in this film. Now, I am sure that people are going to hate my opinion on this, but I really don't care. I believe the only reason why this movie is so underrated and has such a low score on IMDb is because it doesn't have Michael Myers in it. If this movie had dropped the Halloween title and stuck with Season of the Witch or The Last Halloween I think this movie would have much more respect.This movie has many things on its side. The storyline is one of the darkest I have ever seen about a company named Silver Shamrock selling Halloween masks. All through the movie television adds build up to a big Give Away on TV on Halloween night. Tom Atkins plays a doctor named Dan who suspects the Silver Shamrock company after a man is murdered in his hospital. The mans daughter and Dan take a trip to the town where the factory resides and find out much more then they could have bargained for.As I said, this movie has many things going for it. A few great actors including Tom Atkins and Dan O'Herlihy do wonderful jobs. Especially O'herlihy, playing the part of the villain and one of the most evil characters ever created.The music was great also. Performed by John Carpenter, of course. The music brings a great deal of atmosphere to the movie making you feel a sense of dread through and throughout. But, this is a great part of any of the Halloween movies. Like them or not, most of them have a good soundtrack.And of course, the ending to the movie is one of the best/worst endings ever, in my opinion. Hollywood wouldn't dare have a movie end as bleak as this movie did today.Well, you don't have to listen to me. But, I thought this was a great movie and I wish that it was never named Halloween III. A bad decision, an excellent horror movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people think","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"123 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think Tommy Lee Wallace's Season of the Witch is an underrated classic. There are no points here for outstanding acting performances, or original plot etc (although I would like to add there's no dreadful acting) but bonus points for the music and direction, which go together to make a really creepy horror. It contains superb imaginative gore sequences, to rival the likes of The Fly or Dead & Buried.Whereas the Michael Myers type slasher movies have done the genre to death, this one remains dusty and untouched. There aren't any other horror movies worth mentioning, like this. It is very sci-fi horror though, so I think if you've a problem with far-fetched content, you'd best avoid the film as you will find it ridiculous.I called it Season of the Witch in the first sentence, because I prefer to think of it as it's own movie, rather than having anything to do with the original classic Halloween. This is the only problem with the movie.Oh ... and Happy Halloween. "},{"Title":"An underrated film. Very moody and atmospheric. *** out of 5","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"106 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's get some things straight...The only real reason people seem to hate this film is because Michael Myers was absent.For those who don't know, John Carpenter and crew decided since Michael Myers was dead at the end of HalloweeN II, there was no reason to continue on with his story. The decision was to go ahead with the series making each new installment a different story revolving around the Halloween season. Personally, I think this was a wise decision. But after everyone saw it they were screaming 'That wasn't a Halloween movie! Where was Michael?'. Obviously the majority of the audience would rather more Michael Myers rampages than creepy stories set around Halloween time.Oh well, this movie gives a taste of where the series could have and should have went, before the disappointing HalloweeN 4.Overall, the acting is top notch. Tom Atkins is a great actor. The soundtrack is one of my favorite John Carpenter scores ever. It has themes, but it's more about synthesized mood and pulsating rhythms. The cinematography by the great Dean Cundey is fabulous. And the entire feel of the film is very unsettling. The film literally freaks me out.I recommend all of you that diss the film, to check it out once more. Keep an open mind. If this hadn't been a part of the HalloweeN series you would probably like it.As for myself, I'm glad that this carries the HalloweeN title. Th rest of the films didn't pick up until HalloweeN H2O which is a very worthy entry. "},{"Title":"Strange and slightly fascinating","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"89 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like Halloween III. Some people consider it to be one of those so bad it's good kind of films, but they're wrong. It's competently made and much better than the Halloween films that appeared after it. As sequels go it's pretty strange, though. For starters, Michael Myers is nowhere in sight. This second sequel has nothing to do with the two previous films in the series (personally I couldn't care less about that) and the plot is downright weird. What's strange about it is that there's very little symbolism at stake - something which is rare in occult horror films. Normally, filmmakers seem to feel that they need some sort of psychological excuse to show us unrealistic horror. Not so in Halloween III. We never get to know the main characters and get only the most superficial impression of their personalities. The sinister goings-on in the film have nothing to do with the personal traumas of the protagonist - he's just there because he has to be, in order for the plot to move on. In this sense, the film is refreshingly naive. The atmosphere or tone of the film is why I like it. It has that midnight movie feel, mainly - I think - because of the soundtrack. Music is rarely used, but always effectively like in John Carpenters The Thing (1982). And there are some almost surreal images thrown in along the way, like the one where snakes surprisingly appear from within the pumpkinhead. "},{"Title":"I don't care what anybody says, I liked it!","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"64 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boy, this poor film has gotten all but burned at the stake (pun intended) here. I first saw Season of the Witch when it came on cable in the early 80s when I was maybe 12 and it scared me as much as the other Halloween films (just two at the time). Though I was somewhat perplexed that it didn't have Sinjoro Myers. But even at age 12, I was more intrigued by this change then outraged.I still watch it when it comes on and though it hasn't aged well overall, the scene where the family is tested on is still one of the most horrific moments in film history and makes Donal Cochran one of the most dispicable villians EVER!I love the idea that Carpenter wanted to do a different story for each one and I think it's a shame people hated this one so much that such an inspired idea was pulverized by ecomonic realities.A lot of people complain about how stagnant the imagination of Hollywood is, but I think all these outraged comments here I've seen show that those people are actually a minority. Most people see nothing wrong with creative bankruptcy. So I guess we can look forward to a 5th (or is it 6th now) film with a guy in a Shatner mask eviscerating horny teens. I'd be happier though if they at least stuck a different mask on him. Maybe one from Silver Shamrock?)  God forbid! That's different! "},{"Title":"Misunderstood and under rated","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"56 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably the most controversial Halloween movie, simply because Michael Myers isn't in it. I know that this movie gets a lot of complaints, but actually I can see where the writers were going with this. They just had an idea to continue the Halloween stories, but just to do a different type of franchise, which I give them a lot of credit for. Does this movie deliver the same scares as the original Halloween or even the sequel? No, it doesn't, but it's still creepy and not given a proper chance by most. Just the song that is used alone in this movie was a bit intense. It's a great little ghost story that is sure to deliver chills if you have an open mind to it. The acting isn't as good as the other movies, we have some pretty below par actors, but over all they make the movie worth watching even if it was cheesy.On Saturday, October 23, shop owner Harry Grimbridge is chased by mysterious figures wearing business suits. He collapses at a gas station clutching a Silver Shamrock jack-o'-lantern mask and is driven to the hospital by the filling station attendant all the while ranting, They're gonna kill us. All of us. While Grimbridge is hospitalized, another man in a suit enters his room and pulls his skull apart. The man then returns to his vehicle, douses himself with gasoline and lights himself on fire, causing the car to explode. Challis, together with Grimbridge's daughter, Ellie, begins an investigation that leads them to the home of the Silver Shamrock Novelties factory. They learn from a hotel manager, Mr. Rafferty, that the source of the town's prosperity is Irishman Conal Cochran and his factory and that the majority of the town's population is made up of descendants of Irish immigrants. Challis learns that Ellie's father had stayed at the same hotel. Other guests of the hotel included shop owners Marge Guttman, Buddy, Betty and their son Little Buddy. All have business at the factory and eventually meet gruesome ends because of the Silver Shamrock masks.The Kupfer family views the Silver Shamrock commercial that will air on Halloween night. But there's more to these masks then meets the eye. Is Halloween 3 the best sequel? No; is it the worst sequel? No; I'd say just a lot of people got the wrong idea about the movie and didn't know what the writers were thinking when the wrote for this franchise. I loved the ending scene, it actually did give me a nightmare, I don't want to give it away though, just trust me, it's a creepy scene. I do recommend if you love horror movies to give this movie a fair chance or if you want to see the Halloween movie franchise, just remember that the writers just wanted to try something new. I do honestly like this movie, I hope people will see it for what it is and it's just a good ghost story to watch on a night for Halloween.6/10 "},{"Title":"Unbeatable, a Masterpiece!","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"62 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is an all time classic. Creepy from the word go, the lighting and soundtrack give it a theatrically dark and menacing feel, while the characters are so ordinary that one feels one is watching a drama-doc. Then the extreme violence with crushed heads and people set ablaze. There is a tangible sense of mystery to all this. Our hero is a slightly flawed character, womaniser and boozer, but an honest sort of guy. The idea of filming at a mask factory is inspired - all those creepy faces! The factory owner Cochran is one of the finest horror characters ever to grace the screen. Profoundly eerie yet likable, humorous yet intimidating, he has the quality of an educated, cultured serial killer with the monstrous ambition of a megalomaniac from a Bond movie. His evil plans are particularly horrific in scale, but he sees them as one big joke on the kids! "},{"Title":"A good magician never explains.","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"69 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me begin by saying that I hated this film as a kid. After viewing it the other day on a whim however, I was surprised at how much better I liked it now. The story centers around an evil mask-maker planning to use ancient technology to murder millions of children on Halloween night by selling them masks with a nasty little secret inside. I found the story very interesting, though plenty of plot holes ultimately keep this film from being all it could have been. The biggest obstacle in this film's way is the fact that it has nothing at all to do with the other Halloween films made either before or after it. That's certainly no reason not to give it a chance, though. Perhaps it should have been called only Season of the Witch or something so as not to anger the purists out there who demand the presence of Michael Myers in anything with the word Halloween in the title. That said, let's take a look at the good and not-so-good elements of this film, shall we?Like the previous entries in the series, this film has some creepy and effective music. It is also buffered by some evil synthesizer sounds at every turn. The little jingle set to London Bridge is annoying, and I'm sure it was supposed to be. There are some interesting deaths, to say the least. Early on, we see a robotic henchman pull apart a victim's skull, then blow himself up in a car. One hapless woman gets an energy beam projected through her face, leaving her mouth much larger than normal. (a bug then crawls out of her head, foreshadowing later events) Another man gets his head ripped completely off for threatening to torch the bad guy's factory. Later on, a family is murdered in a test demonstration of what happens when someone wearing one of these masks watches a certain commercial on TV. Bugs and poisonous snakes form inside the mask and attack anyone in the room. It seems the masks have some tiny pieces from one of the blocks from Stonehenge implanted in the factory seal. Something about the commercial triggers the effect within the mask. And just how does this happen, you ask? A good magician never explains, the mask-maker points out in one scene. Sigh.Some gigantic holes are present as the story unfolds. Tom Atkins, who plays our hero, has a useless love affair with the daughter of an early victim. If these two are so intent on solving a deadly mystery about the death of her father, and bad guys are all around, would they really stop to have sex? He is also much older than this woman. I guess since Atkins plays a doctor, the young woman finds that sexy. Maybe I'd better go to medical school if I want to score with hot young women when I'm his age. Another problem concerns the time that these masks are supposed to go off. We are told by the mask maker that when the commercial airs at 900 pm on Halloween night, all the masks will react and kill the children. However, if it's 900 in California (where this takes place) it would be 1100 where I live or midnight on the east coast. Children would mostly be in bed by then! Few parents would allow their kids up that late to watch any big give-a-way. The plan is to wipe out kids all over the country, but it looks like only kids on the west coast would be up when the commercial airs. If there was an explanation about how this problem would be overcome, I missed it. I guess once again, A good magician never explains.And just how in the hell did this guy steal a piece of Stonehenge, anyway? He admits it was difficult, but again offers no explanation of how it was done!And how many freaking times did the female robot attack Atkins at the end? I lost count. Well, it's not a total loss. It was a neat idea for a film, but they shouldn't have glossed over so many things. I'll give it 5 of 10 stars. Happy Happy Halloween Halloween Halloween Happy Happy Halloween Silver Shamrock!STOP IT!!!! STOP IT!!!! STOP IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!So sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"52 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many viewers have bashed on this film, claiming it stinks and that it has nothing in common with the other HALLOWEEN films. Well, let me tell you, if you're a true Carpenter idolizer you'll see him written all over this. Writer/director Tommy Lee Wallace didn't necessarily write the best script in the world, but his direction is decent. The performances are kind of stale, but they still come through. On the more positive side, Carpenter's electronic score is one of his greatest in my book. From the eerie opening to the chase sequence, the music fits the movie perfectly. Granted, the film has nothing to do with Michael Myers and Haddonfield, etc., but it is the same season, and Myers was supposedly BURNT TO A CRISP WITH HIS EYES SHOT OUT!!!!!! in the end of HALLOWEEN II. HALLOWEEN III is definitely worth viewing. And watch for Tom Atkins' wife in here she's played by the same actress who played Annie in HALLOWEEN (Nancy Loomis Kyes). "},{"Title":"Not A Great One, But Accomplishes Rule #1 For A Horror Film","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"43 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've read almost all of the reviews here and honestly, I cannot argue with many of the negative points that are raised here. The movie DOES use the Halloween name while having only one tiny thread of connection to the Michael Myers movies that came before it and would come later (and that thread, involving a lab technician, can be charitably described as really lame). It is boring in stretches, the idea of Tom Atkins hooking up with Stacey Nelkin is pretty ridiculous, and the plot makes no sense if you think about it for more than 5 seconds.But I don't hate this film. Why? That's very simple. The first rule of a horror film is to scare the viewer and HALLOWEEN III has scared the hell out of me every time I've seen it! It's hard to pinpoint why, exactly, but the atmosphere of the movie is a huge factor. This film is jammed with ominous synthesized music (very 80's touch), cold and sharp-looking camera work, and a feeling of overwhelming dread and fear. It's very hard to establish atmosphere in any movie or TV show; I was talking about this movie with my brother--who said that he didn't think it was scary at all--and I compared it to THE X-FILES. Both that show and this movie were able to quickly drag me into their bizarre and frightening worlds.I don't think I could flat-out recommend a movie with this many huge problems, but I'd say it might scare the viewer, and that's not so bad considering how many abysmal horror movies do nothing else right and cannot get that deceptively simple task completed, either. "}{"Title":"No Michael Myers but its a good horror film! They don't make 'em like this anymore!","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III The Season of the Witch is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Tom Atkins, Stacy Nelkin, Dan O'Herlihy, Michael Currie, Ralph Strait, Jadeen Barbor, Brad Schacter, Garn Stephens, Nancy Kyes, Jonathan Terry, Al Berry, Wendy Wessberg, Essex Smith, Maidie Norman, and Dick Warlock! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Atkins and O'Herlihy are really excellent in this film. I thought that they performed good. The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is good by John Carpenter and Alan Howarth. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Tom Atkins, Stacy Nelkin, Dan O'Herlihy, Michael Currie, Ralph Strait, Jadeen Barbor, Brad Schacter, Garn Stephens, Dick Warlock, the rest of the cast in the film, Horror, Sci-Fi, Thrillers, Mystery, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"Conglomerate Carnage.","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A different animal to the Halloween films that preceded and followed it, Season of the Witch is slowly but surely gaining an appreciation as a standalone horror film. Gone is Michael Myers' indestructible killing machine, in his place is the nefarious Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy), the owner of the Silver Shamrock corporation that specialises in Halloween masks. Cochran has a sinister plan this year - and it's deadly - Dr. Daniel Challis (Tom Atkins) and Ellie Grimbridge (Stacey Nelkin) are caught in the middle of the vile plot and may just be the only salvation to Americana.With Nigel Kneale involved in the writing process Season of the Witch is delightfully fiendish. There's definite barbs being stung here about the commercialisation of holiday occasions, that capitalism kills, Cochran is intent on restoring Halloween to the true meaning of its origins, creating a Silver Shamrock world order in the process. Kneale would take his name off the credits when the studio tampered with his vision, a shame because his core essence remains - even if Cochran as a Warlock Wicker Man type could well have been genius.With John Carpenter and Debrah Hill over seeing things from their production chairs, the picture had supervision of some standing. Tommy Lee Wallace maybe directing but it feels like a Carpenter movie, from Dean Cundey's photography - Carpenter's foreboding synth musical score &#x96; and the sharpness of the gruey horror scenes (which are excellent), it's not hard to see the non Michael Myers Halloween series that Carpenter had envisaged after part 2 had been and gone.Boosted by an irritatingly potent advertisement jingle (a Silver Shamrock variation on London Bridge is Falling Down) that counts down the days to Halloween and the day of carnage, Season of the Witch is consistently gnawing away at the senses. Having Atkins and O'Herlihy propping up the acting helps, both are reliable performers for this material, while the race against time finale has edge of the seat credentials.It doesn't all work of course, there's some drag and the narrative feels schizophrenic at times, while if it wasn't for Cundey's camera work then Wallace's inept direction of the non horror scenes would be over exposed. Yet as it asks Halloween franchise fans some forgiveness for not actually being part of the franchise, it delivers a smart sci-fi horror hybrid that's not without shock and awe. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Michael Myers or not, this is still an excellent horror film","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By 1982, John Carpenter and Debra Hill had made names for themselves. Sure none of their films, besides 'Halloween,' had been box office smashes, but they were successful critically and had many devoted fans. Like it's predecessor, 'Halloween II' did well for itself, but at the end it seemed that killer Michael Myers had met his maker. But someone thought it would be a good idea to continue the hit series with a second sequel, something rarely seen in those days. Both Carpenter and Hill were uninterested in continuing the story of parts I & II and wanted to start fresh, which was the only way they'd be involved. Both acting only as producers this time, the film was written by not one but two writers, one of which wanted his name off it, and the other directed what is one of, if not the most hated film in the series. Why? Well many say because it has nothing to do with the rest of the series beyond title and genre, but do these alone make it a bad movie? Not at all. In fact, if you ignore those details and view III on it's own you may be pleasantly surprised. I know I was.Pros A cool opening title sequence. A scary and original concept. Good performances all around. Dean Cundey did a bang-up job on the cinematography for I & II and this one is no exception. Some truly disturbing scenes and images. A different, but still very memorable score from collaborating composers John Carpenter and Alan Howarth. Writer/director Tommy Lee Wallace does a good job of keeping things from getting too predictable. Good effects that have held up pretty well. A slow, but steady pace. A chilling last few minutes.Cons A little tedious in parts, but not too much. What happens to the villain doesn't make sense.Final thoughts This may not be a true sequel to the rest of the 'Halloween' series, but that in no way makes it a bad movie. It's really one of the most underrated and original horror movies of the last few decades. They certainly don't make them like this anymore, and sadly have never made a sequel. Don't get me wrong, I love that we got Michael Myers back, but at least one sequel to III would have been nice.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"One Of The Best","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III to me is one of the better Halloween sequels. Sure it didn't have Michael Myers in it, but who cares? I mean the whole scenario of a escaped maniac stalking people with a knife just gets old after a while. Halloween III however, tried to start the series in a more fresh approach. Maybe it does have some silly concepts such as Cochran stealing a five ton monolith from Stonehenge, but it's the movies from heavens sake. I personally believe that this movie is one of the best. The entire story is fresh. It's actually in a way almost good. The whole idea of killing children with Halloween masks is not bad for a movie based on the idea of Halloween. It also features some of the coolest props in all of Hollywood the masks themselves, which are in very good detail. But anyway, i think the movie is very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Not without its charm","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"49 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III has taken on a new life on the AMC cable channel. It is used to pad some time during their Monsterfest marathon in the 10 days leading up to Halloween.It's not a good movie. People who like it, when asked, Do you want to see a movie that's like the Twilight Zone, only slower, longer, and not as good? would probably answer, You had me at Twilight Zone.There are a few things to enjoy about this movie1) The 1-man synthesizer soundtrack is pure early 80s. 2) Also for nostalgia lovers, this movie came out when personal computers had been out for about a year and any kind of computer graphics were considered cool. 3) The producers showed some guts by breaking from the formula (and unfortunately got creamed at the box office for it.) 4) It doesn't have an eye-rolling formulaic ending. 5) It turned out to be somewhat prophetic. 15 years after this movie came out, hundreds of Japanese children were stricken with seizures after watching an episode of Pokemon. 6) If you like the song London Bridge, this is the movie for you.Unfortunately, it's kind of plodding and layers implausibility upon implausibility until it just gets too much. If you watch this movie, here are some things NOT to think about. It'll just make your head hurt (Spoiler alert)*How could someone steal a 5-ton rock from Stonehenge? *If you're a supervillian, is there a better use for your lifelike androids? *How does Silver Shamrock pay for all those TV ads that must change on a daily basis? *How much revenue can a company generate with a product line that features a whopping three different masks? (two of which are pretty lame.) *Did stores used to carry Halloween merchandise for longer into October? (since currently, the Halloween stuff is moved to clearance by about October 20th to make room for Xmas stuff) *Would a factory so paranoid that it enforces a curfew on its citizens be a little suspicious of two buyers who showed up to get masks on October 29th without phoning first? *Why is Buddy Kupfer's family staying in a motel if they have a big RV? In fact, why is one of the richest men in the country staying in a cheap motel at all?*When are football games televised on Friday afternoon? *What makes divorced alcoholic 47 year old deadbeat dads attractive to hot 23 year olds? *Why are there so many leaves on the trees on October 31? *Has there ever been a lazier attempt at a montage of cities than the one that appears in this movie? *Wouldn't time zones put a kink in Cochran's wicked scheme? *Did network TV used to air horror movies at 700 PM? (The Big Giveaway at 900 follows the airing of the original Halloween movie, with a run time of about 2 hours, including the inevitable commercials.)*Whom can you call to immediately pull programming from multiple networks, especially if you don't have any special credentials? *What did this movie have to do with witches or the Donovan song?I could have overlooked all those glaring problems if Cochran had shown even a modicum of motivation for his evil plan to murder all his customers (and ensure bankruptcy even if he dodges criminal proceedings) but the plot is so preposterous by the time Challis confronts him that Cochran can't even offer up a response. Do I even need a reason? ... In the end, the planets determine our actions. That's right. Blame it on astrology.Sheesh! "},{"Title":"The only Halloween film yet that I like besides the original - NO SPOILERS","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not going to read other people's reviews or give a detailed summary. Honestly, horror films with an interesting and original story are rare, very rare. I put this script right up there with The Wicker Man. I'm a lifelong fan of horror, but if there is one thing I have to acknowledge it is that the typical horror film seems to be severely lacking in the imagination department, which to me is unbelievably sad. I can't tell you how many times I've seen OMG worst movie ever where is michael meyers! type comments on clips from youtube etc. I cannot think of anything more boring that seeing that same stalk and slash crap over and over, and I am absolutely amazed by critics who slammed this movie when it was released, virtually all of whom have since written endless reviews for horror movies decrying a lack of originality or a story. To me, this is the only one in the whole franchise including Zombie's wholly unnecessary remakes that is worth anything at all, besides Carpernter's original. I like this movie so much I made an animated homage on goanimate. And of course, nobody seems to recognize what movie it is. "},{"Title":"No need for Michael Meyers. H3's got heavy atmosphere, a wonderful soundtrack, creative kills, and DREAD in the air","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" People are incredibly stubborn about this movie. So it has absolutely nothing to do with Michael Meyers or anything in the first two movies...so WHAT??? It is an extremely solid horror film and one of the best in the entire series. It is a well-paced horror classic that apparently only appeals to the more sophisticated horror fan as it lacks dry humor and the slam-bam explosions and killings everyday horror fans are used to, and trades them in for heavy atmosphere, sci-fi twists, and serious performances that are heavy on the dread. The John Carpenter soundtrack kicks ass, letting it keep the atmosphere that graced the first two. Tom Atkins is a solid retro lead whose mustache could challenge Tom Selleck's. Stacey Nelkin is adorable as the panicked female companion. And some of the deaths are horrifying! I consider this a classic and a truly creepy movie! The commercial is so effective and creepy that by the time it comes on during the second half of the movie, you may find yourself feeling slightly claustrophobic!Reminds me of one of my favorite sci-fi/horror movies ever - SCANNERS. I have no idea why this movie has a 3.6 on here! People are just too stuck on their precious Michael Meyers character. Set that immature ordeal aside and you have this eerie, mature horror classic. "},{"Title":"A Worthy HALLOWEEN Sequel!!!","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Halloween III. People just hate it, because Michael Myers is not in it...SO WHAT!!! A little temporary change never hurts anyone. I love the storyline with the warlock named Cochran making Halloween masks out of Stonehenge. I love the Happy happy Halloween song and Cochran's speech to Dan about the Celts and how Halloween was 3,000 years ago. I really appreciate this sequel yes, I called it a sequel, because it's called Halloween 3. Another part I love is what happens to Little Buddy Kupfer when he watches the commercial and his head turns into snakes and bugs. The last part I love is the ending, it keeps you in suspense. This classic film earns the right to be called Halloween III Although Michael, Dr. Loomis, and Laurie Strode have been taken out, this is good Halloween material. It starts off with a man trying to run away from some men in business suit. In his hand, he's grasping on to a Silver Shamrock Halloween Pumpkin mask. Later, he passes out and taken to the hospital. Later in the night, he is murdered by one of the business man. Dr. Daniel Challis wants to investigate why he was murdered. Dan has a bad relationship with his ex-wife and hardly spends any time with his kids. Dan and the murdered man's daughter; Ellie Grimbridge make a plan and go to Santa Mira where the Silver Shamrock company is. (For some reason, I love the scene at the bar when Dan is drinking beer and that silly cartoon is on, then the original Halloween plays.) Conal Cochran is the boss, and Dan finds out that Conal is a warlock who plans to use the popular masks as a way to kill all the children on Halloween. Dan must stop it from happening. This really is a classic in its own way. I highly recommend Halloween III Season of the Witch!!! "},{"Title":"An underrated horror movie.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season of the Witch is a great horror movie, though Michael Myers wasn't in the movie, I think it is a cool movie. Tommy Lee Wallace did a great job directing it. He did the voice in the Silver Shamrock commercials.The cast is really awesome, Tom Atkins as Dr. Dan Challis, Dan O'Herlihy as Conal Cochran, Stacy Nelkin as Ellie Grimbridge, Michael Currie as Raferty, and the late Ralph Strait as Buddy Kupfer make up the great cast.It is getting near Halloween, a man who is running some people are after him,he gets to the gas station. The gas station attendant takes the man to the hospital. Dr. Dan Challis cares for the man,the man is holding onto a Halloween mask and is scared.Later on, a guy in a suit enters the hospital and goes to the man's room and kills him by pulling his skull apart.Dr. Challis chases after the killers, then the killer goes to his car and pours gasoline on himself and sets himself on fire, then the car explodes.The next morning,the police are there to investigate and Dr. Challis meets Ellie, the daughter of the man who was murdered. They meet later on in a bar and try to figure out what happened. They do find out where Ellie's father was at before he died, a small town called Santa Mira. They discover that is where the Silver Shamrock factory is, the place where they make the Halloween masks. They go to a hotel and meet some people who are going to the Silver Shamrock factory.Dr. Challis and Ellie make some discoveries and meet Conal Cochran, the man who owns the Silver Shamrock factory. He is a warlock who is planning the death of the children though the masks which have a chip in the trademark.By watching the commercial of Silver Shamrock will active the chip when the Magic Pumpkin appears.The ending will keep you guessing if Dr. Challis succeeded in saving the kids.This movie really had me on my feet, I love this movie cause of the drama and horror.If you notice in the movie, the actress who played Dr. Challis's ex-wife, played in the first Halloween movie as Annie Brackett and the actor who played Dr. Dan Challis's son, Joshua Miller, who is the son of the late actor Jason Miller of The Exorcist.I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 10 stars. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with you people?","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a totally underrated movie. It has a really creepy atmosphere and an involving story. You people don't like it just because it does not have Myers in it.  John Carpenter tried to do something different instead of the same old rubbish, instead of brain dead movies with no original ideas.But no, you want to see Mikey! And judging from the last 2, you people(you know who you are) got what you deserved. "}{"Title":"Unfairly Maligned Oddly excellent early 80's downer horror movie","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of course this film is not perfect. It has a number of lapses in logic and poor performances endemic to any early 80's low-budget horror film. However, it's really something special - a horror film that is actually unsettling and effective. Usually horror movies tend to be quite dull and unoriginal, bogged down by the done-to-death motif of a crazed serial killer on the prowl.I like movies like this - where the killer is not limited to a single entity and instead is more of an all-round aura of evil. In this case the villains are a crazed toy businessman and his deranged toy company, which employs a number of zombie-like android henchmen in yuppie-ish business suits! It was the early 80's and this film is certainly a product of its time, complete with the usual downbeat atmosphere and shocking gory quality kills.The cast is overall pretty average, relying heavily on Dan O'Herlihy as the solid villain to anchor things down. Tom Atkins makes an acceptable everyman-type hero (though, like THE FOG, is oddly popular with the ladies even though he's out of shape, ugly, and not particularly charming). Watch for Dick Warlock (Michael Myers) as a murderous henchman. A number of the supporting characters as recognizable TV actors as well.The real standouts here are Dean Cundey's wonderful gloomy photography and John Carpenter's downbeat and droning synthesizer music. The two elements come together so well that they'd elevate the dread-factor of any horror movie they appear.Overall, the film is hands-down a huge improvement over HALLOWEEN II, and better than all the sequels which followed. Unfortunately the experiment of making a Halloween-themed horror movie without Michael Myers and marketing it as a sequel did not pay off financially. Stupid public. Don't be a sheep - give this movie a try. You may be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has to be one of the most underrated horror films ever made. The main reason that this film is maligned is because it doesn't feature Mike Myers. The story is a nice change of pace from the endless slasher flicks of the time period, and the ending is quite a surprise. Forget about Mike Myers and try this one out. It's a shame that Carpenter/Hill didn't continue the Halloween-themed series that they initially planned to do. I would have enjoyed creative films like this one.Again, if you think this film is sub-par, go back and watch the late-70s and early-80s slasher crap that we were bombarded with. I'll take this film over that junk any day...There's no more time. Please stop it. Stop it now. Turn it off! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! STOP IT! "},{"Title":"Give it a break!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm tired of this film being slammed by critics and fans alike simply because there is no Shape. There is a lot of mystery in Halloween 3. Why was Ellie's father killed? What goes on in Cochran's factory? And what's the deal with that freaky town Santa Mira? I found this film entertaining and thought that the acting was decent. This would be a cult classic if it was not part of the series. Sure, this film is not as good as the Michael Myers' films, but if this is the worst Halloween film, then the Halloween series is doing something right! "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS GOOD","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  yes it departs from the myers saga, but this film has a great evil plot. people hated this cuz they wanted to see michael myers. well quite frankly it didnt need michael myers. Tom Atkins gave the film a huge boost. his performance was really awesome, and this film was really cool. "},{"Title":"Very good horror movie!","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very good horror movie, and the only reason people don't like it is because it has nothing to do with Halloween 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7. This one is really great, creating a mystery instead of the usual slasher movie. Tom Atkins is plain wonderful is a doctor investigating a murder that finds out an insidious plot by an Irishman to kill all U.S. citizens on Halloween Night using masks that sends snakes, bugs, lizards, and spiders out of the masks and biting people. At the end, the fact that he might/might not manage to stop the villain is a good cliffhanger. Which probably will never be answered. Since people will probably want Michael Myers back in Halloween 8(Halloween The Shape Of Michael Myers). What a pity. "},{"Title":"Oh come on, this was great!","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The ONLY reason this is rated so low (a 3.5 as of 2/20/08) on IMDb is because people are close-minded. This movie does not take after the first 2 movies in any way, shape or form. But thats what makes it so interesting! I think John Carpenter's original idea was that after the first 2 Halloweens, to release a different Halloween movie every year on Halloween with a different story to it. However, the stupid close-minded people beg to differ. When this hit the screens, they didn't care at all. All that was on their minds was Where's Michael Myers?. And because this has a different story and no Michael Myers, people automatically rated this so low. In my opinion, this movie was great. I suggest you watch this movie first then judge it AFTER. Don't be one of those stupid close-minded Michael Myers lovers. Watch this with an open mind, and the thought that this is DIFFERENT than the other Halloweens. Well, following the failure of this movie, Halloween went back to being about Michael Myers. So instead of another interesting Halloween movie every year, we end up with 6 more Halloween movies than we needed. 8/10. WATCH BEFORE YOU JUDGE! "},{"Title":"Lesson #1 How to name your movie.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I truly enjoy this film.  It's one of the single worst-named films of all-time and I feel this is why people are so disappointed with it.  If you honestly sit down and view it some evening, maybe you'll see what I did a nice little horror film with a grand bad guy, one of Carpenter's best scores and one of the best reasons to not watch television on Halloween. "},{"Title":"They're fun, they're frightening and they glow in the dark","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before writing this review, I went through the complete IMDb-list of movies released in 1982, only to be able to make the following statement HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH is the best horror sequel released in 1982! Apparently, two more titles were in the running to win this dubious award AMITYVILLE II THE POSSESSION and Friday THE 13TH PART 3. No other horror sequels were released that year, so I say HALLOWEEN III eats the cake. Everybody knows by now that it's got nothing to do with the Michael Myers saga and it should be viewed as an independent horror-movie with a story of its own. So I will not compare it with other HALLOWEEN-movies.Now, it was at a very young age that I experienced this film and it was the first HALLOWEEN-movie I ever saw. So I had the benefit of not having to expect Michael Myers being in it. Maybe I was a bit too young to fully understand the story, but what stuck with me were, of course, the masks and the gruesome deaths they caused. I also realized it were the TV-commercials that triggered the effect which made the ending of the movie truly menacing to me. And that commercial-tune, that horrible godforsaken 'happy halloween'-tune. Once you hear it, you will not ever forget it.That was many years ago, when I was a kid. Now, many many movies later, I had the pleasure of re-watching this little horror-gem. And it holds together remarkably well. It's dark, strange, eerie, foreboding, gross and truly scary. A lot of that has to do with the excellent electronic musical score by John Carpenter (who also produced) and Alan Howarth providing us several jumpy scares.I will not reveal much about the plot (I don't wanna spoil too much). I think it's balanced and a little bit 'out there' (which is a good thing) and I liked the part where Conal Cochran's brief explanation gives us a hint that there are forces larger than life at play here. This might also be one of the first movies to use the TV-set as an instrument of evil, a theme which became very popular in the 80's. Further more, the movie has the balls to break some of the conventional rules A ten-year-old kid gets killed and as a protagonist we have a wife-cheating alcoholic doctor (not your everyday hero, I'd say); a more than decent and dead serious performance by an old time favourite of mine Tom Atkins (please do check out the man's résumé). The make-up and sfx's by Tom Burman are good and gross. The ending might seem abrupt but it is very solid.Do check out the trivia section about this film. It's fun and also explains why John Carpenter tried to do something completely different with HALLOWEEN III. And here's one more A second clip from the first HALLOWEEN movie, including it's well-known soundtrack, is shown on a TV-set in the room where Daniel Challis is tied to a chair, near the end of the movie.So for all you Michael Myers fans out there Please let me hear no more complaining about the fact that he's not in this movie. He's already in seven other movies. Instead I wanna hear you say Thank you, mr. Carpenter for producing this highly original frightfest "},{"Title":"Splendidly Silly","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What I remember most of this movie is the yelling at the end.I thought all the screaming was to stop the early 80's synthesizer score from playing.Tom Atkins tries to stop the silver shamrock commercials from running on 3 different channels via telephone.The 3rd channel keeps on running,I guess we know the fate of the millions watching the big give away.I recommend you see this movie for it's appaulling scenes which will have you laughing so hard you'll be gasping for breath.With this movie you get exactly that,especially during the opening chase scene and the stop,it stop it,stop it! scene that ends this movie in style,in all of it's simplistic and horrifying acting glory. "},{"Title":"A good film tarnished by being part of the Halloween series","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III the Season of the Witch must rank as one of the strangest sequels to a franchise in the history of cinema. It's a film that generally speaking does not have a good reputation. The main reason for the bad attitude to this movie is clearly because the vast majority of people unsurprisingly go into this film with the expectation of seeing another Michael Myers romp, and evidently a lot of viewers aren't overly impressed by his absence here. Moreover, Halloween III is not even in the same sub-genre as the rest of the series, seeing as it is a sci-fi horror as opposed to slasher flick. In other words, if this film had been a standalone movie it would most probably be regarded as a fairly original little horror flick; it certainly would not have attracted nearly as much negativity. John Carpenter, the director of the first instalment, had the reasonably good idea of making each Halloween instalment a different standalone horror tale set on Halloween night. Unfortunately his grand plan was undermined by a rather silly flaw, in that the previous film, Halloween 2, was a continuation of the Michael Myers story, therefore, it was hardly surprising that the expectation would be that subsequent instalments followed this same formula in the manner of the likes of the Friday the 13th series. As a result, Season of the Witch was met with bemusement and the franchise reverted back to Myers mayhem for the remainder of the series.It's a shame that Halloween 3 wasn't released as a standalone movie called simply Season of the Witch because this is a quirky horror flick with a good amount of invention. Sure it's a bit silly in places, with a few plot holes (i.e. wouldn't the differing American time zones screw up the scheduling of Silver Shamrock's death-by-television extravaganza?) but it's odd enough to always remain interesting. I liked the spooky town that Silver Shamrock seemed to control, with ominous CCTV, odd inhabitants and sinister tannoy announcements. The suit-wearing bad guys were also a bit different to the typical psychotic villains, and I thought they were integrated well into the film. Acting-wise Dan O'Herlihy was very good as the evil chief mask-maker, while the rest of the cast was serviceable enough. The famous 'Happy Happy Halloween' theme song was used extensively but I liked it and felt it conveyed the feeling that something was not quite right with the Silver Shamrock promotional campaign. This, of course, is borne out with an ending to the movie that is refreshingly nihilistic.This should not have been part of the Halloween series. The association is unfortunate. But as an unconnected standalone movie, Season of the Witch has got quite a lot to offer as a horror film. "}{"Title":"Spooky Fun","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween 3 , the movie everybody hates but I love it !!! Not a Halloween sequel but a spooky original story in the style of 'invasion of the bodysnatchers' An underrated cult classic ! "},{"Title":"Excellent fun!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having watched Season of the Witch when it first came out in the cinemas, I was delighted that it had nothing to do with the awful Michael Myers franchise which started to dive downhill with Halloween 2.Since then I've watched it about once every five years, and it's still great entertainment.Halloween III is a fun, rollercoaster of a film, plenty of atmosphere and an air of impending doom, building up slowly to a climax that I love, why do some of you people like all your films to have endings all wrapped up and explained?Okay so the script may be a bit daft, but the execution is fine, it's Tom Atkins finest hour and the music is terrific.Catch the DVD, sit down with some munchies and a few brewskis and enjoy - it's a blast! "},{"Title":"An underrated thriller!","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Southern California, Dr. Daniel Cahills (Tom Atkins) was puzzled by an old toy salesman babbling a mad tale of someone going to kill us all. After he dies, Cahills discovers the strange Halloween mask that the old man held could be a clue or link to his death with the help of a woman named Ellie (Stacey Nelkin) as they both go to a town called Santa Mari. And over there, it's the home of the popular Silver Shamrock novelty and toy company which the owner Conal Cochren is a modern day warlock and his plan is to sell magic Halloween masks that will kill every child across the nation on Halloween night.An unusual but quite good installment of the franchise that tried to do something different. Fans and some people are like What? this isn't a Halloween movie? where's Michael? well people just don't the facts behind this movie and it's idea. You see folks, Michael Myers died at the end of Halloween 2 as John Carpenter and Debra Hill intended to cause they had enough of Michael Myers and when they were writing Halloween 2 they wanted to end his story including Dr. Loomis's. Hill and Carpenter had a concept to make the franchise into a big screen horror anthology (ala, Creepshow, Tales from the Crypt or Twilight Zone) of telling different Halloween themed horror stories every year. Unfortunately the idea went wrong when they didn't tell audiences or marketed the concept right, thus when this movie came out in 1982 audiences were confused and fans demanded Michael back. I thought this was a well done and imaginative Sci-fi horror thriller in that has a very H.P. Lovecraft-esquire and David Cronenberg-like feel to it with a good score, one memorable death scene and of course the creepy twist in the end.Sure fans of Michael won't like it but just give this another chance cause it was suppose to be an experiment for the franchise. "},{"Title":"Boo Hoo! It doesn't have Michael Myers in it&#x85;get over it! It's a good horror movie.","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is a movie which suffers an unfortunate dual fate from its inclusion in the Halloween horror franchise. On the one hand, Michael Myers fanboys deride the movie for its absence of the aforementioned anti-hero and it is easy to see that the movie may have fared better review-wise had it not been part of such a glorified lineage. On the other hand, while reviews may have been more favourable, had it just been called Season of the Witch (Or something else, as George A Romero had released a movie of the same name ten years before&#x85;which I also recommend) it's highly doubtful that many people (including myself) would have seen it.Okay. So where's Michael Myers? Well, even though Myers grew into a supernatural figure with subsequent instalments of the franchise, it should be noted that the first two Halloween movies never explicitly suggested this. Sure he was shot and fell out of a window at the end of the first film, but the fact that Halloween 2 picks up immediately after the first means that it's conceivable that he was wounded but so high on adrenalin that his injuries hadn't registered yet&#x85;much like soldiers who are shot in war but don't realise it immediately. However, at the end of the second movie the grim visage of Michael Myers was well and truly dispatched. So, in light of this John Carpenter envisioned subsequent sequels to each be stand alone pieces tied together by taking place at Halloween. A good idea, I think&#x85;except that after the relatively disappointing sales of Halloween 3 Michael Myers was quickly resurrected and haunted several more (increasingly poor and ridiculous) sequels.The film itself is not a slasher, as there is no masked lunatic hunting down hot teens, but instead focuses on the machinations of a curious company called Silver Shamrock which in the run up to the Halloween holiday is marketing a range of ominous looking masks. After some curious incidents, Dan (Tom Atkins) becomes suspicious of the company and digs a bit deeper to find out what's really going on and soon finds himself privy to some grotesque events as he learns the full magnitude of the company's malevolence. Okay, the climax is probably a bit weak with the whole ludicrous Stonehenge bit, but on either side of this is one of the darkest story lines I've seen in a horror (courtesy of director Tommy Lee Wallace, who would go onto direct the TV adaptation of Stephen King's IT). Honestly, for sheer nightmare-come-alive horror, I have yet to see anything to match the scene when we see Dan impotently observing the tragedy of a family trialling the masks. Along with a truly eerie John Carpenter score (reminiscent of Ennio Morricone's score for Carpenter's own The Thing, released the same year) Halloween 3 Season of Witch evokes all your worst nightmares as it effectively creates a believable world in which we helplessly watch the horror unfold.Forget Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Creepy and Unsettling Movies Ever","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every now and then, there comes a movie where people are so close minded, its unbelievable. Halloween III Season of the Witch is one of those films. Now that Michael Myers was dead, the producers had an idea to make the Halloween franchise into an Anthology series, where each year a new movie would come out that would feature a story centered around Halloween. Unfortunately, the audience was not thrilled with the idea because it didn't have Michael Myers. Such a shame, because this is one great movie. It begins with a man running from guys in dark suits. It makes it to a gas station, clucthing a Halloween mask, yelling, They're going to kill us, they're going to kill us, over and over again. He's taken to the hospital, where a doctor (played by the talented Tom Atkins) treats him and thinks nothing of it. That is, until a man in a suit walks in and kills the man and simply walks out and lights himself on fire in his car. Later, our hero meets up with the man's daughter and together, they believe that something strange is going on with the masks. It just so happens that the mask company is doing a big give away on Halloween night, so whatever is going on, they better hurry. In the town where the masks are made, they find that cameras are everywhere and it feels sort of like mini-totalitarian state. This film has a lot going for it. The music is just very foreboding, the idea very imaginative, in the sense that it manages to include Orwellian themes in the sense that someone is watching you and has very sinister plans in store for you and everyone else. I should also mention the great Dan O'herlihy, who gives an excellent performance as a wolf in sheep's clothing. I'll admit, they probably should have just made this as its own movie and let the Halloween series end. It would have saved us from some of the terrible sequels that followed. But still, the fact that people would criticize this movie just because it doesn't have Michael Myers in it is pretty sad. All I can is don't listen to the naysayers. This is one movie you won't forget. "},{"Title":"Watch Faithfully Every Halloween","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think its interesting that the creators of this movie probably thought this would be guaranteed an instant hit with the fan base created by the first two Halloweens. Instead, it created a lot of resentment that it was labeled as the third installment in the Halloween franchise, due to the fact that there is nothing in common with the first two aside from the calendar date. Call me crazy, but I enjoyed this movie.I saw it at a time in my life where I was angered by the strict policies of my parents, and seeing any type of horror movie whatsoever was almost impossible. I had seen very few horror movies aside from what I could sneakily stay up late and watch on local networks. This was circa 1987, and I lived amongst a network of school friends who also loved horror movies, but only within the scope of Freddy and Jason. For some reason, there wasn't much buzz about the Halloween series at my school, until part IV came out in '88. In fact, I had never even heard of Michael Myers prior to watching III. Then one day I was able to get my hands on a VHS copy of Halloween III through a friend and I was thrilled that I would be able to see it. I would have preferred and intended to see all the Halloweens in order, but it just so happened by chance that I would watch this one first. So not having seen the first two Halloweens...you can imagine how I could watch this with a totally unbiased opinion. I was glad that I was able to see this prior to the first two, because it gave me a perspective on it that most people did not get. I wasn't upset that Michael wasn't in it because I didn't know who he was. Its a fun film that gives me a nice spooky autumn vibe. I had always had a fascination with the holiday, and every year, I made it a tradition to watch this along with the rest of the series. I had eventually seen the rest of the Halloween series, and grew to appreciate the Myers films too. I like 'em all...but not past the first Four. Part V through Part whatever are pure garbage. so Im on board with Part Three!! Get ready kids!!! "},{"Title":"No Michael - Whew!","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those of you who turn to 'Halloween' movies to get your Michael Myers on, you probably already know to avoid this movie like the plague. But, here is the truth. John Carpenter never wanted Michael Myers to become a series - he hated writing the second 'Halloween' - thought it was a totally useless concept that Michael turns out to be Laurie's uncle. That's why he blew him up at the end - so he didn't have to do the storyline anymore. Instead, he wanted to use the 'Halloween' title to come out with Halloween-themed movies - a new movie with a new them every year. I guess enough people didn't read that or understand what he wanted to do with it. Too bad. You're missing a decent show. "},{"Title":"no Michael Myers, get over it","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a sequel that ended the Michael Myers saga (or at least ended it until someone decided there was more money to be made) the producers were in a position of trying to decide where to go next. They made one of the most bold, and reviled decisions. They decided to give the audience something new.Halloween 3Season of the witch tells the story of a doctor who tries to understand what led to a murder in the hospital he worked at. He meets up with the victims daughter and they realize that the last appointment he had before he showed up in emergency was at a out of the way mask factory. When they head to the small town they find security cameras everywhere and no police force at all. Along the way they meet up with ace mask salesman Buddy Kupfer and his equally annoying family, Marge Gutman (that name should never had made it past the first draft), and company president (and legendary prankster) Conal Cochran. Although the company has a record of the order being picked up they happily provide a replacement and try to send our heroes packing but they manage to piggyback a tour on the backs of Kupfer family and during it, they spot her Father's car hidden poorly in one of the loading bays. When they attempt to bring some police in from the outside the company captures them and in James Bond villain style, explain their plans in great detail.This movie drew a lot of criticism for several reason most of which were undeserved. Some seemed to find it confusing and they did not understand the motives of the villains but if they paid attention it is all explained quite clearly. The goal is two fold, return Halloween to its dark roots and to sacrifice millions.Another complaint was the commercial jingle that plays dozens of times over the course of the film that seemed to annoy many but in all fairness, name a jingle that doesn't get under your skin. They are designed to seer into the brain and the Silver Shamrock commercial does just that.Perhaps the most frustrating complaint are by people who are upset about the lack of Michael Myers. I think that book had been closed quite well in the second film and Carpenter's idea of continuing the series as unique stories that are related to the holiday Halloween instead of simply doing retreads of the first picture (an idea that was picked up by the most recent Hellraiser sequels as Pinhead and company have been pushed further into the background in favour of new stories of the damned) was great and more series's would benefit from such an approach.Despite the negative view many people have this is simply the best sequel to Halloween of them all. Tom Atkins and Stacy Nelkin make a very enjoyable (though unlikely) screen couple, and Dan O'Herlihy makes a terrific villain. His explanation for how the Stonehenge rock arrived is a real laugh out loud moment. Sure the film sometimes looks a little cheap. The control room set up is really low tech, even for an eighties film but the special effects are so well done that all is forgiven.I highly recommend this to anyone who is in the mood for something different. "},{"Title":"Don't Listen, This Is A Good Horror Flick","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween IIISeason Of The Witch is not, as almost everybody says, a bad horror movie.  The interesting plot is about a man stumbling into an emergency room and telling Dr. Dan Challis that they're going to kill us. Soon, the man is dead and Dr. Challis has teamed up with the dead man's daughter, Ellie Grimbridge, and the two set out for the small town of Santa Mira where Ellie's father was last seen alive.  Challis and Ellie uncover a plot to kill 50 million children on Halloween Night and replace them with robot replicas.  The ending is left wide open, so make your own conclusion. Not perfect, but not nearly as bad as many horror fans have labeled it.Halloween IIISeason Of The Witch is Rated R for violence, mild gore, brief sexuality, brief nudity, and language.  "},{"Title":"Why so poor ratings?","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why so poor ratings? i mean what do you want from a low-budget horror movie. It's a classic John Carpenter-ish horror movie, and it's Tommy Lee Wallace's first time as a director.Sure it's a little quirky, and it isn't the best horror movie ever, but it deserves more than it has at the moment. I mean 3,7 come on! You know what I think killed this film; the fans. Everyone was expecting Michael Meyers, well why? That story was finished in Halloween 2. The idea was to finish the Halloween franchise, but with new ideas. Each time a new horror. It started with Meyers in two movies, and should then go into completely different stories. Only problem was, people was expecting Meyers in the third film, so they got what they wanted in Halloween 4. But then they were suddenly tired of the character, and it became the typical boring sequel. but now, the only stand-out film is Halloween 3, and suddenly it looks kinda strange. I think had the franchise been allowed to walk the way it was supposed to be, this one would have been liked a lot more.For the story itself, it's original. I mean it's very unpredictable, and has a lot of tension. And what more do you need from a good horror film. As said before, it has a few quirky moments, and the budget keeps it a little down. But still in my book this is a very good independent film. I give it a 7/10. "}{"Title":"Underrated classic!","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is hard to believe how low this movie is rated on IMDb. If you are a Carpenter fan you will like this movie even if Michael is not in it.This is a Halloween story, very much like The Fog is a ghost story. If you would treat it like that, you will enjoy the story, the music, the camera-work and the acting. Even today, the movie is entertaining. The connection between the alignment with the stars, Stonehenge, and Halloween is true to the origins of Halloween. As such the story is more or less historically correct and makes more sense if you are interested in astrology, the occult and myths and sagas in general.Would it have performed better at the box office had it not been titled Halloween III? This movie is recommended if you are into the whole 80's look and feel of movies. The musical score by Carpenter is awesome, for that alone you should watch and enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Season of the Witch","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where is Michael Myers? This question relates to the majority of reviews that slate 'Season of the Witch', the third instalment of the 'Halloween' franchise that appears as relentless as the psychopathic killer himself. How can there be a 'Halloween' movie without Michael Myers? I disagree.'Halloween III Season of the Witch' was never meant to include the psychologically-disturbed menace of suburban America. Tommy Lee Wallace (Stephen King's 'IT') - in his first attempt at directing a feature film - wanted to avoid another 'slasher' sequel and instead concentrated on exploring the domestic roots of Halloween and its relationship to Celtic folklore.So what is the general plot here? Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy), a demented toymaker, has produced millions of Halloween masks, inside which pieces of the monument Stonehenge are buried. Through corporate advertising, Cochran has the world spellbound and craving for the day when they can don the masks and watch 'the great giveaway' on 31 October. His plans are to commit mass genocide, his victims mainly being the world's population of children, thus re-enacting the sacrifices that supposedly occurred hundreds of years ago at ritualistic monuments like Stonehenge. The story closely follows the legend of Samhain, the Celtic lord of death - the very God that children and animals were supposedly offered to as a sacrifice on the one night when the dead and the living walk together and children go 'begging for candy'. Indeed, Cochran is attempting to re-awaken the Celtic festival by way of the traditional elements of witchcraft and modern technology.Dr Dan Challis (Tom Atkins, 'The Fog' & 'Creepshow') decides to investigate the goings on within the confines of Cochran's toy factory in the remote Irish state of Santa Mira, California. He is suspicious of the Silver Shamrock masks - skull, witch & Jack-o'-Lantern - that are being produced inside the factory. The building and surrounding town are guarded by androids resembling humans, mechanical slaves created by the toymaker. He must stop Cochran and warn the world before the advert goes out on Halloween night.'Not enough gore' is the general consensus, and critics have universally damned the film as a sub-average thriller. The film is nevertheless a breath of fresh air - Michael Myers returning from the grave (alongside his other 'slasher' brothers, Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees) becomes tiresome despite their ongoing popularity; the story lines being weak and predictable. 'Season of the Witch' boasts originality and examines the real legend of Halloween, the Festival of Samhain.John Carpenter produced and wrote the score for Halloween III Season of the Witch, and it is good to see that the director of the first film (arguably the best horror movie ever directed) was involved in the project. 'Halloween III', I think, was the only original sequel in the series and the most accomplished of the subsequent 'Halloween' films ... until Rob Zombie came along and directed 'the' best re-make of a 1970s/1980s horror film.But that's another story. "},{"Title":"Not without its haters but Halloween III is a great chunk of 1980s schlock horror that captivates and scares in its own, unique way.","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If Halloween is 'classic' and its sequel Halloween II is 'rubbish' (both my opinions) then Halloween III is somewhere in-between. True, in-between fantastic and awful is an extremely large space in which a lot of films lie but I truly believe that Halloween III deserves it. The first and most obvious mistake people make with this film regarding actually liking it is the inclusion (or lack of) Michael Myers &#150; my only advice is 'do not watch this film as a Halloween film as such'; it's based around Halloween and has a pretty implausible idea for a premise and yet as a film alone, it manages to stand all by itself as an entertaining, well paced and unpredictable film that has its fair share of cheap thrills, schlock horror moments and gore.Looking into Halloween III a little more deeply, you will see a statement on Halloween as a whole. The incessant repetition of the Silver Shamrock advert or jingle since it's also on the radio is not one of the reasons the film's crap; it's the constant reminder of what Halloween has become cheap, tacky and utilised to sell products. Indeed, the antagonist of the film (a sort of God like dictator whom closely resembles pure evil) states that Halloween used to be a proper celebration or acknowledgement of a certain something evilness and all things nasty. When Veteran's Day or Remembrance Sunday comes along, we don't celebrate it but we certainly acknowledge it as some things need not be forgot. Conal Cochran is saying that Halloween has turned into a consumerism joke over the centuries and he is trying to move things back to the 'old times'.It's true that the film borrows heavily from the science fiction and fantasy genre but horror still remains its primary genre with 'to scare' still the primary aim. When we are first shown the trailer for Halloween (1978) on a television, this immediately zones us out of whatever world Halloween is set and distances itself from Myers and Haddonfield as a whole &#150; it was at this point that the film could've crashed and burnt since it's supposed to take place in the 'real' world where only so much is physically possible; thankfully, Halloween III stays realistic until the final twenty minutes and even then given the science fiction and fantasy that has crept in, it still remains plausible. Halloween III is slower and smarter than Halloween II and changes things round a bit more Jaime Lee Curtis has gone and as a hero, is replaced by a hard bodied doctor called Daniel Challis (Atkins). Myers as a villain is replaced by the Silver Shamrock company/factory as a whole since they are both big, mysterious and seemingly indestructible and although Conal remains a frail old man, he hides dark secrets.Halloween III takes a Village of the Damned approach without children in the sense a bizarre town seemingly populated by possessed humans (turns out they're robots) and run in the middle of nowhere by a massive corporation. The idea that a Halloween mask can do the things that it can thanks to a microchip that is activated by a certain signal through a TV advertisement may seem elaborate but like I said, fantasy/horror is not something we are new to these days and if you're talking about back in the early 1980s then I guess Halloween III must have been ahead of its time because the elaborate content and ideas are not an excuse to dislike or hate the film. There is a strong feeling of no hope; a wonderful atmosphere of unpredictability and horror and yet we feel Dr. Challis is up to the challenge so we are kept on the edge of our seat unlike in Halloween II where Myers may have decapitated everyone in the hospital but the scrawny, weak and non-sexually active character of Laurie is enough to win in the end &#150; there is none of that clichéd horror nonsense here, just well placed jumps; the right amount of violence and a nasty ending that will leave a nasty taste in the mouth. I can recommend Halloween III over Halloween II any day but if you watch it forgetting about John Carpenter, Michael Myers and all that business and without knowing what happens when the mask is 'activated' in a certain scene, you will enjoy this quirky and surreal 80s horror. "},{"Title":"A great, underrated movie","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is one of the most underrated titles in horror history. It has an original plot, tolerable acting, and a spooky music score. A lot of people trash it because of Myers not being in it but to not watch it because of this is a close minded way of picking movies to view. I like Myers but he has been overdone and he is an example for the reason why no one comes up with anything new anymore. The majority of horror movies now are remakes and for people to just continue to promote this garbage by going to the theater to watch this unoriginal crap is repulsive. New horror sucks just like the majority of the entertainment field because everyone is so unoriginal. Anyhow, this is an example of one of the lost gems in horror. Just rent the movie and make up your own mind, but don't shy away because their meal ticket Myers is absent from the film. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK OK... Yes this movie has nothing to due with Michael Myers... or Halloween 1 & 2 ... so sure that gives you every right to be disappointed. However as a movie ... It is great! There is nothing to dislike about this movie. It's an original and yes I think it was stupid of them to put the title Halloween 3 on it considering it has nothing to due with the previous to... but like I said as its own movie it is definitely worth watching and owning!!! I even had to special order it because no one carry's it. The song they repeatably play in this movie will have you singing it for days after you watch it. All I can say is if you a fan of Horror movie this is a must buy. It reminds me a lot of the movie They Live something about the way it was shot I think. Personally I do think they need to change the name of this movie though... Maybe to Silver Shamrock, they seems fitting.Rated R for Extreme Violence, Brief Nudity, Mild Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"One of the few decent Halloween sequels","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie isn't as bad as they say. When I read the reviews, I thought I was going to watch a stupid, boring horror movie, but I was surprised. Halloween can be scary without having Michael Myers. I dare say that this movie is better than the original (which I didn't really like) because it's original and includes millions of people dying, not the few people in a house like in the other Halloween movies.Deaths were pretty cool and scary. That rich family getting killed in a few seconds and the misfire death was pretty unexpected. The driller death was also very disturbing.The only thing that I didn't like at all, was the use of excessive science fiction. It was like watching a Terminator or Alien movie or something. The killer masks are one thing, but the robot guards and Stonehenge shooting some sort of laser is a bit too much.Still worth watching though. If you want to watch good Halloween movies, just watch this, the first two and H20, don't bother with the rest cause they're all awful. 7/10 "},{"Title":"omg!!!","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was really looking forward to seeing this movie, but was totally and utterly gob-smacked. Why name the film 'Halloween III' if it has nothing with Michael Myers. It's stupid. What made it worse was the diabolical storyline. What was with stupid characters. I realise there is a tiny screening of Halloween on a television screen at the beginning, but God please, the only thing remotely in common with this film was that it contained a pumpkin mask. I personally think they should've stopped after the first two Halloween's, unless they're prepared to follow up with something bigger, better and something that makes some kind of sense. If you wanna be bored stupid I suggest you watched that film. "},{"Title":"Mustapha Akkad is a bastard","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd like to say that this is definitely the worst Halloween to ever come out. HResurrection was pretty terrible but this one will always hold the crown. But I don't blame anyone for this travesty except that piece of sh*t, Mustapha Akkad. First of, he starts off by making the movie have nothing else to do with the rest of the story. Next, the story was ass and balls. Killer halloween masks is really the best he could've came up with? Last, but not least, he goes out of his way to insult our intelligence and love for the Halloween series by showing clips from Halloween 1 in the film. How much pain could you put viewers through? Needless to say, you'd have to be on crazy amounts of narcotics like Halloween 3 because this movie just an insult to humanity. "},{"Title":"Hmmm&#133;&#133; a sequel to Halloween that has nothing to do with Michael Myers?  Let's greenlight it!","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why was this movie made?  The ridiculous plot concerning a Halloween mask company named `Silver Shamrock' who distributes masks replete with microchips that will make the owner's head blow up while watching a television program wasn't even remotely interesting.  Nor was the casting of a heinous leading man whom we are to believe was a studly doctor.  So the viewer may ask themselves `What does all of this have to do with Michael Myers?'  The answer?  Absolutely NOTHING.  Which leads me to wonder why this film was even made under the Halloween franchise?  Even the bald and shiny pate of Donald Pleasance was missing &#150; a fixture that would have been annoying but at least gave a correlation to the other films. The only good thing about this movie was the catchy television jingle for Silver Shamrock.  I first saw this film when I was a 9 year old, sneaking in to see this one instead of E.T. and walking out sobbing with fright,  (Remember, I was 9) but for the last 21 years I've remembered that jingle so I guess it had some modicum of an impact on me.  Only die hard horror fans should watch this because they could probably find something remotely redeeming about it.  Unfortunately, I'm not so I couldn't.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"PATHETIC!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is the biggest load of crap in the history of films! Don't watch it, don't even associate it with the Halloween series because it's just a waist of space! If you watch it you'll be sayin'  My god I just wasted 90mins of my life for that!!  If you want a true horror film watch any of the Halloween series, that includes 4,5,6 even if they aren't perfect.  "}{"Title":"A True Halloween Movie!","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tom Atkins, Stacey Nelkin and Dan O'Herlihy star in this 1982 horror film. A doctor and a woman discover an evil toymaker's plot of selling deadly masks. I remember seeing a glimpse of this movie a long time ago and didn't think much of it. I finally watched the whole thing a few years ago and thought it was interesting. I really like the music too and think it's some of John Carpenter's best work. Dan was terrific as Conal Cochran and Tom is great as usual. This is a true Halloween movie and it's too bad we didn't get more different Halloween tales that Carpenter intended. I think the main reason most people don't like it is because it has nothing to do with Michael Myers. I agree it should've been called, Season of the Witch, but like the fact that it was something different and definitely has that Halloween feel to it. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Halloween 3 Delivers; But I Never Looked At Rubber Masks The Same Since Then","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie back in 1982. I went to see it at the Salem Mall, Dayton, Ohio. I was 10 at the time and I will never forget this theater experience. This movie scared me so much, it made Friday the 13th look tame. To me both movies scared me; but something about H3 made my skin crawl. The movie starts off in Northern CA., a man Harry Grimbridge is running for his life with a Halloween mask in his hand. A car is approaching fast, and he is just looking for help. Grimbridge finally finds a gas station, the attendant rushes him to the hospital. Once there the guy, Essex Smith, asks the Dr. if he could go. Harry Grimbridge is finally in the hands of Dr. Challis ( Tom Adkins). Grimbridge hears the commercial advertising for Silver Shamrock Halloween masks. Grimbridge tells Challis they are going to kill all of us, referring to the commercial. Dr. Challis just chalks it up as a crazy old man talking gibberish. Once Grimbridge is in a room, a man dressed like a business man comes into the hospital. He finds Grimbridge and proceeds to pull his skull apart by the nose. Challis is alerted to this by hearing the nurse Agnes scream, he tries to stop the man; but can't. He watches in horror as the man sets himself and the car on fire. The next day Challis meets Ellie( Stacy Elkin), Grimbridge's daughter. The mystery begins to start especially when the Sheriff tells Ellie some crazy man probably on drug's killed him. She nor Dr. Challis believe that's the case. Ellie and Dr. Challis team up and tells him she is not going back until she finds out what happened to her father. Ellie keeps a journal of her father's whereabouts. She explains to Challis she believe he ran into trouble in Santa Mira, because he didn't show up for a dinner date with a friend. She and Challis take a trip to Santa Mira, home of the Silver Shamrock mask company. It's a predominately Irish community and it's a very suspicious town. There they meet the CEO so to speak Conal Cochran, who is not to be trusted. Ellie and Challis find a motel nearby and pose as a married couple. There they can have privacy and talk without alerting anyone close to Cochran. Meanwhile once they are shown their room Challis investigates further. He finds out Ellie's dad was at the same motel, Cochran is not who he claims to be, plus the community is under strict curfew, surveillance cameras watch your every move; and Cochran doesn't hire locals. Challis also checks in with Teddy an Assistant at the Medical Examiner's office. She tells Challis it is strange there is no bone fragments found in the accident. She explains something should have shown that there was a human in the car. Challis and Ellie now know something happened to her dad at the factory. As soon as Ellie and Challis settle in to the motel more people arrive. A sales lady who is From San Francisco, Marge Gutman; and A top salesman, Buddy Hempfer, with the family in tow. Marge meets her fate because she needs to return an order, instead she is a victim of a misfire. Ellie and Challis are like W.T. F. when they hear about Guttman and wonder what a misfire is. As the movie proceeds we learn that Cochran's top employee's are Assassin droids; and will kill anyone who gets in Cochran's way and expose what he really is. Ellie get's kidnapped, Challis tries to find her, then he discovers what some of the employees are. Cochran gives Challis a video demonstration what he has planned for the children with the masks. The other sacrificial lamb are the Hempfer family. After seeing the video Challis discovers what Cochran has planned and tries to stop it. In the end he rescues Ellie, gets even with Cochran, and escapes. Meanwhile Teddy from the M.E.'s office finally puts the puzzle together; but eventually meets her demise with one of Cochran's assassin droids. While driving to the closest town he realizes Ellie is really quite, he asked if she's O.K.,, then all of a sudden Ellie's arm tries to strangle Challis. Ellie has been killed and replaced by an android replica. Challis has to fight it off, kill it; and run to nearest place, which is the gas station we see at the beginning of the film. He calls the T.V. stations to get the commercial off the air, 2/3 are off and we are left in limbo on the 3. In conclusion, I loved this film it scared me then and it still gives me the creeps today. This film has nothing to do the Michael Myers, but it can stand on it's own. This is a movie you will enjoy regardless of what the critics said back in 82. So check it out, if you like classic horror flicks from the 70's and 80's this film will creep you out.THX, Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"No Michael, but Far Superior to the Crappy Sequels that Followed","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, there's no Michael Myers. Yes, I hated this movie for that same reason as a child also. Then, something happened. Later in my years, I decided I wanted to see this one again and realized it wasn't that bad. Next thing you know I'm watching this movie every Halloween for years now. Not just because AMC plays it each year, but I even DVR it each time to make sure I get to see it.We could argue all day long over whether it has any right to the HALLOWEEN name. In the end, I understand wanting a movie in the series to have Michael. On the other hand, hating the movie for that reason alone is sort of stupid and close-minded, isn't it? As many have said, erase the Halloween III from your memory for just a moment and judge this as a standalone movie. It's really better than most a lot of 80s horror flicks and the more I frequent cons and message boards, the more I see appreciation growing for it.The other thing that I definitely think is an acquired taste is that this is one wacky movie. There are huge leaps of faith required for enjoyment and one has to accept some very out there plot points, but c'mon. It's 80s horror. Name me one of them that doesn't require some of the same. Just have some fun with it.The movie definitely borders on the line of sci-fi and has a tone that reminds me greatly of INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS or, even, THEY LIVE. The mindless automaton assassins employed by Silver Shamrock to protect their master plan are reminiscent of the body stealing pods from either movie. Right from the opening tone- setting scene when one of them pursues a man into a hospital, dealing out a horrible death to him before setting itself on fire, the viewer knows they are up against an evil that is almost as unstoppable as Michael Myers himself. Yes, I said it. They aren't as effective, sure, but it's that same sense of man hopeless against an unrelenting force. When our main heroes arrive in the factory town, it's very much a BODY SNATCHERS moment. Nothing is normal in this town and that makes it all the more unsettling because there is no safe place to hide as the all-seeing camera eye watches everything.Of course, the real star of the show is those awesome Don Post masks. Before we know of any nefarious plot, there is something a little bit off about those masks. Then, we see what they are capable of doing - - melting faces and inducing eruptions of insects and reptiles. Those scenes did scare the hell out of me as a kid and are still effective now, even if a little silly.All of this is part of an ancient Celtic plot to sacrifice children. As stories have long shied away from the killing of children, this one just dives into it headlong and says screw it. We are just gonna show one kid dying. We're gonna unleash a plan to massacre tons of them. It's definitely a subject matter often avoided in this much volume.I'm not saying this approaches the quality of Carpenter's original masterpiece. It's also much better than the 4.5 rating here on this site and I'm willing to bet that many who hate it would praise much worse 80s b-movie flicks. It's always going to be reviled by those who wanted Michael, but maybe it's time to get over it. Anyone would have to admit it's better than the convoluted man in black trilogy that would follow in the series. "},{"Title":"Halloween III Season of a Good Sequel","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before seeing Season of the Witch, rather than being met with rancid, preconceived notions, I was actually quite intrigued to see it. The production stills looked very cool, and even the poster was extraordinary. Why? Because it looked like the film was going to capture that Halloween essence to it. Classic urban legend/mystery, eerie Halloween costumes/masks; downright to the spooky soundtrack. In no way, however, did I allow myself to love this movie or be less harsh on it JUST because I was slightly more excited for this sequel than some of the others. In that regard, how did Season of the Witch turn out? While the film may never reach cult status, I will be the first to say that the story here is probably one of my favorites for a horror movie, if not my favorite. But we'll get into that in a little bit.What makes or breaks a Halloween movie that derails from the first three sequels and their predecessor is the story. If you don't have an engaging premise, what was the point? I can say with absoluteness that the story here is very fun. A town secret that none of the visitors or regulars know, just the corporation that controls the town? A doctor who ventures off to a remote mask-making facility in the middle of nowhere? Creepy people dressed in little suits, with perfunctory movements that don't speak? It's like a sci-fi/horror fan's dream come true. What Season of the Witch is in a nutshell is Tom Atkins' character travels with a man's daughter, to the town he stayed at before he passed away. There, they uncover the truth about the Silver Shamrock masks and how the daughter's father had died, and many more secrets unveiled. But along the way, people go missing, questions sure have their answers, and people are watched.I already gushed over the story, but let's talk about the direction the director Tommy Lee Wallace carries for the story. For one, the film is ALWAYS creepy. There's not one moment in the film where I felt comfortable, but in the best way possible. The soundtrack is seriously so ear- piercingly loud and unnerving, it just gets under your skin. Moreover, the characters themselves can be quirky and not exactly the most normal of civilians. This really accelerates the film because it's not some typical slasher with dumb teens, it's a unique story featuring adults who aren't... well... dumb. That's another thing I liked about this sequel. Tom Atkins gives a great performance here. He can actually be quite funny at some points, sexy to the ladies, and he can fight crime (and use his brains). The lead girl is a good sidekick. She might not be fierce, but she's cautious, and she can smell danger from a mile away. The supporting characters (well, there's not too many people in this movie), but they're fine. They don't detract from the movie, but they don't really support it either. But the one thing this movie gets right (which it gets flagged for) is the pacing. Not one shot is not filmed beautifully, not one shot overstays its welcome. It's like everything has this coherent flow to it, which was great. And who can forget the deaths? Out of all the Halloween's, Season of the Witch is one of the more gruesome, maybe sans the Zombie movies, but I prefer these deaths over the ones in his movies anyway. And that's because of this thing I like to call atmosphere. The rural setting, mixed with the fact that this movie takes most of the place in the dark, really just shakes you up. It definitely feels like a movie you'd discover on some midnight Fearnet or AMC channel. It's perfect.Now what makes Season of the Witch shy of that 10? Believe it or not, I actually really liked the cliffhanger ending, and I think the absence of Michael Myers gave this movie a breath of fresh air, but something about this movie isn't up to par with Carpenter's original. I can't put my finger on it, but I seriously feel that Wallace and Carpenter did the best job they could with this one; I just don't think it's 9 or 10 worthy. Maybe an 8, but my 7 is solid enough. And a 7, for a Halloween movie, but for really ANY movie alone, that's still really good. Oh, and this movie has great re-watchability. This was my second time viewing it and it was just as great as the first. Maybe even better! Also, that opening sequence was awesome. And the masks! I just love this movie.I said what needed to be said. Halloween III Season of the Witch is a great movie. It gets everything right. The script, the characters, the body count, the pacing, the direction. Maybe there's some problems I didn't find with the movie, and I vote for Halloween (1978) being the best Halloween film, but golly, if this movie wasn't great. This is probably my favorite Halloween sequel, or close to it. Great, great movie. "},{"Title":"The Odd-Ball Film of the Series","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only real problem with this film is that is has zero to do with Michael Myers. It is a monkey-wrench in the film series. What Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982) really is a completely different story and it should have had a different movie title - that is the only real problem with the flick! If the movie was entitled The Halloween Masks or even something like Silver Shamrock then people might not critique the film so harshly and rate this movie higher.The story itself is not entirely all that bad - it's actually pretty good if you think of it as watching just another horror film and not in the context of another Michael Myer's story.Remove your Michael Myer's thinking cap put on your horror movie thinking cap when you watch this movie - you will enjoy it a lot better that way I believe.Also this makes Halloween 4 actually Halloween 3 as far as Michael Myers is concerned.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The stand-alone credit it deserves","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the more baffling choices made in 1980's Hollywood was to release a movie about witch toy-makers combining computers with pieces of Stonehenge as a weapon to kill children under the title 'Halloween 3'. Sure, from one perspective, associating this one-off horror flick with a tried and true franchise must have seemed like easy money but the deception reviled audiences and, regardless of the films many qualities, it was a total flop. Now, 30 years later, the film has finally found its cult and the stand-alone credit it deserves.In an effort to start a new anthology series and move the title 'Halloween' away from the one-trick-pony that is 'Michael Myers', John Carpenter and Producer Debra Hill took a risk and hired Tommy Lee Wallace, the Production Designer & Editor of the original Halloween, to write and direct the first installment. The result is a bat-s@#t, off-the-wall plot that had me both terrified and scratching my head as a kid.The film follows Dr. Challis, played by the mustachioed cult icon (only - possibly - perceived - as - studly - to - some - other - generation), Tom Atkins. After one of his patients is brutally murdered by a mysterious suited man who then self-immolates in front of him, Challis inexplicably leaves his wife and kids to follow his late patient's hot, young daughter &#x96; what more motivation could he need - on a quest to solve this mysterious killing. The only clue they have is the jack-o-lantern Halloween mask her father was clutching when he was wheeled into the ER. The sing-song television ad ('4 more days to Halloween&#x85;' set to the melody of 'London Bridge is Falling Down') that has already played no less than 3 times by this point of the film (with many many repeat viewings to come) shares the same green shamrock logo as the mask. Their destination is an isolated Northern Californian village called Santa Mira, the headquarters of the Silver Shamrock Toy and Halloween Mask Company lead by Conal Cochran (the always imposing Dan O'Herlinhy &#x96; 'RoboCop', 'The Last Starfighter').It's not that the gore and horror of their discoveries are any more shocking than what we've already seen in 'Halloween' movies &#x96; in fact, the suited henchmen might as well be 'Michael Myers' clones based on their killing style and presence &#x96; but that the deaths are some much more 'out there'. It's one of those films that, if you haven't seen, tries to unravel as a bit of a mystery and the solution to that mystery is so totally inexplicable that I don't want to give it away. What I will say is that this, like a few of its contemporaries, was made in an era just before it became absolutely unheard of to depict children in peril; these toy-makers pull no punches in that effort using an absurd combination of witchcraft, astrology, paganism, microchips, subliminal messages, robots, snakes, bugs, and wicked Halloween masks to brutally murder trick-or-treaters and their parents. You really have to see this to believe it. "},{"Title":"Extremely Underrated","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ellie Grimbridge (Stacey Nelkin) teams up with Dr. Dan Challis (Tom Atkins) to investigate the mysterious death of her father. Their investigation leads them to the Silver Shamrock novelty-making company, owned by Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy). Silver Shamrock is selling Halloween masks and advertising a big giveaway on television on Halloween night. But what Cochran really has planned is much more sinister and bizarre.One of the most underrated movies on IMDb. The score is ridiculously wrong. The primary complaint many seem to have is just that it doesn't have Michael Myers in it. Who cares?!? I can see being upset when it first came out that it used the Halloween brand to sell the movie yet didn't have any connection with the rest of the series. But that doesn't have squat to do with objectively judging the film's quality. It's been over thirty years so why can't it be judged on its own merits and not for the flimsy reason that it says Halloween III and doesn't have Michael? Besides, most of the Halloween sequels that did have Michael sucked balls so it's not like this marred some perfect series or something. I understand that, besides the Myers complaints, it is not a flawless film. But it is good with an interesting plot, effective suspense, and some cool death scenes. If you're a John Carpenter fan, you should enjoy this as it has many of his touches all over it, including the great score. The cast is mixed, with Dan O'Herlihy doing a great job as the villain and Tom Atkins being a likable and somewhat cheesy Carpenter-style protagonist. Stacey Nelkin is cute but offers little to the film other than fleeting teases of nudity.If you hate this film because it doesn't feature Michael Myers, then I have no words for you because you're hopeless. But for those who are debating whether or not to try it out, please do so because this is infinitely more unique and interesting than another repetitive sequel about a guy stabbing people to death. Don't get me wrong -- I enjoy a lot of slashers, particularly from the '80s, for their entertainment value. They can be very good popcorn movies. But most of the genre is full of garbage rip-offs and retreads. This movie is at least original and clever. "},{"Title":"The Best of all the Halloween Movies!","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't care what anyone says. One man's meat is another man's poison.This is my all time favorite Halloween films! In fact, I will go as far to say, this is the better than the first one and the one I watch over and over again.I really only care for this film.It is creepy and has the feel of a bad nightmare.It also has excellent old school special effects makeup.And the great thing about so many people not liking this film means they will never remake it! A Masterpiece! Up there with the best of the best. Dawn of the Dead. The Thing. Northville Cemetery Massacre. The Beast Within. The Evil Dead. Escape from New York. Assault on Precint 13th. Mad Max. Eraserhead. El Topo. A Clockwrk Orange. City of the Living Dead. Suspiria. Deathrace 2000. Road Warrior. Lisa and the Devil. The Devils. The Hunger. Cat People. First Blood. Conan the Barbarian. Indy and the Temple of Doom. Just Before Dawn. The Party Animal. Cujo. The Hitcher. Buckaroo Banzai. Long Live Halloween 3! "},{"Title":"Happy, happy Halloween, Silver Shamrock!","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's such a shame that this entry in the Halloween franchise isn't more appreciated. It DOES have its admirers (such as this viewer), but it just wasn't satisfying to an audience that only wanted Michael Myers. Certainly a franchise that revolved around different macabre stories told at Halloween time would have been more interesting than yet another psycho on a murder spree plot. Conceived by producer Debra Hill as a tale of witchcraft in the computer age, the idea was taken to noted writer Nigel Kneale, although his script would be re-written by producer John Carpenter and re-written again by debuting director / longtime Carpenter associate Tommy Lee Wallace.Legendary stud Mr. Tom Atkins stars as the commendably flawed protagonist Dr. Daniel Challis (he's insatiable and has a weakness for drink), who's thrown for a loop when a panicked man is brought to his hospital and murdered later that night by a cold-eyed, well dressed assassin. Hooking up with the victims' daughter Ellie (cute as a button Stacey Nelkin), he decides to play detective and tracks the mans' actions to a Halloween mask factory in a small California town. Presiding over the business and town is cheerful Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy, whom you'll recognize from The Last Starfighter and RoboCop 1 and 2), a maniacal villain putting into motion a horrible prank that he intends to play on the children of America. It's up to Daniel to save the day...if he can keep his hands off of Ellie for long enough.As noted, this in-name-only sequel (the only nod it makes to past movies is a TV commercial for the '78 Carpenter-helmed Halloween) owes a fair bit to Invasion of the Body Snatchers, right down to naming the town Santa Mira. It's solidly entertaining and consistently amusing stuff, with Wallace (assisted by ace D.P. Dean Cundey) creating fine atmosphere, especially when it comes to the corporate-controlled town, where Cochrans' eyes and ears are everywhere. The film hits the ground running, and there's no let up right until the ending. Tom Burmans' makeup is excellent; there's good gross-out stuff here. Atkins is an appealing unlikely hero and Nelkin is pleasing to look at as the daughter who gets over the death of her father in record time. Supporting and bit parts are played by the likes of Michael Currie (Dead & Buried), Ralph Strait (The Beastmaster), Garn Stephens (the real-life Mrs. Tom Atkins at the time), Nancy Kyes (Annie in the first Halloween), Jonathan Terry (The Return of the Living Dead), Maidie Norman (What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?), stunt coordinator Dick Warlock, and Joshua John Miller (Near Dark). Carpenters' score is one of his best. And to top it all off, there's that insidiously catchy jingle (sung to the tune of London Bridge is Falling Down) that pops up over and over.If only it didn't have the name Halloween attached, some viewers might be more inclined to give it a break.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"An under-rated and misunderstood horror film!","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the term Halloween is mentioned regarding movies, the name and image of killer Michael Myers often come out. In the art of film, director John Carpenter defined the slasher horror sub-genre of horror films in 1978's Halloween. In that film, his use of the first-person camera views, establishing the final girl trend, showing that people who are promiscuous or drug users get killed and other elements went on to become imitated by other filmmakers on the many slasher horror films that followed. It also established Michael Myers (called The Shape) as the stealthy, almost invincible killer that later became an American pop culture icon.Of course, the $325,000 movie went on to make tons of money and Halloween II followed a few years later and made nice profit even though it never matched its predecessor's success.Then in 1982, Halloween III Season of the Witch came out. Originally, the Halloween film franchise was geared towards making distinct, independent stories with completely new characters dealing with the Halloween season in general. Halloween III proved to be profitable but got slammed by critics and several viewers hated it simply because it was too different and had no Michael Myers (who was shown destroyed in Halloween II).If you ask me, Halloween III Season of the Witch is actually an under- rated and misunderstood horror film. It is no slasher. It has no Michael Myers. It has no zombie or vampire elements of horror. But those differences don't make it a bad movie at all.In fact, Halloween III was more about the witchcraft aspect of Halloween's origins outside of America as well as social commentary about capitalism and consumerism. These three primary elements are, least to say, very challenging to build a foundation of horror with. Still, the filmmakers pulled off nicely with that challenge and what turned was that Halloween III has a more original concept of horror than most other horror films made ever since. It never feels generic and continues to be creepy.Without spoiling too much of the plot, Halloween III begins with a desperate man running away from mysterious men in suits and ties. He eventually gets killed at night at a hospital and his killer weirdly left the place, entered a parked car, poured gasoline around, lit the gasoline and blew the car up.Of course, the person who witnesses the explosion and events at the hospital is Dr. Challis (Tom Atkins) who is not only the protagonist but also a challenging one for viewers to follow. Why is that? Because Dr. Challis is an undesirable man for a horror film protagonist &#x96; when he is not working, he drinks a lot of liquor, spends time at bars, does not care much about his family and is a womanizer. Ironically, this aspect of the film makes Halloween III even more unique from other horror films.So Dr. Challis meets Ellie (Stacey Nelkin), the daughter of the murder victim. She strongly believes something is very wrong and something big was behind the murder of her father. Together they travel to a far away town where a big company making Halloween masks is being led by an Irish businessman named Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy).Enough of the story. You will just have to watch the film on DVD or Blu- ray for the Halloween season or whenever you feel like watching a horror movie different from the rest. Even during its time, Halloween III had a low budget although the production value on screen don't necessarily reflect that. Considering the challenges the filmmakers had to endure, Halloween III works as a horror flick as it provides scary and creepy moments nicely and also expresses the message that there is something behind all the commercialism of Halloween. In any business dealing with seasonal trends, there is always something that keeps people spending their money on products they don't really need and there is always a company that tends to profit from it.Is Halloween III an anti-business movie? In some ways, yes. Just look at the isolated town where the business and its factory are located. If you listen to the dialog closely, you will realize that locals of the town are being put down by the company (Silver Shamrock) which employs people coming from elsewhere. Also there is that reflection of corporate-led control on the town with those many surveillance cameras and an imposed curfew (who would want to live in a community so restrictive and without public officials to stand up for the people?) and more. Naturally, Conal Cochran is the main villain radically different from not only Michael Myers but all other horror film villains. Dan O'Herlihy's performance is undeniably solid.Another notable aspect of Halloween III that deserves attention was its defiance of the unwritten rule of movies and television that prohibit the showing of children getting killed on-screen. The filmmakers really had the courage and insight to break that rule to show what kind of evil would happen when kids wear Cochran's masks (each equipped with material from a stolen Stonehenge) and watch the Silver Shamrock commercial (with that very repetitive, mind-numbing song). The bad things that turnout are enough to shock viewers and even send chills up the spines of parents who are afraid of their children engaging in Halloween. Overall, Halloween III Season of the Witch is one of the most under- rated and most misunderstood horror films that truly deserves your attention in this day and age. It defied many of the clichés or traditions of most horror films and yet succeeded in delivering spooky moments in unpredictable fashion. It is also challenging to watch given its undesirable protagonist and having no final girl to outlast the evil. To call the film a failure because it did not have Michael Myers is a big mistake. Be sure to watch this film every Halloween. "}{"Title":"Underrated - Watch for yourself","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***WARNING contains spoilers*** Unlike most, I absolutely get this film. Sure, its dated, but I think in a cool way - with its dark brooding 80s synth soundtrack, deliberately cheesy kids TV ad running through the film and plot that has a touch of the 50s, 60s / Twilight Zone / paranoia about it. Of course the special effects are the first thing to date on a film too and this one is no exception, but there's something about the cold calculated mission of the robots working for Conal Cochran (played very well by Dan O'Herlihy) that negate the downside of this part of the film. The fact that the bad guys are not human (though appear to be) allows greater artistic license, I feel. Having said that, the dated look of men in white coats standing at banks of huge computers with flashing lights is of course clichéd. As is the prospect of a man rescuing the girl who has been detained for experiments and questioning. This was hardly fresh ground, even in 1982. I do like the totally different context to the series of films that this sequel undertakes. Kind of like a bigger, more formidable evil than the solitary psycho Michael Myers with much deeper, far reaching consequences to society. I watched the film last week for the first time in many years, almost bracing myself in expectation of its ability to entertain and unnerve to have dwindled significantly. However, I actually found it had a bigger impact on me than before (when I was probably a teenager). I'm not going to bore you with the synopsis which you can read anywhere but I would encourage fans of old school horror to give this much maligned film a chance. To me, it is highly underrated and its a shame as I think when it came out I would have thought people just lazily expected another slasher flick and, at that, an improvement on the disappointing continuation of 'Halloween' with the first sequel. "},{"Title":"An underrated horror shocker that spooked the wits out of me!","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't understand why this got such hateful reviews from the critics and fans of the first two Halloween films. Sure, it had nothing to do with Michael Myers, but it doesn't matter. It had a creative premise People who wear masks while watching a Silver Shamrock TV theme song get killed by Stonehenge rocks behind each mask's head and spew insects and snakes everywhere. The TV advertisement's owner Conal Cochran plans to put the computer chips on each mask as an attempt to use black magic on Halloween and Dr. Atkins must find a way to stop his plan once and for all.With a premise that good, I think this is a completely underrated horror shocker that spooked the wits out of me in my first few views. The story does have a few plots holes and the part where Cochran dies was utterly confusing, but those flaws are outweighed by it's redeeming factors. The acting isn't that bad, it's well-paced, the direction from Tommy Lee Wallace is pretty efficient, the death scenes are very creative, the visuals are the epitome of excellence and the music from Alan Horvath and John Carpenter is spooky and atmospheric which fits the darker tone of the film perfectly. Even the ending was chilling and the Silver Shamrock theme song is so catchy it got stuck inside my head forever.Overall, Halloween III Season of the Witch isn't exactly a masterpiece, but in my opinion, it's completely underrated and should be watched before or when Halloween starts. It is that good! "},{"Title":"Halloween Season of the Witch","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The most commotion about this film is that it was entitled Halloween 3 hinting to fans that this movie may have the slasher king in Michael Myers. However, this takes a whole 180 into a smart, spooky ride about witchcraft and mysterious, horrific powers of the unreal. Tom Atkins does a great job playing the drunken Dr. Challis and his girlfriend along the way, Ellie, did a great job and is easy on the eyes. The music on the drive to Santa Mira is memorizing and the setting and cinematography is all there. The death scenes with bugs and snakes are off putting and can put a grimace. If you can get past the namesake of it being called Halloween 3 then maybe you can enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Cheap? Schlocky? Kinda. Horrific? Definitely!","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having seen Halloween I about 20 times in the theater and on cable growing up, I was an absolute psychotic fan of the film. I didn't care for the sequel, but that probably made me run double-time to the local theater (skipping school, no less) to see the premiere matinée showing of Season of the Witch. I was 18 at the time. And...I hated it. I had no idea it didn't feature Michael Myers and that was the problem I guess---a pall of disappointment that prevented me from enjoying the deviously nasty B-movie I was stuck sitting through instead.Another reviewer commented the film has a midnight movie or creature feature quality to it---and that's dead on. The acting is sub-par for sure (with the exception of Dan O'Herlihy, who plays the part of the main heavy with just the right amount of droll evil). The effects outside of the mask sequences are cheesy. But the whole affair is played out with such grim seriousness that---when I finished watching it for the second time, 26 years later, I was amazed at it's genuine ghoulishness.The villain's plan couldn't be sicker and more fiendish to mass murder thousands of children at once on Halloween. But it also offers an acidic commentary on holiday commercialism, mass consumer conformism, and divorced-parent apathy. Add a nicely Body Snatcheresque sub-plot and the mass effect of the film moves beyond queasiness. Which could be a good reason why it's so reviled. The test screening sequence is almost surreal in its sheer nastiness.I have to wonder if poor Tom Atkins was in on the joke. Some of his deliveries are so deadpan (I need a drink!) that you can almost sense him winking at us, even as he's seducing the young co-ed daughter of the first murder victim less than 24 hours after watching her father die in front of him.I usually hate Tommy Wallace's stuff, but his heavy hand almost works to the advantage here. With a nice amount of references to Halloween I to get you smiling, and an all-too-brief but acerbic-as-usual cameo from Nancy Kyes Loomis Wallace (Annie from Halloween I), as Atkins put-upon ex-wife (wearing a bizarre gray fright wig, no less). "},{"Title":"Unjustly hated sequel is actually better than most of what followed...","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season of the Witch is probably one of the most unjustly hated horror films of all time. Most fans of the series refuse to acknowledge the fact that it even exists, simply because it doesn't feature the masked slasher Michael Myers. Their loss.The idea behind Halloween III probably seemed logical at the time. Michael Myers had been blown up and burnt to a crisp at the end of the previous film, so the producers decided that they would simply continue the series with a new, unrelated horror film under the Halloween banner every year. Toxic fanboy reaction and anemic box office returns for Season of the Witch quickly showed them the error of their ways and thus all of the Halloween films that have followed over the years brought back Mr. Myers in an increasingly silly parade of non-essential sequels. (I mean, seriously, have you seen Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers or Halloween Resurrection? Ugh.) As for Halloween III, it may not be a perfect film but Lord knows it's certainly better than many of the Myers retreads that followed in its wake. Director Tommy Lee Wallace takes the viewer out of the slasher realm entirely and plunges us into an exceedingly dark, sci-fi tinged tale of modern day witchcraft on a global scale, with a plot to kill millions of American children (!) on Halloween. Genre vet Tom Atkins (of Escape From New York and Maniac Cop fame) leads the cast as Dan Challis, a recently divorced doctor with a penchant for drinking, who is unlucky enough to be on hospital duty when a crazed man is brought into the E.R., clutching a rubber Halloween mask in his fist and repeatedly saying They're going to kill us all! Shortly thereafter, the man (who happens to be placed in the unlucky room number 13) gets his skull crushed by a mysterious, business suited intruder who then blows himself up in the hospital parking lot. When the dead man's daughter Ellie (the attractive Stacey Nelkin)arrives at the hospital and reveals to Challis that the last place he was seen alive was at the Silver Shamrock Halloween mask factory, he agrees to accompany her to the factory and find out if anything sinister is going on.The Silver Shamrock factory sits in the deceptively happy looking town of Santa Mira, where TV cameras watch your every move and all residents have a 6 PM curfew. Challis and Ellie shack up together at the local motel (shoe-horning in a quick romantic subplot that seems unnecessary at best, but at least we get to see Ellie in lingerie) with some other Silver Shamrock customers, all of whom are of course doomed to meet horrible fates before the movie's end. Turns out that the owner of the Silver Shamrock company, a charming looking old Irish guy named Cochran (a hilariously sinister turn by Dan O'Herlihy) is an old school Druid who's planning a Halloween trick to end all tricks on the Big Day. All of his company's masks contain a tiny transmitter that is set to activate (with fatal results) on Halloween night when a child wearing it watches the company-sponsored Big Giveaway on television. (By the way, it will be impossible not to get that damned Silver Shamrock TV commercial jingle stuck in your head for the next several days after viewing this film.) We get to watch the company test one of the masks on a suburban family and the gooey results will be a gorehound's delight. Needless to say, Atkins must escape from the madman's clutches and struggle to warn the population before zero hour.Sure it sounds looney, and it actually is quite a ridiculous plot, but the movie totally sells it. Plot holes abound (was Ellie a robot the entire time? How the hell did Cochran's company manage to steal a piece of Stonehenge? Are American kids THAT susceptible to TV ads that they'd all wear one of only three different Halloween masks nationwide? How are those snakes and bugs able to spontaneously generate from within the masks?), but the film moves along briskly enough from one shock to the next without giving the viewer much time to worry about it. The ending is likewise one of the bleakest in '80s horror history.Say what you want about Halloween III but one thing's for sure, it's definitely not another run of the mill slasher flick. It's a nice mix of elements from the creeping paranoid sci-fi/horror flicks of the '50s (well, hell, Santa Mira was also the setting of Invasion of the Body Snatchers y'know) and the gory, synthesizer-driven horror flicks of the '80s (seriously, the score by John Carpenter himself and Alan Howarth is creepy as hell). I can't help but think that if this film had originally been released as Season of the Witch back in 1982, without the Halloween tag attached to it, that it would be more fondly remembered by horror geeks today.Unless you're one of those hardcore No Michael Myers, no Halloween fanboys, III Season of the Witch is worth a look and deserves to be part of your annual Halloween Horror viewing slate. "},{"Title":"Deeply Flawed, But Fun, Creative and Worthy of Reappraisal","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Season Of The Witch' is the swiftly-ignored footnote in the 'Halloween' franchise - quickly forgotten evidence that 'Halloween' was meant to be more 'Creepshow' than 'Friday The 13th' in style. In retrospect, bringing back Michael Myers for 'Halloween II' was a possible mistake if the intention was for 'Halloween' to become an anthology series with a different tale in each installment. The sequel's success only cemented expectations in the viewer's minds that homicide in Haddonfield by a mask-covered psychopath was what they would see unfold each time on screen. And so by 1983, audiences clearly weren't prepared for 'Season Of The Witch' and made this fact abundantly clear at the box office, which is a great shame, because deeply-flawed as it is, 'Halloween III' is a lot of fun and does not deserve to be overlooked the way it often is.The storyline, centred around a toy factory manufacturing murderous masks designed to bring nationwide doom at 9pm on October 31st, is built up very intriguingly. We have a 'Simon Van Gelder'-like madman trying to warn the world of the impending slaughter, chillingly-ruthless killers in business suits silencing anyone who tries to get the word out, and strikingly memorable death scenes - one of which might be described as 'facial origami', and that's only the first 15 minutes. Soon, our story's heroes are embroiled in the factory's strange machinations, where nothing and no-one is exactly what they seem. The script builds up a tense atmosphere, leading to a truly compelling end that will keep viewers guessing long after.Yet 'Season Of The Witch' (a title not to be taken too literally) comes across as an intriguing second draft - full of good ideas, but lacking the kind of logic and key exposition that would have really brought the audience on board. Writer Tommy Lee Wallace's America, for example, seems to occupy one single time zone, in which it's possible to have the nation's children watching their televisions at the appointed hour. Likewise, we are expected to believe that the illegal appropriation of one of the world's largest and heaviest artificial landmarks - a key plot point at the climax - seems to be no more difficult than stealing a mattress from a bedding store and spiriting it away on a car's roof. Dr Challis, the lead character, is an obvious graduate of 'Action Hero Medical College', stitching up wounds one day and tackling the undead like Indiana Jones the next. The film's other two leads are also something of a puzzle, with their identities and ultimate fate never being satisfactorily explored. All of which leaves 'Halloween III' as a series of entertaining sequences that anyone attempting the most basic of critical analysis will be punished instantly with crushing bafflement. The lack of audience enthusiasm cannot be solely attributed to the absence of Michael Myers (who ironically, does enjoy a few seconds of screen time).Nonetheless, it would have been interesting if 'Halloween' had become an anthology series of horror, and with 'Halloween III' not short on ideas, it's only a shame more care and attention wasn't put into the effort. All involved clearly failed to understand what they had set in motion with the first two outings, unable to see that any change in direction for the franchise would have to be very well-executed to win the fans over. However, it wasn't and Michael Myers would go on to make a respectable return five years later. For what it offers, I think 'Season Of The Witch' is definitely worth a look - arguably more creative than most of the 'Halloween' sequels, but seriously lacking polish. "},{"Title":"Quite  true  to  the  genre!","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's usually the underrated movies that I think are usually the best. Films like these are somewhere in the middle of good and okay.Even though this movie has nothing to do with Michael Myers, the premise is genius.A evil man with an Irish descent, possibly leprechaun wants to wreck havoc in America by distributing Halloween masks that actually kill when you put them on! Tom Atkins is at the helm trying to stop the diabolical plan.Again, it may not be impressive in the long run, but certainly let it's mark in the Halloween franchise. "},{"Title":"Atkins...","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is a true pimp throughout this film. Out of all the Halloween films, this is the one aside from part one that I've seen the most. Another reviewer nailed it when they described how atmospheric and creepy this film is. The plot is ridiculous, and the acting is quite cheesy at times but the overall story is quite unique, still, to this day and with that accompanying the awesome score created by Carpenter helps make this one worth watching yearly. It really is great to see Tom Atkins in a starring role, and Stacy Nelkin is quite hot and well worth looking at. I guess the main reason I love this unique film is the outrageous plotting, reminding me of the villains that often show up in Bond films, Cochran is one demented goon hell bent on destroying the world. The saddest thing is the title of the film though, they really, really should have just titled it Season of the Witch and called it a day. Instead, everyone who saw it was angered at having no Meyers and that killed the great idea Carpenter had for making something unique every year, centered around the holiday of good Ole Samhain. So, to this day, people still hate on the film for not having little Mikey in it, and I cant blame them, as for years I was there with them. But after having learned about Carpenter's plans for a yearly Halloween themed film, and seeing it again with new eyes open, it made quite the difference and changed my overall opinion of a true cult classic. "},{"Title":"sinister movie that hits home","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie was truly sinister and if you know about the real ancient beliefs of Sam Hain, and Halloween, there are people that would try something like this out there, which makes the movie watchable to reveal just how sinister society secrets can be and just how obsessed and truly hateful people can be. So you cannot criticize something that for some reason I have watched 50 times or more in my life. Something about it is mesmerizing. I am also a victim of a secret society so this movie hit home. In the ancient times sacrificed of children, animals and people did indeed take place and are indeed taboo subjects. I believe they still go on today, and that true satanism is done underground because of this kind of action that is truly horrible and detestable. I know where the director was going here and what he wanted to say no matter what others had to say about it, negative (ignorance) or positive. "},{"Title":"Doctor Who Meets Twilight Zone With Added Gore","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just seen this the other night for the first time in years, and I have to say, it is a half way decent low budget sci fi flick.People going in to watch this should go into it as a sci fi film, and not thinking its a Halloween sequel or really a horror film, as this is NOT a slasher flick at all and has nothing to do with Michael Myers.Wont go into the plot as its been described a zillion times, but in my opinion, if the gore scenes were toned down a slight bit, and some slight alterations made to the characters, I could have EASILY seen this being a Doctor Who episode back then (if your a Who fan like me, you'll know exactly which characters should be changed to what and it would all fall into place PERFECT).I actually have a hunch that the writer of this may have been a Doctor Who fan, simply because there are some high similarities to an episode from the mid 70s called The Android Invasion.My only real disappointment with this film was the way it ended..thats where the Twilight Zone comes in.All around though, if your a sci fi buff and like horror film type gore added to the mix, you'll dig this film for sure! "}{"Title":"not the Halloween series at all","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not bad flick with interesting conception.This is not a sequel Michael Myers's adventures at first and second parts.It is single investigation about Halloween celebration and business.If the Halloween is occult festival then businessman which serve for Halloween is warlock.That is why businessman's assistants are robots (black magic of science - the Frankenstein school).Main mistake of the film good characters looks like robots too.Sometimes they actions more schematic than robots.As result we had surrealistic splatter.Absolute synthetic product.It is good for mass culture.Injoy if you like total sarcasm.Exact for this flick electronic music soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Pumpkin-based terror","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Saw this film again recently after watching it as a kid in the 80s. Nobody else seems to like this film but personally i thought it was great. Maybe its because I'm a sucker for nostalgia and 80's B Movie 'shockers' and sci-fi generally, but also because I love Carpenter's work, especially from this period (and even though he didn't direct this he did produce it and it has many of his hallmarks) - The score is excellent and the whole film has the mood of a period of film-making that is forever imprinted upon my psyche. The story is typically ludicrous and fanciful to the extreme, (the theft of parts of Stonehenge and transportation to Western US for example, and the formation of snakes and insects out of thin air, but then we are talking witchcraft here so fair enough...) A very bizarrely positioned film in a series that was both preceded and succeeded by psycho-killer Micheal Myers' character, this is in my opinion a little b-movie gem. "},{"Title":"Halloween part 3 isn't the best one, but also not the worst!","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween part 3 is a pretty good flick all in all, my only advice to you is to not expect a Halloween based sequel. I know it took me a long time to build up the nerve to watch this one but I'm glad I did. I knew that Michael myers wasn't in it so I thought I wouldn't waste my time with this crap, but it turned out to be pretty good and the Halloween countdown song for silver shamrock is frickin funny! I am not going to say that this is awesome or it's the best Halloween movie of the series because then you would think I was looney,or just plain stupid, but I will say that I am glad I have it in my horror movie collection because it is a pretty decent flick, a little slow at times but still good. by the way my personal least favorite of the series is resurrection I thought it was pretty bad, but not one of these movies would I say sucks. 7 out of ten stars!!! "},{"Title":"Don't Listen to the Halloween 1/Michael Myers Dogmatists","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alright, I'll state it right out I'm one of those old people who remembers watching a fullscreen, analog Halloween III on Tee Vee. So it was with a bit of unavoidable nostalgia that I rewatched it again. The transfer on the Universal Studios DVD was quite lovely. I also enjoyed trying to pick out what synthesizers might have been used for the score (also fun to do with Halloween 1. Oberheim fans will also like the score.) There is no reason to avoid Halloween 3, just because a few dogmatics say you should, don't let those people intimidate you out of something you might enjoy. No, Michael Myers isn't a part of the plot; no, there's no Jamie Lee; no, it didn't exactly get a ringing endorsement from Carpenter; yes, there is an aggravating unmotivated romance (thank you, modelminority dot com for the term). But this flick actually does have the kitchen sink Pre-Catholic Irish witches, Stonehenge Implants, the Company-Town-Turned-Surveillance-Society, complete with buzzing cameras and automatons in suit and tie; infernal proto-multinational capitalists complete with hypnotic, brain-disintegrating marketing campaigns; and the scariest premise of all, eeeevil Tee Vee, that vitreous humor of American pop culture!It'll fry your brain! Don't sit too close! The Government is watching you! You'll ruin your eyes!! You'll get cancer and die in amputation surgery! Your halloween mask will melt and snakes will come out of your nose! Americans been repeating bizarre fantasies about Tee Vee to ourselves since some time in the late 20s. Halloween 3 exploits this fear of Tee Vee.Recommendation watch as an eeeevil Tee Vee double feature with child-heroic contemporaneous Poltergeist (1982), the contemporary child-hating Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005) or even Videodrome (1981), which takes the idea of eeeevil Tee Vee with a philosophy and method, to its nightmarish limit.If you want a poorly-acted double feature, go with Halloween 3 and an eeevil Tee Vee Lee Majors flick called Agency (1980).Too bad Halloween 3 is locked by history into the 3rd circle of Halloween Purgatory, as it might have made a decent remake.Halloween 17 Season of the Union-busting CEO. Why not? 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack and Stacey Nelkin is a goddess!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I actually liked Halloween3. I have it on DVD and watch it every now and again. I love the soundtrack. I have listened to that soundtrack for years. Has some great music, and is a great compliment to the music from Halloween 1 and 2. Probably some of the best scary movie music, or scary music ever made. My favorite parts of the movie are the music and Stacey Nelkin. She couldn't act to save her life, but damn she is sexy. Cut! Cut! Cut! Lose the shower door in the bathroom scene, and this movie would be a 10 all day in my book!! The love scene is good, but get rid of him, don't need someone else there, just her in the bed would have been fine. I'm sure Carpenter has some cutting room scenes not included in the movie, sitting in his personal collection. The ending does get pretty corny, with him calling all the TV stations, and Stacey dies!! That is the worst part. They don't show her dead but it is assumed. Maybe Cochran kept the real her for himself, I know I would ) "},{"Title":"Bizarre, Interesting.... to say the least.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With my disappointment in Halloween Resurrection - ugh - I decided it was time to re-visit all of the Halloween movies. Yes, ALL of them. I've seen them all at one time or another, and I'm still working on tracking them all down again. I found this at a video rental store... who'd have thought?Anyway, I can understand the original concept to do several different movies around a HALLOWEEN theme. NOT a Michael Myers/Laurie Strode/Sam Loomis soap opera. So, going back about 12 or so years when I first saw this, I still recall Eight more days till Halloween, Halloween, Halloween..... It's etched firmly in my mind.So, I found this and watched it again. Many people immediately ask What about Michael? What about Laurie? If no one can see beyond that, then they are not viewing this movie correctly. No, this isn't a great movie. The Sci-Fi/Android/Computer Chip elements weren't really scary.However, the Druidism/Stone Henge/Mind Control is really creepy. Sure the acting and plot were laughable, but the idea of those creepy weird citizens staring blankly around Santa Mira, the supernatural powers of Stone Henge, the constant Big Brother surveillance.... all of that is much creepier, and much more original than a knife-wielding half-human lunatic chopping people up.I love the Michael Myers story line, don't get me wrong. But, this movie features more creative deaths than stabbing or slashing. There are melted faces, crushing between cars, burning by lasers, drilling through heads, ripping skulls apart, and blowing oneself up. There is the potential of having a good movie, but its turned more into a plain old fun, gore fest. Enjoy it... and stop trying to make Michael Myers fit into it.  "},{"Title":"Extremely underatted shocker","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Michael Myers fanatics will always detest this movie obviously because they didnt get bored of the same story over and over again.What was it again oh yes man in a white mask killing everyone,except for Laurie Strode then they changed it to Lauries daughter who apparently didnt exist in H20.Didnt it insult your intelligence a little? If they called themselves a real fan of the Halloween films you should realise that Carpenter,Wallace and Hill made the first three films.They wanted to end the Myers storyline after part 2.Halloween 3 was the start of what would have been a yearly saga of films based on the halloween season,along the lines of the Twighlight Zone.Tragically that idea was quashed,the main reason for this was Universial advertisement of the film,which didnt state that H3 was'nt a direct sequal.Combine that with the over reaction of the audiences and it floped.What a shame,we will never know what other stories Carpenter and co had up their sleeves.If it was as good as this one then we were in for some great films. If you not seen this film i highly recommend it brace yourselves for two shocking scenes that you wont be ready for.Stylishly made with a  creepy but excellent performance by Dan o'Herlihy.A good performance by Tom Atkins also. Dont be put off by the Michael Myers freaks this film is more popular than you think and deserves better acclaim. "},{"Title":"TidBit...","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got to say, even though this movie wasn't that great because it had nothing to do with Michael Myers, it still wasn't that bad because of the freaky events that occurred.  The ending was nuts and I recommend this movie because of the end. "},{"Title":"An interesting break to a lagging series","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Looking at the other comments and the votes this film got @ the IMDb, I can't understand why so many people hated this film!OK, Halloween was absolutely great. A horror masterpiece and the father of the slasher film. Halloween 2 wasn't bad, but really added nothing to the series and was more of the same.So while it may have been a risky decision to make a third film completely seperate from the other two, I think it was quite a good one. With the second film, the series was looking a tad worse for wear, so this seperate story was needed in a way. You just need to make sure, before you watch it, that you're not expecting Michael and Laurie to run across your screen (apart from the Halloween trailer cameo).The plot was great, and revealed itself well, and while it was quite silly in places, and completely off the wall in others, I personally think that this was a great addition to the series, and a highly enjoyable horror film.Guess I'd better go and buy Halloween 4... "},{"Title":"I don't care what you say, it still scared me","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite all the flak that this movie catches, I think that it's a great horror movie. I don't think that it fits in well with the rest of the Halloween series, but as a stand alone film I think it gets the job done. There are two things that I mainly look for in a horror movie. One being creative death sequences, and two being a decent ending. This one delivers with both. I hate it when a horror movie is gritty and tough all the way through and follows up with a happy ending (Scream, Scream 2, should I continue?). Put your prejudices aside and I think you can enjoy this one.  "}{"Title":"I think its just as good as Michael Myers","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before viewing I had heard so many negative things about the film I almost didn't watch it. But it was on TV and I had to watch it. I was marvellous. Really interesting and enjoyable to quite a high extent. Lots of gore to get your teeth into and some quite good dialouge. I even found myself with my hands over my eyes. And wasn't because of the bad acting. Tom Atkins, found in films such as Lethal Weapon didn't a great job as our main character and doctor that I thought was a police officer. With his lover a female, looking for revenge on her father killer. The storyline is simple. A Halloween mask company plan to kill thousands of children in the US by placing a microchip in the masks which kill the child and releases bugs and snakes out of the mask. God known how it happens but thats the beauty of cinema. I have heard that this film didn't do great at the Box Office but hay ho. I definitely recommend this film as a watch and don't forget 'This is the night no one comes home!' "},{"Title":"Its gotten its hate, now it's time for it to get its dues","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season of the Witch can be considered one of the most disheartening, controversial horror films of all time for the sole purpose that it doesn't stick to its title's original formula, disregards everything from its two predecessors, and gives us a very deranged, incredibly hokey storyline. The sad part of it all, is that it kind of works in the way a very deranged, incredibly hokey storyline works. While leaving the genre's Michael Myers character behind, it embraces goofiness from the start and seems to be self-aware to the fact that the audience knows that, so it never decides to go overboard and fill itself with unnecessary self-referential humor.Perhaps if this film was simply called, Season of the Witch, and had nothing to do with the John Carpenter's renowned Halloween franchise it would've found some love. The producers intentions were to concoct a completely new setup, putting Myers' story on hold while welcoming a new cast and a new director, Tommy Lee Wallace, of Max Headroom and, later on, Stephen King's It fame.Our story focuses on an ordinary town, roughly a week before Halloween, when all of a sudden, commercials for Silver Shamrock masks begin replaying constantly on TV. The commercials are infused with a catchy jingle singing, Eight more days till Halloween, Halloween, Halloween. Eight more days till Halloween, Silver Shamrock, soliciting pumpkin, skeleton, and witch masks to little tykes, imploring them to put their masks on in front of the TV at a certain time on Halloween night for a special giveaway. Meanwhile, a local woman (Stacey Nelkin) teams up with the town doctor (Tom Atkins) to try and piece together why a toy store manager committed suicide in his car, which leads them to investigate the Silver Shamrock Novelties factory, ran by Dan O'Herlihy. His incorruptible nihilism on how he plans to carry out his plans to brainwash children by making them by one of his masks is quite fiendishly taking to watch.This isn't particularly compelling cinema, or even very substantial horror cinema. Compared to the original 1978 groundbreaker which merged the horror genre with borderline film noir, this one is lost and wanders from a narrative and a screen writing point of view. I wonder if I was a die-hard Halloween fan how I would've responded to this film in 1982. But how often do I complain about horror films lacking originality and simply being made to serve an executive's pocket? The fact that the series took a risk is admirable enough. To see the risk finally get the respect it deserves is even more heartwarming. Halloween III incorporates pleasantly suspenseful atmosphere with an eerily unique premise for a result that's equal parts enjoyable camp and inanely entertaining horror.Starring Stacey Nelkin, Tom Atkins, and Dan O'Herlihy. Directed by Tommy Lee Wallace. "},{"Title":"I just loved it","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay This movie was great at so many levels, from music to originality, this deserves much more than a 3.8. This deserves an 8 at least. Just go and watch it,if you want an original, bizarre masterpiece, watch Halloween 3. I have watched it more than 10 times, never gets boring. I know everybody was expecting The Shape,this manages to be a great flick even without Michael Myers. Tommy Lee Wallace is a great director,we have seen his work and this for being his first film is surprisingly good. The Gore? I was satisfied, It didn't needed Michael to make a few blood scenes. This is an Underrated masterpiece, just like Exorcist 3,they deserve much more. "},{"Title":"Happy Happy Halloween! Silver Shamrock!","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Caught this again on TV after remembering it from years ago as pretty creepy and funny. And it still is! Far better than the other Halloween films (apart from the classic first one) and far more fun. Far more weird too haha! OK - there's plot holes galore and there are a couple of cheesy laugh out loud bits that are not supposed to be funny but thats part of the charm I think.The music is so cool! If you like John Carpenter's early films or you like old 80s synth stuff you'll like his soundtrack in this. The bad guy is great, even more menacing than he is in Robocop 1 & 2. There's definitely little elements of The Thing, The Fly, Blade Runner and most of all - Invasion of the Body Snatchers - in this so if you like any of those, give this a go. And that Halloween song....jeez it will stay in your head for a long time after watching this. Its in my head now....aaaarrrgghhhh!!!! Happy happy Halloween....Halloween....Halloween Happy happy Halloween....Silver Shamrock!!!!!!!You want to scare your kids off trick or treating? Try this film! "},{"Title":"The Night Nobody Came Home","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season of the Witch is actually a pretty good movie, it takes a different direction from Halloween and Halloween II since it doesn't have Michael Myers in it and it has no connection to the first two movies or the sequels that came after. The film does have some creepy and gruesome scenes plus the music score is great and really creepy which gives the film some great atmosphere.The plot sees a man running down the street holding a Halloween mask being pursued by a group of men in suits, the man ends up in hospital where one of the men tracks him down and kills him. The man in the suit then goes into the car and burns himself. Dr. Daniel 'Dan' Challis soon meets the man's daughter Ellie Grimbridge who wants to find out what happened to her father, Daniel then decides to help her by going to the town of Santa Mira where Silver Shamrock make their Halloween Masks and are the most popular with their adverts. Daniel and Ellie go to the town and stay at the Motel pretending to be a married couple, one of the people staying at the Motel discovers the button off the mask and examines it then suddenly a beam from the badge hits her in the face, her face is then horribly disfigured then a spider comes out of her mask. Daniel and Ellie see an ambulance taking the women off, the head of Silver Shamrock Conal Cochran then explains that it was just an accident. The next day they decide to go to the factory to ask about the order then after seeing Cochran they ask to go on a tour, on the tour Ellie sees her Dad's car and runs towards it when Daniel stops her then the men in suits block the entrance. They soon decide to leave and after a while Daniel finds that Ellie is gone and the Men are outside, after trying to break in Daniel escapes and soon enters the Silver Shamrock building where he's attacked by another man in a suit and after killing him Daniel discovers that these men are Robots created by Cochran, he's caught by them and sent to where he adds the final thing to the masks. Daniel sees that Ellie is being held in one of the rooms, he then shows him the huge piece of Stonehenge where they're making the badges for the masks. Cochran then demonstrates to him who they work by having his best salesman and his family in to a room where they need to check one of the adverts when suddenly their son starts to act strange and when he collapses bugs and snakes come out of his mouth and they kill them.Daniel is then sent to a room where he's tied up and a Halloween mask is put on his face, he then turns on the TV because at a certain time the advert is going to be shown and it's going to kill every child that's watching advert while wearing the masks. After he leaves Daniel moves over to the TV and smashes it then gets untied and throws the mask over the camera then he quickly escapes and saves Ellen, they then must try and stop Cochran before the advert is shown on television.Halloween III Season of the Witch is a great sequel that may not go for everyone since it's not a Halloween sequel with Michael Myers. Check it out but try not to compare it to the other films in the series because it is different. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not so Bad!!!","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I LOVE THIS MOVIE! It shouldn't have 3.5, it should have 5.3! What I love in this movie, is the soundtrack, it's so great, and the acting, perfect. Bu there are some stupid scenes, but thats totally normal! I've ordered it about one month, and I love it, I have the NTSC format, my DVD player is PAL & NTSC player! I saw it for the first time the video, German! That's why could comment, but now I have it on DVD! I have almost all Halloween movies1-5 Do be serious, I like Halloween III Season Of The Witch better than Halloween 5 The Revenge Of Michael Myers.Have A Great Day!!! "},{"Title":"#Have a Happy Halloween. Silver Shamrock.","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season of the Witch is with out a doubt one of the weirdest horror movies ever made. Halloween II had a toasty (try and work out if that was a pun or not) ending. The writers decided that each Halloween film would be a different story but still related to the Halloween season. Unfortunately, it did not quite work out. Halloween III received many bad reviews. May I say that I loved this motion picture. Halloween III is a great horror movie and I enjoyed it very much. One of the reasons I like it is because it is a fresh story. Halloween III refreshes audience of the first two films. It also mixes horror with science-fiction and the combination works very well. I personally think that Halloween III Season of the Witch is better than H5 and most probably H6. The acting is this film entertained me too. Tom Aktins delivered a great performance as his character, and Dan O'Herlihy was good in this movie too. A good dose of humour will also be caught in this movie too. Unfortunately this movie didn't work out so well with critics so they went back to the same storyline as in H2 and H1. So to conclude my review of Halloween III Season of the Witch, I'd like to say once again that Halloween III is a great horror movie, I think viewers just need to give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Real horror","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why am I drawn to this B movie, featuring a truck driver, complete with six-pack, cigarettes, and swilling booze from a bottle in a paper bag, masquerading as a physician and displaying as much attention to his children as any other tom cat; and a young lady so grief stricken over the brutal murder of her father she can't wait to hop in the sack with the truck dri...I mean doctor? Maybe it's the theme. There's nothing really supernatural here. No aliens, giant bugs, monsters, or slashers which can't be killed. No, it's just good old fashioned man's inhumanity to man, complete with ever present surveillance cameras and robotic secret police. And it isn't the gods/G-d/Allah, no just their agent. Just Al Quaida, the Taliban, Hezbollah, or the Nazis. As a realistically chilling Cochran, pinch hitting for Osama or Adolph, observes, 'It isn't we who decide. No. It's the planets who do.' And, although Cochran is destroyed, just as in real life, the third commercial stays on. Everyone doesn't die, at least not yet. The planes only hit two tall buildings and kill thousands. All Jews don't go to the gas chambers, just six million. And all the kids don't turn into masses of crickets, only the ones with Silver Shamrock masks who turn to the third channel for the big giveaway, eager as are the people with their fake bars of soap for their showers. Cochran is just doing his gods' work, just like Osama, and just like Adolph for his racially pure state. He doesn't care about future profits ('they won't let me order for next year, they know I like to work ahead'), just as Iran doesn't worry about annihilating its customers, and Germany regarded murdering Jews as a higher priority than winning a war. Like Goering laughing at Nuremberg, 'It's a joke on the children,' beams Cochran. Perhaps, even if unevenly acted, for me the real horror is more effective than the contrived. "},{"Title":"Good Movie(Don't see if your expecting Michael Myers)","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this movie very entertaining, I had heard that Michael Myers wasn't in it and that turned me off a little but I saw this on Scifi and from what I could make out from the heavily edited movie it was very decent. The plot was neat flawless it was something not really ever done before. There were some nice gore and graphic special effects added to have the film feel more complete though it was shortly edited in the United States the feel still remains. The DVD is a pretty decent as well in the original letterbox format with a minus mono track. Highly recommended not for the squeamish.** and a half out of **** "},{"Title":"Forget The Title, Enjoy The Movie","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first want to start off by responding to the previous poster, who decided to ask logical questions about a horror film. Are you seriously trying to analyze horror? It's not meant to be anaylzed. I could ask How is it possible that Jason Voorhees, and Michael Myers keep coming back from the dead? Nobody watching cares that much to ask such ridiculous questions. They just sit back and watch the film.Anyway, Halloween III is a tremendous film. Very atmospheric and eerie. It has a haunting, early 80's, synthesized soundtrack, that really adds to the mood of the film.People bash the film simply because of it's title, and the fact that Michael Myers doesn't star in the film. Had this film just been called John Carpenter's Season of the Witch it probably would've been received a lot better by fans of the franchise.John Carpenter's plan was to have Michael Myers, killed off in the film Halloween II. After Myers had been killed off, Carpenter was going to take the franchise in a different direction. Sort of a Twilight Zone type of series of films, rather than a roving, psychopathic stalker. But because of the poor reviews and backlash by fans, due to the absence of Michael Myers, Carpenter gave up on the idea, and thus, Michael Myers returned for another 5 films.I'm not saying this film has the most brilliant plot, or Oscar worthy acting, but it is a VERY entertaining and enjoyable horror film. It captures the true essence of Halloween.Forget the title and give the film a chance. "}{"Title":"This Movie Is Great!!!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK OK... Yes this movie has nothing to due with Michael Myers... or Halloween 1 & 2 ... so sure that gives you every right to be disappointed. However as a movie ... It is great! There is nothing to dislike about this movie. It's an original and yes I think it was stupid of them to put the title Halloween 3 on it considering it has nothing to due with the previous to... but like I said as its own movie it is definitely worth watching and owning!!! I even had to special order it because no one carry's it. The song they repeatably play in this movie will have you singing it for days after you watch it. All I can say is if you a fan of Horror movie this is a must buy. It reminds me a lot of the movie They Live something about the way it was shot I think. Personally I do think they need to change the name of this movie though... Maybe to Silver Shamrock, they seems fitting. "},{"Title":"misunderstood classic","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A beautifully-shot, unique horror classic. This film has absolutely NOTHING to do with the John Carpenter franchise, but for lack of imagination and courage, the studio slapped on the Halloween label to easily market this original film. THIS IS NOT A MICHAEL MYERS FILM and should NOT be compared to them. All critics that express disappointment should just drop their expectations and understand that the film is a victim of a lame marketing ploy. A haunting, creepy little film with the ever-reliable, ever-stiff Tom Atkins, the strangest-looking leading man to grace the screen. Spooky, well-crafted, moody and tense, SEASON OF THE WITCH is genuine horror film, not just a derivative slasher flick. "},{"Title":"Happy Happy Halloween, Silver Shamrock","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 Season of the witch is totally a complete different story in the halloween series, based on the season of the witch and is the odd halloween movie as this one is not based on Michael Myers. This movie was made in 1982, i first watched in 22 years later (2004) as i never heard or seen this movie before, I thought that this movie was OK, the music to the silver shamrock, HAPPY HAPPY HALLOWEEN, HALLOWEEN, HALLOWEEN, HAPPY HAPPY HALLOWEEN, SILVER SHAMROCK, AND THEN WITH IT ADVERTISED DAYS BEFORE HALLOWEEN FALLS (31ST October) 8 MORE DAYS TO HALLOWEEN, 7 MORE DAYS TO HALLOWEEN, 2 MORE DAYS TO HALLOWEEN, AND THEN ON THE NIGHT THE HAPPY HAPPY HALLOWEEN COMES ON WHEN LOTS AND LOTS OF CHILDREN ARE BUYING THE SILVER SHAMROCK HALLOWEEN MASKS. To me, i think Halloween 3 Season of the witch has got to be the least best movie in the halloween series because Halloween is mainly based on about the serial killer Michael Myers, i think it was a bit of a show off with Season of the witch coming out because i thought it spoilt it and then halloween 4 was released and it was back to the plot with Michael Myers on the loose again and killing more of his victims. i give Halloween 3 Season of the witch 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One sinister evil little movie.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is probably my absolute favourite of the entire halloween series next to the first. The story is so damned original and haunting that no one who has seen this will ever forget it. All in all if you forget about michael, and get into the spirit of halloween, you will be treated to a truly original tale of horror. If this film had not been slapped with the title halloween 3, but insted just named Season of the Witch, it would have been regarded as a horror classic among many. But instead, everyone who wandered into those theatres opening day expecting to see Michael myers and donald pleasence, were so disappointed that they forgot all about the movie that they were seeing and just hated it because they wanted to see michael follow laurie some more, instead of seeing a film about halloween itself. The best performance in this movie though has to come from Dan O'Herlihy as Cochran. If you thought Myers was evil, then you certainly can not even begin to understand the true sinisterness of this bitter man which is Conal Cochran. So if you are looking for a good horror movie, filled with evil and elements of halloween, track this one down, and forget about myers. Because when you compare this to halloween 9 or ressurection, you can easily tell which one is better. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Fine","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is hated by practicly every single person I know. It's a unique film but 1# there is no micheal myers 2# It has some pretty annoying characters accept the Drunk he's funny and it's got some funny lookin' affects wich isn't always bad (edward d wood jr).But some reason i liked because of the good kills. The Drunks head poped of, the removal of the skull. The only thing that I really dreaded the most about this movie is that Dumba$$ song. 5/10 witch is much more than most people would give it.  "},{"Title":"The night no one comes home!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, Mike Myers is dead, killed in the last film, no way to return, he is crispy fried. Next Halloween story please, Season of the Witch. Too bad all the people who dished this film can't get over the fact that Micheal Myers is dead (includeing the film makers who tried to make other sequels)! Skip to the new story, a mad man pretenting to be a toy maker has found a stone that with the right beam of light (from a TV) will turn your brain to mush and bring forth snakes and spiders and icky bugs that will eat up the parents who are trapped in the room with the parents. This is a great story that is more than scary on many levels. I would like to see John Carpenter take back over his film series and do what he wanted to do in the first place, make Halloween films about differnt stories that will scare us, it was not all supposed to be about Micheal Myers. Forget those other imitations and go with the first three films. highly recomended. "},{"Title":"The Night I Wish Would Have Really Happened While Watching This Terrible Movie","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie quite possibly was in fact, the worst movie ever made.  And with that bouncy theme song for the Silver Shamrock commercial just made me wish that really did happen at that moment. Anyone who is going to miss one Halloween, make it this one. "},{"Title":"This is without a doubt, THE WORST MOVIE OF ALL TIME!","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And I've seen some really awful movies before...but this one takes the cake by far.  Now, I am not one of those reviewers who would say such a thing lightly, nor am I one that says that about every movie I didn't like (I see the same reviewers on here say that every single movie they didn't like is what they believe to be the worst movie of all time, and I don't think that is right.  Calling a movie the worst ever is, afterall, a bold statement).  On my top ten list of worst movies of all time, Halloween 3  Season of the Witch has the 'honor' of being number 1, and it's been up there for the past 6 or 7 years.  And this has absolutely nothing to do with the fact that Michael Myers isn't in it...especially b\c this was the first one of the series that I had ever seen, and honestly, it turned me off from the rest of the series until I saw the first one and ended up loving that one to watch the other installments of the series (which range from good to average).How embarrassing it must have been for John Carpenter and Debra Hill to both have had their names attached to this stinking pile of waste.  The plot is awful, acting is retched...and that damn 'Silver Shamrock' song...makes me want to drive rusty nails into my head to relieve myself from the pain.  Literally, you hear the most annoying song of all time, the 3 more days 'til Halloween, Halloween, Halloween...Silveerrrrrr Shamrock! song, played to the tune of 'London Bridge is Falling Down', and they play this horrible tune at least half a dozen times throughout.  If I had rented this stinker, I would have done exactly what one reviewer did, and burn, break and utterly destroy this movie to save others, who will undoubtedly be mistaken by the title, the pain and misery I endured.  Now, I love horror films, and I really loved the idea Carpenter had in the beginning, to make a different Halloween themed film every year...but after leaving the cliff hanger of the first one, the people demanded there be a sequel, which I thought was very good for a sequel...so with that said, it was almost impossible to make a good sequel after Myer's supposed demise in part 2...but that's no excuse for this mess!  It is horrible beyond comprehension...I mean some horror movies are made bad, but have redeeming qualities like effects, scares, etc...and even other bad horror flims are so bad they're good (tongue in cheek type of stuff)...but the worst movies of all time, in my book are the movies that are plain awful and tried so hard to be serious.  So unless you want to know what clawing your eyeballs out feels like...AVOID THIS ONE LIKE THE PLAGUE.  0/10 stars (if only there was such a rating).     "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, don´t compare this third installment of the Halloween series with its two predecessors. As a horror movie it stands out entirely on its own. In spite it has nothing in common with part 1 and 2, its very cool. It has a very dark and gloomy mood all the way through, which is filled with tension and a sense of what the hell is going on here. The psychological effect is a bit more present in this one, whereas the graphics in a way are more toned down. Not to say they are totally gone.The scoring is also very unsettling and nervewrecking. It fails a bit towards the end, but it is still well accomplished, having in mind they´ve done such a radical change in the series. Definitly my favourite of all 8 Halloween movies. I haven´t seen part 8, cause I was told it sucks big time 5/6 "},{"Title":"Creepy, unsettling original sequel","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" HALLOWEEN IIISEASON OF THE WITCH (1982) is an anomaly of a movie. It's the ONLY film in the Halloween series that has absolutely nothing to do with Michael Myers. In fact, at a key point in the film, one of the characters is actually watching John Carpenter's 1978 film Halloween on TV! So that pretty much confirms that this sequel is not in the same universe as the one where Michael Myers exists. I'm not really the biggest fan of the Halloween series overall. In fact I think the original film is somewhat overrated. To me, Psycho is the true creator of the slasher genre, not Halloween, which basically ushered in the era of brainless nonstop killing of clueless teenagers and the killer who can't be killed. Except for perhaps the original Nightmare on Elm Street series and Saw, I generally think of other infamous slasher series as all being interchangeable. Jason, Michael, Leatherface...what's the difference? Some psychologically damaged individual who had a terrible childhood basically takes it out on everyone in his path. H3Season of the Witch takes the series in a refreshing direction by being it's own entity. For an early 80s film, the film boasts an incredibly scary atmosphere accompanied by a very creepy score. And I dare say that the acting in this film is better than in any other Halloween movie! H3 is carried excellently by horror movie icon Tom Atkins (who plays Dr. Daniel Challis). Atkins also appeared in 'The Fog' as well as 'Night of the Creeps', but this movie may contain his personal best performance in the horror genre. In addition to Atkins, the other standout performance is delivered by Dan O'Herlihy (as Cochran), one of the criminally underrated performances of a villain in a horror film. O'Herlihy is a perfect villain, charming and dignified on the surface, but underneath a cold, calculating menace which surfaces in the film's climax. The plot of H3 is that an injured man named Harry Grimbridge shows up at Daniel's hospital in a sleepy California town, ranting and raving about they will kill us all. Harry is holding onto a strange- looking Halloween mask. While in recovery, one of the men chasing Harry kills him by gouging out his eyes, then escapes only to blow himself up in his car. Daniel has his assistant examine the remains of the blown up man and enter the Harry's daughter Ellie Grimbridge (played by 80s hottie Stacey Nelkin), who wants to know the details of her father's mysterious death. Harry was owner of the local toy store and Daniel and Ellie soon find out that he was recently in the town of Santa Mira trying to wholesale buy some of the factory's popular Halloween masks. So the duo head to investigate.The fictional burg of Santa Mira is another great character, an isolated, eerie location seemingly in the middle of nowhere with odd residents who keep their eyes on Daniel and Ellie the whole time they are there. The isolated atmosphere gives the movie a creepy vibe that permeates throughout. Even the daytime scenes are creepy!In terms of acting, I've already mentioned the stellar work by Atkins, our stalwart hero, who plays Daniel as a very flawed man, who drinks too much and has an eye for the ladies and is somewhat of a deadbeat Dad with an ex-wife and 2 kids. Daniel's journey really redeems the character. And O'Herlihy is brilliant as the evil Cochran. Stacey Nelkin is not so good as Ellie, who has little dialogue and is sadly used only for her looks and the typical hot 80s girl there to prop up the hero. There are also some funny minor performances from the actors playing the middle-aged couple with a young son that take part in Cochran's experiment and last but not least scene-stealing Marge! Also, kudos should be given to all the extras playing Cochran's goons, who did a tremendous job of giving off a creepy vibe. I've seen many a throwaway horror movie where the acting was atrocious! This is not one of them.It's probably blasphemy to say that I enjoy this more than the original Halloween, but I frankly do. I'm not necessarily claiming H3 to be a better film. I think it's debatable. But H3 certainly has a unique quality that makes it a more interesting film and there is an ambiguity about it that Halloween lacks. The other sequels are essentially slasher flicks. This one thankfully goes it's own way! "}{"Title":"Cover your ears when the commercials come on!","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Warning After watching this movie you will have X more days till Halloween Halloween, X more days till Halloween, Silver Shamrock. going round and round in your head over and over again. Those TV commercials are so annoying! Actually they're probably the thing I love about this movie.It is a good movie, creepy mechanical factory workers who behave like zombies. A factory town with a regime dictated by one Conal Cochrane who watches everything via street CCTV cameras. Lovely.Not too disturbing and not too gory. I haven't seen the rest of the Halloween series but apparently a lot of people hate on this one just because it doesn't contain Michael Myers.It should have been produced as a stand alone movie really it didn't need to adopt the title of a series. "},{"Title":"Halloween 3?","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 season of the witch intended to be the first in a episode series of films that told a new story each year, but is was not to be.Halloween 3 has suffered negative comments because of the lack of Michael Myers, but this is the only reason and what made it a box office failure.I find that if you minus the Halloween part of the title you actually have a good film.it follows a Doctor who is trying to work out why one of his patients were murdered and ends up going with the patients daughter to Santa Mira,where they discover the local mask factory also made the mask that the patient was wearing when he was killed, the doctor then breaks into the factory after the daughter is kidnapped, he then finds that the masks will kill every child wearing one, to be honest the adverts where played so often in the film that makes me wonder, why do they keep watching itthe ending of the film really makes it what it is an unresolved cliffhanger,plus the music was the best part of the film one of the only films i feel like that towards.I rate this film 6/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated Oddity","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not everyone thought this was a bad film. The great film critic Gene Siskel actually liked it, although I have to date searched in vain for a print review. Also, it appears that Siskel and Ebert reviewed this movie on their TV show, but an episode of this has yet to turn up anywhere. As proof that Siskel liked it, I went back to the Chicago Tribune archives and located the issue where he listed his 10 best films of 1982. There, in a section he called I liked it-you didn't he listed Halloween 3Season of the Witch. I actually agree with him that the movie has merit. It's not really scary and frankly should never have been called Halloween 3Season of the Witch, since the Halloween killer is absent and I don't recall seeing a single witch. The plot does flow smoothly from beginning to end and does hold ones interest. I also liked the t.v. commercial created by the main bad guy to help enact his plot Eight more days 'til Halloween,silver shamrock. Honestly, I don't recall what silver shamrock refers to, but I do think it adds to the overall weirdness of this film. "},{"Title":"Two more days to Halloween - Silver Shamrock","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Y'all know the drill with this one. Nothing to do with Michael Myers etc. Treated as a stand alone horror film, you've got a daft, weird tale that somehow reminded me of Phantasm. It's actor Tom Atkins versus a Halloween mask producer with a sinister agenda. Look out Atkins &#x96; they're Irish! The Silver Shamrock company are mass producing Halloween masks and some old guy escapes from their town clutching a mask. After being rescued by a gas station worker, he ends up in hospital where a guy in a suit turns up a kills him, then self immolates in a car. Doctor Tom Atkins is intrigued enough to find out what's going on (while boozing constantly) and teams up with the dead guy's daughter to head out to the town where Silver Shamrock are based.Needless to say, Atkins and the girl get it on shortly afterwards, and if that had happened to me I would have been all like 'What masks?' and would have spent all my time in that motel. But you know these crazy horror film characters &#x96; they've got to meddle where they're not meant to meddle, which leads to all sort of showdowns with the owner of the Silver Shamrock.Expect to see a tramp have his head pulled off by a robot (all of which have yellow blood like the bad guys in Phantasm), a woman get zapped by a corporate logo, and expect to scratch your head regarding all that stuff about Stonehenge. This film is daft, no doubt about it, but I had a lot of fun with it (probably because I don't take these thing seriously). "},{"Title":"The night no one comes home","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know if the administrators will class some of the content in this review as spoilers so i will list it just in case!Halloween 3Season of the witch what a terrible film, it is just stupid a person called Cochran decides that he will make Halloween masks that will kill children when they watch the big give away on TV. People will watch the film Halloween and think Michael Myers was class, then they will watch this and be like what the hell was that. It is an embarrassment to be in the Halloween saga. Remember this in my opinion so don't get annoyed if you like this film but I just think it should be called SEASON OF THE WITCH because it doesn't deserve to have the Halloween title before it. It is in no way a sequel the only time you see Myers in it is when Cochran ties Challis to the chair and turns on the TV and when Challis is sitting in the bar and the trailer comes on. I don't recommend this film at all but if you want to watch it go ahead*/***** VERY POOR "},{"Title":"Zurn Cult Classics Halloween 3 Season of the Witch","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, the mystic, spooky and spectacular Halloween season is at large once more and I thought it would be fitting to do some Halloween themed movie reviews to fit the occasion. What haunted, horrifying thriller of doom have I decided to review? What film full of thrills, chills and spills shall I share my perspective on. Well, how about the vastly underrated third entry in the Halloween series. This film is Michael Myers free this time around and although the William Shatner masked murderer is absent, this film strays in it's own direction and comes off as something entirely new, original and above all, entertaining. Originally, John Carpenter (director of the first Halloween) and crew were going to make the Halloween series an anthology series, similar to Twilight Zone and the Outer Limits before it. Had the film succeeded, the next film would have been a supernatural thriller about ghosts. But people were angry that Michael Myers was absent, and the anthology idea was flushed down the crapper as the series returned to it's roots for Halloween 4. But as the series brought back Michael Myers for a string of slasher sequels, remakes reinterpretations, requels, seboots, whatever, Halloween 3 remains the most distinguishing of the horror series, the black sheep or Looney Tunes character at Disneyland. But does that mean it's bad? Not in my book. Don't get me wrong, the film's not perfect (nothing is). There are some elements that don't add up and there are a lot of loose ends not tied up by the film's conclusion. But the bottom line is that this is a pure, solid Halloween flick. I don't mean Halloween as in the Halloween series, but as an all around Halloween chiller, perfect for the haunted holiday season. I watch this film every year, embracing the dark, the twisted, the ghastly and the all around cheesiness this film has to offer. In recent years, I've come to realize how unlike any horror film Halloween 3 is. This is a creative movie filled with grand 80s effects, twisted imagery, grotesque and fowl scenes of murder and killer masks! It doesn't get any more original than that! And the Silver Shamrock commercial....need I say more. It just would't seem like Halloween to me without listening to that ridiculously catchy song and seeing Don Post's stellar pumpkin, witch and skull masks looming on the television screen. Don Post is also known for molding the famous Tor Johnson mask and the Captain Kirk mask that was used for Michael Myers in the first Halloween film. Is Halloween 3 my favorite of the series? Probably not, if I had to be perfectly honest. Halloween and Halloween 2 (which I will always consider to be one movie because they take place on the same night) will always be the standout pieces of the collection, with the Thorn Trilogy and the Laurie Strode saga coming in very close. But Halloween 3 will always be a special experience for me, a horror film unlike anything I've ever seen on All Hallows Eve. Sure it has it's share of problems, but it's still entertaining, terrifying and full of that Halloween goodness I long for every October. If the film were not called Halloween 3, I think people would enjoy it more. It's the standout piece in an all around horrifying film series. "},{"Title":"You need to admire what this film attempted","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The writer/director of this film went into production with the intention of changing the Halloween franchise from a mere set of slasher films into a fully blown anthology, focusing on different, unrelated stories in the Halloween universe.The result was a very Lovecraft styled movie, trying to keep the suspense and horror through what the audience didn't know. Overall it works fairly well and that's why I'm giving it 6/10. The atmosphere and sound is probably the films biggest strength. However, the acting, writing, pacing and obviously rushed ending kills any hope the film had of being received well - which is why many of you probably haven't heard of it. "},{"Title":"Despite a confusing script, it's nowhere near as bad as it's reputation  might suggest","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The scorned bastard of the Halloween franchise is certainly nowhere near as bad as it's reputation would suggest. Halloween III Season of the Witch is notorious because - as it's witty tagline suggests - it's the one which takes place The Night Nobody Came Home (I really love this!). In other words, Michael Myers is absent from this outing. And it is in this regard that I would positively assert praise for Tommy Lee Wallace's effort, as the third installment in the franchise is certainly the most original and indeed, the most innovative entry.Santa Mira is home to the Irish-American business tycoon Conal Cochran, who owns the Silver Shamrock Novelties company. Their count-down to Halloween advertisements (Played to a catchy London Bridge is Falling Down tune) have kids all over American buying one of the three Silver Shamrock Halloween masks on offer. A witch, a skull, or a pumpkin (Not a great selection, it has to be said). A murder/suicide in a hospital emergency room a few miles away in which the murder victim arrives gripping a Silver Shamrock Halloween mask (My personal favourite one, by the way - the pumpkin) screaming that They are gonna kill us all! leaves Dr. Dan Challis with many questions which subsequently sees him heading to Santa Mira to the Silver Shamrock factory to get to the bottom of the mystery. But while their, he uncovers a sinister (and quite frankly, baffling) plot to kill as many children as possible on Halloween night.Problems exist right away in the script. I mean, it's never made clear just what Cochran's reasons behind his plot to kill hundreds, if not thousands of children on Halloween night are. He mentions some bogus story about a Celtic tradition. It was as though the scriptwriters were rushed when they were putting it together and they basically just said, well screw it... no one is gonna care!. Another fault - and possibly the most incredible one - has to be the incredulous plot element in which the Silver Shamrock company managed to take a chunk of Stone Henge and ship it across the Atlantic and then take it across America to California. This is only briefly mentioned of course - in fact, almost whispered. Just as well... the cringe factor would have been mighty. Even seeing the rocks in the lab almost ruins the film. Surely their could have been a better way of doing this without involving Stone Henge? Maybe a man-made poison or detonator that was placed inside the masks.Tom Atkins is Dr. Challis in a solid performance, while Stacey Nelkin is decent enough as Ellie. Irish actor Dan O'Herlihy is quite menacing as Cochran in a brilliant performance. It was good to see as well that for once an Irish actor was actually used to play an Irish character, so we didn't end up with some cretin attempting an Irish accent but instead coming out with an exaggerated and thoroughly inbred mutated accent that wouldn't be found anywhere on this planet.Possibly the most memorable aspect of Halloween III Season of the Witch is the music. The Silver Shamrock jingle played in the theme of London Bridge is Falling Down is very catchy and inexplicably unsettling. The ending is nihilistic and abrupt, and consequently this is the only film in the franchise in which evil is not defeated. But that only contributes to the idiosyncratic characteristic of the film which renders it unique in the middle of a franchise full of stalking and slashing. "},{"Title":"Halloween Season of the Witch","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only thing shameful about this movie is that it didn't work. I think that's it's unfair that Michael Meyers has a monopoly on Halloween. Halloween III was an attempt to take the franchise and make it into a series involving different stories taking place on Halloween night.Now the story of Halloween III isn't that great, but the movie works because it's very creepy. Produced by John Carpenter and Debra Hill, scored by Carpenter, and directing by his protégé Tommy Lee Wallace, Halloween III has the same look and feel of the previous Halloween films.It's sad that this movie didn't work. It was a great idea to take the Halloween films in another direction. I would have loved to see what other stories might have come out it. I'm sure they would been a lot better than the sequels that followed. "},{"Title":"A demented toymaker hatches a fiendish scheme to destroy the children of America.  Through the efforts of a persistent hero his plan is thwarted--or so it seems.","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III improves with each watching. Conal Cochran is a broadly-drawn comic villain of the Bond variety. He is grandiose in his perverse ambitions and also a bit of a show-off heading for a comeuppance (no seemingly indestructible Michael Myers he!) A mad toymaker obsessed with gadgetry, he also fancies himself a modern Druid, intent on reviving a pre-modern festival of child sacrifice. Even Stonehenge makes an appearance. Dan O'Herlihy, known for his portrayal of lace curtain Irishmen, is superb--the viewer can tell he relishes this role, on which he undoubtedly drew on past (non-horror) performances. Bravo! The film has its dark moments but there is something nonetheless tongue-in cheek about the performances. Its victims are largely sales people and their kin. Halloween III is, after all, a send of of American business' relentless marketing to kids. I couldn't get that damn jingle out of my head.The film's cliff hanger ending was as good as any I've seen in far superior films. "}{"Title":"Cursed by its title","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Instead of telling the reader if this is a good or a bad film, I'll only give you advice Do NOT pay attention to the Halloween III part of the title. Buy the DVD and a roll of black tape. Use the tape to cover the words Halloween III, leaving only Season of the Witch. You can then watch it and be able to enjoy it for what it is, not hate it for what it isn't. Yes, it's true that Michael Myers, AKA The Shape, has nothing to do with this film. There's no connection to the other films at all, in fact. But erase these expectations and what you'll get is a very strange, rather surreal little film that actually does offer something unique and slightly spooky in its own way. John Carpenter is a genius when it comes to making simple music for his films, and what he dishes up in this one will stick in your mind for a long, long time. You'll find yourself singing the Silver Shamrock jingle at least once every Halloween for years to come, trust me. It's worth at least one viewing, and it deserves a better reputation than it's had since its release. It isn't a fantastic film, no, but it's far better than half of the fodder in the horror section you could be getting. "},{"Title":"An under-rated classic","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a shame that so many people rubbish this film, because if you view it as a stand-alone movie, it is actually quite entertaining. Unfortunately, many fans of the HALLOWEEN film series will disregard this film as nothing to do with the rest of the Halloween films, which is true, but that doesn't make this a bad film. When you consider Halloween 5 and 8 - which are very disappointing, this small movie wins hands down. Okay, so this film doesn't have Michael Myers (again not quite so true, as we are reminded of him in the bar room scene where Challis orders a drink), but it has a straight story. You don't need to know the history of the prequel to enjoy this film. If people were to just stop trying to find fault with this film by comparing it to Halloween & Halloween II, then they would see this film is superior (at least to Halloween 2) in almost every way. I mean, how many people can honestly say that they don't remember the TV ad playing the song 3 more days to Halloween, Halloween, Halloween.... Silver Shamrock? Greatly under-rated, which is a real shame. "},{"Title":"Nice to take a chance","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say that it would be a lie to say that I didn't like this movie. I have read many others comments and have to say that this movie was highly original and very entertaining.  I think that one of the problems was that everybody was expecting a Michael Myers slasher movie and instead got a horror movie.  Now John Carpenter, Debra Hill, Moustapha Akkad did not expect for the first and second Halloween movies to be so successful, and were going to make sequels with same title and different story similar to Night Gallery.  I guess this movie is an acquired taste but definitely worth checking out 6/10. "},{"Title":"A Good Scary Movie, But Not As A Halloween Film","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first heard that Halloween 3 was Myerless, I said NO WAY AM I GOING NEAR IT. But just to see what it was all about I decided to watch it and I made a wrong judgement on the film. It wasnt all that bad, not too scary, but still a good flick.  I think it just gets its bad name cause it was entitled as a Halloween movie and that turns people off because if they are going to watch a Halloween film it better have Michael in it. But, really you can't say Michael is not it because he does make a very brief appearance (watch the movie to see what I mean.) I'm willing to forgive them since the original idea was that John Carpenter was to release a Halloween film a year with different storylines, but the people spoke out and demanded for the return of Michael Myers. Who knows, maybe if it wasnt for Halloween 3 we would have never seen Michael again. "},{"Title":"It's not that bad!!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a guilty pleasure. It's certainly not meant to be taken seriously in the least. H3SOTW is high camp plain and simple. How could you think it was anything else? A small town where the curfew is 6pm? A villain who runs a mask factory with an employee list filled with robots? A scheme to kill as many children as possible with the deadly masks? Stonehenge? Come on people!! This movie has its tongue planted firmly in cheek.Of course it's dumb. That's the point. What other reason to explain the villain's diabolical plot that, if successful, would knock him out of business? What would he have left to gain? Sure it's explained that he is the king of practical jokes. But then the joke is on him. So he fails and the joke is on the audience for taking this all seriously.Like almost every other person commenting here, I could spend days pointing out how dumb it is. But if you don't take it seriously in the least I think it's a watchable 90 minute film.The performances are all passable. Tom Atkins is credible in the lead. Stacey Nelkin is a very sexy leading lady (even if her last scene is played minus her head) and one wonders why her career hasn't amounted to more. But it's Dan O'Herlihy as the bad guy, Cochran, who stands out. He hams it up with the best of them without ever going over the top. He's menacing and totally believable in the midst of an unbelievable situation. He is convincing enough to almost make us swallow it all.The one major problem is the overt violence. It is way over the top. Had it been toned down you could almost see this as a black comedy.I am not suggesting that this is a classic by any means. It provides a few chills and entertains in a drive-in B movie kind of way. I give the filmmakers credit for at least trying something different unlike all of the other Halloween films that would follow. If you have 90 minutes to kill you could do much worse. In my mind this is the best of the series after the classic original.  "},{"Title":"This movie is awesome","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like Halloween 3Season of the Witch better than I do the other Halloween movies. Tom Atkins is great in this movie, the storyline is really cool and the Silver Shamrock song is catchy. The special effects are pretty decent too. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"This movie was great!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **SPOILERS AHEAD**Did anyone know that Gene Siskel from Siskel & Ebert gave this movie thumps up?  I agree with him, but I disagree with the masses who think this movie sucked.  It seems that the only bad thing anyone has to say about this movie was that Michael Myers was not in it.  Who cares?  If you treat this movie independently, you must agree this movie was good.From the beginning of this movie, the action takes off.  I had no idea what was happening.  Why was Ellie's father being chased by those two guys in suits?  Why was he clutching on to that Halloween mask?  What did he mean when he said that they were coming?  Why were those commercials playing over and over again?  Why did that guy walk into the hospital, break Ellie's father's cranium, walk out to his car and set himself on fire?  What was the connection to the mask factory?  Why was Santa Mira such a weird little town with curfews and surveillance cameras everywhere?  This whole movie was eerie.  Don't forget the music and that piercing PIIIIIINNNNNNNGGGGGGG!!! sound that would be played, which I thought was scarier than the original Halloween music because the Halloween music was more suspenseful than scary. What about how Mr. Cochran's robots disconnected the phone lines so no one could call in or out of Santa Mira?  That was chilling!This movie seemed Orwellian.  The surveillance cameras and the curfews along with creepy fact that everyone in Santa Mira was under the control of Mr. Cochran, who had very little reguard for human life; to him robots were better than humans because they were obedient.I did, however, have some problems with this movie.  For example, how would everyone die if the children wore the masks while watching the TV? Certainly, the children who wore the masks would die, but what about their parents.  The only reason Buddy and his wife died in the test room was because the door was locked and the wife fainted.  In reality the other parents wouldn't have that problem; they could just run out of their houses. What about the kids who didn't watch the program?  I would have to assume that not every kid would watch the program.  Not even Mash and Seinfeld could attract the whole nation to watch their series finales.  Also, how could Mr. Cochran ever think he could get away with this?  The survivors would immediately realize that Mr. Cochran was responsible for this mass murder, and the FBI would seize his ass faster than you can sing Silver Shamrock!  You think Timothy McVeigh was a pariah; try an old, rich, white guy, who owns a whole town and subjects its citizens to live in a police state.  Yeah, I'm sure they'll acquit him, but I digress.Putting aside this movie's faults, I thought this movie was definitely scary and suspenseful.  Whenever I think about this movie it gives me goose bumps.  By the way, were the lab technicians humans or robots?  My guess is that they weren't robots since one of them had a speaking part, but aside from that I could never tell.          "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi/Horror film that deserves a second chance.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The problem with Halloween III Season of the Witch is in it's title and nothing more.  Drop the Halloween III, and refer to this film only as Season of the Witch and people would have a different outlook on this film. This is a good sci-fi/horror entry that deserved a better hand than it was dealt.  Hollywood loves a franchise however, and if they didn't release it with Halloween in the title it would not have got big opening weekend box office.  The last horror sequel that tried such a thing was The Final Conflict in 1981.  20th Century-Fox is probably kicking themselves for not calling it Omen III. Then again, if they had we'd probably be subjected to The Omen Resurrection this summer! Season of the Witch works as a stand alone film, which all the other sequels to Halloween cannot claim. John Carpenter took a chance back in 1982.  He failed at the box-office (twice that year with The Thing), but not in the artistic department.  This is probably the reason he has never helmed a big Studio film since.  What a shame. He deserves better. *** (out of four) "},{"Title":"I don't understand why you people HATE this film so much???","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the very beginning I have always seen people online bash this movie beyond recognition. Why? I don't get you people. The only reason I can think of why you hate this film is because it takes the title of HALLOWEEN. I bet if it dropped the name HALLOWEEN in the first place and was just released as THE SEASON OF THE WITCH you guys would probably just think nothing of it. To tell the truth, I very much enjoy this film. I have watched it numerous times and like it. Yes, I said LIKE IT!!! I'll also admit, Okay, it's not the GREATEST horror film I've seen but still it holds its own in horror movie history. So next time you see this movie, whether it be on television, DVD or VHS, just black out the name HALLOWEEN III and just watch it as if it was any other horror movie and NOT a HALLOWEEN sequel. That's what I did and I thought the movie wasn't the best, but, then again not that terrible. It's actually pretty good!!! "},{"Title":"More than a name ...","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In an inexplicable lapse of judgment that has been a Hollywood curiosity for almost twenty years, the producers of Halloween and Halloween II decided to attach to their 1982 film Season of the Witch the prefatory tag Halloween III.  This was a strange decision, considering the fact that Season of the Witch shares none of the narrative or exposition from any of the other six films in the Halloween franchise.  A self-contained movie whose only connection to the series is a fleeting film-within-a-film scene of the original Halloween, Season of the Witch is not the only film in the series to lack continuity.  Indeed, if one is to accept the narrative of Halloween H2O, then parts four, five, and six must be disregarded, for H2O picks up after Halloween II and treats the information in the other films as though it doesn't exist.  If it sounds confusing and somewhat absurd, that's because it is.  The unfortunate by-product of these sloppy creative decisions is that a wonderful movie like Halloween III Season of the Witch has been unfairly vilified because of its ludicrous name.  Fans of the franchise have historically had a difficult time reconciling this film to the others in the series, and it has, over the years, gained a reputation as a bad movie.  This label, in my opinion, is utterly without merit.  Season of the Witch is a consistently entertaining movie with believable performances, taut direction, and a nerve-jangling score courtesy of John Carpenter and Alan Howarth.  In this creepy tale, a cyber-age warlock-cum-megalomaniac named Conal Cochran hatches an insane plot to re-create the carnage of the Festival of Samhain, which consists of turning Halloween night into a coast-to-coast bloodbath.  With an array of lethal technologies at his disposal, the psychotic Cochran (effectively portrayed by the scene-stealing Dan O'Herlihy) seems undeterred by the interference of Dr. Dan Challis and Ellie Grimbridge, the daughter of one of his victims.  Cochran's plan to murder countless innocent children invests the film with a sinister tone that breathes malignant life into the increasingly bizarre plot elements.  Cochran is an engaging villain, pretentious, sadistic, and merciless, and he is a key ingredient of the movie's success--he's one of those cinematic baddies the audience will instinctively find repulsive. Had the creators fleshed out the unlikely story with a bit more logic and sealed up some plot holes, Halloween III would have been a much more effective film, but, as it is, it's still one of the better thrillers of the early Eighties, and obviously had loftier creative aspirations than many of its contemporaries.  Also notable are a few graphic murder sequences that were heavily edited for many versions of the film ... and one bizarre scene, in particular, that will send reptile- and insect-haters into convulsions.  Halloween III Season of the Witch is, despite its ill-conceived name, a solid and highly-recommended entry in the canon of horror cinema. "}{"Title":"A Very good movie worth collecting after 20 years","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To be frank, this film is fifty times better than the garbage American Film Makers put out today.  This is a very good horror film.  This was filmed when America knew how to make decent horror films.  This was filmed some twenty years before the recent Hollywood mistakes such as Scream, I Know What You Did...., and Cruel Intentions.Guys, this is a really good movie.  Let me ask you this, why bash this movie?  No one really bashed Hellraiser 3 for not having Ashley Lawrence or Claire Higgins it it.  True, it may have been better if the film was released as Seasons of the Witch.  But, the movie really is original. It is a standard 80's witchcraft thriller.  It does feel like one is watching The Avengers at time, but overall the movie was quiet frightening and tells the story of what Halloween really is, The devil's night.  Its not all about dressing up and begging for candy. Halloween 3 kinda made me wonder if Dennis Wheatly (author of The Devils Rides Out and To the Devil...A Daughter) is the brainchild of this idea b/c this film reminds me of  his subject matter.  To tell the truth, this film actually looks like a true Hammer Film.  Actually, Nigel Kneale (writer of many Hammer films) wrote the script fot this film but had his name removed). No wonder why this film has the feel of Hammer Films.The most shocking scene is where the family is killed.  I have to say, this film is pretty disturbing reguardless of the minimal gore in the film.  So what if Michael Myers is not in it.  So what if horny teens are not in this film getting stabbed while .... well you know.  This is a horror film.I'd recommend this before watching Scream or I know What You Did Last Summer. "},{"Title":"Come on people, It's not that bad!!!!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So many people say bad things about this movie. The original idea was that the Halloween movies were supposed to be an anthology of stories using Halloween as a backdrop. When the producer of the original and best of the movies saw the potential for more cash, he immediately made the awful Halloween 2 which was just an exercise in being redundant. Then they decided to go back to the first idea, and they made this movie. So all of you fools who eventually saw this hoping for the same old cast of characters didn't get what you wanted, which was more of the same. You instantly abhorred this little film because Michael and his mask didn't commence forward with another feature filled with the same old thing as the previous films. Well, that's your loss!! I find this movie entertaining. I'm not saying that it's a masterpiece, but what i am saying is that a lot of you didn't even give it a chance. You were p****d off when you figured out Michael Myers wasn't the antagonist, and you instantly labeled it as crap. It was a shame that they used the Halloween name in front of what should have been the title Season of the Witch. At this point I will not go over the plot because a lot of you have gone over it already, but a few scenes really intrigued me (especially the scene where the family is put in the testing room). The acting is not top notch by everyone, but I must give a nod towards Dan O'Herlihy as the evil novelty company owner Conal Cochran. "},{"Title":"Original And Entertaining","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!! First things first. Fans of John Carpenter's seminal original HALLOWEEN should stay well away from this movie. Hulking, masked psychopath Michael Myers plays no part in HALLOWEEN III &#150; SEASON OF THE WITCH which is a grisly re-working of the INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS theme. This time round the plot concerns an evil Irish toy maker who with the agency of sinister masks intends to return Halloween to its witchcraft origins by killing every child in America. As Halloween draws near a doctor, himself a stay away dad (oh the irony) is drawn into the depraved plot when workers at the mask factory are being admitted to hospital and later dying. He teams up with the sexy daughter of one of the plants victims and heads to the town where the mask factory is based and gradually discovers the fiendish plot. This is no horror classic because it is simply not scary but it is well made and acted (Tom Atkins is great) and gets full marks for originality. However it is the highly creative gore scenes that marked this film out for me. People die horribly as eyeballs are gouged out, heads are torn off, power drills are rammed through skulls and Halloween masks and commercials reduce kids heads to a writhing mass of bugs, snakes and centipedes that then kill their parents all culminating in one of the most downbeat endings ever. It is all shot through with a truly wicked sense of black humour and maintains a relentless intensity from start to finish. This film does not deserve to be a part of the awful HALLOWEEN series. As I have said this is no horror classic but it is still very entertaining and is truly one of a kind. Seek it out if you're a horror fan needing a break from the norm (like me). My Rating &#150; 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say that I've always had a soft spot for this one. It was a brave step in a new direction for the Halloween series, moving away from the standard slasher genre which was already beginning to wear itself far too thin. Tom Atkins is good in a role which is believable, the effects are excellent (plenty of good 80's style gore on show here) & although the story is a bit far fetched, it grips enough to keep you watching. All you need to do is forget about Michael Myers & enjoy what is one of the most underrated & misunderstood movies in the genre. "},{"Title":"Bustin' heads on Halloween","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Critically panned and loathed by John Carpenter fans who were expecting another chapter in the saga of Laurie Strode vs. Michael Myers, Halloween III Season of the Witch was actually an attempt by Carpenter and partner Debra Hill to break out of the Saga of the Shape story and make the Halloween series a franchise that dealt with horror on October 31. It failed as a project, but what it did give us is a one-of-a-kind movie that's pretty interesting in its own right. What other movie can you think of that tells a story about a Druid maskmaker plotting to murder millions of children on Halloween with a bizarre scheme involving computer chips, Stonehenge, killer robots, laser beams, black magic, and the hopes that all the children with the cursed masks will coincidentally gather around the TV set at an appointed time to watch a strobing commercial that triggers the device on the mask. The results of this are not quite clear, but the masks melt, the children's heads disintegrate and hundreds of roaches, snakes, and other weird bugs emerge from the corpse. Mission accomplished.It's nowhere near as bad as you've heard, although it is pretty bad at times. The movie is flawed both technically and script-wise. If it sounds a little contrived, it is. Not only is the devilish mask-maker hoping that children will buy his masks, he only gives them three designs to pick from (what a cheapskate!). It's the kind of movie where they are trying to show a man climbing through a window, so they film him on one side of it, cut away, then film him on the other side, never actually showing him climb through. It's also the kind of movie that relies on the hero's ability to break out of any strap, disable a video monitor with the impossible toss of a rubber mask, climb through a convenient and surprisingly well-lit air duct, and suddenly learn how to reprogram an elaborate computer.Yet, the movie is unexpectedly jolting in certain areas. Characters we like die mercilessly along with the annoying characters, and there are some truly shocking moments of graphic violence. The story's cruel edge is gleefully displayed throughout. The thought of a witch sacrificing millions of kids on Halloween is genuinely disturbing, and yet there are absolutely no children in this movie that you would want to survive...they are all depicted as obnoxious, irritating creatures just begging for a killer laser beam aimed at them. The direction is terse, but it makes for a nightmarish quality to the whole thing. I don't want to spoil the ending, but let me just say it's true to the tone of the rest of the film.The cast is worth noting, too, particularly since the script is devoid of an actual hero. There is a protagonist, played by a very beefy Tom Atkins, but he is an alcoholic womanizer (is there any other kind?). He suddenly finds himself drawn into an investigation by the very spacey Stacey Nelkin, who is also personable but seems to be playing a role meant for Nancy Loomis/Kyes, who instead turns up in the film in a brief scene as Dan's bitter ex-wife. What thankless jobs they all had! Dan O'Herlihy easily steals the show as the cheerfully evil Druid witch, Conal Cochran.The electronic score is very atmospheric, and just try to ignore the grating commercial jingle that repeats throughout the movie. The idea is pretty original too, even with the gratuitous nods to Invasion of the Body Snatchers (most of the action takes place in Santa Mira, California...apparently they traded their pods in for gears).Looking back, I'm glad they tried to abandon the Michael Myers story and try something different, seeing as how awful the following sequels were. Halloween III is a bad fim, but it's an enjoyable one, and you definitely don't know where it's going while it's happening. I just wish the execution of the movie would have been better. It begins wonderfully, carefully adding clues to the story, but falls apart about halfway through. If the script had gotten a re-write before production, it might have been a better movie. But even so, it remains a guilty pleasure, and memorable if only for its unapologetically wicked atmosphere.Watch the magic pumpkin, kids! Watch! "},{"Title":"Unrelated sequel with an interesting plot...","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film catches more than its share of flack for not being a true sequel. People seem to immediately dismiss it as a bad film simply because their favorite slasher character has been removed. Calling it Halloween 3 was obviously a bad idea.The story starts out with a man being chased(by whom we don't yet know). He eventually makes it to a gas station where the attendant drives him to a nearby hospital. He's rolled in on a stretcher, clutching a halloween mask and saying They're going to kill us.. Again, we don't know who they are. Shortly after, while he's sleeping, the assassin enters his room and rips his skull apart. The assassin promptly leaves the hospital, gets into his car, soaks himself in gasoline, and lights a match. The next day the man's daughter is brought in to identify his body. Atkins is on hand to begin a little investigation into why somebody would want to kill her father. From that point on, the plot gets pretty unusual, involving everything from androids to stonehenge.Writer/director Tommy Lee Wallace(Stephen King's It) keeps everything moving pretty slowly throughout the film as weird goings on are observed by the two leads. Wallace gives his film a genuinely creepy atmosphere with the test sequence being a clear standout.While it's far from being the best in the series it is a good Twilight Zone style film. Ignore the absence of the Myers family and you just might enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Film-makers can't win","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Film-makers can't seem to be able to do anything right. Instead of churning out the same old tired sequels, which they get criticised for, they have tried to be creative here and get abused for that.Most comments I have read have said that this is a bad film because it doesn't include the old 'favourites', but then they call the rest of the series for being very similar to each other.I will concede that this film, with the exception of the first ten minutes, is NOT scary; but it's still an ok film. It's different than any other film I can recall seeing, and does have a few surprises and a good ending.I would say that if you were going to watch with an open mind you may well enjoy this "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Only the title is a mistake, the other elements are very good. A great score composed by ALAN HOWARTH and JOHN CARPENTER,good screenplay,cinematography and direction by TOMMY LEE WALLACE. The peoples that hate this movie are the same that are afraid that one day on HALLOWEEN's DAY could happen what this movie tells!And so too much younger for give a correct judgement!  "},{"Title":"One of the bottom 100?","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a moderate classic, cause it had the balls to be totally different than the others, and also I had a thing for Stacy Nelkin. "},{"Title":"A very, very, VERY underrated film in the series.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I said I would not be doing an in-depth review of HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH, so I will keep this short by doing this in 12 sentences.1. The plot of this movie is just amazing as heck and it does not deserve a lot of hatred.2. The direction of this movie is just awesome as heck as well as the writing of this movie. 3. Michael Myers is not in this movie at all. But that's just a small complaint 4. The acting is amazing, but credit will be given to Tom Atkins in his performance as the character he plays.5. The Halloween theme is missing in the musical score and I loved the theme of this movie's score.6. The tone is scary.7. The visual effects and make-up are fantastic.8. The movie is way too short and has way too many kills in this film.9. The film received a lot of negativity because Michael Myers is absent from this film and was a financial box-office disappointment.10. The movie has the HALLOWEEN title in it.11. The film is so freaking creepy that I think it's underrated.12. People should watch this movie because I think it's a great film Overall, this movie is not perfect, but I don't think it's terrible 6/10. If this was a stand-alone movie and had nothing to do with the Halloween series, then it would have been better well-received by not only critics but also fans. "}{"Title":"Halloween 3  is a Good Movie","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 got a bad rap when it hit the theaters back in the 80's. That's because everyone (including myself)wanted to see Michael Myers again. Halloween 3 is a totally different movie, and now that I look back on it, it's actually pretty good. The only thing Idon't like about it is when the chips on the masks set off and kill people, the bugs that come out of peoples heads is a bit gross. They should have just had them be laser like and put a hole in your head minus the snakes, spiders and other bugs. The music is really good, it has very good acting as well. I own this on Blu ray and am glad to have it in my video collection. It's a fun movie to watch every October. "},{"Title":"Don't judge a book by its cover","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in the days when I was younger I used to hate this movie, I loved watching the Halloween movies with Sam Loomis and Michael Myers, since Season of the Witch had none of them, I didn't even try to like it. Most of this film criticism probably comes from this fact that this has nothing to do with to first two movies, it's not even a slasher movie. It's about this evil mastermind and his mask-making company who plans to kill millions of American children with something mystical hidden inside the popular Halloween masks. Dan O'Herlihy who plays the villain is great and so is Tom Atkins (one of the more underrated Horror/Action stars out there). I think the story is nice and original and fits the Halloween theme well. The Score is great and contributes to create a haunting atmosphere. Halloween 3 Season of the Witch deserve a identity of it's own, having witch in the title is confusing as well since there ain't no witches either. But this isn't a bad movie, nothing really horrible about it, give it a go. "},{"Title":"Prescient statement on Corporate America","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" may SPOIL some of your enjoyment - watch the movie first!..1 more day 'till Halloween, Halloween.. ..1 more day 'till Halloween, Halloween.. Silver Shamrock....The music and visuals of the advert alone have remain lodged in my mind since I first watched this movie around the time it came out.Yes, the plot is formulaic. The stern villain reveals his secrets expecting the hero to die; aside from Tom Atkins, the roles are merely plot vehicles. The movie quickly develops into a protracted good versus bad struggle followed by a race to convince a disbelieving public seen in countless movies before it.Silver Shamrock- the ostensible if not the real Other in this horror - is the occultist toy factory with Irish roots, now lodged in the tight-lipped Californian community of Santa Mira. 80s California is a stereotypical place of self-aggrandizing wackos with a rather loose hold on reality - this place is a zoo!, exclaims Dr. Challis. But more than that it is a statement against nascent corporate media-controlled America. The ultimate struggle for Challis is not the factory itself but its reach into the homes of America and the hearts and minds of the children it seeks to destroy....The soundtrack is just great - dark organ synth sounds and that mesmerizing jingo. "},{"Title":"Masks of Death","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another under the radar gem that's both underrated and misunderstood. This film was made at a time when sequels didn't have any rules, to us it usual means a continuation a next chapter in the same story. But this film they decided not to do that at all, they figured after the events of Halloween 2 that the franchise was going to be an anthology series where each year their would be a new film based off of the Halloween season and these films could also be franchises on their own. Personally I think that's an awesome idea, which is why it's a shame it never took off, I honestly felt a great opportunity was lost, think about how many more film non related to Michael Myers we could of had; what a shame.Only problem I have is a certain twist near the end which just came completely out of left field and didn't serve any purpose or make sense to the entire film. Other than that everything else is fine.Anyway this film I think is great, the production value I think is great, this film was done on a modest to low budget and I think it was money well spent and once again proves how limited budget films can produce the best results.I like the use of the enviorment it is just constantly creepy, in a way it's kinda like with the video game series Silent Hill since that game always take place in a dark small decrepit town. From how run down the town slightly looks, the constant surveillance cameras that are everywhere in the town, to how small and far the place is. It really gives that atmospheric feeling of isolation. Even like the use of the night as well as the color of the sky which at times is red it really helps the atmospheric feeling due to the amount of darkness but just simply created a dark foreboding atmosphere as if there is an evil force about to overwhelm us.The effects are on par, from one really great kill which is seeing someone getting their head ripped off literally and spurting a fountain of blood. Though for me the real highlight was seeing those creepy men in black androids which spurt out mustard blood. They sort of remind me of the cyborgs or even clockwork robots from the TV show Doctor Who since these things run, not on cyber technology but on clockwork which is I think a different idea on the concept of robots but also makes sense since robots operate based on a complex assortment of parts together and running.The protagonist Daniel Challis solid, I like actor Tom Atkins whom I think is slightly underrated and I think is performance is solid. Not much to say for him, he has a dry charisma, smart, but I like just how doggedly determined he is at finding the truth and putting a stop to the evil plot as well as how well he can handle himself against danger.The antagonist Cochran is great, played well by the late great Dan O Herlihy, he's one of my favorite fictional villains. On the outside he seem like a really nice guy. But of course this is just an act as he is really an evil Druid warlock and the whole corporation he has crated is a front for a Druid witch cult. He can really give you chills because he still has charisma when evil but it's just the amount of coldness and sinisterness that is attached to it. One scene with him that stands out is when he gives a monologue on one of the stories about Halloween which always gives me chills because that's actually a real story.The best things for me about the film are the music which I think is great, most of it is mainly synthesizer music but I think this film makes great use for it and fits perfectly. I like the theme song which is solid but to me it's the end theme song that stands out and is probably one of my favorite themes because it has a mood feel like a sense of urgency and doom.The suspense is great it goes at a good pace, just like Daniel you really feel a sense of isolation and doom, that danger could be at any turn and could attack at any moment. You're intrigued at seeing the protagonist finding out what the heck is going on. Though you are already at least one step ahead of him where we already have some knowledge of the enemies activities; which makes it more suspenseful because were hoping Daniel can somehow put it all together and find a way to thwart the bad guy's plans before it's too late.I really like the story which I think is really creative and a very interesting idea, on turning all the commercialization of the holiday the typical masks and TV against us which is always a common thing in the suspense thriller genre on taking away everything were comfortable with and latching danger onto it. Even like the fact that these evil Druid Witches are using the power of technology to aid their evil magic, which I feel displays the dynamic of both alchemy and science becoming indivisible. It almost feels like something that could be plausible since we always invest a certain amount of trust in companies whenever we purchase certain products and lets face we all watch a certain amount of TV everyday; who says any of the corporate entities don't have a sinister agenda which to me makes the film all the more scary.Overall, I think this is a great sequel that like any Halloween mask is worth trying on and Happy Halloween.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"If you ignore the Halloween III in the title and accept the film for what it is, this really isn't all that bad","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I want to make it clear right up front that I certainly understand why fans of the Halloween franchise roundly dismiss this third entry, and if you're inclined to cry foul because Season Of The Witch essentially ignores the events of the first two films and introduces a storyline that has nothing to do with Michael Myers, you should probably consider sitting this one out. In hindsight, I agree it wasn't a good idea to impose this outing as part of the series, but it's worth noting that John Carpenter and Debra Hill endorsed the deviation by producing Season, and while their experiment is deeply flawed because of its inconsistencies and inherently confusing because of its Shape-lessness, when you consider how horrendous the Halloween saga would become a couple of sequels later, there might have ultimately been some prescient wisdom behind their attempt to take their creation in a new direction.Halloween III definitely has enough macabre moments to qualify it as part of the horror genre, but the nucleus of the film is decidedly anchored in the realm of science fiction. The story itself is a unique and novel yarn about a malevolent toy company that manufactures wide-selling Halloween masks which are outfitted with murderous technology intended to initiate a mass slaughter on Halloween night. A toy store proprietor stumbles across this sinister scheme, but before the panic-stricken man can share his knowledge, a stone-faced assassin in a suit and tie enters his hospital room and silences him forever, then pours gasoline on himself and self-immolates. The effective set-up establishes an intriguing mystery that makes even the dicier elements of the film engaging to uncover, and the deeper we plunge into the intricacies of the master-plan, the darker and more unsettling the movie becomes.Granted, this material is probably better suited for an episode of The Outer Limits than a feature-length follow-up to a two-flick slasher suite about a ghost-faced serial killer, and the thematic distance between Halloween III and its predecessors becomes more and more pronounced as the film rolls on. But, while the episodic nature of Season is admittedly apparent because the film has trouble maintaining its momentum through its entire run-time, the majority of this oft-maligned excursion is pretty enthralling nonetheless.Ironically, despite the absence of the Shape's butcher knife handiwork, III is one of the gorier episodes in the series. Better yet, the FX work is relatively solid, so when heads get torn from their torsos and craniums burst open to release wriggling hordes of insects and worms, the film conjures up some enjoyably gruesome tableaux. The fantastic nature of the plot allows for some creative conjurations in this department, and though many in the audience will be disappointed that this outing never ventures anywhere near Haddonfield, those looking for good old-fashioned splattery fun will find plenty of gooey diversions here.Sturdy and reliable Tom Atkins serves as an excellent everyman protagonist to confront the film's mounting menace, and veteran character actor Dan O'Herlihy sells a convincing portrayal of our deceptively dangerous villain Conal Cochran, so even when the tale veers into oblique obtusity, the quality of the presentation remains high. The isolated community of Santa Mira, where the mask factory is located, is also well-essayed, and the claustrophobic dread generated by the all-seeing surveillance cameras and the omnipresence of Cochran's inhuman henchmen keep the proceedings rooted in a dystopian dynamic that will undoubtedly remind attentive viewers of the enslaved world later portrayed by Carpenter in his brilliant They Live.There are a few befuddling devices introduced throughout the film that distract from the story at large, the most bizarre being the television screenings of Carpenter's original Halloween that appear along the way. Though this was probably intended as a sly wink to fans, the resulting fictionalization and minimizing of Michael Myers is an incongruous and somewhat insulting twist that falls resoundingly flat since it seems to diminish the inaugural outing of the series while doing nothing to augment this one. The messy climax is particularly troublesome, veering headfirst into hysterical oddity instead of resolving the story and answering very few of the lingering questions it creates. If we take the concluding events literally, the grand scheme of Conal Cochran is to make kids' heads explode, which triggers the release of poisonous serpents from the resulting cranial cavity to kill off their parents. Exactly how this is possible is never explained, and while the ensuing ensemble of bugs and slimy critters is gross enough to produce strong visceral visuals, the familiar and somewhat banal nature of these manifestations doesn't have nearly as much impact as the genesis of some foul monstrosity we've never seen before would. Surely, an evil overlord with the power to replace children's brains with slithering creepy crawlies by merely showing them a television commercial could summon up something more fearsome and exotic than rattlesnakes? Since it lacks a worthy pay-off, Season Of The Witch ultimately winds up being a promising concept that doesn't really come to fruition. But until the film falls apart, it packs in enough immersive and interesting elements to be a thoroughly enjoyable ride. Halloween III isn't anywhere near perfect, but whether you count it as part of the series or not, it still handily surpasses several of the Michael Myers-led installments which followed it. Give it a fair chance and it just might surprise you. "},{"Title":"An excellent, underrated, and unjustly maligned horror/sci-fi outing","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shrewd and ruthless master mask maker Conal Cochran (marvelously played with jolly sinister aplomb by Dan O'Herlithy) devices an ingenious way to kill countless innocent children on Halloween. It's up to Dr. Daniel Challis (a fine and sympathetic performance by Tom Atkins) and pretty young Ellie (a sweet and appealing portrayal by the lovely Stacey Nelkin) to figure out a way to stop Cochran before it's too late. Writer/director Tommy Lee Wallace relates the gripping story at a steady pace, does an ace job of creating and sustaining a spooky mysterious atmosphere, and maintains a grim tone that stays bleakly true to itself right to the devastatingly downbeat and nihilistic end. Moreover, the diabolically clever premise combines horror and science fiction elements with tremendous startling imagination as the holiday's ghastly Celtic druid roots concerning mass virgin sacrifices are brought into contemporary times through the use of advanced modern technology. The filmmakers warrant extra praise not only for having the guts to kill a kid on screen in a truly sick and disturbing way, but also for providing several spot-on satirical potshots at capitalism and consumerism. The make-up f/x are quite grotesque and creative. Michael Currie contributes a hearty turn as folksy motel proprietor Rafferty, Nancy Kyes makes a brief appearance as Challis' bitter ex-wife Linda, and the engaging presence of Essx Smith as helpful gas station owner Walter Jones bookends the picture. Middle-aged alcoholic and womanizer Challis makes for a touchingly flawed average guy hero. Dean Cundey's sharp widescreen cinematography gives the movie an impressive polished look. The pulsating score by John Carpenter and Alan Howarth further enhances the overall ominous mood. Good creepy fun. "},{"Title":"They should of just called it 'Season of the Witch'","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silver Shamrock, a mass-producer of Halloween masks, plan to kill millions of innocent people worldwide by placing pieces of a stolen boulder from Stonehenge into small tags and attaching them to the masks. When children all over the world sit down to watch the Silver Shamrock advertisement, terror and panic will spread. Dr. Dan Challis Tom Atkins,investigates a series of bizarre and horrifying incidents that begin to unfold before Halloween evening, and he comes face to face with the sinister figure of Conal Conhran, Genre favourite Dan O'Herhily the maker of the evil masks. They should of just called it 'Season of the Witch' and not 'Halloween III' this was an obvious cash in on the title, taken as a standalone film it does offer some genuine scare moments, and lot's of creative gore and for the technically minded lots of inventive 'Steadicam' shots be sure to watch this UN-cut and in widescreen. "},{"Title":"Rightfully criticized, but for the wrong reasons!","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is given lots of bad press, as the worst sequel of this franchise, mostly because it doesn't connect itself to the saga of Michael Myers. But while that might be an unfair bias against the film, it is hardly without many flaws of it's own, that hinder it from being a great scary film.The biggest problem within the film, is lack of giving proper amounts of information to make something convincing. When the doctor (played solidly by Tom Atkins) shows signs that he has feelings for Ellie (played by Stacey Nelkin) and sleeps with her, it seems to come out of nowhere. There is no build up to it, nothing to indicate that they would feel that way for each other, as they've only just met over the course of a day. Later, when the doctor frees Ellie from captivity and they race to stop the broadcasts, Ellie is revealed to be one of the robots of the evil Silver Shamrock company. But how long has that been the case? Was she one all along? Why didn't she deactivate, when they blew up the factory, like the other ones did? There are just so many things like this, that it takes you out of the moment and you lose a lot of the tension the film should be generating.That isn't to say the film has nothing good about it. The performances by Tom Atkins and Dan O'Herlihy (as the villain of the piece) are very engaging, especially when they are on-screen together. O'Herlihy brilliantly captures that sense of quiet evil with his performance, as he's all smiles and charm one minute, then the heart of darkness the next. Atkins is great as the reluctant hero, who is clearly in over his head. Also, the musical score is top notch (not surprising, as it comes from John Carpenter). It is very eerie and constantly give you the feeling of dread. Even the jingle to the Silver Shamrock television ad can give you the spooks.Still, despite all that, the film ultimately suffers from some very poor script writing and lack of proper explanations. It takes what could have been one of the all-time classic scare films and turns it into a mediocre effort, that should have been thought-out more.This isn't really a bad movie, but the flaws within it keep it from being truly good. I applaud the makers for trying something different. And while the film should not be snubbed for that, it has plenty of it's own issues that lessen the appeal of it. As loathe as I am of remakes, I actually think this film could benefit from such, provided the script writing was up to par. As it stands, the film is merely watchable. Perhaps something to watch late at night, when you can't sleep. Sadly, it could have been so much more. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels in the series!","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Love it or hate it, HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH is a true (real) Halloween movie & deals with real Halloween themes such as druids, ancient pagan origins, Samhain himself, human sacrifices, hundred year old warlocks. Wherein the first two films were just set on the holiday, but other than that really had very little to do with the holiday. After killing off Michael Myers at the end of the last movie, Carpenter & Hill (who serve as writers & producers here) set out to take the series in a radical new direction jettisoning everything except the title, the duo set out to use the title only, as a tent pole for a series of scary movies not necessarily related to one another with various tales of terror that were set on, or shared a connection with, the holiday. The films story is very dark, crazy & completely unhinged & darkly atmospheric in it's settings. With cameras monitoring the town the Silver Shamrock company is based in, with androids hiding in the shadows waiting to dispatch those who violate the curfew that Conal Cochran (the films main villain) has set for the small town, or uncover his sinister plans. It's plot is pretty straightforward in it's execution & features some really grisly ROB BURMAN make-up effects, as horror fans are treated to a series of painful to watch & very gruesome (not to mention at times creepy & weird) dispatches.What should be noted is how HALLOWEEN III is literally the last film in the franchise that featured pretty much the same crew who made the first two films, John Carpenter & Debra Hill (Who return as producers here) Cinematographer Dean Cundey, Irwin Yablans & Joseph Wolf, Barry Bernardi, Don Post who created the original Michael Myers mask, also designs this films masks, Nancy Loomis who played Annie in the first two films plays the lead hero's ex- wife, Michael Myers himself Dick Warlock (HALLOWEEN II) plays an android, the films director Tommy Lee Wallace who served as a production designer & art director & who stood in for Michael Myers in a few shots in the original film & even Jamie Lee Curtis does a couple voice overs (uncredited) all returned for their last film in the franchise. Even Tom Atkins ex-wife has a small role in the film. The annoying (but oddly catchy) theme song so many days till Halloween (which in & of itself is a variation on the London Bridge is falling down tune) plays a big part in the films grisly plot, which discards the slasher film mentality of the previous two & instead steers the series into a more sci-fi thriller, setting up for a very interesting mystery angle.The score by Carpenter & ALLAN HOWARTH is just down right fantastic & the film isn't afraid of going against the grain by breaking many taboo's, as we even see children meet a grisly fate at the hands of the films main monster Conal Cochran. Director Wallace (who ironically enough turned down the chance to direct the first sequel in the franchise) is clearly a horror fan & even pays homage to many horror classics, most notably INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS (1956) whose plot bears a strong resemblance to this films, Wallace even calls the small town where the films main action takes place Santa Mira which is the same name of the small town seen in that film, which a couple scenes in the film actually filmed in the same town that film shot in! the films acting & directing is very well done.I do admit however that the films main plot does ask one to accept a lot at times, such as Cochran being able to steal & then transport a large stone from Stonehenge to a small California town without anyone noticing & Cochran's plan for killing millions of children world wide come nine o'clock, is somewhat hard to swallow, due to the fact that the different time zones would definitely throw a big monkey wrench into his plans & the climax which sees Atkins successfully able to get various TV stations to cancel the commercials is laughable, simply because Atkins explanation of what is about to happen would sound ludicrous & make him sound like a madman & to top it all off, he wouldn't have the credentials to do such, even more so, there are various TV stations around the world, meaning even if he could call to get them all cancelled, he would have to call multiple stations & why if he knows that children around the world will fall prey to the commercials, while wearing their masks from the Silver Shamrock company does he not rip the masks off the children, who walk into the gas station wearing them who are set to watch the big give away at 9? the frequent airings of the Silver Shamrock commercials, which would quickly drain Cochran's bank account, if they even aired half as much as they do here. Cochran's masks selling like crazy, when there are only three of them rather than several cool monster masks. Cochran's ability to impose a curfew on a small town without arousing the suspicions of the governments & why is it that bugs & snakes pop out of the victims skulls? where do they come from?All in all, HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH is in many ways the last film in the franchise that you literally have to see. In fact the film is actually better than almost all the sequels to follow that had Michael in them! Avoid all the naysayers, HALLOWEEN III is awesome! MICHAEL MYERS would return to the series six years later in HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS **** stars "},{"Title":"Hard to understand why it's underrated.","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Actually,I was expecting another Michael Myers gore-action,when I first rented it,so I felt a bit sorrow after not finding his name on cast.However,feeling of disappointment turned into a grip of horror in the very first moments of movie.This one is better than even half of the other movies in the series.I can only describe the effect of this movie as resembling it as a Carpenter movie.I am a deep fan of John Carpenter and I felt his presence in this film a lot,Even he is not officially credited.Finally,If you are a fan of original Halloween series,and do not want to see anything else,this may not be for you.But if you like original stories,Carpenter flicks,and B-movies this is your title. "}{"Title":"Stop it, please, for God's sake, stop it!","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSHalloween III Season of the Witch has got to be the most original idea I've ever seen for a movie that is, a sequel that has no relation to the rest of it's franchise.Imagine Star Wars Episode II centred on chartered accountants from Islington, or a fourth Indiana Jones film that's a cartoon about a zoo trip. Halloween III, in a commendably daring move, makes no reference to Mike Myers or associated characters, and instead takes us on a voyage of killer pumpkins and the most appalling Irish accents on celluloid.Interestingly, Nigel Kneale, he of Quatermass, managed to salvage his reputation by removing his name from the credits after co-writing it with Tommy Lee Wallace. Wallace also directs, a style that has arguably less directorial skill than my own back passage.Of course, you sense this is played mainly for laughs, complete with the so-irritating-it's-catchy Halloween advert. Actually, no, it's just irritating. (Come to think of it, I realised the jingle bears a frightening similarity to London Bridge Is Falling Down. Isn't that against the law or something?) Keeping up with all the Halloween films, it features clips of other movies on television sets. Whereas the first quite bizarrely featured The Thing from Another World four years before John Carpenter was due to remake it; this one nicely features a trailer for the original Halloween. However, this joke is milked too far when the original film playing on a TV becomes part of the actual plot.There's a bit of Driller Killer influence in there, and a finale that involves a deadly robot double. The robots actually feature throughout, expressionless automatons that are reminiscent of Village of the Damned. If Village of the Damned featured estate agents instead of small children, that is. In fact, you could argue that this element influenced The Matrix. Not a very good argument, though.Is it scary? Well, I did become quite frightened at several ghostly apparitions and terrifying double images filling the screen - but then I realised that's because I was watching it on Channel 5, Britain's newest channel with the notoriously poor reception. Perhaps the scariest thing is that Tom Atkins plays Daniel Challis in a charisma vacuum, yet still gets lusted after by a nurse and gets to shag the girl with the juicy jugs (Stacey Nelkin). Despite the fact that her father's just been murdered in horrific circumstances, she still cannot help but get her kit off and won't even be dissuaded by Daniel's asking aren't you even in the least bit tired? Together they unravel a plot to take over America, just for a joke, which involves a subliminal advert being played on TV, inducing moths and snakes to magically appear in pumpkin masks. Stonehenge has also been transported to this mysterious factory - The Silver Shamrock - for reasons that are never fully explained.Halloween III is a pretty lame film by any standards, though not offensively so given that it was trying (however badly) to do something new, and that it doesn't take itself seriously. However, it doesn't reach the heights of so-bad-its-good, as, like the majority of the Halloween films, it is generally quite tedious.  "},{"Title":"I don't know","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know how to respond to this movie, i don't know whether to say i like it or hate it.  I like this movie because it had a break from the original idea, i bet John Carpenter just wanted to try something different.  I hated the movie because it was stupid, corny, pointless, and full of ridiculous characters, the thing that really bugged me in this movie was that stupid song through the entire movie, if John Carpenter wants to make a movie about madmen, robots, and evil, let him write another sequel to the terminator and leave the halloween series exactly the way it was to begin with. "},{"Title":"What's the bloody point?!","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just finished (fast-forwarding) this horrible, horrible mountain of crap of a movie, and a great congrats to everyone involved; apart from Battlefield Earth, this is the only movie I've seen so far, bad enough to make me cry! It's boring, ridiculous, amateurish, pointless... I could go on. What I can't do, is find a single redeeming feature. It's not even ridiculous in a comical sense. The first half hour felt like half a day, and then it got worse. Just to be clear, after reading other comments I don't care if Michael Myers is in the movie or not. Neither do I care whether this movie's name is Halloween or not. It sucks rocks whatever you want to call it. From the teeth-grittingly annoying commercial jingle to the crappy robots in the end, it's just... I don't think there's a word for it, but it's bad!If you treasure your time, take warning, and stay away from it. "},{"Title":"If it wasn't called 'Halloween III' it would have been received better","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eight more days till Halloween, Halloween, Halloween, Eight more days to Halloween; Silver Shamrock! Tell me that the goofy music and the masks didn't freak with you just a little bit. Tommy Lee Wallace (who had worked on Carpenter's original Halloween) directed this little ditty about a fiendish plan to kill tons and tons of little kids all over America Halloween night. I found some symbolism in this movie and it was how at this time in 1982-1983, Kids we're into TV 24/7 and the funky Silver Shamrock commercial was a staple in millions of children's lives, they would sit down in front of the TV and rock back and forth and sing along to the goofy song. It's really creepy if you actually think about what is going on. Tom Atkins (a Carpenter movie regular from the eighties, mostly notably 'The Fog') plays a great role as Dr. Challis and his quest to find out what the hell is going on. I must say this movie stands alone on its own pedestal amongst other movies of its type. I recommend it to anybody who is into horror flicks with a freaky side to them, some graphic gore but for the most part it's pretty clean, it's just the psychological aspect of this movie which makes it so darn creepy! Awesome job by Director Wallace, I just wish it was called something other than Halloween III, oh well. Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"A film that proves to be more memorable than many of the Halloween sequels.","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is a very unique movie, which is something rare in horror these days. Basically it's about a man named Conal Cochran who wants to make the largest sacrifice to the Pagan gods in history. He first makes a name for himself selling children's novelties and masks. Eventually his products are in the homes of most children, and he becomes a household name. He then uses fragments of Stonehenge and devises a series of masks to house these pieces. He also develops a commercial which creates a specific effect to act with the pieces of Stonehenge. These masks are trendy and popular with kids, and they are promised a surprise on Halloween night if they tune their televisions in at a specific time. Of course this final commercial is what enacts the pieces, causing a very nasty death to whoever is wearing a mask.So basically, if the children watch this commercial on Halloween Night they will be sacrificed to these gods on Samhain. There are two main protagonists who wander into Cochran's town, which is completely controlled by him, as they investigate strange deaths and disappearances. The few people who remain in his town are monitored 24/7 and must adhere to his set curfew. The other inhabitants are creations of Cochran. They patrol the streets at night and kill anyone who causes disruptions to their creator's plan.So with all that, you have a strange plot for what I feel to be a memorable horror film. "},{"Title":"Horrible just horrible","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow, what a bad movie! Not taking into account the absence of Michael Meyers (which was a dumb move), this movie had nothing in it that made it a remotely good movie. Bad,horrible,terrible,idiotic and horrendous are all words that could be used to describe this movie, but they still don't come close. No word has been invented to describe how awful this movie is. I mean the plot in itself is completely stupid. An evil toy company, bent on destruction hypnotize people into wearing their masks, that on Halloween night will kill them? What kind of idiotic plot is that? Moreover, with the exception of Tom Atkins, there isn't a single decent actor. They all seem like amateurs at best. The atmosphere was horrible and not the least bit scary. Even the next few installments in the series (which were pretty bad)did a better job than this. Believe me, Halloween sequel or not, this pulsating piece of crap would never be considered good. Ever. "},{"Title":"which witch, what witch, who witch? Don't know, don't care","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever had a really bad day and went to bed feeling bad? Well, I have that feeling now, only because of this movie. To be honest, I really looked forward seeing this movie and find out what's the commotion all about.I found out and I am sorry for that. I wish I could tell you about some scary parts, but I cannot. Two things I found funny - when someone's head was pulled off. - The commercial, it could be more creepier, but it was OK. The clue of the story is told at the end of the movie. Since the acting was quite bad, the reason for all this was not even interesting.Oh well, at least the editing was better than Legion of the Dead. I mean, bad story? OK, no problem. But at least try to make it scary. The electric sound was OK in the beginning, but it became a cliché half way the movie and quite annoying in the end. I feel wasted and I am going to bed. "},{"Title":"How NOT to use a Stacey-Nelkin sex-toy android","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    Nothing in this movie makes sense.    *****Spoilers Ahead*****     1.  An on-call doctor who is so busy that he can't make time for his kids impulsively stays away from his job for a few days.       2.  The doctor sleeps with the daughter of a man who was just murdered - and the grieving daughter (the beautiful Stacey Nelkin) does this joyously despite the fact that neither daughter nor doctor show the slightest  amount of romantic interest in each other.  Zero chemistry.             3.  The daughter is revealed to be an incredibly life-like beautiful android that acts like a real female through many complex situations and that the doctor has had sex with repeatedly.  And what is the use that the evil scientist has apparently put this delectable Stacey-Nelkin sex-toy android to?  He assigns her to the undercover mission of checking on the hospital where another of his androids has set himself on fire after conspicuously murdering a patient? And she is the one that then persuades the doctor to investigate the toy company because, as she says I'm not leaving until I find out what happened to my father? Does no one else think this is incredibly inconsistent and unbelievable in many ways?        4.  The mad scientist may be a male witch ???      5.  The master plan to kill children is based on the assumption that they will be sitting in front of a television at exactly 900 p.m. on Halloween while wearing a rubber mask over their head?  And they will be doing this because commercials say that they will announce a big giveaway at that time?  Gee, my kids never watch TV while wearing their masks and are kind of busy with other things at 900 p.m. on Halloween.   6.  No one seems to notice these metallic discs on the back of their masks?   7.  The metallic disks are show to have fragile microcircuitry but upon malfunctioning are able to arc out forces sufficient to melt human faces (powered by a chip from a stone from Stonehenge.)   8. Some yellow organic gooey substance oozes out of androids.   9.  The androids are killed when the good guys drop the microchips on them even though the androids are accustomed to being around the microchips all the time.  Fortunately, the androids die while standing in a perfect circle, which causes a magical force circle to appear which somehow bounces over to the evil scientist which -  oh forget it, its too stupid to repeat.  I could go on and on, but this is taking time away from my new obsession  manufacturing a Stacey-Nelkin sex-toy android in my basement.   Rating  3/10 "},{"Title":"Highly underrated chiller","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So it has nothing whatsoever to do with the previous two movies. That's somewhat refreshing when one looks back on the countless carbon copy sequels that multiply like rabbits in Hollywood. HALLOWEEN III is actually a pretty cool little movie, with a campy atmosphere (as opposed to HALLOWEEN II's grim nihilism), goofy plot and a fast pace. A crazy dude carrying a Halloween mask is being chased by some corporate-looking assassins. He escapes, stumbles into a gas station ranting and raving that they're going to get us and is taken to the hospital, where he's killed by one of the assassins, who then blows himself to bits in the parking lot. This disturbs Dr. Challis (Tom Atkins) and the crazy dude's daughter (Stacy Nelkin), who take it upon themselves to investigate his death. Turns out he was a shopkeeper who found out that the Halloween masks he stocked in his store were programmed to kill millions of kids when a TV special airs Halloween night. This plot was devised by evil toymaker Connell Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy), who's p***ed that the Pagan roots of Samhain (correctly pronounced for once as SOW-WHEN, much to the chagrin of death-metal fans everywhere) have been lost in commercialism, and wants to teach us all a lesson. Lots of enthusiastically gross special effects (faces erupt with swarms of bugs and snakes, heads are crushed and ripped off, people puke up green slime) and some great B-movie dialog make this one a must for genre addicts. Forget those who shrug this one off and give it a fair shot. You'll be surprised at how genuinely entertaining it is. "},{"Title":"Lets No Keep Michael Myers In The Plot","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why would you even consider making a movie with the title HALLOWEEN in it when you know this is going to suck if the man isn't inside the movie? Halloween 3 the Season of the Witch needed much more work besides putting Michael in there for like 30 seconds on a damn television screen, and playing the music just a little bit? Who does that get the title of Halloween. The only normal thing inside the movie is that there are two common actors from John Carpenters movies. Nancy Loomis returns in this one, but under a different name, and the guy from THE FOG returns, well actually they were both in THE FOG. But all in all, this movie was absolutely terrible, and shouldn't even keep the title of Halloween, it should be called Corny Halloween Masks The Season of the Witch or something. On a scale of 0 to 10, I give it a 2. "}{"Title":"Makes me physically ill decades later.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not a Halloween nut as I'd never seen the previous versions; I had no pre-conceived notions. H3 would have to stand on its own. And fall flat it did. The movie opens with a well done chase, murder, and suicide of the killer; it's downhill from there. The truly revolting deaths of the people who don the masks is only matched by the truly revolting sight of puffy, middle-aged Tom Atkins and barely 18, pretty Stacy Nelkin getting it on. Carpenter's music is metronomically irritating throughout. Dan O'Herlihy has fun as the campy villain, but what goes on around him is so un-fun that it cancels him out. An that ending. PUHLLLEEEZE. Definitely NOT for children or even young teens. Actually, it should be rated A Not suitable for anyone. "},{"Title":"What the hell is this?","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I always question the fact of why this film was even made. It had nothing to do with it's predecessors and doesn't at all contribute to the series. Michael Myers is absent in this instalment. Instead the makers got this bright idea to come up with a completely different movie with a stupid, uninteresting plot about masks. The characters are all different and unlikable. The acting was horrible and was almost laughable. (That is if your eyes didn't burn from watching it) This movie shouldn't even be considered part of the Halloween series we've come to know and love. It throws everything that was great about it's predecessors right out the window and into the garbage. Avoid this terrible movie It is not worth yours or anyone else's time. "},{"Title":"Top 5 worst movies ever","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is seriously one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Not only does it have nothing to do with the Halloween series, but it is utterly ridiculous (and not in a oh that is so bad it's good kind). I would only recommend this movie to people so that they could understand my disdain for this film and how the makers should not be allowed near a camera ever again. I am a fan of all horror movies, but this was neither a horror movie, or for that matter, a movie. Please do not torture yourself for 2 hours by sitting through this movie unless you would like to know exactly what the worst movie in the world looks like.Good Day. "},{"Title":"Sometimes it's better to stick with what you know...","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I'd like to state that I'd never been a fan of the Halloween series. So I was pleasantly surprised when I didn't see Michael Meyer's familiar face in this movie. However, that pleasure ended roughly halfway to three quarters into the movie when all of that beautiful suspense boiled down into wild inconsistencies, plot contrivances, and scenes that just boggle the mind.Our story begins with a panicked man clutching a mask. His wild performance helps build our nagging curiosity and in fact, a good portion of the movie progresses before we even get a solid clue to what's going on (although cleverly enough, they've hid a few earlier on in the movie in just obscure references). Finally, we begin to put the pieces together and are left... more confused?Apparently, they decided to play Frankenstein with Halloween 3, incorporating a bizarre mix of pseudo-technology (as I'm not even touching the androids) and magic. The largest stretch is possibly the fact that a company that only produces three cheap kinds of masks somehow is also a major corporation that somehow is also secretly leading the world not only in robots, but in the creation of artificial intelligence to go along with those robots. However, I'm willing to give them the benefit of the doubt, as these aren't even the worst aspects of the movie.Putting aside bizarre twists (such as one where a switch could have been made, although I'm not even certain what they were going for), some exceedingly confusing parts (I'm not sure where these crickets came from, if the parents had died, or anything), and of course, a plot hole here and there, we get to the part that really ticks me off. Now a guy who has a master plan to slaughter literally millions MUST have a great reason for doing it or be completely insane, right? Wrong. The long drawn out explanation by Cochran near the end is more of an excuse to the viewers. I'd prefer an apology after sitting through 60 minutes and then hear him call it something along the lines of the ultimate halloween prank. The complete lack of any kind of justification, no matter how twisted it may be, or even a real reason for doing it (at this point, I'd even settle for a pact with Satan-- after all, he's about the only thing not in the film!) made me seriously consider how I had just wasted two hours.Although Halloween III was positively riveting in the beginning and the memorable repetitive commercial (sung to the tune of London Bridge is Falling Down), any truly novel aspects of the film were simply destroyed by trying to move into too many bizarre angles. This could have been a truly great movie without the almost comical androids(?) and dozens of problems that should have never made it to the shooting. The series tried to do something a little different and failed miserably due to shoddy work. Sometimes it really is best to stick with what you know, even if that's not altogether great to begin with  "},{"Title":"this truly is the worst movie ever made...","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think i figured out what they were thinking(what they were smoking, to this day remains a mystery). They were trying to put together another horror that could happen to a town on Halloween. Luckily they had enough sense to bring back Michel Myers in the later instalments because putting on a mask and having bugs come out of no where and suddenly killing you doesn't seem to deserve that many sequels. "},{"Title":"A mild guilty pleasure of mine.","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Part 3 has no business being in the HALLOWEEN series at all, but it's good, dumb fun anyway! After a mysterious murder at a hospital (a guy has his nose ripped out of socket!), Tom Atkins and Stacy Nelkin go to a small town to investigate Silver Shamrocks, a company mass-producing popular Halloween masks. The cheerful company owner (played by Dan O'Herlihy) is actually using the masks in a ludicrous plot to kill millions of children. In one scene a kid wearing a mask watches a hypnotic commercial, his head melts and hundreds of beetles, cockroaches and snakes come crawling out. Robotic guards are around too, to do things like drill a hole in a woman's face and rip a bums head off. Eventually, a news program tells us that a piece of Stonehenge is missing (!?!) and our heroes find it in the factory with lab technicians chipping away pieces of it to put in the masks! This utterly ridiculous and mean-spirited thing manages to move along nicely thanks to lots of gross Tom Burman FX, good photography by Dean Cundey (later a trusted cinematographer used by Spielberg, Zemeckis and Ron Howard) and an excellent score from Alan Howarth and John Carpenter (who also produced with Debra Hill). "},{"Title":"Happy 20th Anniversary, Anniversary, Anniversary! Happy 20th Anniversary Silver Shamrock!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You heard right, it's the 20th anniversary of Halloween III Season of the Witch! It's a darn fine movie. I think it's the scariest of all the Halloween films. Scares the heck out of me each time I watch it. Michael Myers just stabs his victims or sometimes crushes their heads or something else, but the killers in H3 do much worse.         A poor guy get's his skull pulled apart. Another get's his head ripped right off and a poor woman get's her face exploded just for messing with a tag that fell off the mask. You don't get that in any other movie.         Now alot of you are saying, This movie sucks. We want Michael Myers! Why isn't Michael Myers in this movie? Where's Jamie Lee Curtis? Well if you'll shut up a minute, I'll tell you. See, Michael Myers was supposed to have been killed off for good in Halloween II, so John Carpenter had planned to come back each year and do a movie based on the IDEA of Halloween. Halloween III Season of the Witch was to be the first. It bombed at the box office so they planned to just bring Michael Myers back.        But I think Halloween III is a real original idea. They made all the right moves. And the movie just stops at the end. Rather than actually ending, it just stops. From then on, the sequels would just stop. So Michael Myers deserved a rest so our dear friends John Carpenter, Debra Hill and Moustapha Akkad could bring us a movie of maniacal proportions. Tom Atkins is Dan Chaliss, the doctor caught in this deadly game. Stacey Nelkin is the woman he loves. Dan O'Herlihy is Conal Cochran, a man that's a few tacos short of a combination plate. I'm sorry to say that one cast member is no longer with us Ralph Strait who played Buddy Kupfer is dead in real life. Heart attack in 1992. We'll miss you!        For the men a full frontal nudity scene of Stacey Nelkin getting out of the shower. For the ladies a butt-naked view of Tom Atkins getting out of bed. This movie cannot be beat! So in conclusion, let's be thankful we have Halloween III Season of the Witch. Without it, there would be no Michael Myers in future movies.        Just think. 20 years ago now, you walked into the theater and were scared as well as sick, or bored. This movie gave us so much, like nightmares, that annoying Silver Shamrock tune, and the fear of Halloween masks. I'm rambling, so in conclusion, I ask you, now that you've read this review, do you still hate Halloween III Season of the Witch that much? It's a good movie! It has to be! I wrote a review for it!- "},{"Title":"Don't see why so many people hated the film.","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 is great no question about it I really don't understand peoples problem with the film. Did people hate it because no Micheal its almost like audiences want to see the same boring stuff instead of something new and refreshing. Now the plans were that John Carpenter wanted to make Halloween an anthology series with a different story every year which is a great tactic both financially and the chance to introduce new directors and writers since we would have had new writers and directors for each one but critically no. Now I can see peoples problems like the fact some people went to see this film expecting a sequel to Halloween 2 but instead they got Halloween 3 but put that aside it's great.Now the story is about a certain brand of masks known as Silver Shamrock masks which have the coolest and most catches song that is played in the adds for the masks. The film does start of in an eerie way with a random person being killed by a man in a suit but instead his taken to the hospital and the man comes back to finish what he started then ends up killing themselves. This then leads to a on call doctor played by Tom Atkins who is an earlier version of Chuck Norris I swear. He then finds out that an insane toy maker plans to kill as many people as possible with the Silver Shamrock masks which then at the end of the film the doctor is screaming and panting in the phone to turn the channel off which is another ambiguous ending in the series which will stay unanswered to whether or not the channels didn't air the add fully.The movie is very strange but brilliant in it's own way with the mystery and the score being one of the best things about the film. Now one of the oddest deaths in cinematic history happens i this film in a motel with a women who looks into some chip and her face is lasers of course the two main charters didn't hear since they were having sex in the next room which implies some dark humour involved. Now I would highly suggest watching this film it's great and put aside the fact there is no Micheal and just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"It will be morning soon. Halloween morning. A very busy day for me.","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Michael Myers was killed off in an explosion at the end of Halloween II, John Carpenter tried to take the series in a different direction. He wanted make it an anthology series with each movie telling a different Halloween themed story.However, movie-goers at the time went to see the movie expecting to see a continuation of the Myers storyline and instead got a movie about an evil toy corporation, Silver Shamrock that wants to kill the children across the United States on Halloween night, using a combination of Halloween masks and a clever, but irritating TV campaign to lure them in.One night, local store owner, Harry Grimbridge is brought to the hospital while Dr. Challis is on duty, clutching a Silver Shamrock mask and is subsequently brutally murdered under his care. The culprit bizarrely commits suicide outside the hospital afterwards, adding to the mystery.After identifying his body, Harry's daughter Ellie Grimbridge decides to investigate and traces his steps back to Santa Mira, a creepy town where the masks are manufactured.There, she and Challis pretend to a married couple (the age difference between Ellie and Challis is really distracting) and attempt to unravel the horrifying truth behind Silver Shamrock. Once they discover that the masks will literally disintegrate children's heads as they watch the specially designed TV commercials on Halloween night, it's a race against time to defeat the toymaker behind Silver Shamrock and stop the broadcast from going out.Like Freddy's Revenge of the Nightmare on Elm Street movies, Season of the Witch is the black sheep of it's respective series.Also, like the aforementioned movie, Season of the Witch is best viewed as a standalone horror movie separate from the series it represents. It's still not that great of a movie, but it has some interesting and creative ideas that were overlooked by the movie-going public at the time who were too distracted by the lack of Michael Myers.One thing the movie did get right, however, is the music. Season of the Witch retains the Halloween theme from the previous movies and mixes it with the music from The Fog (another Carpenter movie) creating a genuinely creepy and uneasy atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Halloween III the money grab","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot in this movie has nothing to do with the first two Halloween movies. It nothing do with any of the characters in the first two Halloween movies. It just has the some soundtrack and that is all. There is a scene with a television. It shows a channel playing the original Halloween has a late night special. The story line is awful. The ending is awful. Halloween (1978) is a lot better that is a great movie. And this is just crap. Halloween II (1981) is a lot better. It is one of the best movies ever made. Halloween 4 the return of Michael Myers is a lot better. It is a real squeal to Halloween. Halloween 5 the revenge of Michael Myers is also a lot better. Is is also a real Halloween sequel. The sixth Halloween movie Halloween the cure of Micheal Myers is also a lot better then this movie. It is a real Halloween sequel. The seventh Halloween movie Halloween H2O is also a lot better. The eight Halloween movie Halloween resurrection is not a very good movie. It a real Halloween sequel so it better then this crap. Halloween (2007) a great movie a lot better then this. Halloween II (2009) is a great movie. It is a lot better then this awful movie. Why even imply that this a Halloween II (1981) fellow up? If they had not done that people might have liked this awful movie. I still would not. Skip this movie. It is very bad. "}{"Title":"Michael where are you?","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" if you go into this movie realizing there will be no Michael Meyers and Dr. Loomis then you're half way there,, this one obviously does not follow the first 2. this one is about a toymaker who decides that he wants to kill all of the children all over the world,, by putting an ad on TV at a certain time for all of the children of the world to watch, and somehow this is supposed to get rid of the children.. wow what a premise,, not realistic, but definitely entertaining,, Jamie Lee Curtis has a cameo,, but voice only .. this movie definitely has a lot of the basic horror elements that you need.. number 1 is definitely some creepy music,, I liked the movie for the most part , had a few laughs and had some horror elements mixed in there. not a great movie,, but certainly above average. "},{"Title":"Something Different","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though I am a fan of the Halloween franchise, I am not one of those who thinks that Michael Myers is all there is to the series. Which is why I didn't share in the general disapproval of this film when it came out and &#x96; horrors! - Michael was not in it.The story begins with a man running in terror from some unknown menace. That menace, an oddly emotionless man, catches up with him and kills him in hospital. Doctor Dan Challis (Tom Atkins), who was treating him, looks into the background and discovers the truth - a strangely elaborate scheme by an Irish American businessman to use the Halloween masks he manufactures to massacre large numbers of children.The why of what's happening is not gone into in as much depth as we might like, but the story is mildly diverting nonetheless. The first victim's daughter turns up and becomes the doctor's sidekick. They encounter a small businesswoman who has come to complain about the masks and a family who have come to be rewarded for selling lots of them. All of them suffer unfortunate demises.Some of the trimmings are quite interesting. A background story about the theft of part of Stonehenge turns out to be more significant than we initially suspect. And who would have thought that TV commercials could be wielded to such deadly effect?The music isn't bad and the cliffhanger ending is actually rather good. Our journey to that cliffhanger, however, is too long. The film meanders all over the place telling a story that just doesn't need that much time.Some critics complained about excessive gore, but what did they expect in a Halloween film? In any event, they got a lot more. Halloween 4 returned to the tried and trusted Michael Myers format.Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Halloween III Season of the Witch delivers confusing gore with no Michael Myers","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very few movie studios are willing to gamble on anything that strays outside of their comfort zones. They all want sure things. That's why we get so many remakes and sequels to movies these days. Their actions aren't without reason. Moviegoers are a fickle bunch. Something that sounds or looks good on paper may not translate well when it finally hits the big screen. Universal Studios and John Carpenter learned that lesson the hard way with Halloween III Season of the Witch.With the release of Halloween III Season of the Witch on Blu-ray, horror enthusiasts are given the chance to once again revisit the one and only entry in the franchise that doesn't feature knife-wielding Michael Myers. It would seem like common sense that a movie whose first two entries banked on the masked Myers' teenage killing sprees wouldn't work without him.However, producers John Carpenter and Debra Hill wanted to move in a different direction and launch an anthology series under the Halloween banner. Fans protested by simply not seeing the movie. It's still the weakest performer at the box office out of the 10 films in the franchise. However, a cult following has built up around the film over the 30 years since its release, encouraging Shout! Factory to unleash it in high-definition.Shop owner Harry Grimbridge (Al Berry) is taken to a hospital clutching a Silver Shamrocks brand Halloween mask and cryptically murmuring, They're going to kill us. They're going to kill us all. Dr. Dan Challis (Tom Atkins) becomes more and more suspicious after the man is murdered in his hospital bed by a figure in a three-piece suit who later lights himself on fire.After Grimbridge's daughter, Ellie (Stacey Nelkin), informs Challis that her father's last stop before his death was at the Silver Shamrock factory in the small Irish town of Santa Maria. The two decide to investigate the sleepy town and see if the factory and its owner (Dan O'Herlihy) and workers have anything to do with the mysterious death of Grimbridge.Halloween III Season of the Witch is a bit of a mess. I give producers John Carpenter and Debra Hill and director / writer Tommy Lee Wallace kudos for trying something different, but the result is a mish- mash of science fiction and horror genre elements that don't blend well together. Honestly, Dean Cundey's cinematography is the saving grace of the movie. He gives the film way more style and class than the convoluted plot deserves.It's interesting to see actors like Tom Atkins and Dan O'Herlihy give such strong performances in this low-budget misfire. They both portray their different characters with such strong conviction. The two add another level of professionalism to the movie. Actor Stacey Nelkin plays the young Ellie, who is obviously cast in the film to attract teen guys by her good looks and girls because of her strong spirit and independent drive.As a stand-alone film, Halloween III Season of the Witch isn't completely devoid of entertaining and effectively gruesome moments. There's some fun to be had while watching it. "},{"Title":"a really Good movie for Halloween night!","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have not seen this movie for years, I remember not liking back then. Now a few years I don't think it WAS a bad movie at all,I enjoyed this Halloween even with out Mike in it.it dose makes me wonder what other stories that would have done another sequels were all going to be stand alone movies I found this movie very entertaining from start to end, it never got boring at all, There really good strange scenes in this movie, which worked really well with the rest of the movie. The acting from the whole was really good, I don't what call robots humans were really creepy at time, some of death it were odd and bit creative 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This movie is miss took.","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1983 Halloween III came out and everyone hated it because Michlel Myers wasn't in it and everyone was confused, but actually an awesome movie. The plot is very scary, a man named Conal Cochran is trying to make Halloween go back to its sacrificial roots and kill thousands of children by selling masks that kill them. You can tell how evil he is when he dies; right before he dies he claps and is doesn't care if he dies because he knows his plan will work. The cliff hanger is the best one of any Halloween movie, the hero finally gets to call the TV station telling them to turn off the commercial that will kill the children and one last station is playing and as he screams STOP IT the movie cut to the end. Also, the music in this movie is terrifying and when I first watched I was terrified and it flows. One thing bad was the first Halloween on the TV was stupid but it didn't matter it's just showing that this is a different universe and separates it. Also, the Silver Shamrock commercial plays every two seconds and gets very annoying. In concussion, this movie is mostly an undiscovered classic and if you get a chance watch it. "},{"Title":"Strange but fun horror movie","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III is a strange film. It's completely different than the first two and has a weird story with some big plot holes.Dr. Dan Challis treats a scared old man who's holding a Halloween mask and saying crazy things. The mask is no ordinary mask; it's a Silver Shamrock mask that's the number one best selling Mask Company. Then that night a mysterious man kills the old man then blows himself up in his car. The old mans daughter Ellie (Stacy Nelkin) arrives And she and Dan go to Santa Mira, home of Silver Shamrock to uncover what happened. They then meet Conal Cochran, the owner of the mask company. They find out he's planning to kill all the kids of America during a giveaway Halloween night by using the masks. So Dan and Ellie try to stop him before they're too late.Now why would Cochran want to kill all the kids of America? I don't know. That's the big plot hole in the move. It's never explained and is just weird. Besides that this is a decent horror flick. No it isn't perfect but it kept me interested and I am a fan of the Halloween series. I like the performances. Dan O'Heary is perfectly cast as Conal Cochran and is very creepy. Tom Atkins does a pretty good job as the hero and Stacy Nelkin is pretty good.John Carpenter produces again while Tommy Lee Wallace (the editor of the first Halloween) directs. Wallace does a good job. The way he described the movie is it's like Invasion of the Body Snatchers. And I do see what he means. It's not what you expect it has robots with yellow blood like substance and killer masks. The underground lab where Cochran works with is pretty cheesy. It consists of a few TV monitors on high-tech bookshelves. It also has a mockup of a stone from Stonehenge. I still have no idea what Stonehenge has to do with the movie in the first place.In all a decent B movie with problems but is OK for a movie on a late Friday night when you have nothing to do.2 1/2 stars (out of 4 stars) "},{"Title":"Believe it or not, it's not half-bad!","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although I had seen the original Halloween when I was eight years old, I always avoided seeing Season of the Witch because I was told it didn't have Michael Myers in it.For years I avoided it, although I was always curious about it. I'd pass by it time and again on the video store shelves but always resisted the temptation of renting it. Even when it'd come on TV, I could never talk myself into watching it, figuring I wouldn't like it due to the absence of Michael Myers and how much everyone else seems to hate it.Finally, after all these years, I caved. Season of the Witch was going to be on AMC Fearfest, and I decided that the time had finally come for me to sit down and watch this son-of-a-gun&#x85;and you know what? It wasn't half bad.That's not to say I thought it was the best movie I've ever seen or anything like that. But, it was actually pretty good for what it was, an 80s sci-fi/horror movie.Maybe it was because I went into it with such low expectations, or maybe because I could now appreciate the filmmakers attempt to move the series in a different direction and not keep making the same old thing. Whatever the case, I think it's grossly underrated.I wouldn't say you need to go right out and buy the movie if you've never seen it before, but if it's coming on TV, it's worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Better than average 3-th episode.","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Science-fiction episode,worth renting,cause cult status is hidden in this film,if the middle of the movie should have been more exciting.Powerful start of the film keeps the viewer,but the middle of the film is not really good enough,and unfortunately,most of the users recognized the same problem.Some science-fiction elements comes to this 3-th part,and lot of main characters we have to miss this time,but this episode is rather a stand-alone horror-thriller-drama,with cruel death scenes,and those will be memorable scenes all the way.Acting is very decent in this film,but for me this time this was not the most important thing.Main bad character is not really memorable,but this is not the actors mistake.Director,writer has some sick ideas,thanks for him.6/10 "},{"Title":"Happy Happy Halloween - Silver Shamrock... Happy Happy Halloween - Silver Sha...","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season Of The Witch is arguably the most widely hated 'sequel' to the Halloween series, and it is obvious why. Movie psycho Michael Myers does not appear, neither does Laurie Strode or Dr. Sam Loomis, and the film has absolutely nada to do with the rest of the series (except that it takes place on Halloween) . Also, it must have one of the silliest story lines ever, and the film is extremely cheesy from the beginning to the end. Yet, I found this film to be highly entertaining. It may have absolutely no right to masquerade as a Halloween-sequel, but it certainly won't leave its viewers bored. While the film is not even nearly as suspenseful or creepy as its predecessors, it has a bizarrely entertaining general atmosphere.***Small SPOILERS***The film does not revolve around a psycho with a passion for slaughtering pretty teenage girls, but a sinister toy company and its devilish Halloween masks. A man is brought to Hospital, screaming that 'they are going to kill us'. Shortly later, he is murdered in his hospital bed by an assailant who subsequently blows himself up in his car. Alnog with the murdered man's daughter (Stacey Nelkin), Dr Dan Challis (Tom Atkins) gets deeper into the case, and they soon suspect the popular Halloween-mask company 'Silver Shamrock' to be behind what has happened. And the company lead by the eccentric Mr Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy) has evil plans indeed... Sounds cheesy, and it is! With all the silliness and cheese in it, the film is great fun to watch. Leading man Tom Atkins certainly isn't a good actor, but he somehow fits his role (of a mustached macho-doctor) extremely well. Stacey Nelkin is very nice to look at in the female lead, and Dan O'Herlihy is well-cast as the villainous Halloween-mask-maker Cochran. A Song in a TV-Commercial for the Silver Shamrock company is repeated endlessly throughout the film. For the first half hour I thought it was the most annoying thing I ever heard, but when the credits rolled I had gotten so used to it that I couldn't get it out of my head for the rest of the night. All said, Halloween III has nothing at all to do with the rest of the Halloween franchise, and it sure is an immensely cheesy flick. As silly as it may be, it is actually great fun to watch and a recommendable time-waster. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Tom Atkins rocks!","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequels are historically a continuation of the franchise, another way to glean some money from the pocket of the public. The general reasoning is that Joe Public thinks, I've watched the first two and they were decent, so might as well see the third. Joe is, of course, expecting to see Mr. Myers hard at work once more.Joe is in for a surprise, because this film has absolutely nothing to do with any of the other Halloween movies. A number of people must have popped the tape back out after watching it for thirty minutes, then checked the label before returning to the store. There they probably complained that someone else had accidentally recorded over the movie.I don't blame them.Dan is very interested about the events surrounding Mr. Grimbridge's death. With the assistance of the deceased's attractive daughter he travels to the factory where Silver Shamrock masks are manufactured. Thankfully we are kept abreast of the day and time by helpful captions, though the same is not true for our major characters. Twenty minutes into the film I realized that my notes contained a rough time line, but no mention of who in the heck Tom Atkins was. As in his character's name, let's not wax any more philosophical than that, okay? Mr. Cochran is very happy, his company is prospering and sales of the three Silver Shamrock masks (pumpkin, witch, and reaper) are riding on a huge advertising wave, easily cornering the market. Swallow the idea that one in every three kids would wear the exact same mask for Halloween. Swallow! Swallow it damn you! Everything comes with a price and these frightful visages are not excluded, though your eternal soul is less common than $6.99 on the tags for Halloween masks. For Cochran has stolen a stone from Stonehenge and somehow transported it to California without anyone noticing (all the inspectors were too busy checking bananas or something). Pieces of the monument have been used in creating the latex shrouds and they are inherently evil! When a certain commercial is watched the wearer is consumed from within by crickets, snakes, and all sorts of nasty things! The cursed shrouds are dark druid stuff to say the least, but why should they require a special commercial (even one associated with Ralph Bakshi) to trigger? Notice that I did not imply the plot, just the masks. The plot needs that commercial like few other movies need plot devices, but the masks should be able to trigger based on the alignment of the planets, the moon, or something. We can be pretty certain that the druids did little in the way of market research and targeted advertising so this is plain silly.It is interesting to note that Carpenter seems to be riding shotgun with this film, one created to advance some sort of conspiracy theory, but did a much better job of it himself with They Live a few years later.Don't miss the section with Dan fighting the autonomous and detached arm of Ellie's impersonating android. Notice how he stands and holds it against his chest as the liberated limb attempts to strangle our hero. The darn thing has no leverage or hold on him, just letting go would cause it to fall harmlessly onto the ground. "}{"Title":"The witch is worth a watch.","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not a dedicated horror-movie fan in the way that some people are. To me, a good film is a good film - no matter what the subject.The original Halloween movies belong to that teenage-horror genre that have been putting adolescent bums on seats and provoking hugs and gropes in the back-row since the 1950's. Generally; they're B-movies, rather amateurish, and not my scene.For this reason I found halloweens 1 & 2 repetitive and boring - just like the Freddy Kruger 'Nightmare' hokum. How many kids does one really need to see being systematically disembowelled with a sharp knife? There's no plot to such movies, you don't need to think; it is just set-piece slash after set-piece slash. All the more absurd is the seeming invulnerability of the assailants. Michael Myers is no exception. Why are these slashers always supernatural? Thank heavens for jolly old Mr Lecter.Sadly, lots of people seem to be turned-on by serial slaughter, and the absence from Halloween 3 of Mr Myers and his tedious, predictable butchery caused indignant outrage amongst those gore-fans who made the originals such a success. 'Season Of The Witch' apparently bombed at the box office. Well; more fool the Myerettes. This third Halloween actually has a lot more going for it. For one thing; there's a story. It builds-up gradually with some unexpected twists. The plot is entirely much darker, concerning some evil genius who threatens unspeakable mischief to American children (I liked him immediately!). Effects and shocks are spooky and original. The hospital assassin who practically tears someone's head off, and then runs away only to immolate himself was particularly unexpected, as was the imaginative use of creepy-crawlies. Employing child-victims is something of a Hollywood taboo - even in 'Aliens' the little girl is sacrosanct. But Mr Carpenter is never afraid to dispatch children violently in order to make a point check-out the tiresome ice-cream-demanding brat in his 'Assault On Precinct 13'.The script isn't anything to write home about. The acting is about his usual, rather wooden, standard. And there are no 'stars' to speak of. I won't disclose any more details because that would spoil the surprise.Nevertheless it certainly didn't deserve the caning it got from the slashionistas. Sure; it's still a B movie, It's a million miles from his classic 'The Thing', but it's a worthy little item even so. If you like suspense, a creepy little plot, and some rather grisly ideas, give it an airing. There are far worse ways to spend 90 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"Atkins rocks!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The basic idea for this film isn't too bad.  A crazy psycho wants to rid the world of children, so he makes tons of Halloween masks, which will cause the kids' brains to explode on October 31 at nine o'clock.  There are just way too many meaningless jolts and throwaways.  The original Halloween is part of a movie marathon on TV (Ironically, that's the film all the kids will be watching when they die).  The acting isn't too bad but the script didn't exactly give an opportunity for the actors to win awards.  Not scary, and slipping in a &#145;sequel' that has nothing to do with its highly successful predecessors is an idea that just falls flat on its face.  Keep in mind, when you are watching (especially the first scene) that this film was made before Christine, which came to us a year later.  The chase scenes and scares are Halloween-style and the gore scenes (which occasionally surprise), are more Fog(1983) orientated.  Check out Stephen King's It for a better piece of Wallace's work (but not that much better). "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know that this movie has nothing to do with Micheal Myers but I mean you can't say it was awesome when they played the video in that test room and the kid had the mask on.  Then all those bugs came out his head.  Anyway back to my point.  It's not like the Movie was called Micheal Myers 3.  It was called Halloween 3, meaning it deals with Halloween.  I mean at least he stuck with that.  There are plenty of creepy and f***ed up parts. "},{"Title":"Solid Cheese","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew this movie had nothing to do with the rest of the series, so I wasn't in for a disappointment...and I never loved the rest of the Halloween movies anyway. Like many others, I didn't think this movie was any worse than any of the other crap coming out in the 80s, and would have been a lot better off just coming out as a separate enterprise, not associated with the series. I was surprised that they did so little with the whole social criticism aspect of kids being addicted to TV, etc. You'd imagine what George Romero would have made of that. There are a number of oddly ridiculous things in the movie, but it strikes me as funny that the lead couple get to this town to investigate... and spend all their time having sex! At one point the woman says We've got to get out of here... but not before I find out what happened to my father! Well, maybe if you'd hop out of the sack you'd get a little further! The gore also seemed totally unnecessary, just inserted because they knew the audience would expect it from a Halloween movie. Well... they also expect some semblance of the series as it was! One note, which could be considered a SPOILER, is that I had actually read the NOVELIZATION on this movie when it came out (I was 14, okay?) and was interested to see how the film would handle the ending, which was reasonably effective. The film just ends (as so many bad horror movies do) with the hero screaming NOOOOOOO!!!! into the phone (snicker snicker). The book ended with him THINKING he had stopped the nationwide kid-head-meltdown, then going outside and hearing screams going up all across the land... ooh, creepy, I was looking forward to that. But alas, it was not meant to be.--- Check out my website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Television really messes up old movies","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw this in it's 1983 theatrical release and found it to be quite scary, even if it had no reason to be called Halloween III.  I saw it on TV recently and found that Dean Cundey's cinematography which had been so dark and effective in 1983 was washed out and too bright, thus making the film's atmosphere less effective and the make-up effects look fakey (and they were definitely NOT fakey in 1983).  In fact, I was not prepared for how gruesome this film was.  One particularly nasty and unsettling murder occurs early on, I guess to let the audience know the filmmakers mean business.  Apparently John Carpenter is a big fan of INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS as there are several nods to it in this film.  If you are a die-hard Michael Myers fan, you may be disappointed but I like this film even if it is not a true HALLOWEEN episode. "},{"Title":"Made me think twice....","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember renting this movie about 2 days before Halloween and as silly and stupid as the movie was it made me think twice about putting on a mask. I still don't like putting them on and if I do I always look for that stupid silver shamrock button on the side. I hate this movie and I will always have grudge against it for wrecking my young Halloween experience. "},{"Title":"Good concept, but poorly executed","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A small town doctor (Tom Atkins) investigates a murder, but stumbles onto a toymaker's (Dan O'Herlihy) plot to destroy millions of kids with deadly masks on Halloween night.In-name-only sequel has no relation to any of the Halloween films that were released before or after this one.  Producers John Carpenter and Debra Hill had plans to do a movie every year taking place on Halloween, but when this movie went downhill, they decided not to go any further than this disappointment.  Some decent (but often gory) special effects and Carpenter's eerie score help out a little, but lousy writing/directing by Tommy Lee Wallace does more harm than good.  The Silver Shamrock song can get on your nerves.  My evaluation *½ out of ****. "},{"Title":"to me it would seem","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That most people dont like this film because it does not have Mike Myers in it. That is true, but this film is still a great Halloween flick. it has individual qualities that make it stand out. the ending in this film is great, and the music is just fantastic. i thouroughly reccomend this to anyone who has got an open mind, and the ability to use it!  "},{"Title":"I thought it was a great movie","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  people say that halloween 3 season of the witch was a terrible movie only because michael myers wasnt in it. i thought that halloween 3 season of the witch was an awesome movie and i think that soon they should make a return to silver shamrock.it all starts when dr.chalis (tom atkins) and ellie grimbige (stacey nelkin)go on a trip to a small town called santa mira. but when they both start to get suspicous the compony owner conal cochran (dan o herihly) are the man that chalis and ellie think who's killing people all throughout california.halloween 3 seoson of the witch is a great movie even if michael myers wasn't in it.even though michael myers is the bast killer in movie history. "},{"Title":"An Intriguing And Scary Film","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think a lot of people probably disliked Halloween III because it didn't feature Michael Myers but to be fair Myers has had his share of appearances and the story for this film was good.(SPOILERS AHEAD) We get to see the underrated Tom Atkins going up against an evil corporation who are planning to kill by truly nefarious means. The film itself is downright scary at times. In one scene a young boy puts on a pumpkin mask but then falls to the floor and snakes start slithering out of his mask (I hate snakes!). There's also a horrible song played throughout the film which adds to it's eeriness.The only real disappointment was the ambiguous ending but I think any serious horror fan would enjoy this. Michael Myers may not be in it but if you want Michael Myers there are plenty of Halloween videos to rent. Watch this and you will be seeing a good horror movie. "}{"Title":"Three more days to Halloween, Halloween, Halloween.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III  Season of the Witch doesn't have alot of things going for it.  It doesn't have Jamie Lee, it doesn't have Donald Pleasence, and it damn sure doesn't have Michael Myers.  I've been giving this movie s**t for years (mainly for having nothing to do with the original).  However, since Tom Atkins always puts a smile on my face (and it came free with my Halloween II DVD), I thought I would sit down and give it another try.  Well, it's still silly.  It's definitely not a masterpiece.  It's not altogether bad either, it's just not a Halloween movie.  And for those of you who say that the hatred of this movie is unwarranted, that's bs.  Believe me, it's warranted.  I don't care who said that the original intent of the series was about different stuff that happens on Halloween.  You can't do that after you've already made a direct sequel?  It won't work and it didn't work.  All that came from Season of the Witch was a gigantic scar on the series that can't be removed.  You can even clean up the series, call it H2O, and say that parts 3-6 never existed, but I'll never forget.  With that said, take a few (several hundred) steps back and don't call it Halloween.  What you've got is a funny, mildly entertaining horror flick with an unforgettable theme that has its moments.  As much as I'd like to, I just can't completely change my mind on this one. "},{"Title":"In the words of Arnold Schwarzenegger Stop whining!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  C'mon folks, Halloween 3 is not a bad film. Just cuz it doesn't have Michael Myers or any other previous Halloween characters doesn't mean it is not a good film! Take away the Halloween title, and you people would be singing a different tune. Halloween 3 is a pretty suspenseful and gruesome horror movie. There are a lot of unsettling death scenes (The lady in her hotel room, the kid with the mask, etc) that can make anyone cringe. The story is about a doctor who accidentally stumbles upon a mask-maker's plan to kill as many children as possible on Halloween with his Silver Shamrock brand masks and the hypnotic 6 more days 'til Halloween, Silver Shamrock! jingles that blare all over TV. He and a woman named Ellie head to the small town where the mask factory is located to see what is going on, and they stumble upon something even bigger that dates centuries back. Don't watch this expecting the usual slice 'em up, dice 'em up formula that Halloween established. Season of the Witch has more in common with Invasion of the Body Snatchers than it does with Psycho. Watch it with an open mind. Just take it for what it is. "},{"Title":"You see...","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  what was probably intended was to have the Micheal Myers plot end at Halloween II. The rest of the Halloween series would have different characters and villians. However... i don't believe this did well so we just continued with Mikey the next 4 movies and it will be 5 soon. "},{"Title":"Something special, in my heart.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I disagree with the consensus on this one.  I saw this one night after I got really baked and it scared me to death.  That song just kept echoing in my head and I even averted my eyes once.  Then, afterwards, I went downstairs to check on my laundry and on the way back up I was too scared not to look back and ended up running up to my room, hurrying my keys into the lock, and slamming the door with all its bolts stuck.  Then I made prank phone calls to QVC until four in the morning and fell asleep.  What a great movie, man.  "},{"Title":"Great Horror film detractors not withstanding...","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You see, Halloween was meant to be a series of horror films. It was not meant to be an octilogy. But people lost their minds over this edition, forcing the makers to stick to the old characters. People say they didn't like it because it had nothing to do with the previous movies. That is similar to saying one doesn't like Tales from the Crypt because it isn't a horror soap opera. Halloween III Season of the Witch is wonderfully nasty. It reaches out and grabs us by our taboos of harming children and brings us face to face with the idea that there are some people out there who are not averse to that. It's a morality play of sorts. All good horror films seem to be. I only wish people would have allowed the series to have evolved into what it could have been, rather than forcing upon us the remaining Michael Meyers films. 1,2, and H20 being the only three of those that should have ever been made.Spookyt  "},{"Title":"The title is a great disservice...","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great disservice has been done to all Wiccan Pagans (i.e., Witches) and modern-day Druid Pagans by implicating them, even fictionally, in a plot to inflict mass murder.  Every Pagan I know (and I know quite a few) is a non-violent type,  and wouldn't intentionally inflict injury, let alone wholesale death.  Okay, back in ancient times, Druids had a nasty habit of human sacrifice, but their modern-day counterparts have no uninterrupted heritage from them.  Besides, if Druids and Witches really were like the characters in this movie, do you think any of the writers or crew would still be around? "},{"Title":"A Theorem","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have no idea why they decided to make a film so totally sci-fi oriented and obviously unrelated to the Halloween movie series and then slap the Halloween label on it. It's sort of how Square slapped the Final Fantasy label on that weird 3D Starship Troopers-style movie they recently released. (If the next FF movie dosen't have Chocobos in it, I'm suing their pants off!) Halloween II was intended to end the Michael Myers plot and a (futile) attempt at stopping the advent of undending sequels, but it soon became clear after this movie was made that people WANTED TO SEE MICHAEL MYERS.Just as Godzilla '85 pretended the other 18 jillion Godzilla sequels before it did not exist, H20 pretended the other sequels (thankfully, including this one) did not exist. And just like Godzilla, Michael gets killed time and time again....hey wait! You don't suppose...naaaaah.... "},{"Title":"A Halloween movie.... with NO MICHAEL MYERS?!?!?!?!?","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thats right kids, this is a Halloween movie with absolutely no MENTION of Michael Myers (save for a brief 15 second commercial in the movie). It has a stupid, STUPID plot about a guy who makes masks that turn people's heads into a big pile of insects and snakes and such. Add to that some awful acting, a terrible story and a song that will haunt (and annoy) you until the day you die and this is a movie to steer clear of. Its not even scary. Not in the least. DONT WASTE YOUR TIME!  "},{"Title":"Decent film that should never have been released with the Halloween title.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  True, this movie is kind of campy and odd.  But it's not that bad of a film, especially coming from the 80s.  I love all of the Halloween movies and I never want Michael Myers to die.  So, yes, I was dissapointed when I saw this movie years ago and saw there was no shape.  The only mistake this film made was being released under the name of halloween.  If it would just have been released as Season of the Witch everyone would be so much happier.  This movie is entertaining enough and semi-scary.  Although I did not like the fact that the characters were watching the original Halloween in it.   "},{"Title":"A treat that most believe is a trick.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just got done watching HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH.  I believe this is a truly enjoyable film.  Sure, it has nothing to do with the previous two, but HELLO...the back of the box clearly states that!It is a wild look into paranoia much like INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS and ROSEMARY'S BABY.  Plus it is, at times, seriously disturbing!So forget what you have learned from the first two films and sit back for a treat. "}{"Title":"not a bad film","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was an idea that could have worked. After Michael Myers' death at the end of HALLOWEEN 2 (and at the time, that really was the intention, that he was finally, absolutely, without a doubt, really _really_ dead), Carpenter created the idea of a Halloween anthology, where a different Halloween-themed story could be told each year, instead of replays on the small old slasher routine. Definitely a great idea. Unfortunately, no one liked it. I think that if the III had been dropped, if the public was more aware of Carpenter's plans, and if it had instead been called something like JOHN CARPENTER'S SEASON OF THE WITCH, then the film might have been a little more excepted. As it stands, the film--about a maniacal warlock out to murder the country's children with cursed Halloween masks and a doctor's frantic race to prevent the scheme--isn't that bad. Dan O'Herlihy is creepy as the warlock, Conal Cochran, and Tom Atkins makes an good hero. The movie builds slowly from mystery to panic as Dr. Challis (Atkins) races to stop Cochran from completing the mass destruction of the human race, leading to a shocking ending that echoes the final moments of the original INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS. If you're looking for Michael Myers, watch any other film in the series. If you're looking for a decent horror flick that takes place on Halloween, give this film a look. It's not great, but it shouldn't put you to sleep. "},{"Title":"No Michael, but interesting nonetheless...","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first thing people say about the movie is, Well, no Michael Myers. This movie sucks.  But you have to remember what John Carpenter's overall concept for the Halloween series was.  Carpenter wanted to do a different movie EVERY sequel, not bringing back Michael Myers ala Jason/Freddie/etc. He wanted a group of movies based on the idea of Halloween the holiday, not around Michael Myers.  Halloween III originally was going to be Halloween II.  So what happened?  Why did he bring back Michael for Halloween II? Simply put, for the almighty dollar.Halloween, when it was originally released, became the most successful independent movie of all time, grossing HUGE numbers (Trivia note Halloween held the title of most successful indy flick until Quentin Tarintino's Pulp Fiction).  So Carpenter decided to cash in on Michael before bumping him off ala oxygen hose flambe courtesy of Dr. Loomis.  I think that when you put that into the mix, and realize what Carpenter was actually trying to accomplish, you can breathe easier around Halloween III.  It's actually a very decent movie, as far as the horror genre goes.  But, since Carpenter brought Michael Myers in for Halloween II, no one understood (or remembered) why Michael wasn't in III.  Who knows what might have happened if Halloween III had been what it was supposed to be Halloween II. "},{"Title":"something good about this movie","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i have always liked this movie,it is known as one of the worst movies ever,i think it is unfair. a lot of people i know ,really like this movie,the name is misleading,but john carpenter wanted to turn the this into a twilight zone type film.i actually bought a prop from this movie off ebay recently,a silver  shamrock pumpkin mask used in the movie,its fantastic looking.also did anyone know,that stacy nelkin (ellie grimbridge)was meant to play the sixth replicant in ridley scotts blade runner!she got her chance to play a robot in halloween 3! anyway this film should be enjoyed by all,its a fun movie,dan o herlihy is great as conal cochran,he alone is worth watching. so give this movie a break it deserves it! "},{"Title":"Grow up! It's not supposed to feature Michael Myers!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ** (of ****)What astonishes me the most about the negative reaction to this film is how people criticize it only based on the fact that Michael Myers isn't in it! If it had been called simply SEASON OF THE WITCH, would you be more tolerant? Please.....I saw this movie during it's first theatrical run in 1982 (before many of you were born, I presume) and at the time it didn't come off as a cheat to me. It was supposed to be an unrelated story and the intent was probably to try a totally new direction and possibly put a new HALLOWEEN movie out each year with a new story (like a TALES FROM THE CRYPT episode).When it wasn't too successful they most likely felt the audiences would prefer them to bring Michael back and rehash the old stories.Well, there's no use wasting more space on a movie which I feel is only average, but let me say that HALLOWEEN III is an interesting movie with an intriguing (if inhumane) plot. Accept the movie on its own merit and forget that it doesn't feature Michael Myers. If this still doesn't help you, pretend it's called something else.   "},{"Title":"Stonehage sequel with mere releation.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter and Debra Hill return to do this disastrous sequel. A strange sequel which does feature some footage of the original Halloween but that is it. This one deals with a witch and a toymaker ready to kill children on Halloween Night. Tom Atkins looks rather ridiculos and Nancy Loomis is in this one from the original but not in the same role. Skip this boring sequel a film which has no relation to Halloween or Halloween II make halloween no fun especially if it is a stonehage sequel and nothing else. go directly to Halloween 4 which is not all that bad. Tommy Lee Wallace directs and was production designer and editor of the first Halloween. "},{"Title":"Pure junk and no relation to the other Halloween films.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the third film in the Halloween series.  John Carpenter wanted to try something new and make a new movie having nothing to do with Michael Myers.  This pathetic, grotesque thing deals with a mad-man who has an evil plan to kill millions of children on Halloween eve.  It is totally silly, full of gore and violence, and not even worth remembering as part of the Halloween series.  Perhaps the finest quality is the unique music score by Carpenter.  Although it is a terrible film, I must say I do watch it if it comes on TV around the Halloween season. "},{"Title":"Interesting change of direction","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why people criticize this movie just because Michael Myers isn't in it. So what? Haven't we seen enough of him in parts 4-7? The Return of Michael Myers, The Revenge of Michael Myers, The Rebirth of Michael Myers... Give me a break! Those movies are all the same. This film goes in a whole different direction, exploring the origins of Halloween and the mysteries of Stonehenge. "},{"Title":"Bait & Switch","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 has always been looked down upon for easy to see reasons. With no relation to past films in the series nor future installments, it disrupted the flow of what fans expected and/or wanted from the brand. Perhaps there wouldn't have been this historical backlash if they had dropped the Halloween moniker, but alas they didn't.I'm not going to dive into specifics of the plot, but I will say H3's concept is at the very least novel. It's not particularly deep or even logical. You'll notice holes abound if you start thinking. However this isn't the type of film meant to be able to stand up to scrutiny. Featuring the touches and talent of people involved in the earlier films, H3 delivers a legit moment or two of fright and a side order of gore. It just so happens these scary moments are trapped behind the silly machinations of everything a sub-par 80's horror movie were made of.For my dollar, H3's strongest assets are Tom Atkins and Dan O'Herlihy. Atkins does the flawed good guy / hero / main character justice. He feels real, he's always two steps behind. While O'Herlihy as the prerequisite villain gets some of the best dialog and/or speeches. Oh sure those gruesome effects, the creepy musical score and the wickedly dark ending are positive notches too, but Season of the Witch isn't by any means a great film. However its also not the abomination some would lead you to believe either. "},{"Title":"Unrelated sequel that has its moments","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot in Halloween 3 is in no way connected to the two first Halloween movies.  Laurie Strode and Michael Myers do not appear in this film.  However, the characters in Halloween 3 are sometimes watching the original Halloween 1 on the tv.   A crazed toymaker is making masks for Halloween, but these are not your ordinary halloween-masks.  The toymaker plans for a real bloodbath instead of the usual trick or treat. The movie is nowwhere near as good as the previous 2 Halloween movies(honestly quite poor) and the actors are average, but Halloween 3 has some(few) neat scenes, and can be worth renting.  Just don`t expect it to have anything to do with the original film. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The night they should have voided the movie.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"           Bad.The film is not related to Myers saga and should have been released as the season of the witch.It would have stood alone and not under the halloween logo.The main trouble with the film is show silly it is.Comeon masks and snakes.Corporate greed has ruined this once great saga.Halloween should have been left alone period.The sequels are getting so silly.Jason is the king of slashers anyhow.Mr.Carpenter should have left Myers dead on the lawn on Oct 31 1978.THE CRITICS WOULD HAVE MADE IT A CLASSIC.History shows sequels suck and ruin the orginal in most cases.Jaws,Halloween,Psycho,Friday etc.None of the sequels passed the orginal in any way.Case Closed. "}{"Title":"Prepare for average viewing.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An evil Halloween mask maker creates it so that the children who wear his masks will die upon seeing a glowing pumpkin on  a Halloween special on T.V. Not bad, but the premise  streches crediblity to the max. The direction, acting, scripting, editing are all on the average side. Bears no relation to the first two. My rating 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent sequel","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why so many dislike Halloween 3. I remember that I thought it was great the first time I saw it back in 1986-87. I saw it a second time in the 90's and didn't think it was that great any longer, but still consider Halloween 3 the season of the witch to be a decent horror-movie. It's was much better than Halloween 4, which was complete garbage. "},{"Title":"Move over till H4 Michael, cuase the witch runs the show for now.","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   After a great first sequel to Carpenter's '78 classic we get an unrelated, but great sequel. A maniacal mask manufacturer creates masks that cause bugs and snakes to come out of peoples faces while they watch a certain commercial wearing the hideous masks. A doctor and his new girlfriend are the only ones who know and believe what's going on. Exciting, suspeseful, great story, acting, effects, and music score. ***** out of *****. The second weakest of the series(With H20 as the weakest.), but a classic flick anyway. "},{"Title":"I confess...i like this film","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  H3 gets slammed by halloween fans for many obvious reasons but I wonder if the 'Halloween 3' bit of the title was removed and 'Season of the Witch' was left behind would people still damn it to hell?John Carpenter has been phased down to co-producer in this film and it seems that his 'baby' is being thrust into the hands of other people. Halloween 3 to be honest really doesn't feel like the other films but not because it abandons the Myres story. While the orginal was highly regarded even by non horror film fans, H3 comes across as more of a b movie. To be honest H3 seems more in the style of the 'They Live' (also by Carpenter)rather than the orginal Halloween masterpiece. It still has a halloween-esq feeling to it (as the bad guys behave in a certain myres unemotionally way) but not to the same high standard.H3 will stand out in the halloween series mainly for these reasons and the fact its a completly different (although still enjoyable) story. In a way it does give the real Halloween story a break while Michael Myres is in his 10 year coma to be awakened in H4.I will say that i found it better than H5 which I beleive to be the weakest in the series. "},{"Title":"Why","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WhyThat is the word used to ask everyone why was this film made.They should have stopped affter Halloween 2. And to insult Halloween fans more they change the story around. This story has nothing to do with the first 2 films.So they used the Halloween name to intrest fans. The story was ok. But the acting was bad.Really badIts too bad that the fans that wanted to see Micheal Myers in this film were tricked. "},{"Title":"No logical reason to love it, but I do","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess if they were to have a cult of people who loved this film, I'd join it. I have a sneaking suspicion what happened with this film, made at the height of slasher and sequel popularity, was that someone gave Carpenter a pile of money and was told he could do what he wanted with it, as long as he helped make another Halloween film. There is such a f*ck-all attitude about the film with it's witches and stonehenge, and deadly masks. The music is perfect and the casts all virtual unknowns make this more fun than it should be. Not only will you be stuck with the Six more days til Halloween song stuck in your head, but You have to sing it repeatedly if you hope to dislodge it. A cable favorite, I've seen this thing on a lot, and it took me a couple near viewings to warm up to it, but now I own the widescreen DVD of it, and the soundtrack. Now if only I could get one of those masks...... "},{"Title":"More of a sequel than the rest","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everyone bashes this movie because it strays from the original storyline. Yet if you look at the credits, it has more involvement of the original creators than parts 4, 5, 6 and 7 combined. John Carpenter, Debra Hill, Tommy Lee Wallace, Nancy Loomis, etc. were all involved in it so that means this is the direction they wanted the series to go in. Love it or hate it, in my opinion this a truer sequel to the first than all the other movies with Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"Not Halloween, but quite a scary movie","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, as anyone has pointed out so far, this one has nothing to do with the rest of the Halloween series, but that alone is no reason to damn the movie.Although the plot does have its fair share of holes, the story itself is rather interesting, if farfetched, being sort of a mystical BODY SNATCHERS version, there are quite good scares, atmosphere is rather creepy and Tom Atkins, IMHO, delivers a quite good performance.The time I saw H3 for the first time, about 10 years ago, it scared the hell out of me and the idea of the masks really gave me the creeps - and during the ending I was near to a heart attack (okay, I was younger that time and had not seen as many horror movies as by now, but anyway)... and that was the heavily cut German version without all the gore.As many have pointed out before H3 would have a much better reputation if it only had been released as a single movie, not as entry in the series. It has its flaws, but still it delivers its scares. I'd give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not a sequel, but a good movie","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  HALLOWEEN III Season of The Witch has been put down by many. I disagree. Maybe if you take away the Halloween 3 part, and call it Season of the Witch, it would not have been put down so much.The plot about the killer masks was good, but the gore and gruesomeness was a little bit unneeded, but the whole thing how Celtic rituals were brought into this movie was cool. The commercials for Silver Shamrock were pretty pathetic, but oh well. This is the worst movie in the Halloween series, because there is no Dr. Loomis, Michael Myers, or Laurie Strode but still, it is an average movie. I give it 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not a sequel to the other movies","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  HALLOWEEN III Season of the Witch has nothing to do with the other HALLOWEEN movies. Though that is mainly the reason why people say it is so bad, i thought it was so-so. If it was just called SEASON OF THE WITCH it wouldn't have been ripped on so much. Though it doesn't interest most, I thought the plot was kind of good (4/10) "}{"Title":"A GOOD HALLOWEEN MOVIE.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike a lot of people who have reviewed this movie, I happen to think that it is quite good. Okay so it it is not a traditional Halloween movie, but for what it lacks in Michael Myers it more than makes up for in an imaginative and original story. The story centers around an evil toy manufacturer who makes Halloween masks with micro chips in them. On Halloween night the toy maker plays a commercial on every TV channel which sends a message to the chip in the mask and kills the kid. All in all I would give this movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film     4 STARS","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An excellent premise , Dan O' Herlihy plays a maniac mask maker , who is bent on killing millions of little kids on Halloween night , by marketing Silver Shamrock Masks , and having millions of kids put on the masks while watching a commercial on Halloween Night and all the kids will die because of a chip from Stonehedge that is inserted in the back of the masks , therefore creating a vortex that will kill all the kids , Excellent performances in this film !!!! "},{"Title":"Ack. What the hell?!?","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is weird. It's not a sequel, it has nothing to do with the first two movies in the series. But even on its own it still sucks quite a lot.The story is a bit stupid and executed badly. There are some ok slasher-movie murders, but not enough of them. The thing is, it's NOT a slasher movie. The movie is simply boring and full of plot-holes.The scary thing is that I actually watched it to the last minute. "},{"Title":"Enough of the WHY? and just have fun!","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter did not want to produce yet another Michael Myers film, so he decided he wanted to make an anthology...he was planning on possibly releasing a movie every year or so with a HALLOWEEN theme and none of them would be related.  Debra Hill and the rest of the producers thought it was a great idea, but it flopped since it was so different from the other two movies.  I think it was just misunderstood.  It's creepy and fun!  I liked the INVASION OF THE BODYSNATCHERS homage, and the whole movie stands on its own.  I think it was better than 4,5, and 6!  The series got seriously lame after this one.  I think John Carpenter had the right idea -- leave Michael a mystery, and let him die in the hospital flames with Dr. Loomis.  The music is great in this one!  And check out a HALLOWEEN flashback as Nancy Loomis (Annie in the original film) makes a cameo as Linda, the ex-wife!  "},{"Title":"Right???","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is this? Halloween 3...... it has nothing to do with Michael Myers and it sort of mocks Halloween, the guy is watching John Carpenters Halloween!!! If this had a different name it would of been OK but the fact it is a Halloween movie just makes me cry....... it blows....some crazy Warlock making masks to sell to kids who end up getting killed....... A 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter was embarrassed by this non-sequel, and I don't blame him!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The idea of robot killers I thought was pretty corny. The fact that none of the characters from the first and second films aren't in it is just plain bad. I didn't enjoy any part from Season of the Witch except for when I was laughing at it. This was a failure, but Carpenter should have made a comeback with following films (some were made thereafter but none by Carpenter). I just was disappointed with this film. If you're going to pull off a HALLOWEEN movie marathon don't worry about getting this one, but yes, get all the others. HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH is a 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Did someone say nightmares??","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III is a gem of it's genre.  I have seen a lot of people and HEARD a lot of people give this movie it's fair share of flack, but as a lover of the Halloween series, I adored this movie!  Perhaps it's _because_ Michael Myers isn't in this film that it makes such a statement.  I know this disappointed plenty of faithful Halloween fans, but I enjoyed the off plot-line which was laced with pure terror!  The story line is so original that after watching, I wanted to write something just as horrifying as the movie!  Unfortunately, a lot of people can't handle the aspect of children being involved in such a movie - but that is what makes the movie so frightening!I loved the aspect of the Druids.  Being Wiccan, I know now that Pagans aren't insane, child killing, sadistic fools.  In this movie, however, it made for an awesome plot line.Spiked with a little gratuitous sex, violence, and drones.. this movie makes for interesting nightmares and a few sadistic chuckles. "},{"Title":"?????Halloween????? 3!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firstly, to say that this movie stunk would be a severe understatement!I think either one of two things must have happened.While copying the film for distribution, the labels got mixed up, leaving the REAL 3rd halloween in some dusty archive somewhere.ORIf you look at the information about Halloween 3 @ IMDB you'll notice that in the section for working titles, it has listed Season of the witch. What could have happened is that when the makers realised exactly how much this movie STUNK, they bought the rights to put the little word Halloween on the cover!  Add a few TV ads in the movie for the original Halloween, and Wham, it's H3!This actually makes more sense than you would think, and if the information on this site is correct, it's entirely possible! "},{"Title":"eh?","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a little confused with this movie.  I watched for a while anxious to see the feared Michael Myers again, but 1/3 through the movie I realized I wouldn't.  What happened?  Overall, I guess this movie was OK, as far as B horror flicks are concerned.  But why is it in the Halloween series? There is no Michael Myers, no Dr. Loomis, no Laurie Strode.  Just a chunky 'hero' and reptiles pouring from childrens heads.  Overall, I say see the movie, but don't expect it to even resemble the first two and last 4 (my god have there been that many?) Halloweens.  This would be better off in a 'Creepshow' type movie/format. "},{"Title":"On paper, it's a good movie....","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, it's not what you'd call a classic, but it's quite entertaining and it's one of few movies about what I consider the scariest monsters of all - witches.   "}{"Title":"What a waste of time","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen many stupid movies in my life, and this one is definitely at the bottom of the barrel. The whole film has this horribly cheap feel to it, and who the HELL are these characters anyway???!!!! Not a single one has any development to them whatsoever. Also, I want to list numerous holes that I found.1. How can one small piece of rock case SNAKES and SPIDERS to appear out of nowhere? 2. The villain is totally stupid. He was a just a total mix of Charles Gibson and Donald Sutherland. 3. When Cochran is talking about the Stonehenge rock he says,  Do you wonder how we got it here? It's quite a funny story, yet he never tells this funny story. 4. There is no way that many children would watch such a stupid program on TV. Plus the masks are cheap and dumb looking. Only a few poor children would buy them. 5. Why are all of these women attracted to Dr. Challis? He's an ugly porker.Now, many people say that Dr. Challis was a horrible hero, but he was the perfect average Joe. Entirely believeable. The only cool parts in this film is the ending. The rest sucked. Also, you would think that since they have the Halloween title that they would use the famous Halloween theme. Go figure. "},{"Title":"Lousy...","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III Season of the Witch is the second sequel to Halloween (1978). This movie has a completely different storyline and cast. No Donald Pleasence, No Jamie Lee Curtis, No Michael Myers, No Haddonfield. The film takes place in a little town called Santa Mira, were a evil warlock named Conal Cochrane plans to kill millions of children on Halloween night through a very annoying television commercial and his rigged Halloween masks, that make bugs and snakes spew from the child's head while watching the commercial. The worst installment in the Halloween series.   "},{"Title":"A Halloween movie without Michael Myers?","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III is a non-sequel to the halloween movies. The killer in this movie is a evil toymaker instead of Michael Myers.The toymaker make masks that are crappy. The masks in the movie are the same type of halloween masks that you can find in your local thrift shop.This movie wasn't scary. This movie think that it's a Action movie, not a horror movie. Why this film have action more than scares?This film doesn't work for me. The evil toymaker is the same as one of those bad guys from Van Damme movies. He is not a bit as scary as Michael Myers. You have to rent this film and see for yourself.I will give this movie * out of **** "},{"Title":"Halloween goes outside Haddonfield with less horrific atmosphere.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is not as terrible as some reviewers will imply. Then again, it's not a screamfest either. Going outside the classic town of Haddonfield, Illinois (where all the other Halloweens are based), the story centres around a manufacturer of Halloween masks set on killing millions of trick-or-treaters with a diabolical scheme that involves snakes and bugs popping out of the masks. That's all I'll say about it, but that's pretty much all there is to this film.  The atmosphere and spooks from the preceding two films is gone, but the plot has a bit of amusement and a evil villain to boot.  This is not even a good horror film, but its steak knife is in the right place (pardon the pun). Rating Two stars "},{"Title":"Ok,Could have been better","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story wasn't that bad. But the title they used was a huge mistake. For one thing that this movie has nothing to do with the first 2 films. I liked the story but the title should have been named different.Every time I hear what people say about this films is that it's stupid and it should have never been given the name Halloween.In some ways this movie brought out the true meeting of Halloween.If people who havn't seen this movie are hoping to see Michael Myers in this film don't bother. Just go onto 4.But the thing that ruined it the most is for a hero they had a fat doctor. They could have done better. "},{"Title":"Solid, schlocky fun with sub text","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are off put or feel cheated by the title of this film, Ican't help you. If you come to the movie with an open mind, youcan see (maybe) what I saw.I find this a fun movie with just enough meaty stuff going on inthe background to make it worthwhile. It is cartoony (note thescene in which the family comes to visit the toy factory), andover the top sometimes, and structurally it is pretty threadbare(no spoilers, but the robot thing is a bit trite).It is also bitingly funny. Dan O'Herlihy's portrayal of the madConal Cochran is perfect. Tom Atkins plays his part like he ison his third beer all of the time. In any other movie, thiswould be inappropriate, but here it is just right.Cochran's Druidic ire at the way Americans celebrate Halloweenis the key element to my enjoyment of the film. If he had beenjust another mad scientist, so what? But this motivation sendsthe movie to another sub textual universe. It all of a suddenbecomes a comment on our cultural mores, greed, and Christmascommercialism.The best image in the film; Cochran standing in the center of acircle of mainframe computers echoing a modern Stonehenge.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, read on this is what would've made it better","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Originally John Carpenter had wanted to scrap the Michael Myers character and go on to have the other Halloween movies follow a Halloween theme. So originally all the Halloween movies that were to follow Part 3 were to be totally different from all the others. Now the way this movie should have been was Dr. Loomis is the main character of the story while Michael's in his coma(after being burned nearly to death in Halloween 2) waiting to return in Halloween 4. Or they could've just brought Michael back all together. If I were Carpenter though I would've tried to make it where Loomis was still somehow connected to this movie so you could've at least had the reassurance that it's not totally different from the other two. Nevertheless Carpenter's idea of having each of the Halloween movies after 3 have a different storyline didn't work and thus Michael Myers returned, thankfully. Now to talk about the movie itself. I enjoyed it I wish that it didn't have the Halloween name on it but since Carpenter had such say in it, he decided to make it part of the series. Had they decided to use Dr. Loomis in the movie and not have Michael it would've been a lot better. Say they decided to include Michael and Dr. Loomis in the movie once again it would've been great. Either way I would've been very happy with the way things went. I think that most people's opinion of this movie would have changed say it had not had the Halloween name tacked onto it.Out of **** I give it a **1/2. (Certainly not the worst but definitely not the best.)  "},{"Title":"Don't expect Michael Myers","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, this movie does not have MM in it and doesn't really have anything to do with him.  The movie is still good though.  The theme song for the halloween masks is definitely ear-catching.  I feel this movie was disappointing not having MM in it, but take away the name Halloween III and call it something else and no one would know.  The reason I think most people aren't satisfied with this movie is the fact that MM wasn't there, but once you look beyond that, the movie is average.   "},{"Title":"Once you get past the obvious...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...like, Where's the guy in the mask? and Where's Donald Pleasance? this is actually an okay horror flick - at least it's different than the overall theme of supernatural beasties/slasher flicks that seem to pervade.  No doubt there's some small-budget Z movie out there that has done the same thing, but the concepts here are fairly original.  Dan O'Herlihy is likable enough as the twisted toymaker.  There are a few weak spots  Tom Akins rivals Ted Levine in The Mangler, as most unlikeable horror movie/lead actor of all time.  And it would have been nice if O'Herlihy's character had like...well, a motive.  But overall an under-appreciated flick. "},{"Title":"Poison","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the worst horror movie I have ever seen.  It has nothing to do with the previous 2 and the only reason they put the halloween label on it was because they thought people would mistake it for a mike myers movie and rent it.  The acting was awful and the story line sucked.  Seriously this movie just isn't worth it so when renting halloween films skip right to 4 after 2 and you won't miss a beat. "}{"Title":"The title is misleading...","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If this movie didn't have the Halloween title and the hype that goes along with it, it would be a better movie.  Sure, Michael Myers is a scary character.  And when you hear the movie title Halloween the image of the psychotic, unfeeling, relentless figure behind a pale, emotionless mask known as Michael Myers cuts through your head.  This movie however doesn't have Mr. Myers, which right off the bat, deters a lot of fans.  This movie is not an A movie far from.  It is very B and a B-horror flick at that. It's not bad if you realize that it won't have Micheal and a little disturbing if you get into the brutality of what the mastermind villain in the movie wants to do.  Could you imagine what would happen if it happened to your kid on halloween???? "},{"Title":"Don't condemn the movie on one flaw!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so it had the wrong title.  This definitely shouldn't have been in the same series as Halloween and Halloween 2, but it was a good movie if you don't try to compare it to the previous ones.  I happen to like the theme song (annoying, yes, but kinda catchy), and I thought the movie had a couple of genuine scares.  It wasn't a great film, but it doesn't deserve to be trashed for not having Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"8 more days to halloween, halloween, halloween","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The greatest song ever in a movie. Pure camp... great stuff.  "},{"Title":"Wacky plot...ok movie...","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people have complained about Halloween III because it doesn't have Michael Myers in it.  That wasn't the idea.  John Carpenter didn't want to make any more sequels after the first one, so he instead came up with a plan to create a new story for each new Halloween movie.  Unfortunately this movie was such a disaster that no more were made.  While it's not nearly in the same league as the original, it still has a corny charm to it.  I appreciate it's originality.  I mean...come on...a crazy maskmaker who uses pieces of Stonehenge to send lasers into children's skulls and cause spiders and snakes to come out as a result!  You have to give the writer some credit for even conceiving such an idea! "},{"Title":"Slasher franchise gets inventive kick up behind","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   From what I can gather this is a pretty much detested film, however if we look at the continuing dross in this franchise we can begin to put this movie in perspective.This film is not in the same league as Halloween, how could Tommy Lee Wallace be as good as old John Carpenter. However the film is inventive, interesting and even creepy in limited part.  The film may be messy overall but It Is very ambitious.It's not all that bad and cetainly not as bad as Halloween 3, 4, 5.......etc "},{"Title":"Previous movies be damned, we're going to make a sequel with no connection to the first two films...","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter, who gave us one of the classic horror films of all time, hands over the reins to his one time editor, Tommy Lee Wallace. But where is Michael Myers and Jamie Lee Curtis, you may ask? They were replaced with some Young Republicans and tubby Tom Atkins,another Carpenter conspirator, who looks like he took his salary on this film in beer. With possibly the most annoying song ever recorded (next to Tommy Tutone's Jenny (867-5309)) as a constant theme in the film, you might just want to put on the mask and let snakes pour out of your skull rather than watch this film... "},{"Title":"A beautiful sounding chilling atmospheric horror","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I can understand some peoples frustration that perhaps the title of this film is a little misleading, this has made it all the better for those who can look beyond the slasher genre.This film drips in an atmosphere that no modern film can emulate. Like its predecessors its musical score has a huge hand in this. And like its predecessors it is the production of that score that delivers. In this case we hear ethereal synths ala Witness and commodore 64 sounding syncopated rhythms that modern producers completely overlook. I recently finally got my hands on a remastered version (German) and have had to force myself to switch it off half way through so i can save it for Halloween night. From what I've seen the restoration is fabulous. "},{"Title":"Halloween III Season of the Witch...Is it as bad as everyone says it is?","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season of the Witch...one of the films in the Halloween franchise that is hated by A LOT of people. It is hated for many reasons but the main reason that a lot of people is that it'a missing everyone's favorite William Shatner mask wearing maniac Michael Myers. I used to be one of those people. I use to hate this movie not just because Michael Myers wasn't in it... but I thought it was boring. I was pretty young back then and the horror fan was quickly starting to develop in me. It's been years since I watched it, but when I was hanging out with my aunt and uncle I wanted to watch it just to see if I can get a new opinion out of it I was at least hoping that it would either by okay or good. But I was worried that it would suck hard like Halloween 5, 6, and Resurrection. I watched it and while I do have some problems, the film isn't as bad as everyone says it is. It's not the best in the franchise but I thought it was okay. Not great but okay. I think it probably deserves another watch if anyone watched it and hated it the first time. It's at least better than Halloween 5, 6, Resurrection and the Rob Zombie remakes. Good The acting is really good in the movie. All the actors did a good job with the material they were given. There are some really creepy moments in the movie. The watch the magic pumpkin scene left me disturbed and scared, and there are other moments that are creepy. The villain Conal Cochran is also a good villain and is plan is awesome. I won't say what it is but It's one of the strong points of the movie. Bad Here are some of the problems I had with it. The romance between our male and female lead feels very forced and they didn't give anytime in the movie to build it up. Also, while the silver shamrock theme is catchy, we do here it a million times and it does get annoying after a while. It's still stuck in my head as I'm typing this review. Another thing that bothers me well sorta. The film score, it's just too techno and repetitive especially the music in the opening scene. Especially because it was done by John Carpenter. It's not as awesome as the music from the original film.Final Verdict In the end the film isn't terrible as everyone says it is. It may not be anything special but It's at least okay. It's better than the other crappy sequels to come out in the future (expect Halloween 4 that movie was awesome. It has good acting, good scares and a good villain. But the romance feels forced and the score isn't as good as the first film.I'd give it a Meh. It's okay but nothing great.Notice Meh is my rating for a movie that's okay. "},{"Title":"You will probably hate this film (personally, I loved it)","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's get it out of the way... 'Halloween 3 Season of the Witch' was a critical (and more importantly) commercial failure. Basically, after the highly successful (and profitable) 'Halloween' and 'Halloween 2' people were expecting big things from the third instalment. The first two were about a &#x96; seemingly unstoppable &#x96; killer called Michael Myers and his relentless desire to generally murder youngsters. However, Part 3's ultimate 'failure' was that it basically has nothing to do with the first two instalments.Part 3 is a completely new story which doesn't follow on at all. And that was the main 'problem' people had with it. So, it got immediately slated and has kind of fallen off the radar, as far as horror movies go.However, if you don't really look at it as a 'Halloween' movie and simply a stand-alone horror film, it does tend to take on a life of its own. We join Dr Daniel Challis when a possibly mentally-unstable old man is brought into his hospital, only to be murdered in very suspicious circumstances. Therefore, Dr Dan teams up with the man's grieving daughter to investigate. And, their investigation takes them to an out-of-the-way town in the middle of nowhere, run by the &#x96; somewhat creepy &#x96; Conal Cochran.First of all, Dr Dan is a rather different hero. He isn't very reliable, frequently forgets to visit his ex-wife, buys his kids rubbish present, flirts with pretty much anything in a skirt in the hospital where he works and then sleeps with younger women in meets in a bar (all while wearing a handkerchief hanging out of the back of his trousers). And, did I mention while he's doing all this he's also trying to save the world from cyborg robots and fiendish occult plots.But, dodgy heroes aside, the film is actually pretty creepy. First of all you have the music (which is done by horror legend John Carpenter) which adds to the dark, unsettling atmosphere. Then you have Dan O'herlihy, playing arguably one of the most nasty villains in cinematic history. He really does have a plan or two up his sleeve and it isn't nice! Then you have the general gore. It's hardly a 'gore-fest' but when the gore comes, it's pretty gruesome and what isn't gory is pretty unsettling.If you want to give Halloween 3 a go, don't view it as part of the franchise. Just be in a mood for a darkly-nasty horror tale. It's also probably best to put at least half of your brain on hold for the duration &#x96; that way you can ignore the odd plot hole. I don't care what people say about it. I still love it! "},{"Title":"Amusing to watch, only for its cast and preposterousness.","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is played completely straight, despite its lunacy. A five ton block from Stonehenge is stolen (!) by an Irish Halloween mask manufacturer in America, who breaks bits from it and implants them in Halloween masks to kills those wearing them (!!) so they can be sacrificed and replaced by robots (!!!) One of the most preposterous, illogical horrors ever made, this coasts along thanks to the good casting of Tom Atkins, and Stacey Nelkin; and Dan O'Herlihy as a successfully evil villain with a ridiculous plan for mayhem, and unintentional laughs.If the film had been released under a different title, and Halloween fans weren't expecting to see The Shape return yet again, it would not have been as much of a disappointment to them, and people might have been able to have a laugh at its lunacy.Starts as a mystery a man, clutching a Halloween mask, being chased by men in suits, repeatedly whispering They're going to kill us all, before Stongehenge, doppelgangers, computer chips embedded in Halloween masks, robots, sacrifices to Druid gods, and an obnoxious jingle all come along and confuse the hell out of everyone watching. Unrelated ideas put into a blender, the result is this story.But is the plan to kill millions of people successful, or is the hero able to stop it? Or, was there not intended to be a sacrifice, and the entire plot only a Halloween prank? The slasher genre may have been done to death (pun totally intended) by this is most certainly one of the most original, unique horrors ever done. One of a kind, for better or worse.My favourite scene has to be when the hobo gets his head ripped off by well dressed robots. And one has to love Stacey Nelkin, who teams up with a guy she has just met, to search for her missing father, but still remembers to bring her black lingerie with her to the motel they stay in. "}{"Title":"Guess This Must Be a Guilty Pleasure For Me......Thumbs Up!","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would say this film and Batman and Robin are two of my favorite lowly ranked IMDb films! Oh well! To each his own! There's a small die-hard core group that enjoys this film, which my family and I are part of. Most people hate it because Michael Myers isn't in it and/or that the story isn't so good. Even my son said it should not have carried the Halloween title as part of the series.We enjoyed the off-beat story. The masks, the Silver Shamrock jingle, the factory, the robots, the characters. The music was chilling.There was only one part I disliked. When Dr. Challis' friend meets her grisly end after discovering what was found in the burned out car. It does keep in line with this controlling aspect of Cochran, the villain. But still I was unhappy about that. Basically almost all of the characters in the film end up dead by the end.So the haters can continue to beat on this film. At this writing it is listed as a horrible 4.3 rating. Whatever!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I started out watching H1 and H2 and then when I read this had nothing to do with Michael Myers I wasn't even going to give it a chance. I'm glad I did! Michael Myers died at the end of H2 like he was burnt to a crisp and dead on the floor! This was a smart way to go on and see what other darkness ventures on the night of October 31st. I thought the way it was paced was a little off, which explains the 8/10. I think I would have gotten the full effect if they decided to make Halloween 4 a direct sequel to this or had Halloween 4 take place somewhere else and have to do with some other thing. Ex. Vampires, Mummies, Ghosts. It remains one of my favorite Halloween and Horror movies of all time. It is my sincere hope that they don't screw Halloween 3D and have Michael myers alive because you know he wasn't STABBED TO DEATH BY LAURIE STRODE or anything in Halloween 2. All in all this was a pretty awesome movie and I hope there is some homage paid to it in the remake. "},{"Title":"There are a few folks out there that like this flick!","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The brains behind Michael Myers, John Carpenter and Debra Hill, felt pressured by the studio to provide a third entry for October 1982 but they had a different idea. Halloween II ended with Michael Myers burnt to a crisp, after all, so why continue that storyline? Carpenter and Hill liked the idea of a horror film series centered on the idea of Halloween but having story lines independent of each other. Thus, Halloween III Season of the Witch was born. Audiences must have felt perplexed and deceived by this in-name-only sequel and the result was an interesting, albeit brief, experiment in taking the series in a new direction. Michael Myers would return to the series 6 years later with the aptly titled, Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers but the wounds from Season of the Witch still haven't healed even though my opinion is that it's a fun and unfairly maligned film.read more at http//idler-mag.com/2010/10/08/the-witching-hour-and-38-minutes/ "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't say that Halloween III Season of the Witch is one of the worst films in the series, It definitely was one of my favorites.But to this day, many people are confused of why they called it Halloween III if it didn't have anything to the series. So, what was the answer to why Halloween III is the way it is? It was simple, Halloween started Michael Myers, and Halloween II definitely killed him off meaning John Carpenter was done with him, so when the 3rd movie came out, they decided to make the Halloween franchise an Anthology series.The music was creepy and it showed a kid getting killed, the villain though, Coral Cochran, he really tries celebrate this Halloween trying to return it to its original roots.I say that the series would have been better if it was an Anthology series then just rehashing the same Michael Myers plot over and over again.But in all honesty, Halloween III is not as bad as everyone says, it definitely had an original plot and some unique twists to it, so overall, I recommend seeing this movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"Decent horror film, but without Mr. Myers,  this really isn't a Halloween film.....","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a standalone film, this is a pretty decent horror film, but the biggest mistake this film makes is in its title. Had this just been called The Season Of The Witch, it would have had much more credibility of its own, rather than trying to be a part of the Halloween series. I understand and appreciate what the producers were trying to do, but a Halloween movie without Michael Myers is doomed from the start. The story and plot is very interesting and unique, and the acting is pretty good. This does have its campy and its so bad its good moments, but overall this is well worth a look if you are a horror movie fan. Just don't expect Michael Myers to be in this, because he isn't. In fact the story has nothing to do with him at all. "},{"Title":"Actually quite good","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this when it first came out but couldn't remember it so I recently watched it again. This film is actually very good. The music, the idea, the story-all good. Some of the scenes have that same somber dryness that Halloween 2 has. Very hard to explain that. However, the pace is good and the photography is good. I don't want to give away any elements but I will say this film departs from the first two. This story is very different. There is a desperate feel to the characters and their search to find out what is going on. A man died clutching a Halloween mask and states that they want to kill everyone. I would say there was some inspiration from The Stepford Wives here along with Invasion of the Body Snatchers. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"As a Halloween movie it's bad but as a movie on its own its OK","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not reviewing this as a Halloween movie but as a horror movie. The reason this movie was made was not to make the fans mad it was because they wanted to turn Halloween into a franchise where it is a new story every time like Tales from the crypt, Twilight Zone, Tales from the dark side you know what I mean. So they wanted to give this a try. and maybe if the movie was better they could have made a TV SERIES called Halloween and left the movies alone. Anyway to the film the plot of this film is about a man named Conal Cockran who wants to kill every kid on earth using Halloween masks he created that have chips on them and the chips get activated by watching the happy happy Halloween commercial. But their plan is discovered by Dan Challis and Ellie Grimbridge and they try to stop him in which they succeed and that is about it and just a lot of gore scenes thrown in. So is this movie good no but it is not bad either it is just OK but this one of those movies you only see once Acting (5/10) Effects (8/10) Gore (10/10) Plot (3/10) Overall (4/10) "},{"Title":"A bad idea","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How's this for an idea let's put out a series of movies set at Halloween every year, with nothing linking them, apart from the fact that they set during Halloween? Fair enough, they did that with House, and the first two weren't completely awful.But I've got a better idea, seeings as the first movie we made about a babysitter stalking mass murderer, let's make the second movie in the series a sequel and the start them on the different stories from number III onwards? Sounds like a bad idea, and as it turns out it was. Not only is Halloween 3 a below par movie, it did mediocre box office and was the last Halloween movie made for six years.The story here is that a witch is making evil masks, or some nonsense like that. Evil ensues, deaths occur, people sit there wondering what on earth is going on and exactly what this had to do with Micheal Myers. The answer is nothing.Bizarre movie, if evil Halloween masks, over the top scores and poor acting float your boat, check it out. But if you just want to see it because it's in the Halloween series, do yourself a favour and skip it. "},{"Title":"Halloween 3","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought Halloween 3 was one of the crappiest movies in cinematic history, not just because of its stupidity, but also nothing to do with Michael Myers. Shame on the director for kicking out the main character of the movies. Not only did Michael Myers not play a part in this production but had nothing to do with the story line. The idea of robots in a Halloween movie and a horror movie is just sad. Especially in the bit where he is tied to a chair and then with is hands tied up he manages to find a way to hurl a mask about 3 metres through the air and get it precisely on the camera is just rigged. Hopefully they do not make a remake of it like they did with the original because that will be even worse. If they did they would have to make it a whole lot better for me to give them at least a 5 star rating. "},{"Title":"Season of the Suck","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" after seeing 1 and 2, i knew 3 had nothing to do with them. But what my boss told the best way to explain it was a really good episode of the twilight zone so i rented it. and saw it. and now i want my time and money back. That was AWFUL. it made absolutely no sense, ending was anticlimactic and all the random sex made me go oh come on. i was expecting possessed masks to make the kids kill people or something cool like that, not druid sacrificial crap i mean come on, how STOCK is a druid ceremony anyway? another thing that bothered me was the fact that it was 3 masks. so you're trying to tell me that a company is staying afloat by selling THREE types of masks? that's it? just three? man. that must be some good marketing if you don't need any variety in your product. oh. and i hate the song btw. oh, and at the end, the random mechanical girl thing, i was like so..was she switched at one point, or was she ALWAYS a robot or....what the crap happened?! this movie was just all sorts of confusing, boring to watch, and not what i expected at all (and not in a good way) with a retarded plot, leaving lots of loose ends and the henchmen making no sense, i give Halloween 3 just that. a 3 out of 10. now excuse me while i go watch a good horror movie. like Freddy 4 "}{"Title":"Hmmm... Barely Viewable","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You hear/see people say that this is the worst installment of the series, but... as far as I'm concerned, this one isn't even part of the series. So, disconnect yourself from the title and Michael Myers, and then watch it, and you might just be able to stand it.But, rest assured- the title is all. This movie is not even part of the series- it never was. It's a completely different movie. There's no Michael, no Laurie, no Sam Loomis, no nobody. It's a completely different film, but just with the similar title. If people could just get that part of it, it might bring the ratings on this film up just a bit. I've noticed that it's gone up from 1 to about 3.5 in a few years, which is nice.But understand that this one is completely off track. It's a different movie. "},{"Title":"I prefer Michael Myers","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween is the best in the series. Halloween H20 is the 2nd best. Halloween 2 is the 3rd best. Halloween 4 the Return of Michael Myers is the 4th best. Halloween the Curse of Michael Myers is the 4th worst. Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is the 3rd worst. But, that's not as bad as it sounds. Although H3 is not worth buying or maybe even renting, it can still entertain you. The villain in this film is no Michael Myers. The male lead is a lousy character compared to Dr. Loomis. Same with the new female character and Laurie Strode. The boring characters and the actors who play them aren't the only problem. The plot is kind of stupid and the special effects are cheesy. But, the plot is original and the people in this one aren't as stupid as the people in the Halloween films with Michael Myers. So, I give it a 5/10. Average at best. But also average at least. "},{"Title":"Forgotten Classic","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's so interesting that so many years later and people STILL just don't get this movie; what people seemingly don't like about this movie are actually what make it a lost classic.It's supremely sinister; goes out of its way to knock big brother, commercialism, and, of course, hurt poor little children. Oh, and no Mike Myers? No wonder y'all hated it; its dark, dangerous AND intelligent, as opposed to a typical slasher which doesn't ever hurt the innocent, or attack big ideas like consumerism or the true meaning of Halloween.First off, not including Mike Myers was a gutsy move, and, dare I say, a great one. How many other franchises have had the GUTS to do that? The series was already played out by Halloween 2. With every other franchise nowadays doing hackneyed sequels to death, why are people so nuts at having every sequel be the exact same thing? I, for one, am all about reinventing series, much like Battlestar Gallactica has recently done. Even better, this is a sequel bold enough to admit its OWN clichés, where the original Halloween movie is playing as the movie of the week IN the sequel itself. Ingenious.I guess it goes to show that most people prefer Friday the 13th over something like the Twilight Zone, with intelligent commentary on modern day society.The joke in this movie is quite literally ON the children (and only them), ie in killing millions of them... and then anticipating the reaction of their parents as they see them die. Now that's downright sinister, if not sadistic.So too is the creepy corporate town where big brother watches all, or in the killer robots who happily immolate themselves when the mission is accomplished. This film is in some ways more disturbing and intelligent than the crazed single slasher film, and probably more about Halloween's true origins dare I say, where the little children did probably get sacrificed. The irony here of course, that Cochran uses the corporate system against itself, to resurrect the true spirit of Christmas... -LOL, I mean Halloween. And, of course, the greater irony that the TV is his ultimate weapon... Baudrillard could have a field day with that one.The real robots are those that just follow orders, or, em,... expect every sequel to be another predictable slasher movie. "},{"Title":"Season of the switch...","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Michael Myers is dead (Well at least to part 4) however there is new evil to be alarmed about, as a demented mask-maker plans to use masks to kill a slew of children on Halloween, bringing back the holiday to it's origin of gloom and doom And not begging for candy! however a doctor(Tom Atkins) is out to stop him and he's aided by a woman who's father died at the hands of the evil mask-maker. It's no secret that people hate Halloween III because of it's disconnection with the killer Michael Myers. However to the contrary, Halloween III is a rather sick, twisted and satisfying venture of blood-lust. The villains are weak and the robots are hideously lame but for some reason the demented angle on the plot keeps you watching. Another flaw is the movie takes time getting started but things are never that boring and overall the movie is entertaining in a schlocky kind of way. While it's definitely not as good as the first Halloween movie, I do prefer this entry over the disappointing second entry because at least here there is a set up and a follow through which leads to legit suspense and good atmosphere. Also the movie hates children and the way it kills off children (and their parents) provides fascination due to how a movie like this could not get made today. All in all a good film, not perfect but enjoyable for what it tries to be.*** out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"Better then you might think.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all i have to say, that i'm a big Nigel Kneale Fan. I think he's the king of creepiness. The Quatermass-Movies he wrote are really terrifying (especially the one with the pit!) and his television-work is remarkable, too. In Halloween III Kneales (uncredited) influence is obvious witchcraft, nihilism, modern technology and a general nastiness that is seldom in U.S. American horror- movies. The most people, who don't like this movie are upset, because Michael Myers isn't in it. Regrettably a large number of the general audience wants to see the same movie again and again. That's why so much unoriginal movies are made. So Halloween III without Michael Myers? So what? The second part had him and it was boring from the beginning. Since then, nothing much has changed in Myer-land. One franchise worse than the other. In my eyes the 3rd part is the best of the sequels, because it has something the others haven't a creepy premise and some truly shocking moments. ( Or do you think snakes and insects crawling out of the head of a little boy in front of his parents isn't shocking? Think again.) I won't even go into the political aspects of this movie considering mass media, because i'm a horror-fan and only interested if a movie works. This one does. Of course there are the obvious mistakes of a cheap movie strange coincidences, illogical plot twists etc. But you know what? I give a s*** about logic, if the general tone of a story is build up consequently it's all right with me. Wallace does a great job in establishing an evil thread and he doesn't give away the goods to soon. The character of the evil wizard who wants to kill thousands of children (and their parents) just for the fun of it, comes from the mind of a genius (Nigel Kneale, i guess). The idea of involving artifacts from Stonehenge in a big mad scientists laboratory is great, too. And the main character? Come on! A guy who goes on a dangerous investigating trip with an unknown girl and grabs a six-pack of beer before leaving, can't be that unsympathetic! By the way Atkins does a great job here, considering that his role sometimes tends to the ridiculous. My advice Watch this, without expecting a Carpenter-Movie and you'll be surprised what you'll find. "},{"Title":"The best in the series...","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay,lets look at this with some real perspective.Hats off to the producer/director for taking the big risk of trying to write a whole new script/storyline and veer from the success of the Micahel Myers ..teenagers in jeopardy horror film which I find boring .IMO Halloween 3 is the best/scariest/most original/well acted movie in the series and certainly much more enjoyable then the over rated original.I watch this movie every year around Halloween but I make sure to stay clear of the 1st- 70s version and it always entertains me even after repeated viewings.Of course because the film deviates from what everyone else expected it to be about, it bombed at the box office and got slammed by critics alike.Such ashame that the average person would have been more entertained if this 3rd installment in the series had once again been about Michael and his stupid mask yielding his knife and killing teenagers that couldn't act or speak interesting dialog.I will never cease to be amazed at how inept the masses of people can be.Many reviewers of this film use a simliar logic in claiming it so awful , by stating the story is to unbelievable  and it is  but almost all horror films have unbelievable story lines/ villains. For example, what could be more unbelievable then the original Halloween and all the ones that followed it that resurrected the Michael Myers character ? I mean is it believable that multiple gunshot wounds , impalements, 12  sewing needles shoved directly into the eyeball, 30 ft falls off of a balcony , etc, cannot kill Michael Myers ? If we compare the originality of the story , acting, dialog , etc of Season of the Witch to the original Halloween , it would seem obvious to me which movie comes out FAR ahead. The very fact that the masses in society hated Season of the Witch so much, helps prove why Hollywood horror films have become so repetitive and outright boring . Season of the Witch was such a refreshing change from the rubber stamped , killer in a mask scenario, that people in society did not know how to accept it , therefore , they hated it because they were pre-programmed to want to see yet another film about a evil entity they had already viewed in 2 prior films. Because of this, we have to balme both Hollywood and our society for the lack of creative horror films that the film industry has been cranking out on a high percentage for the last 20 + years. It only makes sense that if horror film fans and critics cannot accept and appreciate new and creative horror films that are willing to diverge from the same old themes , then Hollywood will not want to take the risk of bringing such films to the market. The only 2 things I can think about Season of Witch that are slightly annoying are 1. Its unbelievability  which is about the same level of the Michael Myers character 2. The lil  jingle theme that is played about 8 times throughout the film . My sincere recomeendations to anyone who hates this movie  Totally forget that the Michael Myers character exists, watch Season of the Witch one more time, don't try and anaylize the storyline or try to make it seem believable , and enjoy the creativeness of the plot/ characters, and recognize that the acting and dialog is MUCH better then most of the other Michael Myers Halloween films ! "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and Evil","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my all-time favourite movies.It has a great (if slightly unbelievable) storyline involving halloween masks that react to certain television signals, causing the wearer to .. let's say ... have a bit of a hard time.It's wonderfully done parts include the real feeling of atmosphere, paranoia and isolation of being in a strange place (in this case, the Irish company town, where the masks are made). Where everyone is connected with the company, and knows it's secrets, and where curfews are in place to keep everyone in order at night.Fantastically directed and acted. "},{"Title":"What's next????","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie and found it a bit enjoyable. It had its own genre, and at its inception, differed itself from the first two movies.I just have one question... and for those who saw the movie may have the same question...At the end of the movie when the Silver Shamrock commercial aired, a few young children with the masks on their faces go and view the infamous commercial. Two of the stations immediately pull the commercial during mid-pumpkin. The boy flips the station to the third channel and the commercial continues...We know the outcome... but wouldn't this lead to ANOTHER movie? It just can't end like that without something else to look forward to. The original Halloween had many sequels... We need something else to go off of with Halloween III.After all, they were creative enough to give us Halloween III in a unique way... let's bring back those masks again! "},{"Title":"Give them an A for effort...","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the many fundamental problems with sequels is that after a while, they feel less like continuations of a story than they resemble the screenwriter's regurgitations. Halloween 2 proved to be an excellent example of this, with a whole lot of plot points basically recycled from the original, and very little, if anything, new brought to the table. While this sequel wasn't a total box office disaster, it didn't rake in the unprecedented dollars of the original. Hence, meetings were called in search of ideas to make the new Halloween sequel more palatable than the past.The idea they came up with was simple enough. Tell a new story that could easily be borrowed from the Twilight Zone and see how that works. Had it been a success, future Halloween films might have been something besides Michael Myers Kills Anonymous Boring Girl #447. Unfortunately, Halloween part three commits a few snafus along the way that made it very difficult for a discerning audience to digest. Not surprisingly, it flopped.The first implausibility occurs when Ellie comes looking for Doctor Challis. She wants him to help her track down her father's killers, answer the question of how manufacturers of Halloween masks are involved, and, implausibly, sleep with Challis in the process. The Australian video releases appear to have all been censored in order to comply with the requirements of the OFLC's M rating, so that last point is a little choppily rendered. As are most of the brutal slayings that occur during the ninety-six minute running time.Several other major blows to the film's credibility occur along the way, but none is quite so shocking as Cochran's big dialogue about ancient Halloween rituals. Anyone who is familiar with the paranoid delusions of Jack Chick will find something disturbingly familiar about this monologue. It is at this point that the more intelligent members of the audience generally yawn and turn off their DVD player (or VCR was it was in the mid-1980s). Which is a shame, too, because the rest of the film had so much potential, but this one scene makes it obvious why the film never lived up to said potential. Simply put, it doesn't give its audience a lot of credit for their intelligence.If there is one saving grace to the film, it would have to be the last scene with Ellie. This is the one surprising moment in the film, and it is just enough to mess with the audience in the way a mystery-horror film should. Unfortunately, it comes right after the aforementioned what Halloween is really about monologue, so it has quite a lot of stupidity to rise above.I gave Halloween III Season Of The Witch a two out of ten. Had it been thought out a little better, it probably would have earned more. As it is, we can only view the film on home video and wonder what might have been. Not surprisingly, Tommy Lee Wallace's entire career has since consisted of little more than B material. "},{"Title":"Total failure","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I love the Halloween series.  Why this movie has the name Halloween is beyond me.  It has more in common with The Invasion of the Body Snatchers.  The story, involving a mad toy manufacturer plotting to kill millions of children on Halloween night, is creepy enough but the whole excecution is downright awful.  There's no suspense here whatsover.  There's not a single creative thought, it's all ripped off from better movies.  If the movie had any real gore, it might stand out somewhat, but they couldn't even do that right. This one goes down as a total failure, on all accounts, and the name Halloween should be wiped out and the film simply called The Season of the Witch.    "}{"Title":"A creative, underrated installment","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III Season of the Witch did not do well in the box office, and is not accepted with open arms by many of its viewers. But it is an overlooked and freshly creative story with an interesting concept. Dr. Dan Challis stumbles upon a shocking plan involving witchcraft and the country's most sought after item by Silver Shamrock Novelties. When Harry Grimbridge is brutally murdered by a mysterious man who then takes his own life, his daughter and Challis go investigate. They find themselves in Santa Mira, CA where they are trying to find out why the killed occurred. There they meet Conal Cochran, owner of Silver Shamrock Novelties, with a warm smile and courteous manners. Cochran's factory has manufactured millions of masks across the country, but they have deadly chips that will cause destruction on Halloween night, and millions and millions will die to an evil plot. Led by suspense, an excellent soundtrack, a fiendish premise, and much more, Halloween III might actually surprise you in terms of what it has to offer. The idea was to make a new Halloween movie every year with a different storyline each time, but HIII failed at the box office because people wanted Michael Myers. The failed to realize that other things besides Michael Myers can cause terror on Halloween night. The series is called Halloween, not Michael Myers, and this untraditional sequel is proof. The movie suffers through a few plot holes and could have gone an extra mile like in the book, but they have to be overlooked - and they can, because there is more good than bad in regards to this movie.  "},{"Title":"STOP IT, STOP IT, STOP IT!","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Without a doubt the worst of the Halloween series, this movie hits the bottom of the barrel on so many levels. Tommy Lee Wallace's directorial debut pretty much sums up the rest of his career. But, he did direct IT, which is pure trash. Why Carpenter put his name on this POS I'll never know. Lame acting + low budget = made for TV movie, not the sequel to one of the most popular horror series of all time. Like the last lines of the movie, I wish I would have stopped it before it started... "},{"Title":"A departure for the series and a good film in it's own right. WARNING SPOILERS!!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is a pity that HALLOWEEN III - SEASON OF THE WITCH was put in as the third in a series which was pretty good up till then. I am not saying that it isn't a good film, merely that on it's own terms it is quite a spooky movie, with a great climactic moment.Tom Atkins plays Dr. Dan Challis who, whilst delivering Halloween masks to his estranged children and visiting his ex-wife, is summoned back to his hospital to deal with a elder man who has seemingly come in off the streets having been chased for ages. Whilst in the hospital resting, a suited man comes in and gouges out his eyeballs, before going back to his car and setting himself and the car alight with petrol. The dead man's daughter, Ellie Grimbridge (Stacey Nelkin) arrives to identify the body and then asks Challis to help her retrace the last moments of her father's life. The trail leads them to Santa Mira, an Irish community town in California where the 'famous Silver Shamrock' masks are made by millionaire business man Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy) Challis and Grimbridge pose as a couple and stay in a hotel, but then they are awakened by the mysterious death of a lady, Marge Guttman, who is staying in an adjacent room. They visit the factory and are taken on a tour, courtesy of Cochran, but then Ellie's dead father's van is seen by her in a loading bay....Written and directed with style by Carpenter production designer Tommy Lee Wallace (who also provides the voice for the 'Silver Shamrock' commercial seen in the film), HALLOWEEN III - SEASON OF THE WITCH is a neat little horror-thriller.  "},{"Title":"A Nice Break From Michael Myers","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people seem to hate this film because it did not continue the saga of Michael Myers but I believe that it was an entertaining break from Myers. Different types of killers, men in suits. An interesting idea of beautiful Halloween masks that contain a mystery. Catchy TV commercial X more days to Halloween, Halloween, Halloween, X more days to Halloween, Silver Shamrock. A doctor that becomes a detective to solve a brutal murder at the hospital. If this film did not lead you to believe that it was a continuation of Michael Myers then maybe more people could enjoy this film like I did. Give it a try, you will like it.  "},{"Title":"crap","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The sliver shamrock commercials in this film make viewing annoying. HALLOWEEN III fails because it has nothing to do with the rest of the series. There was a attempt to do something original and different yet that proved to be something that didn't kept the audiences attention as well as Michael Myers did. HALLOWEEN III is just plain boring. Avoid this film like the plague. "},{"Title":"A criminally under-rated horror gem...","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The main critics of this film tend to be those who wanted yet another Michael Myers slashfest.  Let's be honest, though...  did we _need_ another one?  Halloween 2 already proved that the magic of the original could not be recaptured, and later sequels hammered the point home.  Face it no Myers-based sequel was ever going to be as good as the sublime original.Now, back to Halloween 3...  Carpenter has stated that his original intention was to make Halloween sequels in name only.  Each year, he wanted to make a new Halloween-themed film with a totally new situation and cast.  The studio, however, demanded a second Myers film, and a franchise was born.  Halloween 3 Season of the Witch represents Carpenter's original intention, while never-ending Myers sequels represent only what the studio wanted.Halloween 3 is a rarity a truly original horror film.  It is packed full of really odd ideas, and the whole film has a wonderful nightmarish feel.  When you really get into it, you almost feel like you're falling throughout its whole running time.  It is creepy, nasty, and has some great shocks.  In this reviewer's humble opinion, anybody who hates it simply because it lacks Michael Myers is a shallow philistine who doesn't deserve such an original and clever horror film. "},{"Title":"Best part of the series","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hate all the others.....this is the only one I actually like. This is the only part that I think got an interesting story and thought about it. I probably sound stupid, but hey? Don't we all sometimes? This surely is my fav Halloween movie "},{"Title":" I hope that if you like this, that you will see a GOOD horror movie and that it knocks some sense into your obesely thick skull and may god have mercy on your soul.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, with that said, I did not mean to offend anyone. I just must say that THIS MOVIE IS A COMPLETE AND UTTER DISGRACE IN THE NAME OF HORROR MOVIES! THIS IS NOT A MOVIE!Which it is not, this is a pile of feces disguised as a video. There is no real story here, except that some warlock is trying to kill little kids and that there is NO MICHAEL MEYERS! Yes, I know people say that this is not a problem, but YES IT IS!!! Michael Meyers is what makes the HALLOWEEN series! I mean, if Freddy wasn't in A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3, do you think the fans would be upset? You damn strait they would be. But since Michael returned for the rest of the series, I guess we can make an exception. I do not TOTALLY hate this movie. I have seen worse films, but I feel that this movie is a disgrace only because it is hiding behind the good name of HALLOWEEN, and if they wanted to make this movie, they should have done so under a different name (like how they were originally planning) and then maybe Meyers fans would not have been so utterly disappointed.HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH gets 1/5. "},{"Title":"Pure nonsense!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Guys, forget everything you´ve heard about this film first of all, forget about Michael Myers, you won´t find him in this flick! Apart from its title, Halloween III has got NOTHING to do with the rest of the series! However, Tommy Lee Wallace´s movie can be quite entertaining - as long as you don´t take it too serious, because the plot is pure nonsense explosive masks which kill children while watching a commercial on TV... What a joke!!! After all Halloween III looks like the horror film version of Barry Levinson´s Toys killer robots, dangerous toys - the series has never been more ridiculous than it was in this part! Unfortunately, the version that I saw was cut, so I can only guess about the gore... Horror veteran Tom Atkins (Maniac Cop, Bruiser) saves this film from being too mediocre. Like I said in the beginning of my review it´s not a bad movie, but Rick Rosenthal´s Halloween II is still the best sequel! "},{"Title":"Halloween I would remind you all, was around LONG before Michael Myers!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I mention that in the context of the general surge of dislike that emanated from Halloween fans world-wide, who were outraged that Michael Myers was not a part of this film. Under what OBLIGATION pray tell was Carpenter, to retain Myers for the second sequel? especially as he was presumed crisped into infinity at the conclusion of HALLOWEEN 2? For those unaware of the true facts, Carpenter (Producer here)actually had planned an annual new-film release centered around the Halloween concept but not encapsulating the Myers legend. As it happened, this flick bombed at the box office and thus bowing to consumer demand, Myers was brought back in Halloween 4 having been on-ice for a while. For those wondering why HALLOWEEN H20 and HALLOWEEEN RESURRECTION just don't work...the answer is simple. It never WAS Laurie Strode's character that was integral to the plot..it was Sam Loomis' and with Donald Pleasence's death right after the filming of HALLOWEEN 6 THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS, the series was pretty much shafted!This entry is far from a dud! View it as a HALLOWEEN tale NOT a Michael Myers slash-fest. Orwellian in concept and held up to be morally reprehensible at its release, the idea of using children to take out their parents at the behest of a druidic-type sect is rather interesting. Plenty of awesome deaths and who can forget that mind-numbing Silver Shamrock theme? Listen to THAT enough times and I really believe you could condition a nation! (Damn, I can hear it now) No my friends....HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH has every right to stand here as a sequel and every claim to be a worth-while horror film. Compared to the witheringly insulting H20 it is a masterpiece! "}{"Title":"best of the series","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I love Mikey, but in terms of scares this one is the best of the series.To whoever owns the rights to this franchise at the moment (it's changed hands so many frick'n times for a series of this popularity)Let Mikey retire gracefully; this series was originally intended to be connected only by the holiday and u guys should stay the course. I personally think think the mediocre part 5 should have subbed with a pair of classic halloween horror films of the time, Halloween Night and Hollow Gate; U guys can do it, I know u can; just let Mike hang up the mask. "},{"Title":"Simply the best Halloween","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Semi-Spoilers. The great things about this film are Dan O'Herlihy (who imparts a Shakespearian gravitas to the speech in which he clarifies his goals and offers some observations on the history of Halloween) AND the creation of a mood of terror by Hitchcockian prescription (the Master said, speaking of Psycho, that one violent incident creates your sense of dread as to what may come next, and that when that lags, mid-film, a second incident reinforces it). The music score by John Carpenter --all electronic-- keeps things creepy and unsettled. I love the idea of the Halloween movies becoming a horror anthology series, which is said to have been the plan at the time of this films release. The people were dead wrong in their rejection of this films break away from the pattern of the series-- Surprise!-- and it is a pity that the further revivals of Michael Myers did not stay buried deep beneath a pile of no-doubt better scripts and concepts in the producers dumpster. The Halloween series went on to prove incontrovertibly the notion that continuing characters are comfort insurance for criminally lazy audiences, while stories without continuing characters represent the opening up of imaginative possibilities. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  See this movie, it was the scariest Halloween movie I saw! It was probably the best horror movie too, I do have to say it was low-budget and nothing to do with the other Halloweens but who cares?                         Tagline The Night Nobody Came Home. (more)                         Plot Outline An evil toymaker plans to kill all the kids out for Halloween in this non-sequel to the other Halloween movies. (more)                         User Comments Previous movies be damned, we're going to make a sequel with no connection to the first two films... (more)                         User Rating  3.3/10 (844 votes)                         Cast (in credits order) complete, awaiting verification                           Tom Atkins                                          ....                                              Daniel Challis                         Stacy Nelkin                                          ....                                              Ellie Grimbridge                         Dan O'Herlihy                                          ....                                              Conal Cochran                         Michael Currie                                          ....                                              Rafferty                           Ralph Strait                                          ....                                              Buddy Kupfer                         Jadeen Barbor                                          ....                                              Betty Kupfer                         Brad Schacter                                          ....                                              Little Buddy (as Bradley Schachter)                           Garn Stephens                                          ....                                              Marge                           Nancy Kyes                                          ....                                              Linda Challis                         Jon Terry                                          ....                                              Starker                           Al Berry                                          ....                                              Harry Grimbridge                         Wendy Wessberg                                          ....                                              Teddy                           Essex Smith                                          ....                                              Walter Jones                         Maidie Norman                                          ....                                              Nurse Agnes                         John MacBride                                          ....                                              Sheriff                           Loyd Catlett                                          ....                                              Charlie                           Paddi Edwards                                          ....                                              Secretary                           Norman Merrill                                          ....                                              Red                           Patrick Pankhurst                                          ....                                              Technician                         Dick Warlock                                          ....                                              Assassin                           Martin Cassidy                                          ....                                              Watcher                           Michelle Walker (I)                                          ....                                              Bella Challis                         Joshua John Miller                                          ....                                              Willie Challis                         Jeffrey D. Henry                                          ....                                              Motel Technician                         Michael W. Green                                          ....                                              Technician #2                                                   Directed by                          Tommy Lee Wallace                                                                                                Writing credits                          Tommy Lee Wallace                                                                                                Produced by                          Moustapha Akkad                                                                                    (executive)                           Barry Bernardi                                                                                    (associate)                           John Carpenter                                                                    Debra Hill                                                                    Joseph Wolf                                                                                    (executive)                           Irwin Yablans                                                                                    (executive)                                                     Original music by                          John Carpenter                                                                   Alan Howarth                                                                                              Cinematography by                          Dean Cundey                                                                                                Film Editing by                          Millie Moore                                                                                           Casting                          Susan Shaw (III)                                                                                            Production Design by                          Peter Jamison "},{"Title":"Totally Misunderstood","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why everyone hates this movie.John Carpenter says...I tried to do something different, but all the fans wanted was another movie with a wacko in a mask.Sure, this movie has nothing to do with Myers, but it's a great movie that stands alone. With a different title, this movie could have been successful. But it wasn't.I liked the idea, once you get past the snakes and stuff crawling out of that kid's head, you might think to yourself, Hey, this movie isn't bad after all.It's lots of fun in a B-Grade, cheesy sort of way.One problem, I still can't get that damn Silver Shamrock song out of my head. Oh well.Rated M 15+ in Australia for violence and horror effects, adult concepts. "},{"Title":"The Night No One Comes Home","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 is a special film for me as it showed the original creators of this franchise(John Carpenter and Debra hill) wanted to take a huge risk and branch out from the Michael Myers character. It was a giant risk, and really never payed off until the fan base grew over the past thirty two years. While the Michael Myers character is not in the film as everyone already knows, I truly believe this is one of the better films that is attached to this Halloween series. The following is my review of Halloween 3 Season of the Witch.The story was crafted by four different people. The original idea came from Nigel Kneale who later wanted his name removed from the production. John Carpenter and Debra Hill also had a hand in some of the ideas. In the end, the film was finally finished up by Tommy Lee Wallace, who actually ended up using sixty percent of the story that Kneale wrote. Wallace was not new to the Halloween series at this point, as he was the production designer and editor of the original Halloween film. He left the sequel, Halloween 2, because he did not like the story idea. This story is basically a giant corporation in a small farming town that has a bad idea that will come about on Halloween night. I frankly love this story that everyone I mentioned above was able to pull together. Sure there was no Michael Myers, but the story and execution was amazing in my opinion. When I first watched this movie many moons ago, I was disappointing that Michael was not in the film, and to this day it saddens me part three doesn't include the iconic character, but once you get past that, the film is one of the better films of the series. The original idea was to keep the Halloween name and make a new movie every year, but with a different story like we got in this film. That idea fell apart once this film was originally panned. Thankfully over the decades people came to their senses and appreciate this great film like I have. Even though Wallace will never get the fame that John Carpenter got, in my opinion he delivers a fantastic story.Tommy Lee Wallace also directed the film, and he really delivers that amazing 1980s style of film making. Nothing too flashy or overdone, but it draws you in with its looks. Filming on location in small towns really makes the film look even more creepy with those fantastic night scenes they use to love filming. With a new story, also came some new actors. The star of the film is Tom Atkins, along with co-star Stacey Nelkin. Both play off of each other nicely in the film. Dan O'Herlihy delivers a wonderful performance as the evil business owner. His performance is a joy to watch. With the hate that this film has received for so many years, it is finally nice to see all these actors get their glory for a great film they all came together and made. Even though some like to nitpick this film, I'm personally glad I didn't decide to give up on this film like some Halloween purists have. Overall, Tommy Lee Wallace delivers a great film that most Halloween and horror fans in general should love. Take off your blinders and tell yourself before the film that this is no Michael Myers film, and you should very much enjoy this film.John Carpenter and Alan Howarth are back scoring this Halloween film. While the score is different, that John Carpenter style of 1980s music is still in full swing. While many feel now that the usage of the Synthesizer was cheesy, and it may have been for that time the film was made, I truly feel using the Synthesizer was brilliant. The scoring has so much depth, and I love it as much as I love the scores for the first two Halloween films that Carpenter did. While I cannot say the score on this film tops the score on the original Halloween film, it might be the second best right next to Halloween 2.In closing, Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is a film that has been unfairly criticized for more than three decades, and just recently the fan base for the film is growing into what it should be. With the recent Blu-Ray special edition release of this film, hopefully a new generation of Halloween fans can watch the film for what it is, and enjoy all its greatness like I have. Do not listen to those who trash the film, as at the end of the day their hatred for the film comes down to the film not having Michael Myers in the film. That is simply not a good reason to trash such a great horror film.8/10 "},{"Title":"not horrible but not good either","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" the thing i didn't like about this movie at first glance was that the the movie had no resemblance to the first two Halloween movies, but at second glance i noticed the good acting, the interesting storyline, the addicting song (hey all the Halloween movies have had repetitive songs), but on the down side, i didn't feel like there was much effort put into this movie, the graphics were weak, the storyline as interesting as was left me questioning a bit, and as interesting an idea as john carpenter had to change each Halloween movies storyline i must say i don't think it was a good idea at all, so in the long run i think this movie is worth seeing at least once, then you can make your decision on if you like Halloween III The Season of the Witch "},{"Title":"The best Halloween of them all","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween 3 is easily the best Halloween film ever. The atmosphere is fantastic. The film is incredibly violent (if you haven't seen this uncut - you need to). The story is superb. Written by Nigel Kneale who wrote Quatermass and the pit. Kneale later had his name removed from the credits because he wasn't happy with the way it was turning out. Nevertheless, Kneale's writing shines through in this horror gem. Tom Atkins if fantastic in his best role other than Night of the Creeps. Dan o'Herlihy steals the show as the evil toymaker. It's a film that doesn't take itself too seriously and has excellent art design. Shame they returned back to Michael Myers in no.4. The idea of a different Halloween movie every year sounded great! You either love this movie or hate it. Personally, I think it's one of the best horrors of the 80's and a stand out in a rather dull series of films (with the exception of 1 and 2, maybe)  "},{"Title":"It doesn't get much worse than this.","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  HALLOWEEN 3 SEASON OF THE WITCH (1982)THE GOOD--The (number) more days till Halloween, Halloween, Halloween jingle was kinda neat though WAY overplayed.--There is one good kill in this film, though the way it happened wasn't at all clear. It was the death of Marge Guttman. I really liked the makeup effects showing the aftermath of her demise, they looked cool and were kinda creepy, especially the spider creeping out of her mouth.THE BAD--Bad actors playing bad, unlikeable characters. The actors are boring and either over-the-top or without any emotion, delivering wooden lines with no expression or feeling. The characters, well, they were just annoying (all of them) and I wanted all of them to die immediately.--Why did Cochran feel the need to tell Dan Challis EVERYTHING about his plan? He just stood there explaining everything that was going to happen for no apparent reason except to inform the audience of that also.--The twist in the second-to-last scene of the film with Ellie being a robot was confusing and dumb. Did Cochran's guys turn her into a robot while she was unconscious, or was she a robot all along? If the first one - HOW did they turn her into a robot? If the second one - why did she care about her father's death? The rest of the robots were emotionless? Why the sudden change into cold hard Ellie just to get the surprise at the end of the movie? And don't you think Challis would've noticed Ellie's insides when they were SHAGGING!?--The conveniences in this movie were so frustrating. Challis always managed to find somewhere to hide when the robots were coming after him, Ellie woke up just as Challis was to save her, the bodies were never found, police weren't in the town, the list goes on.--If this is supposed to be a horror movie, I want some gore. We did get one good death scene (see THE GOOD), but the rest were all off-screen and bloodless. --Did they really need to end half the scenes with the camera angle on the suit of one of Cochran's robots? A boring and overused technique in the film, which was never even scary to begin with.--The romance in this film is one of the most underdeveloped romance stories I've ever seen put on film. It seemed like the writer just thought hmm, I'd like to have sex in the movie so he got them together, no build up or chemistry or anything.--The final scene is stupid. There is no way to solve the problem so the writer just tries to make the end disturbing. And why the hell is that ad on even friggin' channel at once?--Excuse me, but why was this movie even IN the Halloween series at all? It had nothing to it and is an embarrassment to the Halloween saga.RATING0/10 - It doesn't get much worse than this.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDA mental hospital. "},{"Title":"Should be called Season of the Lame","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ** may contain spoilers ***This movie oddly enough has nothing to do with Michael Meyers, Laurie Strode, or Dr. Loomis... That makes it <I>irrelevant</I> at best.  But that's not the worse part of it.The worse part of it is either the boring non-scary plot, or the fact that the characters are so unlikeable and poorly developed.The main character is an adulterer, a womanizer, who cares more about getting into a distraught young woman's pants than the welfare of his own kids who purchased self-destructing masks.The whole idea that a chip off of a Stonehedge rock could make a children's mask self-destruct while watching an annoying commercial is a little too far-fetched.Furthermore, the movie is not scary at all. If you want a good movie for halloween--watch H1 & H2.  Skip the lame 3rd one, with that stupid jingle. "},{"Title":"Would have done better without the title HalloweeN","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes i do know this movie was an idea John C had, he wanted to make sequals to the halloween movies as a different one evy-time. But even after the 80'S Halloween was a sucess as they knew with it engrossing a so much money so this was yes put in a direction it shouldnt, it isnt much of a bad movie so lets remake this movie please! Let the halloweens most famous slasher series ever be a long myers series, its obviously no one likes this so put some smiles back an fans faces!Story is about a person making halloween masks that crush peoples head on halloween when watching a comercial.Didn't pay much to it as it want me idol Mr Myers.But overall even without cinemas favourite villan accepted in this movie and a different movie, plot and sequal Carpenter makes a sucessful movie!4/10 "}{"Title":"Using a great name for all the wrong reasons","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whenever I went to a video store to rent horror movies I would always keep an eye out for Halloween 3. I had never heard about it or seen it for sale or rent anywhere. The first two installments were superb as far as horror franchises go. Even 4, 5, 6, & H20 weren't all that bad. What I always commended the Halloween series was it's ability to progress as a whole. Unlike Nightmare On Elm Street for instance.Because I am an avid movie collector (I am 21 and own over 600 movies). I was buying all the Halloween DVDs wherever I could find them, when I finally won Halloween 3 on eBay I was thrilled. I was finally able to see the movie that dodged me for so long. Lucky for me I only paid 3.99 for it. This is the worst movie that I have ever seen. They should have just called this movie Season of the Witch. This movie will forever plague a great franchise. No Mike Myers should equal no Halloween.Do not waste your time on this crap. "},{"Title":"BAD,BAD,BAD","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the worst sequel to a movie ever.  Michael is chilling on the beaches of Miami and Jamie Lee Curtis is having a pina colada in the Bahamas.  The movie is some trash about mask-making people who try to kill everybody who's wearing the mask and watching there STUPID commercial.  Acting was pretty bad, Tommy Lee Wallace couldn't direct if his life depended on it, and the story is extremely dumb.  Overall do not go see this movie if it comes on for free or anything. DO NOT RENT THIS MOVIE! Rating 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ignoring it's a sequel...","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, it's fairly common knowledge that John Carpenter hadn't intended to make a series of nothing but movies about Mike Myers.  So the fact this had abslutely nothing to do with the first two movies isn't a relevant criticism; it wasn't SUPPOSED to.  In fact, this was orginally supposed to be the second, but Carpentar was pressured into making a direct sequal to the first Halloween.OK, having said that... this movie is still utter crap.  The story goes absolutely nowhere.  The evil plan makes no sense.  And for all the work the alleged hero goes through to stop it he might as well not even bothered.  There is absolutely no suspense in any of this.The premise could have worked, maybe, but it honestly just looks like Carpenter hurriedly threw this together based on that idea without bothering to develop anything. "},{"Title":"Horrible!!!","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has absolutely nothing to do with Halloween. It has a stupid story and is not well-made. Michael's not even in it. If you can sit through this, then you can sit through anything! Don't waste your time and energy on this one!!! "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first Halloween scared the crap out of me, even edited for television. The second one was weaker but still had effective moments. This one was 90 minutes of pure, dumb, gory boredom. Take the 90 minutes of life you would otherwise waste on this film and spend it doing something more rewarding, like staring at a brick wall. "},{"Title":"Original? YES! -- Good? NO!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You think maybe the negative reviews are because most Halloween fans hate this for not having Myers in it?? Well your wrong!  With or without Myers this film is terrible, its a complete joke, it has Androids in it for crying out loud! Androids!! WTF!!!Its only Original because nobody else would consider making such a rubbish film! "},{"Title":"I jumped, once.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got this out of the video shop when I was 14, during my still-scared-of Freddy-Krueger phase. And even then it made me a little bit surprised at one point, but nothing else. I saw it again last night, and got bored very quickly.The original Halloween film was great, menacing and with some genuine jump-worthy moments, but this film unfortunately has nothing in common with its predecessors in terms of plot or style.   "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Awful Invasion of the Body Snatchers clone is about a toymakers evil conspiracy to murder all the children in the world on Halloween night via a chip implanted on masks. Unrelently mean and cruel spirited film with awful performances and a leaden pace. Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence, Brief Nudity, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Help, Someone Save Us","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why on earth would anyone even consider making this film after the huge success of the first 2 films.  I wouldn't have been a bad plot if IT HAD SOMETHING TO DO WITH THE FIRST 2.  Who was the brilliant one who decided OK, so that first 2 rocked so let's figure out a way to destroy their rep. BIg Mistake. "},{"Title":"Very stupid movie that has nothing to do with Halloween.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What's the point? It was made by the creators of Halloween but has nothing to do with the first two movies. Why did they make it? That's the unanswerable question. The plot is stupid. Like some'50's sci/fi movie, the plot has to do with a man and his girlfriend and they are looking for a man who makes these masks that when the kids put them on and watch TV, they die and snakes and bugs come out of there head. It's just as bad as you think. I didn't even watch the whole thing. I didn't have to. I knew the end was going to be stupid. So now that they ruined the series, the strange thing is that the producers of the first two movies which were great, are the ones who made this, I feel really disapointed because they really had something good going. Halloween III Season of the Witch F "}{"Title":"Shouldn't Have HALLOWEEN title","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Honestly, not to bad of a movie. The storyline is very interesting. Most people are upset Michael isn't in this movie. But here is my theory. John Carpenter might of been trying to make a series of movies, all of which take place on, or around Halloween. But different stories. Just a thought. The acting at some points is kind of bland. But the story is very well thought out. It ranks last in the series cause it shouldn't have the name Halloween. Quite frankly this movie should be retitled to something else, and we make our Halloween 3 now.It's not a classic, but it has taste.It kind of feels more like a action film at some points too. Also, Season of the Witch?I didn't see any witches. I'm re-voting it... i had it at a 6... its a 4.It's not bad... its not great. If ya got spare time, you can check it out. "},{"Title":"One of the worst pictures ever made","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III Season of the Witch is a horrible waste of film.  I'm glad the producers decided to drop the different plot for each sequel and brought back Michael Myers.     The whole Stonehenge concept is absurd and the acting is so flat CPR could never revive it.  Don't waste your time with this tripe   "},{"Title":"Myers on the sidelines in a cast","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow, what an awful movie.  This one has it all - lame production standards, idiotic plot, bad acting, an incredibly annoying theme song, and a strobing pumpkin image that will give you a seizure.  How this managed to escape the MST3K treatment, I'll never know.  Many will lambast this movie for not having Michael Myers.  But trust me, that doesn't matter; nothing could save this dreck.  Nobody should watch this movie, ever.  Nevertheless, people will still continue to show and rent this film simply because it has the name Halloween on it.  But don't blame me, I warned you.Rating  abysmal; causes great pain; massive IQ loss will occur "},{"Title":"I can't believe I watched the whole thing....","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In what easily has to rank as one of the worst sequels of all time (see The Exorcist II or Caddyshack II), the departure from the storyline of its predecessors could have been refreshing. Instead, it was an exercise in the absurd and unbearable. A mad scientist toy maker is going to kill all children on Halloween with a sophisticated plot involving Halloween masks and a diabolical television commercial. Why? I'm not sure. You get sexual tension (and eventually release) between an attractive young girl (who is older than she looks when asked (in bed) how old she is)and a crusty middle-aged man....absurd. This is an awful movie which I would avoid at all costs. For horror fans, there is no gore - only mildly disturbing death scenes. It certainly didn't deserve the name Halloween and I can understand why John Carpenter and Debra Hill bailed on the franchise after this one - they should have pulled the plug on this one first. "},{"Title":"Just as bad as its reputation suggests","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III is the worst of the series. Not because of Michael's absence, but because it's a major bore, plain and simple. There's the germ of a good idea a mysterious death is linked to an evil warlock, who plots an elaborate scheme to return the holiday to its darker roots. The concept is intriguing, but the execution is silly at best and irritating at worst. Did they really have to keep showing that damned Shamrock commercial? Once or twice is enough as it is.Generally speaking, the performances are stilted and wooden, especially from Tom Atkins. I suspect that merely reflects the actors' boredom; they don't seem to find the material any more exciting than the viewer. Dan O'Herlihy is the only one who seems to be enjoying himself. I wonder if he had second thoughts upon viewing the completed film.Upon retrospect, it was probably unwise of John Carpenter to attempt to make the popular franchise an anthology series. Most people who pay to get in a movie with the Halloween name expect to see the masked Michael Myers. Therefore it is no surprise that audiences openly rebelled, and the third installment bombed at the box office. With the benefit of a full two decades between then and now, we can examine the situation dispassionately, and ask, is Halloween III a good movie after all? Sadly, the answer is a resounding no! It was awful back then, and time has not been kind to the film. Without the Halloween label, it would have quickly slid into obscurity.* (out of ****)Released by Universal Pictures  "},{"Title":"Halloween is a night destined for disaster.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a non-sequel sequel among over half a dozen spawned from the original HALLOWEEN(78). With no connections to the first two films it is easy to bad mouth this project; but wait. Watch it a couple of times and you will have to agree the story line holds up on its own and does bring you certain amounts of intrigue, anxiety and pensive suspense. No returning characters or slasher to fear, but that does not mean we don't have a manic menace to deal with. A psychopathic, sadistic toy manufacturer(Dan O'Herlihy)plans to massacre millions of TV watching kiddies on Halloween night that are wearing his electronic controlled spook masks. The TV jingle used throughout gets quite annoying, but overall I think this is a pretty eerie and creepy movie. Come on try it again...you'll like it. I actually enjoy having a story line with its gory intent, instead of the randem slashing and stabbing this time.Also of note in the cast are Stacy Nelkin, Michael Currie, Tom Atkins and Al Berry. I have always thought Mr. O'Herlihy had the makings of a nasty villain with a demented soul. Good or bad, he is usually pretty classy. I don't mind being in the minority of watchers that view this most Halloween nights. "},{"Title":"Wrongfully maligned for a decent film","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following up on a strange death at work, a doctor and the dead man's daughter trace the events to a sinister top-company executive making a far more gruesome secret for his Halloween masks and tries to stop him before the holiday.This one here was a really enjoyable and rather fun effort. One of the better parts here is the rather exciting introduction here, which starts with the opening chase through town and going through the junkyard before the rescue and transfer to the hospital which comes along with the stellar stalking in the winds and a violent death before the shocking, explosive finale that this a truly enjoyable start here and launches the investigation really well. The investigation itself is really fun as the creepy town strictly under his control, strange laws that he governs them with and the mysterious bodyguards incapable of pain always shadowing him serving as assassins, bodyguards and technicians who are given tons of fun screen-time here with plenty of great scenes here that truly make them quite a fearsome unit to be recognized as they get plenty of fun, exciting scenes to showcase not only the grand action in here but generate some solid tension with their appearance usually not meaning anything good about to happen. These are some of the film's best parts here with a great stalking at their motel and the chase through the main garage here that leads into the full discovery of what's going on with the assassins, while their other fun scenes later on where the stalk and kill off several of the ones he's informed of what's been uncovered gives this some suspenseful moments to go along with the fine action. As well, the scenes in the factory after being captured are a ton of fun with the cruel and barbaric example sequence of the young kid, the hotel room sequence with the lone woman that really gives this a pretty gruesome killer here that fully explores the true dangers of his evil plans and gets in some really tense sequences here with the escape and attempts to track him down throughout the compound which is quite a blast here with the different encounters and traps set up to stop them giving this the feel of an Action film of the hero taking over the maniacal boss which gives this a lot to really like here. Along with the insanely catchy commercial jingle that runs throughout here, these gives this one enough to hold out over the main flaws here. The film's biggest issue here is that there's quite a lame rationale for the big master-plan here, which has a ton of other potential plans here that could've been attempted to accomplish the same feat yet this one chooses the lamest one which isn't even remotely tied into the actual plan utilized. It's barely even given a full-on reasoning either as he just starts in without really detailing everything and then just stops expecting to fill in the blanks, and really just seems poorly thought-out overall. While there is something that can be said about how this one doesn't fit into the cannon of the series, it's not an issue about the film itself rather than the individual prejudices on that one though, as otherwise this one was a lot of fun.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity and children-in-jeopardy including Graphic Violence against kids. "},{"Title":"4.5 / 10. Seriously??.?","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although it has nothing to do with Michael Meyers and, therefore, comes across as an odd entry in the Halloween movie series, this is one of the great Hallowe'en movies and a great horror movie full stop. Although it's directed by Tommy Lee Wallace, he's clearly channeling his inner John Carpenter. The premise is fantastic, the execution is perfect and the ending will stay with you for the rest of your life. In places it's a little cheesy - but this was 1982 people?!?!? It doesn't lessen the horror one bit. Negative reviewers need to wake up and re-evaluate their motivations for down marking this. It's a genuine Hallowe'en classic. "},{"Title":"Its got all the John Carpenter elements","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not going to give a summary of this film you can wiki it or watch a trailer or read a summary from half the reviews. I don't even feel like writing what I liked about the film. If you like horror from the 70's and 80's and John Carpenter films you should enjoy this. If your complaint is but there's no Michael Myers in a Halloween movie true they should have titled it differently. The main problem everyone has with this is they don't know the history of the Halloween franchise. Originally it was supposed to be a different story with different characters every time still under the Halloween title because each film was to focus on the macabre holiday. You know how each season of American Horror Story is a different story with a different sub title, well that's what this was to be. Unfortunately they wanted to close out the open end of H1 so they made part 2 about Mike just to kill him. Everybody loved the Myers character so much they wanted him in every Halloween no matter how many low grade dumb sequels were produced. I for one wish they would have gone with plan A. We could have had a half dozen more Carpenter horror films from the best era in the genre. "},{"Title":"Beware of the Worlocks","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best Halloween movie made. As usual the critics don't agree but this is genuinely a scary movie, the plot is totally original. Evil company led by an Irish Celtic Pagan sorcerer aka Dan' O Herlihy as Cochran is mad enough to turn trick and treaters into monsters with his magical masks. A Doctor tries to stop the Sorcerer before Halloween Night as he gathers information and learns all he can about this evil company.This film was gripping and entertaining to watch. Recommend it to all lovers of the season watch it as it exemplifies Halloween as a festival of telling scary stories and not just violence and screaming. "}{"Title":"A second Viewing","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK I re-watched Halloween III Season of the Witch (the one with no Michael myers). There seems to be two and only two opinions of it I love it, or an embarrassment to the Halloween franchise. It was the latter after the first time i viewed it. Was really taken back to see Michael absent because I was not aware of this at the time. I think to enjoy it, you really need to watch it as its own movie. I did this today and did enjoy it more this time. But I think I just formed a third opinion. It was just OK lol. As soon as they start to try and explain whats going on Towards the end I started losing interest. Though I will say it is no longer laughable to me that it is on your top movies to watch during October list, Michael Breeze. I apologize for making fun. "},{"Title":"Not one of my favorites...","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, what can I say about Halloween III Season of the Witch?It's very hard to find something positive to say about Halloween III. I can say that Dan O'Herlihy and Tom Atkins both did a pretty good job of delivering their lines. Some of the other acting was OK. However, with the script not including Michael Myers this was a poor movie over all. I guess that the writers tried to explain why Michael Myers was hell bent on killing his family.When I bought this movie I only bought it because it belongs in the series. I'll try to come up with something or some scene I can say that is positive, but there isn't much I can say. I've only watched Halloween III about a half dozen times, including while writing this review. IMDb.com only has 4.2 Stars out of 10 as a rating, I have to say that I only gave this a 5. If I can't find anything positive to write about this movie I am sure I won't have to apologize too much or be asked to.It would be easier to list the things wrong with this movie. For instance, no Micheal Myers. The damn commercial that hypnotizes the children into killing their parents and then kills the children. The robots that do the dirty work such as killing. Really?! Robots?!The tour of the Silver Shamrock factory was pretty cool. I liked that they showed how the masks were made, from pouring the latex to the painting. Wow, if I am talking about a tour of a factory from a movie then there really isn't much hope for the whole movie. I think I might have to rethink what rating I am giving this movie, it's pretty hokey. However, unless the story is pretty bad, the acting is horrible and many other aspects of the movie are substandard then the rating will stay where it is. OK, I might raise it to a 6, but not any higher. I think not having Michael Myers in this movie detracted from it significantly. Although, having Nancy Kyes and Jamie Lee Curtis play some kind of role in this movie was somewhat of a plus. "},{"Title":"I Want to Like You. But I Can't.","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even as early as 1982, it was recognized that any horror franchise worth its salt had to have at least five sequels. John Carpenter thought Halloween II was stretching it and couldn't see extending the Myers storyline further. As far as his creator was concerned, the Shape was dead. Carpenter had the novel idea of turning Halloween into a yearly anthology series, each new installment telling a different story, the only connecting fiber being the Halloween season. The American republic rejected this and demanded more Michael Myers. Carpenter was right about continuing that story being nothing but crass and absurd. Whether Season of the Witch stands on its own merit remains a topic of debate.Maybe the viewership would have been more accommodating if a less wacky premise had been chosen. Divorced surgeon Dan Challis becomes involved in a mystery when a man is murdered in his hospital, only for the murderer to immolate himself outside. The presence of a Halloween mask leads Challis on an investigation. He meets up with the dead man's daughter and tracks the mask back to its factory. He uncovers a malicious plot to murder thousands of children. How? Through a combination of Halloween masks, television, microchips, robots, and Celtic magic.My biggest issue with Season of the Witch involves that villainous scheme. The bad guy takes a lot of factors for granted. Yes, the Silver Shamrock masks are popular but surely lots of children will be wearing other costumes. Sure, plenty of kids will be in front of the TV at the time of the commercial. But it's likely many will still be trick r' treating. And how many will have the TV on and also wear their mask? How many children must die for Cochran's plan to be successful? What exactly is his motivation? He wants to reclaim Halloween as a pagan festival. How will murdering thousands of children do that? Why would a corporate head rail against the commercialization of his holiday? What does his robot army have to do with anything? The 'whys' remains elusive.The film features many absurd elements, to the point that Vincent Canby thought it was a parody. How does the combination of masks and commercials kill the kids? By filling their heads with bugs and snakes. How that works boils down to magic. The transformation is powered by a tag on the mask. In the most absurd moment, a woman has her face blown off by a laser beam shot from one of those tags. The magic ritual is powered by a chunk of Stone Henge, which I imagine was difficult to transport. The robot drones are something we have to take at face value, as little explanation is provided. The villain pulls a Dr. No by explaining his plot to the hero before leaving him in an easily escaped trap. The ending is overheated and melodramatic, with Tom Atkins screaming into a telephone before a sharp cut to black.The innately likable Atkins is well-cast as his protagonist is definitely an anti-hero. His ex-wife is cartoonish, unwilling to forgive him for working a lot and trying to save the world. The kids are non-entities, glimpsed once and never developed. Atkins seems more concerned with his new girlfriend. Stacey Nelkin plays that new girlfriend, the murdered man's daughter. After knowing each other less then twenty-four hours, the two fall into bed. The romantic subplot is contrived, not making much sense for a woman still grieving for her father and a guy still grieving for his marriage. All of the supporting cast is broad. The mask seller and his family are terrible people, the wife and son especially, while the woman who gets her face melted is vulgar and unlikable. The cast does fine, with Dan O'Herlihy's leathery-voiced take on Conal Cochran being the most memorable, but the characters are all seriously underwritten.If Season of the Witch was reaching for scares or gross-outs, it failed. The numerous jump scares are protracted and broad casted. Though Michael Myers is a no-show, part 3 continues the second film's tendency to pad out the body count with random people. Was it necessary to introduce a town drunk? Did he have to die? The gore is decent, with an early face-crunching being satisfying. However, the android soldiers bleeding banana pudding is odd. The digital effects are cheesy and the villain's demise is lazy. John Carpenter and Alan Howarth's score is a major step down. The electronic droning of the main title is directionless and non-melodic. Much of the score is like that. They probably should have kept the classic theme. That jingle was designed to be as annoying as possible and, boy-howdy, did it ever succeeded. You will get tired of listening to that thing.What do I like about the film? Tommy Lee Wallace's direction has a few nice moments, like a frantic tracking shot through a hospital hallway. If you overlook the absurdity, the climatic robot attack generates some tension. Atkins taking out leagues of people at the end is out-of-place but satisfying in its own way. Wallace manages to make Santa Mira, the same town from Invasion of the Body Snatchers, an eerie place. The constant surveillance and grinning town folks are correctly unnerving. The film's vehemently anti-child tone is doubtlessly mean-spirited but it definitely makes the film unique.Rejected upon release and widely reviled for many years, Halloween III Season of the Witch has, over time, developed its own following. Fans like to point out the anti-corporate themes or the main character's symbolic alcoholism as defining points. Sure. But is it scary? Nope. Does it have that autumn atmosphere? Not really. Is its plot goofy? I certainly think so. I'm sorry, Season of the Witch, I want to like you. Really, I do. But I just can't. "},{"Title":"It wasn't awful, but it wasn't great either","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't care about the whole michael Myers thing. I loved the first in this series but everything after that was forgettable. Also I'd heard that the first Halloween was originally planned as a sequel to Black Christmas (which I saw before seeing Halloween) so I'm not particularly attached to the Myers character. Consequently, I was quite happy to see a different story line and I totally understand that the Halloween franchise was always intended to be different stories. That's all OK by me.The problem is there's lots to find fault with in this movie. To take on the Myers-obsessed viewers and get them on board with a Micheal-less sequel, Halloween III really needed to be a stand-out effort. It needed an exciting plot, great acting with preferably at least one big star, fantastic screenplay, inspired/near faultless directing and a gripping score.Halloween 3 only scores on a couple of those requirements. The musical score was decent and the plot had potential. It was a refreshingly original idea, especially at that time and took some bold steps in horror (eg the demise of a child). It could have been developed into a masterpiece in the right hands as either a seriously scary horror flick or a black comedy. Unfortunately it was not in the right hands so it wasn't anywhere near as good as it needed to be to overcome it's glaring obstacle to success.I did not like the main actor, he was wooden & at times, overly dramatic and never convinced me of anything he was trying to convey. But I did like the idea of a Doctor playing the hero trying to save the world. Problem is, they needed someone much better and more appealing & believable than him to play that role. The leading lady was pretty but doesn't have much acting range either. To be fair tho, the script doesn't really help them out. The villain was laughable. He was so hammy I felt like he thought he was on a stage with his neighbourhood theatre group.I sound like I'm slamming the movie but truth is I sort of liked it. There's a goofy charm about it, even the bad of it - and it has an unpredictability and uniqueness that is really fascinating. I loved the imaginative and unusual kill methods, camera work and the special effects. I did laugh at points where I wasn't supposed to (at least I don't think I was!!) but that's OK. I laughed when the alien popped out of the dudes chest in Alien so I have an odd sense of humor. There's a scene towards the end of the movie involving the leading lady that I think was supposed to be scary & horrific but I just thought it was silly and laughed a lot. The movie never really developed any sense of dread or suspense. None of the characters ever seemed particularly scared or even mildly wary (apart from the guy in the very first scenes. He was actually the most convincing of anyone). The actors weren't helped by the directing which somehow seemed to leach away any chance the movie had to develop an atmosphere or creep the viewer out.I would love to see this remade by someone much more competent because I think it has the germ of a brilliant movie. As it is the movie is just mediocre. Worth a look & good for a laugh but definitely belongs in the average range. "},{"Title":"Halloween III Season of the Witch","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Michael Myers is nowhere to be found while a madman plans to murder trick-or-treaters in 'Halloween III Season of the Witch'. We first see an older man running from men in black suits who are clearly trying to kill him. He babbles on about how they are going to kill us all while clutching a Halloween mask made by Silver Shamrock Novelties Company. That man is murdered at the hospital. This prompts our main character Dr. Daniel Challis, along with the man's daughter Ellie, to go on a road trip to the town in which the Silver Shamrock factory is located. They want to find out what the man was talking about and what the masks have to do with it all. What Daniel and Ellie discover is more shocking than they ever could've imagined...I want to give Halloween III a better rating, but it cannot be overlooked that they COMPLETELY take the Myers plot from the first two and throw it out the window. I never saw this in theatres, but I can imagine it was a letdown to movie-goers expecting to see some hack-and- slash from good ole' Mikey. Nevertheless, this third film is not all that bad. The plot is new/refreshing and is played out well on-screen. The acting is good enough, with legend Tom Atkins leading the way. It just moves a little too slow at some parts for my liking. 'Halloween III' isn't a horror film as much as it is sci-fi. There are some kills as these robot like men in suits murder anyone that gets in the way of the evil plan to kill kids, pretty gruesome kills at that.'Halloween III Season of the Witch' is not a bad film, but without Michael Myers is a weak sequel to an enjoyable 'Halloween II'. It should have dropped the Halloween name and been a stand alone film, it might have gotten more positive reviews that way. The closest we get to Michael Myers is when Daniel is forced to watch the 1978 film on television at the mask factory...5/10 "},{"Title":"Please, this commercial never stops!","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone by now would know the story of Halloween III copping a real shellacking when released by critics and fans hoping that they would get another entry featuring the unstoppable shape aka Michael Myers of the previous two films. But at the time John Carpenter and Debra Hill wanted the franchise to take on a different approach which led to Season of the Witch, making it a sequel in name only. So this one would be the atypical one of the series, but the most refreshing and creative entry by far. As a stand alone it might have been better accepted, but as it is there's nothing there to think otherwise and this can seen as a true definition of a cult film that has grown popular over the years. The Halloween roots are there, where the unhinged plot centres of the traditions and witchcraft origins (where Stone Hedge features prominently in its angle of ancient technology) with a fascinating premise that's bleak, dark and virtually a clever reworking of the body snatchers formula. One night while on duty Dr. Daniel Challis gets a patient brought in who has been attacked and is completely off his mind while clutching a Halloween mask, which he won't let go of and warning them that death is coming to all. Things get even stranger when the patient is brutally murdered and the culprit kills himself in front of Challis. Wanting to get to the bottom of it he joins the victim's daughter who was toy salesman where they travel to Santa Mira to the Silver Shamrock Novelties Company who sells these popular masks. There they slowly discover the sinister plans that its founder Conal Cochran has in store.Director / writer Tommy Lee Wallace crafts out such a tight, moody and paranoid horror piece with terrific locations being used (eerie factory town), thrilling pace, nasty shocks embed, gliding camera-work, a pulsating electronic score and numerous lurking figures in suits. The special effects are masterfully detailed with the masks being the centre piece and it achieves some grisly FX work. The cast are game with Tom Atkins bringing a rough and ready persona (as there was a lot of physical work), but still having the charm to carry the story. Stacy Nelkin is quite good and Dan O'Herlihy is suitably menacing in such an effortless manner. He simply looked the part and made it so intriguing. Then you got that jingle Happy, Happy Halloween. Try your best in getting that out of your head. And the ending has that haunting touch which really does touch a nerve. A good magician never explains. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this movie unfairly receives bad reviews due to it not having any connection to Michael Myers what-so-ever. If they had somehow worked in that Michael Myers was a part of this Celtic cult, then they may have been able to sell it better. But the original premise of doing a completely different Halloween movie ended with Halloween II. After that, it became a franchise and Halloween III just had the bad luck of trying to break that.Anyway, I enjoyed the premise of the movie. The acting is decent, and the special effects are actually not that bad for a movie of this time period. I think with a little more plot work, this could have been a good movie. "},{"Title":"It's the thought that counts.( Scream factory)","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Prior to seeing this I have never heard anything good about it, even when I first read about it a long time ago, I was like what? then why do they bring him back in the forth one. Well I guess people only wanted to see Micheal Myers. I do give them credit for trying something different, and would have liked to have seen what other ideas they would have had to continue the franchise, especially that the films got worse as they progressed.As soon as the movie starts you can already hear Carpenter's style of music playing, I always enjoyed the music in his movies. Then we get this doctor who seams to womanize every female around him. The plot was an interesting idea, so it kept your attention. Then we move on to a pointless shower scene, and finally a sex scene. I mean really, the film couldn't get by without that, especially that the characters don't even know each other well, it was rushed and pointless. Maybe there is something I don't understand about this kind of stuff..... or maybe it's an excuse to show sex just for the sake of showing it. The finale scenes could have been explained better, maybe the writers didn't even know what to do, I'm talking about the electric circle thing, what the masks do exactly, and a few other things but now I'm just rambling for the sake of it. The ending was either good or bad, that's for you to decide.This review isn't the greatest, but I felt I should write something. I guess I should say if your going to get this film, go for the Scream factory edition, they always do a good job. Overall this film was just fine, nothing memorable. "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my youth, i HATED this film for the simple fact that it didn't follow the storyline nor the franchise whatsoever. I mean, it's in the title Halloween!As an adult now, (and going through a i must watch these movies again! phase these past few days) i decided to give this film another shot for what it is a horror movie.Wow. The kid in me is still correct this movie blows. Even if they removed Halloween from the title and it was a film all on it's own, it would STILL blow!Granted, the premise behind it (killing all the children) is disturbing, but as a film, what a waste.Don't bother even TRYING to view this movie. You'll never get that time back.There is nothing rewarding about this film whatsoever.I gave it 2 stars simply for the fact that John Carpenter was involved and as a musician myself, he has always been a bright, shining star in the sky to me. "},{"Title":"where do you want to sleep ?","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK i understand that Myers was dead and his story was done but even if you didn't put the Halloween label on this movie its still bad. Let's try to visualize the movie OK you got it in your head now take Halloween off of the title and just call it season of the witch. Now does it make the movie any better? No OK i didn't think so. John carpenter tried to do something different and i will give him the credit for that. But lets break this piece of garbage down. First the intro i must admit it had me hooked at the start the chase scene then hospital, i thought OK this is going some where. And you know what i was right it did go somewhere, right to crapper. The only person in this film who i even felt was trying is tom atkins. He gave the movie its best chance to be good and instead his efforts are just shut down. Lets not forget the silly story this Irish guy has control over the whole town because he owns a factory that makes Halloween mask's. Did i mention that they stole stone hinge. So they put the mask on you play a commercial you have a seizure and bugs eat your face. Plus all of the factory workers are robots. This sounds like bad cartoon and basically this is what it is. Its a family guy episode in real life, its comical at some points especially when tom decides hes going to sleep with the female lead. The question is simple where do you want to sleep? that's a stupid question miss whatever the girls name is. Now the music it sounds like robot's got together and had an orgy and forgot to oil themselves properly. So stay away from this garbage that's all i can say "}{"Title":"So much potential but disappointing overall","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has gained a bad reputation over years, mainly because it has the title of Halloween 3 and yet no Michael Myers, this was due to the fact that the studio was gonna make a different film with the Halloween title after Michael was seemingly dead in part 2, an interesting idea but didn't quite work and so the idea was scrapped and it was decided to bring back Michael Myers for part 4. It can be rather confusing and an interesting idea, to be honest though I wasn't a fan of this movie when I was younger but now over the years I have kind of warmed to it.The plot is quite interesting a company selling Halloween masks that when worn while viewing a advert, unleash a buck load of creepy crawlies and snakes etc, that eat the child's face is rather unsettling and plus we get human robots that are convincingly creepy and unnerving. But as it starts off so well, it quickly becomes quite boring, the first five minutes features a man being chased by one of the said robots and it's quite scary and violent, but like I already said it then drifts off into boredom and that advert becomes annoying really fast as it's played several times throughout the movie. But other than that this movie is quite original for its time and there are some pretty good special effects, it just a shame that the rest of this movie didn't quite live up to any sort of expectations.The acting was pretty sub par, horror veteran Tom Atkins gives a steady performance as the main protagonist, Stacy Nelkin didn't come across as genuine or interesting as the female lead, she and Tom Atkins lacked any sort of chemistry together just felt forced and Dan O' Herlity gives the stand out performance, although over the top but overall he entertained the hell out of meAll in all this wasn't a terrible movie as it's made out to be mainly by Michael Myers fans, it does boast decent special effects and a creepy setting, it just lacked that something special "},{"Title":"The Halloween Saga Halloween III - Season of the Witch","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The release of Halloween II was significant for two reasons. One, it showed that audiences were still eager to see the continuing adventures of Michael and Laurie and two, signified the supposed end of the Michael Myers saga. Making back ten times its budget, Halloween II was a bona fide success. And production started immediately on a third movie.At the same time, production had begun on Friday the 13th Part 3 and, while producing the third Halloween, John Carpenter directed and released the gruesome (and highly underrated at the time) The Thing. The third Friday movie was released in 3D and two months before the third Halloween. And like it's predecessors, it was a box office hit. Audiences were eating up the cinematic tales of unstoppable killing machines such as Jason Vorhees. A slew of other films were released to cash in on the craze including Frightmare, The House on Sorority Row and a sequel to the 'original slasher film', Psycho. Whether in the mainstream or underground circuit, these movies thrived with audiences in both theaters and the new 'concept' of home video.So while these slasher films were eating up the box office receipts, the producers of Halloween wanted more. Carpenter and producing partner Debra Hill were done with Michael Myers and his story. After all, he had died at the end of the second film. So they came up with the idea to make Halloween into a series in the vain of Night Gallery and Twilight Zone, only it would be theatrically based and each story would revolve around Halloween night. And thus, on the 22nd of October, 1983, Halloween III Season of the Witch was released.Written and directed by Tommy Lee Wallace, Halloween III's plot revolves around a toy company that has evil and world ending plans and a doctor that comes across the diabolical plot and is the only one who can stop it. There are no connections so to speak to the previous Halloween movies in the script. In fact III goes as far as saying (which goes against what makes them scary) that part I and II were not 'real', not part of our world, by having it play on television in the background.There are though, stylistic connections to the previous Halloween films that can be found throughout the film. The credit sequence is a modern take on the pumpkin opening credits, the music is eerie and similar to the previous films, and the bad guys (well the henchmen) behave and act very much like Michael Myers in the second film. As well, Dean Cundey returns for the third time as cinematographer and brings his glorious use of lighting and lenses to the film, making it look very much like a 'Halloween' film.The lead actor in Halloween III is Tom Atkins, who does a decent job of carrying the movie. His (much younger) love interest is played by Stacey Nelkin, who is pretty and cute but doesn't add much to the story. Dan O'Herilhy eats up the scenery as the bad guy and his performance excels above everybody else in the picture. While most of the performances are good and enjoyable, there are a few minor roles that could have been cast better. They are badly acted and very wooden and they tend to ruin the atmosphere of the film, but they are few and far between and thus don't detract to much from the enjoyment to be had watching this film.The story is fun, original and keeps you awake and interested until the last minute. Even though it is filled with enough plot holes to sink the Titanic, it breezes by and feels a lot shorter than the 98 minute run time it has. Some neat (but very few) gore effects, an effective bad guy, eerie music, the killing of children and a rather enjoyable last 5 minutes make Halloween III an effective, but somewhat forgettable film.The biggest critique of Halloween III, and by no fault of it's own, is that this film, as mentioned earlier, has nothing to do with the previous films. After the astounding first film and the rather enjoyable second film, the news that a third film was being made was rather exciting. Unfortunately it is a third film in name only. Take out the III from the title, or take out Halloween completely and Season of the Witch would not disappoint horror aficionados. While not the greatest of films, Season of the Witch still manages to be fun and exciting. It hits the right buttons at the right moments and if nothing else, it can help keep you company on a lonely, miserable, cold, and dark rainy night.Film Rating 70%Breakdown (How Halloween III Season of the Witch scored 70%)Production Design 7 out of 10 Cinematography 8 out of 10 Re-playability 7 out of 10 Originality 7 out of 10 Costumes 7 out of 10 Directing 6 out of 10 Editing 7 out of 10 Acting 6 out of 10 Music 9 out of 10 Script 6 out of 10Check out all my reviews at www.fullmetalreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Look at it by itself","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ignore the fact that it pretty much stole the name 'Halloween'. When you get down to it, this movie is one of many that has a unique, interesting idea but flops in execution. The town created entirely for a business is very creepy and makes you never feel safe, as if someone is watching you (they are, but you get the point). I think they could've improved the details on a few things Why do witches want to kill kids? Why are they using masks? Whjy is there an electrical chip instead of magic (hence 'Witches')? How how of an ass is the main character? Did the girl really serve any purpose? If they used science to kill people, how did it turn their heads into creepy-crawlies? Robots? Gee, there are so many things wrong here that it seems like I really hate this movie, and I'd be lying if I didn't say it is irritating to watch. But overall it is very scary, which is good for scary movies, and again, it is a good idea. "},{"Title":"a spooky film in and of itself","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have never once been able to have a conversation about this film. Halloween 3 is universally hated, and most if not all criticism is focused on the fact that Michael Myers, the legend the franchise and the slasher genre, did not appear in the film. The second film was to end the series, and this was to bring in a whole new perspective. It was to become an Anthology series with a new Halloween themed story every year. This film goes toward the direction of the classic mad scientist story. The trouble is that it didn't catch on and Michael Myers appeared in the next film when this idea was abandoned. Surely John Carpenter shouldn't have tried to feed fire to the dead franchise. Now many years later it has become a rather obscure, but not unknown. Remember, it's not a Michael Myers movie, try to look past that. It's no masterpiece but check it out. I think you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Halloween Retrospective 3- Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982)","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Number 3 of the Halloween Retrospective reviews is surprisingly the third film in the franchise, and so far, the shittiest one, 'Halloween III'. This one, unlike the others, does NOT include the Michael Myers storyline, but it DOES have Tom Atkins. He's cool.PROS Unlike my review for 'Halloween' and 'Halloween 2', I will not have many positive things to say about this, as I will have more negative things to say. But, I'll try to spew as many positives as I can. I guess that the fact that this movie tried something different is a good thing, as we wouldn't want to see the whole franchise get repetitive, like it eventually does. But the idea about a mask factory releasing Halloween masks to kids that kill them is a good concept, it puts the characters in danger and you desperately want to see the villain be stopped, because they're only children. Tom Atkins does a good job as Dan Challis, he is a very heroic and in a good way, a very stereotypical 80's sci- fi hero. Nobody believes him, and everybody dies. Dan O' Herily is cool and sinister as Cochran, and he adds a lot to the film, like Michael Myers from 'Halloween', he doesn't have a reason for killing the children, he just does it, and we don't care, as long as somebody dies, we were happy. There the main and only 3 positive parts of the film, the rest is bullshit.CONS I was disappointed with the blandness of some parts of the script, the annoying but likable characters, and the way the film acts as an early test for a science fiction/horror film. Which I hate! But, the biggest negative aspect of this film, is that it tries too hard to be as good as the first two, and tries SO hard to be scary, but it just doesn't work! Also, the film has a hidden message that the story of the film was giving us an example of what consumerism is.It's not a great film, and it's not a bad film. It's just not as good as the first two. But, give it a go.HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH Starring Tom Atkins, Stacey Nelkin and Dan O' Herily Directed by Tommy Lee Wallace "},{"Title":"Where is Michael Myers?","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I spent forever trying to find out if this was an actual sequel to the Halloween series. I kept looking online to see if there wasn't an actual one with Michael Myers. But I finally concluded that this was indeed part of the series. The first question I asked was where the f**k was M.M? Although it says Halloween III, its just trying to fool you. It should really be called, Hey, did you like the first two Halloweens with Michael Myers? Then you'll like this third one that doesn't have anything to do with the first two and is just its own f*****g thing. What a disappointing disgrace to the series. They should be ashamed of themselves for calling this Halloween III. More like Halloween f**kballs.The plot involves a police officer who goes on to an investigation of the murder of a women's dad. It leads up to him finding out about an evil scheme by a mask maker that is planning to insert chips in masks so when kids where them and watch the kids Halloween channel, the chips will set of a shock that will kill them.This is literally the dumbest horror film plot I've ever heard of. Not just because its nothing like the others, but because its stupid in general. How lame can you get?Whose bright idea was it to make a Halloween film without the villain. You can't have a Halloween film without Michael Myers, no matter what!!! Hey guys, I got an idea, lets make another Halloween film called Halloween III Season of the Witch. But instead of making it an actual part of the series, lets f**k the original story and make up our own bulls**t. Other guy wait, so were not making another Halloween film. Retard no, its gonna be called that, but it won't have anything to do with the others. Other guy sounds stupid, but were all stupid, so, what the heck, sure.Never watch this film no matter how curious you get. It will haunt you for the rest of your life. It's like getting curious to what smoking is like. IT WILL KILL YOU!!! "},{"Title":"Great news here !","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hello Halloween fans, There are great news in here. Check it out.A real sequel to the first ones.Halloween 3 The lost chapter www.halloween3.de.tl Its a independent German movie. It's look awesome! Almost like American ones.Don't know about DVD release date...Its only at Germany cinema for now.The movie is in German language... Cross fingers for English subtitles.Enjoy the trailer ! Michael is back, folks ! Some kinda remake of 80s 3rd one, as it should be.SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS 1987. After the terrible events of past days, Haddonfield seems to recover slowly but surely again. Laurie lives together with her two children John & Jamie at the edge of the city and denies training as a teacher. But they do not release trauma of their memories. In addition, it comes that Michaels corpse was never found in the mess of the hospital. But an old acquaintance suddenly appears&#x85; Dr. Samuel Loomis. Also he suspects that danger threatens. And he should be right. Because after all the years, Michael Myers could be restores and ready for its bloody work. A huge horror fan, Xarogoth "},{"Title":"It's a movie about evil masks, what can I say?","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Season Of the Witch is pretty much the deadbeat uncle of the Halloween family. You can't deny its existence, but you can sure as hell ignore it. Is that the right thing to do? Yeah, I'd say so, because it's just a very bad movie no matter how you look at it. The problem's not even that it doesn't involve Michael Myers, the problem is that it just really sucks balls. It's essentially a children's movie, only they edited in some gore scenes to make people believe it's all gruesome horror. A heartless tycoon wanting to cause mayhem on Halloween using magical masks (his factory makes no less than THREE different masks, and every kid in America wears them) should not exist outside of cartoons, and even then. The excruciatingly childish story really doesn't mix well with all the severed limbs. The subplot about our hero trying to solve a murder case isn't particularly good either, mainly because to him solving a murder consists mostly of screwing the victim's barely legal daughter. What a guy. The makers still weren't sure they had annoyed every person in the audience yet, so they also put in a terrible non-ending just to be on the safe side. This movie just really needed its false advertising. "},{"Title":"have to be seen to be enjoyed","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Grand this is one of the best of the bunch you come back from the pub and you will enjoy it so much great acting and a great story line the only downfall is the name of the town been Irish it felt it was wrong but apart from that it was dark, unusual and weird at times a movie that you have to appreciate to enjoy. to tell a tale if mike was there he would not take kindly i will say and say again that you have to be in a good mood i love it. movies are a mans best friend and i agree to appreciate a movie you have to live in it be apart of the actor feel like you are in it. watching oceans 13 at the moment what again a different movie live life live movies "},{"Title":"Can't Take It Seriously","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arguably the most cheesy horror movie from the 80s, Halloween III Season Of The Witch is a flat-out horrible movie that adds embarrassment and disgrace to the Halloween series. But, it depends on which way you look at it. If you look at it from a horror movie, with acting, effects and characters; it's pretty darn horrible. But, if you look at it from a cheesy, fun horror that's funny in its own sense; then it isn't too bad. I for one write reviews on how the movie was, and this was utterly terrible. It had no relation or plot to Michael Meyers whatsoever, and for some strange reason this movie is a installment in the series? A bad horror, flat-out. "}{"Title":"Incredibly underrated- one of the best Halloween installments","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season Of The Witch is an incredibly underrated installment in the Halloween series. It's chilling, atmospheric, has an original concept, is filled with genuine scares, and has a fantastic spine-tingling musical score. Plus, it's the last film that captures the same wonderful holiday feel of the first two (which the later sequels lacked). This is the second best sequel in the series, behind the original and Halloween II. It's also wonderful to watch around Halloween time (guaranteed to put you in the holiday spirit).Don't forget Happy Happy Halloween Halloween Halloween Happy Happy Halloween Silver-Shamrock! "},{"Title":"Superb SF shocker...","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Second only to the original HALLOWEEN in the series, HALLOWEEN III stands the test of time. Craftsmanship still counts. At the time of its release, I likened SEASON OF THE WITCH to sf shockers (shockers with a decidedly sf bent) like FIVE MILLION YEARS TO EARTH. For a brief moment, it looked like the HALLOWEEN saga had taken a turn for the better. John Carpenter, in at least one interview at the time of the movie's release, expressed a desire to do a completely new HALLOWEEN movie every year. Imagine an on-going series under the HALLOWEEN banner; the possibilities were endless. Unfortunately, the movie-going public balked at the idea of something original and clamored for more of the same- which is just what they got. I've seen only one of the HALLOWEEN films since III (HALLOWEEN H20), so I can't really comment on their relative worth- but I do know that I was greatly disappointed that the idea of a totally new HALLOWEEN movie on an annual basis never came to pass. More's the pity. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, twisted, and gruesome sequel","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...and is the last good one in the whole 'Halloween' franchise. Ignore the haters and stay away from the critics as their bias' lean toward the Halloween films before it. This movie is great! The plot completely strays away from the first two films, and gives the series a breath of fresh air, as well as the 80s horror fad. There's no mindless, masked stalker randomly killing people, there aren't any naked teenagers running around having sex, walking backwards into the dark, and checking the basement to turn the lights back on.The movie isn't a masterpiece whatsoever, but it's much more intelligent that most 80s slasher films. The main characters are adults (mostly), Tom Atkins portraying alcoholic Dr. Challis, Stacey Nelkin as Nellie Grimbridge, and Dan O'Herlihy as the villain, Conal Cochran.Very briefly, the plot revolves around a man who is murdered by a strange man in a suit after being checked into the hospital gripping a Silver Shamrock novelties Halloween mask. Dr. Challis seems to find interest in the man's daughter, Ellie, and the two trace the steps of her father back to Santa Mira, New Mexico. It leads them to the Silver Shamrock factory, where he had picked up an order of masks for his store. I won't give anything away passed that...Unlike the previous Halloween installment, this movie's violence is a bit more bizarre and gruesome. The deaths aren't bloody, but sickening and strange. I did see this at the age of 11 and the deaths have stayed with me, so that may be why I'm so disturbed by them, but the violence steers away from the random killings, and hack n'slash of the other Halloween movies.A final note The movie involves much more of the actual Halloween theme, not just the title. If you haven't seen it at all, give the movie a chance and give it your own opinion, don't just go by everyone else's. The below 4.0 rating is ridiculous.Halloween III Season of the Witch gets a 7/10 Rated R Bizarre violence/gore and language "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A factory owner sales Halloween - masks and a few children buy the masks and they don't know that is a cursed of the masks.Tommy Lee Wallace make a good third movie on John Carpenters classic cult film Halloween.Tommy Lee Wallace screenplay is a very good in Halloween 3 - The Season Of The Witch.I like Halloween - series, but I have not seen all of the Halloween - movies. It is a classic style in this Horror - movies.I can recommended this Horror - movie if you like Horror - movie with much exciting. "},{"Title":"Hurry Up It's, What Is THIS???","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So Here We Hae The Black Sheep Of The HALLOWEEN Movies and This Is How It Goes. Season Of The Witch as It's Sub-Titled Has Nothing To Do With The Other HALLOWEEN Movies Except For Two Parts Where The Original HALLOWEEN'S Movie Commercial and Movie Excert Are Shown On The TV. Other Than That, This Movie Is Entertaining All On It's Own By Using A Different Approach To Use The Halloween Theme By Using Masks With Some Piece Of Stonehinge To Kill The Unaware Children Who Wear Them. Seeing This 80s Cheesefest With Tom Atkins As The Main Character Is A Sure Fun Ride If You Like Pointless Horror Movies. (Then I Guess That Means Me.) As A Stand-Alone Film, It Entertains You and Will Make You Think, But As A HALLOWEEN Sequel It SUCKS. You Can Catch This Movie On AMC Every So Often Or Catch The Double Feature DVD Along With HALLOWEEN II. I Give This Schlockfest.....7/10 Cuz It Is A GUILTY PLEASURE. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but misleading.","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I suppose I shouldn't have been surprised. I caught this on cable last night (OnDemand) and was hoping for a slasher flick. Instead, what I got is more a psychological thriller then blood, though there was a fair amount of it.The story centers around on character of Dr. Challis, a doctor who gives up his weekend dad duties (divorced) and goes on a romp (sexcapade?) with a murdered patient's daughter to a town where the world's largest supplier of halloween masks has a diabolical scheme to bring about a dead god by sacrificing the children of America though means of a magical (via the dust of Stonehenge) and technological device to bring about snakes and all sorts of nasty crawlies. By the way, none of this is explained in any sort of appreciable detail.All in all, this could have been a great movie, story wise, could they have found a way to cut down the plot holes, but, per the usual 80's horror B film fair, they didn't. That being the case, I was expecting some sort of the showing by Michael Myers. I was sadly disappointed.That being the case, there is not direct link to the franchise in terms of story or character, save for the title (which I would argue doesn't belong in the franchise) and various movie trailer ads for the original movie strewn throughout the movie.All things being equal, this could have done well on its own, but I feel ripped off, but taken on its own, it's standard fair for the day and genre. If you are a fan of said genre, you will enjoy it. Just be sure you don't judge the book by its cover. "},{"Title":"Not Halloween without Myers but a pretty good movie","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well to start off i was disappointed Myers wasn't in it but i watched it all the way through. Not actually a bad storyline but i did notice that Michael Myers was on the TV when Dan Challis was in the bar. Its the scene when Laurie falls down the stairs and Myers follows. But what was weird is that it was actual footage when no one was even filming. I haven't got much to say about this movie but i didn't really like the idea of 3 masks which were pumpkin, witch and a skull that kill you on Halloween night when you watch this commerical. But my advice to you is to watch it and see what you think.I give this movie a 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"not what i was expecting","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" had this movie been given any other title imaginable, i may have been okay with it. this has nothing at all to do with the original halloween movies; why it is thought to be part of it, i cannot say. well, there is a scene in a hotel room where there's some halloween series related special, but the basis of the movie is something bad is happening on halloween. essentially, there's a toymaker that's creating evil masks that will do some sort of crazy thing to the people that wear them when he presses a button, which he plans to do halloween night and our protagonist has to stop him. like i said it could be the huge let-down of no michael myers, but i don't even think it was a good movie anyway. "},{"Title":"Under rated horror classic.....","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season of the Witch, although carrying the same moniker as it's predecessors, has absolutely nothing to do with Michael Myers, the serial killer. For this reason, it seems there are many people that feel this is reason enough to bash this film. I am 100% certain, that if this film did not carry the Halloween title, it would definitely have scored higher that a 3.5 on this website. This is not the worst horror movie, I wouldn't even consider this film a horror. This film is a thriller, plain and simple. The only reason people categorize it as a horror, is due to the name. This is yet another classic movie in the vein of all other classic John Carpenter films.The story centers around a lunatic in a novelty factory, who is planning on using Halloween masks, to kill millions of American children on Halloween night. When a man is mysteriously killed in a hospital in California, clutching a Halloween mask, Dr. Challis helps the man's daughter investigate his mysterious death.This film is a first rate thriller, and along with the original Halloween, is one of my favorite horror thriller films. Sure, it doesn't have the typical psycho killer that was so popular in horror films of the 80's, or any of the mass blood and guts. However, the story is original, unlike most of the other horror films of the 80's, and this to me is it's appeal. I'm sure if it was Michael Myer's slashing young children on Halloween night, this film would have scored higher here in ratings. I for one, found this a refreshing change in the series.Sure, maybe I'm biased. I love anything that John Carpenter puts his hands on. I love his musical scores, and his stories. They are all very original. This film is not as bad as people would tend you to believe. Check it out if you are a fan of horror or thrillers, just don't expect the typical slasher film, or you will be disappointed.25 years ago, at the age of 7, this film scared the living hell out of me. Since seeing this film, I never wore a latex Halloween mask again. 25 years later, I still won't.A fun, massively under-rated thriller.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sufficiently sinister premise, but poorly executed","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3? No Michael Myers. No Donald Pleasance, either. The premise really isn't bad for a sinister Boo; I betcha I scared you ha ha! story, but it's not developed well at all.The title is misleading, implying this was another chapter in the Myers saga, an obvious deceit designed to increase box office. The idea of the plot here actually had some creativity, and should have been given some other title; it should stand on its own. Mentioning witches in the title is misleading, too. The plot is so shaky and meandering that it's not clear who the conspirators are Aliens? Lunatics? Commies? Witches? Robots? Disgruntled toy makers? Santa Claus? The second shooter from the grassy knoll? Whatever the motive for the diabolical plot was is never explained. I was able to identify one co-conspirator, though the theater that took my money.The plot to kill thousands of people with an evil device on Halloween night could have been utilized so much better than this. However, the movie just doesn't make it possible to suspend disbelief enough to evoke any frights. When you're not being driven mad by that incessant Silver Shamrocks jingle, you're seeing some unlikely scenarios involving the main characters. The bad guys have to be the stupidest clowns to ever try to wipe out people. One scene involving the hero and the bad guys is so cliché instead of killing the guy when they have the chance...oh, never mind, it's too ridiculous.A few random scenes have the potential to be scary, but they're scattered by all the lame stuff in between. The result is a film that limps toward the end, and you really don't care about the outcome. "}{"Title":"Never should have been part of the Halloween Franchise","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film will never get the notice it needs because it was associated with a successful movie franchise Halloween. It never should have been included, it would have been judged more on its own merits.First, the Halloween franchise problem I remember reading several things about the background of this film but the main gist I remember was it was supposed to be a part of the franchise, but no one connected to Halloween wanted to do another, so the studio went ahead and did this, taking the Halloween name on to it and releasing it during Halloween. Bad move. Bad Marketing move. Bad PR move. Bad Advertising move. Bad Branding move. Bad, bad, bad.Second, the movie problem The movie story was a decent one Mad, rich corporate toy maker wants revenge on children by making killer masks, then has their media buying department to buy commercial time on all broadcast channels on Halloween night and play the commercial that triggers the killings all at once. But no one cared. With the Halloween brand name, we were wondering where Michael Myers was. Where Laurie Strode was. Where Dr.Loomis was...and with that we were disappointed.This is film of a CEO of horror of the early 80's. Not as chilling or interesting as slasher icon Halloween's Michael Myers in which not for the taste of those looking for a slasher film, but a film of a bitter old man playing out his horrible toy joke towards a mass audience. A doctor stumbles onto the plot and tries to stop it. If nothing else, this movie has one of the most annoying, addictive Halloween songs ever. And they play it over and over and over again.In no way should this have been associated with John Carpenter's Halloween. If you watch, ignore all references to that film and view this just like any other 80's type horror film. Base it on its own merit. It's not a great film, but not a drop dead, bottom of the barrel crappy one either. "},{"Title":"How can you watch this movie?","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of all of the Halloween movies. THIS IS THE WORST! The plot was horrible. They steal Stonehenge to take pieces of it and put it on Halloween masks to sacrifice kids? Who comes up with this stuff? The song for the mask is one of the worst songs I have ever heard. William Hung is better! There's some goofs here and there. Oh yeah basically everyone is a robot, who are filled with orange juice. The bottom line is AVOID THIS MOVIE. If you really want to see a horror movie just see the other Halloween movies or better yet, just see Snakes On A Plane. Its way better. This movie doesn't have snakes! Or planes! OR SAMUEL L. JACKSON! "},{"Title":"weird, unessecary, bad, no michael myers","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie has nothing to do with the first two Halloween movies and the rest of the grisly movies either. it is different. not in a good way it is not really better and not really worse. Tommy Lee Wallace directs this. He also directed IT in the future which was horrifying. this movie is scarier than all of the halloween movies. there is sci-fi terror sequences throughout. well it is about an evil toymaker who plans to kill all kids on earth in the world on halloween, when they watch his show with the masks on it makes there face burn up and turn into creepy creatures such as rattlesnakes. the scene of the kid dying and his face disolving into the creepy crawlers was horrifying, other scenes like the men in toxedos popping up out of no where with sound effects that surprise and scare you, are horrifying too, this movie isn't bad but its not good either . the acting is somewhat OK but its not that great. the story is ridiculous and its not too great. it is scary but i wouldn't watch it if i were you, watch the michael myers ones ,there not scarrier but there funner, you'll get more enjoyment out of those Rated R for Sci-fi Violence,Terror,Some Language, and Sexuality "},{"Title":"Good idea, badly executed","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This third installment in the Halloween saga is a strange one since it has nothing to do with Michael Myers (or Laurie Strode for that matter).The film is centered around a strange plot concerning brainwashing millions of American kids on Halloween night by Irish blooded freaks.The idea is pretty intriguing and it is okay to create a new niche in the Halloween story but the execution is very poor.Carpenter (who strangely enough produces the film) traits are obvious, but the Myers tale has vanished. Still there are some shots that resemble Halloween like shots over the shoulder of a unknown man and shock effects made heavier by synthesizer tunes.But even then,it sucks. The acting is terrible,Tom Atkins is a complete miscast as the hero Dan and his love interest is even worse.The romantic story between the two is never explained although the hero seems to be married and has kids yet he sleeps with the girl without questions,very strange. By the way,Dan's wife is played by Nancy Kyes who also starred in parts I and II of Halloween.The tail in the climax is pretty funny although it very much resembles endings like Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Halloween III is a bad excuse for a movie and the only reason I saw it was because I want to see every Halloween flick (I've seen 6 of them now) and every time I see a new one, the original gets better.Thank goodness that in part 4 Myers returns although the movie isn't much better. Still, the Halloween story should be centered around Myers and not some kind of conspiracy concerning mass child murder.Oh yes, be advised that there are some pretty gory scenes that are not for the faint hearted although it doesn't make the movie any better. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Any true fan of Michael disowns this entry","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have every single Halloween film, except this one.Why? Because personally I'd rather spend two hours having root canal work done.The sound of the drill couldn't be any worse than listening to 'Three more days till Halloween Halloween Halloween!!' over and over and over again.I hated this movie as a kid....mainly because Michael Myers was not in it. So when it came on TV a few days ago I decided as an adult to give it another shot and be objective despite being a die-hard fan of Michael Myers. I tried to put out of my mind the fact that he was not in it and concentrate on it being it's own movie.Results the same now as it was twenty years ago.I still hate it.'How can this be worthy of the 'Halloween' title when the character the series is based upon is absent? It's like trying to make a Justice League of America movie without Superman or Batman. Most Halloween fans agree, this movie does not belong in the series and most of us do not include it.Avoid it at all costs.It will not make sense to you. "},{"Title":"only for those who can appreciate a bad movie","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're looking for a hacker-slasher movie, it's far from that. As a child of 9 when it came out, I thought it was really bad; but in its defense, I expected a slasher movie. What I got instead was a more of an eerie flick that is based on a pretty bad (albeit strangely interesting) concept and filled with dumbfoundingly inane details. As an adult, I think that all of it's bad qualities may make for a fun trip (at worst laughable).Do I recommend it? Hmmm... well, maybe. If you like the really weird Japanese horror flicks (I'm not talking Ringu here) that are all creepy and bizarre and without a substantial story line, I say go for it. I will again someday. "},{"Title":"not GREAT but not bad","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a long time reader of this site and I decided to use this film as my first review. I intend to review all the Halloween films, excluding the first two.I thought it better to use this as a starting point rather than the first couple as I don't really think I could add a review to this site that isn't the same as another.Anyway, enough with the history lesson.I was a fan of the Halloween films and about 7 years ago I began to really get into them, at the age of 17. I think I first saw Halloween 3  season of the witch when I was around 13 years old. I hated it, I didn't get it, and like most of the reviewers here I was confused as to why Michael Myers wasn't present.After doing a little research I discovered that John Carpenter had apparently written several Halloween scripts that were all stand alone. Halloween 2 was made after Carpenter bowed under the intense pressure to make a sequel. He wanted to kill Michael Myers once and for all. Unfortunately I think Halloween 2 was a major reason as to why Halloween 3 has been panned and regarded as a failure.A couple of years ago, when I decided to watch this film again, I was pleasantly surprised. I took it at face value, appreciated it for what it is.I won't give a synopsis - virtually every other review does. What I will do is evaluate the story. Although I found the plot interesting and it's certainly well made and directed, there are a couple of glaring continuity errors that you will pick up almost immediately. They don't particularly detract from the story but it takes away a little credibility - as does the commercial for Halloween playing in a bar - what's that about?! O'Herlihy plays a brilliant villain in this film, very creepy. The ending is quite unexpected and there are effects that are quite squeamish. The music used is also very good - yes, the music is annoying, but I think it adds something to the film - when you think the commercial was used to attract children and we all know how annoying those commercials can be, I think this fundamental part of the storyline transports it from era to era.It won't be the best horror film you ever see, but it's enough to keep you interested and just a little scared. "},{"Title":"Witty...Original...Very Haunting Indeed!","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third instalment of the Halloween series is  Season of the Witch. It is, although nothing to do with the rest of the series, one of the best instalments of the Holloween genre. Instead of being your usual Michael Myers gets bored and decides to go on a killing spree, it is a more original story (thank god!) about a sinister and apparently mentally disturbed Irish Halloween mask maker called Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy). After Dan Challis (Tom Atkins), a doctor in a Californian hospital, witnesses the gruesome murder of a young girls father, the young girl Ellie (Stacey Nelkin) and Challis team up to find the sinister meaning of her fathers death only to uncover a truly horrifying and disturbing plan... What follows is the disturbing and freaky following of Ellie and Dan's entanglement and escape from a sinister evil.... "},{"Title":"Season of the Witch...","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having had many years to accept the fact that this title has nothing to do with the 'Halloween' franchise, I have basically, in a small way, come to accept this little movie all by itself. It's really not that bad, and definitely sports some pretty good scares.The plot is this/Some sort of warlock named Conal Cochran wants to play a pretty rotten trick on every child in the universe, or at least those who celebrate Halloween and have a television. That is until he is sort of discovered by Harry Grimbridge, whom we meet in the film's opening. Harry is eventually killed in a Northern California hospital by one of Cochran's emotionless, obsessive-compulsive robots. Harry's daughter Ellie shows up, and teams together with a concerned and curious doctor, Dan Challis. The two of them travel to Santa Mira, the home of Silver Shamrock Novelties, where these mysterious masks are being mass-produced, and it just so happens that the late Harry Grimbridge was holding one of these masks when he died, spouting, They're gonna kill us all. Well, this is getting kind of long. Basically it turns X-files-ish as Dan and Ellie try to foil Conal Cochran's plan before nine-o'clock on Halloween night. Do they? I'm not telling....Mwahahaha! Just kidding.Anyways, there are several scary scenes in this film. One includes, among others, a woman who is poking at the Silver Shamrock thimble. Wow, my heart fell to my feet. What the hell was that?! And then the gore is there, thankfully, because without it this film would be nothing. So it works, if you can ignore the fact that it's called Halloween III!!! So where's Mikey? Big mistake, I think, but on its own it's really not that bad.5/10 is my vote. "},{"Title":"Promising when you break down the basics...","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When you break down this movie into its elements, you can see it's actually pretty promising* Evil genius - Yes* Evil consequences of watching television commercial - Yes* Underground lair - Yes* Robots - Yes* Rowdy Roddy Piper - No* Vague connection to ancient rituals - Yes* Patented John Carpenter synthesizer soundtrack - YesSounds pretty good, huh? In the end, though, it's probably half of what it could be. Comes off as disturbing more than scary or a good sci-fi movie. Still probably worth watching as a diversionary horror flick; though if you're a horror fan already, you probably have seen it just because it's a sequel to Halloween. "}{"Title":"You're All Morons","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I assume we all know why this is called Halloween III, despite having nothing to do with Myers John Carpenter wanted to have something like The Twilight Zone, but in theaters instead of TV. I would have liked to see this work out, but if Season of the Witch was the best they could do, I'm glad the idea died with only one attempt.Sometimes, when working on a movie, you just need to sit back and generalize your plot. Like Terminator for example. It was a good movie, but try to summarize it To win a war in the future, a robot is sent back in time to kill the general's mother. The humans send a protector who has sex with said mother and ends up becoming the general's father. (I tried to do it in one sentence, but just couldn't.) For such a great movie, that's a pretty stupid plot.Now let's do Halloween III A crazed toy maker has stolen a piece of Stonhenge in order to kill all the children of America. For no explainable reason. And there are robots involved.I'm just trying to drive a point home here. I could have believed this plot, however ridiculous, if it just didn't go too far. Like with Stonehenge. What were they smoking when they came up with frickin' Stonehenge?!? Who on earth thought that would be a good idea? And Santa Mira... Jeez, that doesn't sound horrible/laughable; I believed it completely. I guess Saint Look was big in Mexico. Everyone, from the director on down, must have lapsed into temporary mental retardation to make this film. "},{"Title":"Oh Yeah, the SoNg","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And that song you are all talking about, is the 8 more days till Halloween, Halloween, Halloween..8 more days till Halloween...Silver Shamrock That song??? I watched that movied in 1997 and still remember that blasted song.This movie was good because it was unique; set apart from the other movies, but other than that, I really didn't care for it THAT much. I believe Haddonfield WAS mentioned once during the whole movie, but I thing it was just a one-liner. Other's may enjoy this movie for it's uniqueness and the whole plot point around this movie. I did find that their methods of destroying children were rather new and original; I don't think I've seen that used in other movies.  "},{"Title":"Good on it's own","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK first off, when I heard about the concept of a halloween without, umm ANYTHING from halloween 1 and 2 except the day I thought it would suck. I, being the efficient collector that I am, went out and purchased Season of the Witch anyway. When I got around to watching it I discovered it was actually a pretty good movie, hte title still bothers me(I never actually call it halloween three, just Season of the Witch), as a Halloween film it is the lowest of the series, but as it's own movie it is actually a good flick. I recommend that people put aside the non-michael myers fact and give it a try..maybe you should just not look at the box or the title screen in the movie. hahaha.As a halloween- 1 or of 5 stars from view of it being it's own film- 4 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say...","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    Daniel Challis(Tom Atkins), a Doctor in a Northern California hospital is working when a scared old man,Harry Grimbridge(Al Berry)  holding onto a Silver Shamrock Mask saying There all gonna kill us is brought in.Moments later,he is murdered.Harry's daughter Ellie(Stacy Nelkin) Contatcs him,And together they discover Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy) terrible secret...  This movie is not as bad as people say.The acting is ok,The plot is very original,And I'm glad Carpenter tried to go a different direction with the Halloween series.Good gore and murder scenes,Although the movie is incredible boring.I'm undecided about the end,And I never really missed Michale that much The opening chase scene was cool. "},{"Title":"Pretty nasty stuff - just don't expect any masked killers (no pun intended)","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING - Possible Spoilers!! Halloween 3 is not based on the previous two instalments in the series.  John Carpenter wanted to release a film about Halloween every year - but not about Michael Myers - the masked killer from the original two Halloween Films.  Instead - they have a fresh story about an evil toy maker who wants to kill lots of kiddies on Halloween night by making them wear killer masks - family viewing folks! This is a pretty nasty little film - the premise is disturbing and so is the acting and the plot and Tom Atkin's moustache (eeeii!). It is very Z grade stuff - give me Mike Myers and Jamie Lee any day! Even though they had good intentions with not following on from the Mike Myers story - they screw it up with this nasty piece of cinema....  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've heard all the complaints about this movie and noticed that all are simply based on the fact Michael Myers is not in it. Some critics have complained that it was a poor storyline too.Well, I disagree with both views. If Michael isn't in part 3, who cares. This movie contains plenty of atmosphere and scenery to enjoy. But the acting and music score were also top notch. In fact, I like this music score (by Carpenter and Howarth) more than the first. The directing by largely underrated Tommy Wallace is exceptional too (he also plays the TV announcer's voice).H3 is a little slow moving, but the suspense picks up toward the end. My favorite scene is when Dr. Challis (Atkins) is searching for Ellie (Nelkin) in the old factory and comes across an elderly lady knitting. He asks here about Ellie, then the head falls off revealing a mechanical prop. This was plain eerie. I loved it.The climactic ending will surprise you too. I recommend Halloween III for suspenseful fun, but not for those expecting yet another Myers sequel. "},{"Title":"I liked it, okay?","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw H3, I thought it was okay but I didn't know what the hell to make of it.  Then I borrowed the novel from a friend of mine, that helped me understand the story better, and when I watched it the second time, I actually liked it.  It's got all the classic Carpenter elements creepy synthesizer score, surprise ending(Ellie turning out to be a robot), just an overall dark atmosphere.  And as for not having anything to do with the first 2 Halloweens, THAT WAS THE POINT!!!  John Carpenter and Debra Hill wanted to make a different movie every year, with a different cast and plot each time, but that each took place on Halloween, which actually wasn't a bad idea.  But unfortunately nobody realized that at the time(and by the way, Carpenter's mistake wasn't putting the Halloween in the title, it was the III that misled everybody), so 3 tanked miserably and has been all but put to death by horror fans everywhere, which sucks because it's really not that bad the witchcraft-meets-technology plot is a nice change from the tired psycho killer who can't be stopped routine.  Don't get me wrong, I liked H4, and I think it's the last truly great entry in the series.  5 and 6 f***ed it up badly, just like Moustapha Akkad has pretty much done to this entire series.  The whole Michael Myers story has gone just about every way it can(what's next, Halloween 9 Michael Myers runs for Governor of California?).  But back to H3  if you can actually get over the fact that there's no Michael(except in the commercial for the original Halloween which plays while Dan Challis is drinking in the bar, and he watches Laurie walk up to the Wallace house while he's tied to a chair.  Advertising one of your own movies within another one of your own movies-very clever!), no Loomis, no Laurie, no Halloween main theme, and see it for what it is-a unique and pretty f***ing cool piece of work-instead of judging it for what you thought it was supposed to be, give it a second chance.  You might actually like it. "},{"Title":"What the?","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers, heck forget it...I won't even comment on this movie it was so terrible... it was the worst waste of 5 bucks ever!!!!0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Biggest Waste Of Film EVER!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie during a Halloween Marathon, and It was just plain bad. I kept expecting to see Michael Myers but he never showed. In my opinion, if they would've continued to make Halloween movies with this plot instead of Michael Myers, the series would have ended quickly. The movie was very slow and had no suspense whatsoever. With other halloween movies you know that someone is going to die but not quite when. In this movie you can see right death comming from a mile away. Halloween III has just got to be the worst movie ever even worse than Amityville III and that was bad too. "},{"Title":"Biggest Waste Of Film EVER!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie during a Halloween Marathon, and It was just plain bad. I kept expecting to see Michael Myers but he never showed. In my opinion, if they would've continued to make Halloween movies with this plot instead of Michael Myers, the series would have ended quickly. The movie was very slow and had no suspense whatsoever. With other halloween movies you know that someone is going to die but not quite when. In this movie you can see right death comming from a mile away. Halloween III has just got to be the worst movie ever even worse than Amityville III and that was bad too. "}{"Title":"Strong Horror Film","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    The movie takes place in Northern California, not Haddonfield, which is said to be in Illinois.  John Carpenter didn't get the idea just after he made the second Halloween.  These stories were supposed to always change like Tale's From The Darkside.  He just wanted to wrap up what he started on Halloween.  This is not a bad film, either.  The problem was that this was technically a different genre then the other 2.  The other 2 were slasher film's and this was a horror film.  The plot was good, and the acting was fair.  I think this movie might have been made a little to early.  Now with the CGI the movie might actually be a bit more enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"The New.The Scary.The Michael-less.","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"      After that breathtaking ending on HALLOWEEN II.Fans wasn't raving about another HALLOWEEN,unless they thought of a cool way to bring Michael The Shape Myers.With a new directed named Tommy Lee Wallace and John Carpenter still producing.And the fans are still waiting for that cool of bringing him back.    In this so-called sequel.After Michael's death,Haddonfield has been a peaceful town,until now.An evil toy making company,has invented Halloween masks that will kill every last children who bought the mask on Halloween night. But,when a doctor and a young woman finds out.They try to stop it before it's to late.    This was a good film no doubt about it.But it would have done better if it used it's own name.You see John had an idea.He thought since Michael is dead,we can see what other evil lies in Haddonfield. This idea blow up extremly bad in John's face.A good film,in it's own right,but not the worst in the series.It's scary too. "},{"Title":"The New.The Scary.The Michael-less.","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"      Well,after that breathtaking ending of HALLOWEEN II.Fans wasn't waiting for another HALLOWEEN,unless they had a cool way of bringing Michael aka The Shape Myers back to life.It's been a year now,with a new director named Tommy Lee Wallace and John Carpenter signed to produce.Well,the fans were still waiting for that cool chance.    In this so-called sequel,after Michael's death,the town of Haddonfield has calm down.But something bad is about to  to hit the town,because an evil Halloween toy making company has planed to kill every last child in the neighborhood.When a doctor and a young woman finds out.They decide to stop it before it's to late.    This is a good film no dout about it,but using someone's else name to pump it up more is just a bad idea.I think that's what hurt the film when it was coming out.And to find out that there's no Michael in sight,except for some lousy commerical that was on t.v.The reason why this film failed so bad,because John had an idea that since Michael is dead,we can follow some more evil that lies in Haddonfeild.But,the idea blow up extremily wrong in his face.Still a good film though,not the worst in the series.     "},{"Title":"An experiment gone wrong","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While the first Halloween movie was a real horror masterpiece and the second was a moderately entertaining follow up, Halloween 3 was a mistake.The idea was that the Halloween series would be about Halloween itself, telling a new creepy story each year, rather than centering around the characters of Michael Myers, Dr. Loomis and any number of hapless victms. Unfortunately, the original story was so entrenched in people's minds that Halloween 3 failed miserably. Most people didn't understand Carpenter's premise at all, and although it was a very unique and clever idea, it was doomed to failure.Halloween 3 centers around a rogue corporation called Silver Shamrock that makes Halloween masks. The masks control the minds of the people wearing them when they view a weird psychedelic commercial on TV.As a whole, the idea behind Halloween 3 isn't bad at all, and although it could have been a much better movie, it suffers mainly from its title and the audience's expectations that go along with that title.Carpenter's idea to make each movie about a different Halloween ghost story probably would have worked out if he had not made Halloween 2 as a sequel to the first Halloween, but instead used the Halloween 3 story and left the original alone, or perhaps revisited it years later and made Halloween 5 or 6 show how Dr. Loomis kills Myers (and then left it at that). But the way things worked out, people associated Halloween with Myers and Loomis and that particular story too much for the idea to work. "},{"Title":"Cheez-o-ween III","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie during a Halloween marathon at my house years ago. I wish I knew what inspired John Carpenter and Co. to make a storyline departure. It was a rude awakening to find out that Michael Myers was nowhere to be found. It was like going to the fridge, getting a beer, taking a sip, then realizing you grabbed a V8. The main idea of the film was kinda cool, but the execution sucked. This film shouldn't have the Halloween name on it.  "},{"Title":"I can understand why so many truly hate this movie","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so it's the early 80s, and you hear that the new Halloween movie is coming out soon. You were a big fan of the last two flicks, so you get a bunch of friends together and head for the theater, expecting another round of Michael Myers versus dumb teenagers action. But then the movie starts, and the famous theme music isn't playing. Michael is no where to be seen, and neither is Laurie Strode, the main heroine played by Jamie Lee Curtis. Wouldn't you be ticked off? See, that's why I understand how some people really hate Halloween III Season of the Witch. It has nothing to do with any of the other entries to the series, and is a pretty dumb B-movie. It's so poor in quality that another Halloween film wasn't made until 6 years later, the subtitle of which was The Return of Michael Myers. I guess the studio in charge wised up and went back to the formula. So what is this black sheep entry about? Well, it involves this company called Silver Shamrock, the head of which wants to kill millions of young trick-or-treaters with his popular line of seasonal masks. For some reason, at a certain time on Halloween night, all of the masks that he has sold will murder these kids and make bugs come out of their heads. Why? I don't know, it's never really explained. One kid who gets killed during a test has snakes and other rodents crawl out of his skull. Doesn't make a lick of sense, but I guess the filmmakers thought it would be a good gross-out moment. The main plot has to do with a doctor and the daughter of a man who was killed by the Shamrock company's men. They try and figure out what's going on behind closed doors and if they can stop the madman in charge of it all. We learn that the workers at Silver Shamrock are actually robots (???), and that the mass murder of children has to do with a sacrifice to the Druid gods. What??? I really don't understand the story here, since the whole sacrifice to the Druid thing is barely even discussed. The bad buy steals the Stonehenge rocks, brings them back to his headquarters, and plans to do...what exactly? I don't know, it's all very confusing and stupid. Two things really got to me during this movie First, the romance between the doctor and the woman felt extremely tacked on and pointless. The two barely know each other, and yet suddenly they're full on making love? Right. Plus the fact that they're romance is disgusting, since he's this greasy tub who can't be younger than 45 and she's this bony little girl who looks like she could still be in high school. In a word EEW. Secondly, I couldn't stand that commercial for Silver Shamrock. 8 more days 'til Halloween, Halloween, Halloween! 8 more days 'til Halloween, Silver Shamrock! Now imagine having to hear that about two dozen more times and you'll know where I'm coming from here. Oh, and the whole format of having a card saying, October 24, 25, etc. wasn't used to its full potential. They introduce the idea, then pretty much chuck it out the window. And it doesn't work right when whole days are shown in the span of literally one or two minutes. The suspense kind of goes downhill, ya know? I'm glad I saw this, though, because now I can mark off one more name on my list of top 100 worst movies. 1/4 stars "},{"Title":"There should of been a sequel","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie and I don't care what everyone says. I wish they would of made a sequel to this. I loved the plot and it was good that there were not any known actors or actresses in it. My favorite part was when Mr Atkins (not to be confused with the diet man) destroyed the factory and the androids at the end. And another scene I liked was when Atkins pulled the wires out of the one android right before he was captured. But the coolest scene was when the lady got electricuted by the shamrock coin and after that the centepede crawled out of her mouth. So in my opinion this was my favorite Horror movie ever. Everytime I watch it, it takes me back to when I was 3 or 4 years old. Oh by the way my 2nd favorite horror movie was Halloween 1. "},{"Title":"HATE is not a big enough word","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I HATE THIS MOVIE.Why would anyone stick a piece of crap, irrelevant movie like this in the middle of a series that relies on a man named michael myers. Michael Myers is not in this movie. Change the title, and trash this piece.-1/10 "},{"Title":"Hey it could have been worse, believe me!!!","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter originally was trying to think of a story to make Michael Myers go away for good.  BY PUTTING HIM INTO SPACE!!!!!  So when you see this film that has nothing to do with the other seven just remember it can always be worse. Carpenter also wanted to make more Halloween films after 3 but all with different story lines that had nothing to do with Michael Myers.  So we can thank Moustapha Akkad and Joe Wolf for keeping Michael around, and so should you Mr. Carpenter since you get a check each time a new film is made.  "},{"Title":"It's what JC wanted","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basically, John Carpenter didn't want to beat a dead horse with Micheal Meyers, so he was going to make each movie different.The fans didn't like it though, they wanted to see that horse beaten until it was definately dead, so this movie in the series didn't do so good.I did hear that they were making a sequel to it though, so if you liked it, keep your eyes open. "}{"Title":"Just call it Season of the Witch","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The biggest problem with this movie is that they called it Halloween III. It's not.  But, if you just think of it as Season of the Witch, it's a far more enjoyable movie.It's not slasher like the other Halloween movies.  The only connection is that it occurs on and around Halloween.  Pretty much, they tried to make an actual scary movie rather than another slasher flick.  It's no Exorcist, but it's not like it was really bad.All in all, Halloween III Season of the Witch is a bummer.  But, as I said, Season of the Witch isn't that bad.  It's all in what you expect from the film.  C- or so. "},{"Title":"The cover looked good......","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this when I was real little, like three and that was back in 1984.  I rented it about a year ago.......I still wasn't impressed.  I am not going to spew out all of the bad stuff about this movie because obviously, if you have read other reviews, you know.  I have learned though that Michael Myers aka The Shape was never expected to be as big with the public as he turned out to be.  The series was supposed to be about different stories.  The movie, Halloween 3Season Of The Witch, itself, was a failure, but the idea wasn't.  I hope that makes sense.  I love the ending, kind of a Stanley Kubrick leave ya hanging ending.  Not much can be said good about this movie though, except for the fact that it is part of the greatest horror movie franchise in history.  I say that because it is my opinion.  Don't watch Halloween 3 and expect to be amused.  I like the music, not the annoying song, but the beginning credits and the ending credits.  I also like the cover.  They need to replace all these new cheesy DVD covers with the originals.  All of the Evil Dead's, Friday The 13th's and others like this.  My rating is 4/10.  It is a real failure.     "},{"Title":"It's bad, but...","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If set apart from the rest of the series this might have been decent... were if not for the droning commercial music singing One more day til halloween! Halloween! Halloween! This stupid song droned throughout the entire movie, never ceasing! AAAH! "},{"Title":"This film needs to be given a chance","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***Beware, there may be MILD SPOILERS in this review of the film. Please be careful when reading***Halloween Night, 1982...years after the Haddonfield Halloween Massacre of '78, a new mask making company called Silver Shamrock is the prime choice of all kids across the country, catching their attention with cute creepy masks, painted in nice, eye appealing colors that can even glow in the dark. Not to mention, the catchy tune on their commercials of 8 More Days 'til Halloween, Halloween, Halloween! 8 More Days 'til Halloween, Silver Shamrock! what kid couldn't get the catchy song stuck in their heads for years to come?But, in the city where the company is stationed, an evil plan is hidden under all the masks, commercials, and seemingly joyful feeling towards this time of the year...this is the year that no one would come home from Halloween, and only Dr. Challis has any clue to what's going on, but by the time he figures it out...it may be too late...Thus sets the stage for the only Michael Myers-less Halloween story, even though he gets a very short cameo in a commercial for the first movie in one scene, so it's not totally Myers less.It was also the last movie in the series with both John Carpenter and Debra Hill working on it, which is a pity...if this one had been taken to more kindly, or done better in the box office, we could have had a whole series of Halloween movies that could be various cool stories. But, the public wanted their Myers, so they got their Myers...maybe, perhaps, TOO much of him.Anyway, this review is about THIS film, not those films. The first thing you notice about this film, thanks to the funky opening credits, is the music...it's all synthetic, It doesn't have the sound of a piano or a organ, but rather the weird mix of music made with a keyboard and on a computer. This is a mix bag It helps set a certain mood for this film, which was an overlaying darkness behind the mask company, and that something truly evil is about to occur...but, at the same time, it can ruin your enjoyment of the film at parts, because the music gets to be just plain annoying...Taking a few musical cues from the last 2 films, there's times when you high a VERY high pitch Ding ding ding ding ding ding for a good 4 minutes, easy. In H1 and H2, the sound is used to make for very stressful situations, as Michael would stalk. This time around, however, it's so high that it does nothing more then make you want to mute the television just to be rid of it.But, for the most part, the original music they wrote for this works with the feeling of the film. The whole 8 More Days 'til Halloween gets really old after so long, but it gets stuck in your head too...you hate it, but then you can't after getting it stuck...it really is a bizarre piece of music.The story itself is kind of.well, silly. But if you can go into this movie expecting JUST that, it doesn't come off as bad as people make it. Okay, Okay, there ARE killer Androids, and there's a whole underlying reason for why Cochran is doing what he's doing, and it works. Granted, they probably could've come up with something slightly better, but I like the story in this one.The acting is fair enough. Better then some movies I've seen, especially Cochran...he just gave a presence of evil with his on-screen time. Dr. Challis is fairly likeable as the hero of the story, but you have to wonder how smart the man is if he's gonna go have sex with a woman he JUST met 3 days prior...I don't know about you, but to me, if a woman is wanting to have sex with me and not even know me that well, I've gotta think there's something up.The special effects did their job well enough, though it comes off as rather hokey with how things are done...I mean, really, yellow goop in an Android? What's up with that? Is it some kind of lubrication? I suppose it must be.The camera work was nothing out of the ordinary. It did the job it should do, and nothing extra or special was done with this part.All in all, I think it is quite a fair film, and the hints back to the original is pretty cool, with musical scores playing with the movie on TV and such...it's cute, in a weird way. This isn't a great film, by any means, but if you go in with your mind and heart open for a kind of silly horror movie, I think you'll be pleasantly surprised by this one. 3 outta 5 chainsaws.  "},{"Title":"This Movie Could Have Been So Good.... If They Changed The Entire Thing.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was very disappointed with Halloween 3 Season Of The Witch. It was just terrible!!! I admired Tommy Lee Wallace's IT, but this just sucked! I heard the reason it was even made was because executive producer Mostapha Akkad wanted to tell a different scary story for each Halloween movie, in which Michael Myers was to be one of the many, but when it failed at the box office, Moustapha and crew brought back Michael Myers to audiences in part 4. All in all, if you saw this movie, you should know that it's just TERRBILE!!! I give Halloween 3 Season Of The Witch a 3 out of 10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Worst Halloween film but it's not as bad as people say","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunately I saw the UK version which was cut so there was no gore. I remember one droplet of blood. That's all. Anyway a old Irish man Conal Cochran owns a big Halloween mask manufacturing company but in a final process where he puts a bit of stonehenge in the mask. The bit of stonehenge causes mutations on the face. Why did they make this as a Halloween sequel? It had nothing to do with the previous 2! If they had tried to link it, it could have seen the end of Michael Myers early on in the series! They could have linked it by Michael wearing a Silver Shamrock mask. Why did they cut the UK version so much?Though I was satisfied after watching this but then I didn't expect much. I bet everyone would have loved this film if it was called Season of the Witch. Come on it didn't deserve the treatment it got. Neither did it's theme music. Come on you have to love that Silver Shamrock tune. The voices are so inian it's funny!If it hadn't been cut so much it would have been a decent horror sci-fi. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"No Myers?.....so what!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember this film when I was a little boy and i guess it was okay then, and in my teens I have to admitt, I was racist to it for the fact that it did not have michael myers in it (However The halloween part 1 movie was in the background on some of the TV's in this movie),AMC had a recent monster fest which played the halloween movies. Part 3 was on so I decided to sit down and watch it through to the end, and you know what, this is not a bad film. First, it totally screams the 80's which some would see as a negative, but the 80's were'nt so bad, and second, the killings in this movie were so much more brutal then what michael myers handed out (Skulls being pulled apart, heads being ripped off, faces being burnt off and halloween mask eating away at people's faces)<----not bad for a Non-micheal myers movie. Before you rent, buy or view this film, keep an open-mind and realize John carpenter tried something different, if your looking to find Myers in this film, you will be sorely disappointed, but if you want a spooky little tale about halloween mask killing kids and robot men killing people in the most brutal ways, you may just like this film, My rating from 1-10, i give it a 7 for effort and an 9 for being orginal, and a 10 for the cool death scenes;-) all in all, an 8 is is my rate!!! "},{"Title":"A Disgrace to the Title Halloween","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whether you liked or disliked this movie, the director should have never used Halloween in the title. I know Tommy Lee Wallace worked on the original film, but really, did he have to disgrace a title associated with Michael Myers and Laurie Strode. He even pays homage by putting a Halloween TV commercial in the movie when actor Tom Atkins is sitting at a bar. I myself am watching the movie on AMC for their Monster Fest Marathon. I can't help but laugh at the storyline and plot. In my opinion, Tom Atkins was better in the movie...Night Of The Creeps. Even if the movie was not associated with any of the previoius Halloween movies, it still lacked a great deal. And now I can't seem to get that stupid Silver Shamrock song out of my head. "},{"Title":"Do not watch this film, EVER!!!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For the love of god if you see it in shops, do not be tempted to buy it. Its just completely stupid. Rubbish plot, actors and overall idea makes this a disappointing horror film to watch. Michael bought something to the Halloween films. Now, i've just sat and read most of the comments regarding how Michael Myers shouldn't have been bought back but he was and do you know why, Because thats what people wanted. This is the only crap Halloween film in the entire series. By the way it was the only halloween film to be entered in the worst 100 films ever. Out of 10 i'd say 0. "},{"Title":"This sucked so miserably!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bring back the shape! Oh, they did. Now, I see why! This was the worst, need I say the worst, did I say the worst, yes, I said the WORST horror movie I have ever seen in my entire life. This may contain spoilers.I love the Halloween films. But, it's the whole Michael Myers/Laurie Strode thing that makes the series. Okay, I may not have minded a new story line if this wasn't so bad. The acting was okay, but the plot was a little thin. Why did Cochran want to kill all the kids on Halloween night? They never quite explained his motive, which would have been key to making this film survive. Cochran was going to air a commercial with somewhat unexplained special powers to cause children wearing the Silver Shamrock masks to undergo dangerous mutations leading to mass deaths all over the country. He would make sure every child would watch TV at 900 for a special surprise and wear his or her mask simultaneously for disastrous results. I really didn't have to watch several victims, including a kid die in such a gruesome way.  How offensive! So, it's up to this doctor (a known alcoholic) to stop the toymaker's evil plot, yet nobody believes him, and certainly not his bitterly angry estranged ex-wife (Nancy Loomis a/k/a Nancy Kyes, who played Annie Brackett in the original Halloween), who purchases their children Silver Shamrock masks and accuses her ex of being an unattentive father. Here we go, there's another drunk doctor in the picture. (Remember Dr. Mixter from Halloween II?) And I was shocked! Why did they make Nancy Loomis look so much older? The film was made only a year after Halloween II, and although she played a dead Annie Brackett she looked young there.And they must have played that stupid commercial to the tune of London Bridges a million times. I found that scarier than the movie itself. The only good part of it was when they featured some parts of the original Halloween when Cochran has Dr. Challis tied up in a chair in front of the TV set. "}{"Title":"No Michael So what","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading some of the reviews for Halloween 3 Season Of The Witch it seems most people don't like it because it does not follow the first 2 Halloween movies.I haven't seen Halloween 3 in at least 15 years, today it was on American Movie Classics  part of Monster Fest, so i decided to watch it.It's really not that bad, but it's not really that good at the same time.People complain that the movie was bad because Michael Myers wasn't in it or any other character from the first 2 Halloween flicks weren't in it, yet i bet these same people complain about that Halloween movies with Michael.Sometimes you just can't win. I love the Halloween films, i only disliked HalloweenResurrection.To be honest i would rather see Michael Myers when watching a Halloween film. But at least the Producers tried to do something different.The Score of the film was good, the acting was decent.The plot revolves around a guy thats making mask that will kill children on Halloween.I thought Halloween 3 got off too a good start, but as the movie went on it started to get boring.Writer/Director Tommy Lee Wallace who worked the crew on the first 2 Halloween films did a halfway decent job here.Though i did think the ending was really cool, that's what saved the second half of the movie.If this was called just Season Of The Witch i don't think as many people would hate it, cause they seem to judge the movie on one thing.Most people don't consider this part of the Halloween series and i do a agree with that. If there would have been some mention of the first 2 films i would count it, it's a sequel by name only.I was a bit busy at times so i did miss a few parts, but i would watch it again.I give Halloween 3 Season Of The Witch 4/10Like i said the second half of the film in my opinion was a bit boring and sloppy that's why i give it a 4.It's worth a watch though. "},{"Title":"Horrible, yet I can't look away, like a cinematic car crash","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to start off by saying, this movie is terrible. It's hokey, annoying and dated (check out the VIC-20 graphics in the title sequence!) But, dammit, that's what makes this movie GOOD! I have found in the past that taking any John Carpenter movie (directed, or otherwise) with a grain of salt does a world of good. It's got robots, lasers, a modern druid conspiracy and camp, but that's why it works. Let's forget for one second that Halloween is derived from a very old pagan festival and reflect on the fact that camp is what drives the holiday nowadays. Cheesy ghosts, lame cardboard skeletons and gorging ourselves on stale candy -- that's the fun of it, and this movie, although a commercial disaster, fits in with the light-hearted identity of Halloween. "},{"Title":"Forgettable flick isn't scary or suspenseful","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982) C-96 min.  D Tommy Lee Wallace. Tom Atkins, Stacy Nelkin, Dan O'Herlihy, Michael Currie, Ralph Strait, Jadeen Barbor, Nancy Kyes, Dick Warlock. Ignoring the plots of the previous two HALLOWEEN movies, this box-office dud deals with a maniacal plot to murder millions of children on Halloween night through their Halloween masks (?). Would have fared better if it hadn't used HALLOWEEN in its title, this forgettable flick has some gruesome moments, but it isn't scary or suspenseful at all. The score by John Carpenter and Alan Howarth is a plus, though. RATING 4 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence, grisly images, and sexuality.  "},{"Title":"Halloween...no Mikey?! What the Hell?!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know what they were thinking writing this piece of crap but that is exactly what it is...COMPLETE, UTTER CRAP.  For one reason, where the hell is Michael, huh??  Another, why did they go a different direction with this series?  It's like the unsuccessful attempt going another direction with A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge.  Which was also utter crap. 1 and 2 were great, H20 was alright, but after 3 excluding H20 they made Jason X seem like a good idea.  Don't waste your time on this sh**.  1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This movie would have sucked even if it had Mike in it.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    A lot of people are upset that Mike isn't in this movie. Well I personally think all the Mike Myers (except for the original and H20) were dull, dreary, and ultimately boring. In this case I was happy to see that the writers came up with new material. They made a plot that was actually somewhat interesting, but unfortunately the producers didn't feel like spending more than $100 to make it into a movie. So what the viewer is left with is lame acting, lame special effects, and a lame theme song that they have to play 15 times or more just to fill in for time (without the song this is really only about a 30 minute movie). It offers very little scares, little laughs, and no fun. In the end its just another dime a dozen, cheesy 80's horror flick. The only entertaining scene in the movie is when Atkins and Nelkin are getting it on in a motel. Yeah it's that bad. "},{"Title":"What was the point!!!!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween 3 is about as good as the worst film released.It has no ties to the original and the sequels and was worse than I expected.Why make it apart of the series.Fans will be highly dissapointed as there is no Micheal Myers.The movie is so bad that it is good. It is about toymaker who makes masks that when kids put them on they watch the tv and they die.It used some original effects but added nothing more to it.It might have made a good tv movie if it didn't insult the Halloween saga,but it did.It is terrible,something I wouldn't watch again but something I'd buy to go to my collection to complete the series.I was dissapointed.I rate 1/5. "},{"Title":"Worst movie, best song","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say this movie was the best, but if you pretend it's not a Halloween movie (which is not very hard to do), it's not as bad. The one awesome thing about it was the song.. One more day 'til Halloween, Silver Shamrock!. The end is pretty twisted, and illogical. At least the song makes up for the lack of plot.  "},{"Title":"it's just crap","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If it weren't for the Halloween name on this film I never would have bothered to buy it.  before I saw it I thought H20 was awful.  This one made H20 an oscar winning film.  yuck! it's okay that the characters were different but they could have at least tried to link the films together.  i did like the end though.   "},{"Title":"I've seen worse, or have I?","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From reading previous posting, one would think that the only reason people consider this film a dud is because of the absence of Michael Myers. Wrong, this film is a stinker because it's story is quite frankly, pretty awful and dumb. I mean come on! The only thing that is pleasing about this thing is the cinematography by the great Dean Cundey. I think Carpenter did well in distancing himself publicity wise  from this thing as much as he possibly could, considering he was the producer.  "},{"Title":"Not there at all","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning, Spoilers! We already know that this movie is going to suck since Myers won't be in it, but you'd think they can at least make a decent film. So far, this one is probably the worst of the series, even worse than Halloween 5(which also sucked, but at least it had some excitement). This movie had absolutely nothing decent about it. The plot was horrible the cast and setting wa bad. And it wasn't scary. Avoid at all costs. This movie gets a 1/10. "}{"Title":"Um...?!?!?!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, the beginning of this movie proves decent enough...and certain parts are okay...but overall this installment into the Halloween series is just...well, silly at best.Beyond unbelievable...the thought of someone stealing a piece of Stonhedge, and the only thing the movie tell us about how they did it is....NOTHING...just that you wouldn't believe how we did it.  Well, I'm sorry...The idea of a Warlock attempting a mass Slaughter/Sacrifice of children all over the world is interesting, but very flawed.  Timezones, areprobably the biggest barrier to this being totally completed.  The commerical (goddamn that song) would have been shown in California, where the movie was set, at 9pm but little ole me here in Ohio would have been effected by it 3 hours prior to the California airing. Silly, slow and littered with plot holes....It is a good thing John Carpernter did not pursue other Halloween movie off the Michael Myers topic.  However, he is not the one who brought us any of the sequels except #2. Halloween 8 proves to be a let down as well...we will see!3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ah, What Could Have Been....","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit that I never fail to get a kick out of these so-called true HALLOWEEN fans who blow their silly little circuits over the fact that this second sequel to John Carpenter's classic HALLOWEEN has nothing to do with the previous two films.Even more astonishing are the number of people who discover this only after buying or renting the film!I'll make it simple  If you know anything at all about the HALLOWEEN series, then you would KNOW that HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH was not about Myers!  It was never SUPPOSED to be about Myers!  Slamming this film because it doesn't have Myers is just as asinine as slamming a movie like TITANIC for not having Myers.I'm apparently one of the few who would have enjoyed seeing Carpenter's vision for the series come to fruition.  An annual or bi-annual horror film, released under the banner HALLOWEEN, but with new and different characters and stories based on the lore of the holiday.  Had this been the case, and had the American moviegoing public exhibited a little more imagination, then perhaps the HALLOWEEN series would have gone down in history as something unique and special.  Instead it will be remembered as just another by-the-numbers, cookie-cutter, connect-the-dots-moviemaking slasher franchise.Sad, sad.... "},{"Title":"The absolute worst in the 'Halloween' series","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand how they could do a sequel that has nothing to do with the previous two 'Halloween' films.  This is absolutely, in my humble opinion, the worst 'Halloween' film yet!Instead of the masked serial killer Michael Myers, we have an evil toy maker creating Halloween masks designed to do away with millions of kids on the Eve of All Saints.  Sure, most of the other 'Halloween' sequels are flawed to one degree or another, but this is the only installment in the series that I didn't like.  'Halloween III Season of the Witch' is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"The terrible and misleading Halloween sequel","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is really nothing much to say about this movie except for the fact that it sucks bad pumpkin pie. No Laurie Strode, no Michael Myers, and no Dr. Loomis are present in this film, but for some reason this movie is called Halloween III. Go figure, * out **** "},{"Title":"Halloween - definitely not a trilogy - avoid part 3","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film yesterday. I have seen all the other sequels. But what is this? A film totally different from the others. The story completely different and made in one minute it seems. Nothing scary, nothing haunting in this film at all, except for the strange final scene. Michael Myers, come back!  "},{"Title":"Give this one another shot.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay... so it's widely known that this is the ONE Halloween film without Michael Myers, and without Dr. Loomis. It abandons the slasher film genre for a strange story dealing with witchcraft, a toy manufacturer, nearly indestructible henchmen, and one bizarre Halloween TV special. But Halloween 3 has quite a bit going for it as well. The scene wherein the test family enters the room with the young boy wearing a halloween mask still chills me. The spastic happy happy halloween music, the echoing laughter of the boy's mother, and the moment that the boy grips his head even as it begins to melt and mutate into various vermin are the things nightmares are made of. Likewise is the quick scene where an older woman starts picking at a mask she buys for her grandson with a bobby pin. The image of what that mask did to her face is still emblazoned in my mind. Sure, the plot has some loopholes, and the acting isn't exactly stellar, but it still manages to spook me in some fashion whenever I watch it. This was the very first R rated horror film I ever saw, so maybe I have a bit of an emotional tie to it. But even saying that, Halloween 3 is a solid horror that is a must view.  "},{"Title":"Better than a slap in the face","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why this film has been given such a low rating. For $2.5 million the makers conjured an entertainment more inventive than your average modern day fantasy flick. I would go far enough to say that it's the second best Halloween film (despite the fact that it is totally unrelated to the rest of the series). It's probably the goriest as well. Catch it late, preferably after a night down the pub, and I guarantee you will be entertained.   "},{"Title":"Don't wast anytime on this piece of garbage","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay this movie is all wrong. It gives us no good acting skills and a stupid story. And another thing, what about Michael Myers and Jamie Lee Curtis, or Donald Pleasence? Those 3 names should be the only reason you give a title of a movie Halloween. This had nothing to do with the previous two movies. Its just about a mad toy maker who wants to kill children. Big deal. And to make matters worse they ended the movie with a setup for another  season Of The Witch type movie. Thank God it was never made. I had no ambition to see what followed after the events of that movie. I think that most of you who have seen it will agree. "},{"Title":"Great movie!...just kidding, it was BAD! (!SOME SPOILERS!)","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once upon a time there was a film called Halloween. It was very successful and made its director very famous. Everybody liked this film. But already by its second sequel the film-makers had the glorious idea of making a movie with the same name but a completely different story instead of sticking to a good series. And so the perfect example of how NOT to make a sequel was born.Okay, I'm trying to stop being ironical now.There is really not much to like about this film. The acting was so poor that I was actually very happy to see some of the actors getting killed. The story is simply ridiculous (A micro chip in a Halloween mask that turns your head into spiders and snakes when a certain music is played? Robots decapitating people? Come on, you can do better than that!). And there's this annoying music (Eight more days to Halloween...; you know which one I mean) all over the film. It is obvious the film-makers used the name of a very famous film to get at least a few people to watch this poor excuse of a horror film.Definitely not a highlight in any of the crew or cast member's career.My rating 3/10 (Don't let this film discourage you, #4 is excellent!)  "},{"Title":"Stay away from this movie!","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the Halloween-movies that never should have been made. This is the 3rd one in a row of many good scary movies, but it`s easy to suspect Carpenter/Hill for just thinking about money when they planned this movie.  The story isn`t the best.  Laurie Strode and Mike Myers from the two first ones do not include in this movie.  The only thing this trash has in similar to the first ones is the name and the producers.  And the worst thing about it is that it isn`t scary at all.  Mixed up with a boring story it all ends up being a big disappointment.  Even if you loved the original(like I did), you`ll probably hate this.  It`s almost a shame. Warning  Don`t waste your time.  "}{"Title":"I can't believe that people are STILL talking about this movie","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With that said, I am about to say something as well ;)I had initially looked this film up mostly on a lark, assuming that there would not have been any comments written on it in quite some time.  I was surprised to see that 15 years after I first endured this film in the theater that people continue to debate its merits/failings.  This is a bad film, pretty much from beginning to end.  It suffers from terminal plot problems and ridiculously bad conception.  Originally Carpenter wanted the Halloween series to be a yearly film event that would showcase different directors and unique story lines, however, after he made the original sequel himself and included Micheal Myers, most of us fans were to assume that this would be an MM film.Well, we were wrong.  I knew ahead of time that MM was not to be in the film, and I was excited about this yearly event thing finally kicking off.  I went in with high hopes, which were dashed immediately.  I wont give away any of the outlandish things that occurred in this film, but lets just say that I enjoy suspending my disbelief and am willing to go just about anywhere that a film wants to take me.  I rarely question a film while I am watching it, but I found myself audibly asking what the h*** several times (as well as hearing other people say the same thing).  The whole theater just sort of walked out in a daze without looking back.Actually, I did look back.  A few years ago I finally screwed up my stomach to watch the film again, hoping that perhaps I had been wrong all those years ago, and it had only been my youth that undermined my appreciation of the film... well, it is worse the second time around.  I rarely write bad reviews of films anywhere, but with this film, I really dont have anything else to say. "},{"Title":"IF it ain't broke, don't fix it(spoilers)","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What exactly was going through John Carpenters mind when this movie was being made?? It's no wonder he left the series after this one.A few things Mr. carpenter should have taken into consideration before he put this in the theaters were1) No Michael Myers-No Halloween 2) No Dr. Loomis-no Halloween 3) This movie just plain sucks!!!Halloween without our buddy Mike is like Nightmare on Elm St. with Freddy or Friday the 13th without Jason(ok so jason wasnt in pt. 1 and pt. 5 but it was still the same formula). I hear that a new Halloween is in the works and they are planning to do it without a Myers storyline.  Please dear God not again! "},{"Title":"WHAT THE H*** WERE YOU THINKING?!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie would be OK if it did not have the 'Halloween' marker.  Not only did it stray from the original storyline, but it hardly made any sense.  This is one mistake that ALL movie makers should avoid NEVER CHANGE THE PLOT!  'Halloween' is about Michael Myers, not about an evil mask-maker bent on killing all children with subliminal messages.I was very disappointed when I first saw this, ME, a true Myers fan!  I haven't seen it for many years, and hopefully for many more!  This is not one of John Carpenter's best, but there are always the other 'Halloween' movies (praise God for VCR)which I never get tired of.I hear that the next installment of 'Halloween' is in the works, but they were thinking about taking Michael Myers out of this one, too.  For the love of 'Halloween' fans everywhere, I hope that doesn't happen, because a few years from now, I'll be here again with yet another unsatisfactory comment.I give this a 2 out of 10, and that's only because of the 'Halloween' name. "},{"Title":"An underrated movie, though not worthy of any prizes either.","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know this film has been pounded by critics but I believe it has some true merit.  Atkins is quite credible and O'Herlihy is even more convincing as Conal Cochran.  A haunting score (especially in the end credits), grotesque snakes, roaches, scary humanoid robots, and an uncertain ending with Atkins making a believable plea, make this film work far better than most reviewers care to give credit for.  Also, seeing the movie in widescreen on DVD might help. "},{"Title":"No Mikey, but some good stuff","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a mistake, seeing how Michael Myers was missing. I mean this horror movie has only one connection to the first two movies....an ad for the original Halloween. However, it's got a great score, and some cool stuff. It would have been a wonderful horror film, if it was just an original movie, instead of a sequel.  "},{"Title":"No Shape, therefore shapeless....","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How can a movie called Halloween III, which has involvement by Carpenter and Hill (as producers only this time) and Atkins (long-time Carpenter actor) NOT be set in or around Haddonfield, be without Jamie Lee and have no sign of Michael Myers?And while we're at it, WHY?  That's not unreasonable to ask, especially since this movie makes no sense whatever the context.In fact, let's ponder three pointsSPOILERS....1) What was the bad guy (O'Herlihy) hoping to gain by killing all the world's children and replace them with robots?  The parents might notice, don'tcha think?2) How would you get a stone from Stonehenge shipped out to a town in the middle of nowhere and keep it a secret for so long?3) Didn't Carpenter realize something was fundamentally wrong in a movie like this where if it's going to be a sequel, that it should at least have one or two of the original characters carried over?  Or was he too busy counting his money? ...END OF SPOILERSWhatever the case may be, Halloween III doesn't really add up to a whole lot when it's all over.  In fact, it just makes you wonder why they bothered.And where you can get one of those cool masks.Two stars.  All tricks, no treat. "},{"Title":"This is not a sequel.........","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween 3 is not a sequel to Halloween or Halloween 2.So why is it called Halloween 3?!I hated this movie.It was terrible.No one I know seems to like this movie.It has no plot nothing.It should not even be called Halloween 3.You can not make a movie and call it a sequel if it has nothing to do with the original. "},{"Title":"stop it! stop it! for god's sake please stop it! theres no more time","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i think this isn't a bad movie. this movie may have been a little less bashed by people if it wasn't called halloween III. the movie may be laughable at times,but it still isn't bad. it may be the least in the series,but it's still pretty good. i give halloween III season of thewitch **1/2 out of ****. oh and one more thing stop it!stop it! stop it! stop it! stop it! stop it! stop it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY THE WORST HALLOWEEN ENTRY YET!","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is TERRIBLE. DO NOT SEE IT. IT IS BAD! This movie has no Michael Myers, who has been replaced by some murderous toy maker out to kill all the kids in the US on Halloween night. This movie could have been better. But it's not. Only see it if you absolutely, POSITIVELY HAVE TO see ALL the Halloween movies. Otherwise, stay far away from this movie.  As I said before, IT IS BAD! "},{"Title":"halloween...scary...huh....","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Someone once told me that this movie (Halloween III) was the scariest movie that they ever saw.  For about 10 minutes, I may have agreed with them.  BUT what starts out as an interesting beginning (the setting and then the zombie-like drones going after a man who visited their town)  turns into something indescribable and utterly stupid.  As a movie in the Halloween series, this movie makes no sense (no Michael Myers or even a connection to him (which would have been simple to do).  As a movie about Halloween it is at least bearable (with a story about masks and the threat of putting your life in the hands of a mask).  As a horror movie, what?  The story is more stupid than scary. To a little kid a killer mask may be scary, but that is not the audience (with its rating).  Anyway,  Amityville II The Possession was released in the same year and even it had scarier points and more prolonged scary aspects (despite the fact that it has a lot of downfalls). All in all, horror movies in 1982 were a bit depressing. "}{"Title":"Who is this movie for?","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie seems to be another slasher film like Parts one and two-instead it is a childish,camp, weak showing. The title is an obvious ripoff of the previous films. It does have a catchy song and some diabolic plot ideas-it falls far short of the hoped for result however.The best that can be said is that it is a good teaching tool for samhain-the real halloween. But I want a treat, not a treatment!  "},{"Title":"Okay, I voted a little high for this...","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this a 2, but only because it was a good effort to make the Halloween franchise into a possible Tales from the Crypt type of thing.  I can't forgive them for tossing Mike Myers out the window but they brought him back.  The whole concept was too ludicrous for anything really but the ending was pretty cool.  The rest of the movie made me yearn to go back to something like Splatter University...  Skip this one unless you want to impress people with the fact that YOU survived it.  "},{"Title":"Okay, so when does Michael appear?","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I started watching this movie with the expectation of seeing Michael Myers. Boy, was I disappointed.  All I got to see was some nut playing with Halloween masks.  The music was almost unbearable, sickening. On the plus side, it was kind of a neat idea, but it sure shouldn't have played off the first two Halloweens. "},{"Title":"Unhenged","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An alcoholic doctor finds his mystery patient murdered by a be-suited weirdo, so he teams up with the victim's daughter to investigate malevolent goings-on at a toy factory.This is supposed to be different and, judging by the cover art, I expected something atmospheric and creepy. But it feels like a mash up of Willy Wonka and a campy James Bond super-villain extravaganza. With some cheap late '60s messin' with your mind effects. I guess if you can take anything from it, there's a sense of anxiety over fascism, where the corporation and the state conspire to snuff out individual liberty under a system of total surveillance. Seriously.Really flat style, needing preposterous plot developments to weird it up, even as the dash to save the day plays out like a Hardy Boys episode with extra violence. After the escape from the factory, the final sequence is just daft.Characterisation is really poor too. The hero is an alcoholic. His ex-wife is a harpy. His sidekick makes love to him out of the blue. The baddies are Oirish &#x96; because that makes the mystical connection plausible &#x96; who but the Irish would steal a piece of Stonehenge? Bleedin' obvious! So it's down to bad direction and writing. Can't say much about the actors &#x96; I wouldn't want to be judged by this work either. And Carpenter's music deserved better.Overall, just No. IMDb reviewers insist this is not as bad as it really is, but I guess they're nostalgics who saw it on the big screen when they were kids. "},{"Title":"A Different Direction","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A large Halloween mask-making company has plans to kill millions of American children with something sinister hidden in Halloween masks.As I understand it, this film took a beating at the time because it dared to take the Halloween franchise in a different direction. Looking back now (2015), it seems to be remembered more favorably because the detour is not a shock to today's viewers (even if it confuses them that one out of ten movies has nothing to do with Michael Myers). Personally, I wish it had continued down this path... a new story every two years? Could have been big and a great gateway for Carpenter's friends.Tom Atkins is a joy to watch (and a pleasant man in real life). Having him be a part of the Carpenter extended family is great, and even though civilians may recall him best for Lethal Weapon, he will always be a horror treasure. "},{"Title":"Halloween 3 Season of the Witch deserve another look. It's not as bad as people make it out to be. Happy Halloween!","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Happy, Happy Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Silver Shamrock! It's almost time, kids. The clock is ticking. Be in front of your TV sets for the Horrorthon, followed by the Big Giveaway at 9.' quote the commercial in this film. Directed by Tommy Lee Wallace, the movie is about a Halloween company's evil plot to kill millions of American children with deadly Halloween masks. These masks have a deadly computer chip made from a fragment of Stonehenge. When Silver Shamrock's commercial would air on Halloween night, the chip was to unleash a lethal swarm of insects and snakes, killing the wearer and anyone in the immediate vicinity. One might look at this film on paper, and call it silly at the time, but in a way, some people has smarten up and relooked it in a different light. It has gather somewhat of a cult status due to the fact that, it has taken as its own film and not part of the Halloween Slasher series. It also actually contains some interesting social commentary about commercialism and American greed. The movie is also has a lot of throwback to 1950s/ 1960 paranoia horror films like 1956's Invasion of the Body Snatchers & 1960's Psycho with hidden gems like the city of Santa Mira & the motel scene. You even see hidden homage to both of the previous Halloween films from 1978 & 1981 with clips of the previous film playing in the background and actors from the films having cameos like Jamie Lee Curtis as the curfew announcer. Still, it makes you wonder, if Michael Myer's Halloween was a movie than, why is Halloween 4 call Halloween 4, and not Halloween 3? It also makes you wonder how were; there even kids in 1988's Halloween 4 Return of the Michael Myers? The movie does have that fault, where the plot doesn't make a lot of sense. After all, it's mind-boggling to see oddly place twist and turns with robot androids, unexplained witchcraft, and random sex scenes. It drag the weak plot along with little to no exposition. How did they steal Stonehenge and shipping it secretly across the Atlantic? How does nobody in the western seaboard know about the fatal course-inducting ad? U.S does have four time zones. Even the film tagline doesn't make sense, The night nobody comes home is a play on the original Halloween movie's tagline, The night, he came home.. If nobody came home, then does that mean that the children were saved, because none of them were able to watch the television program? By the end of the film, you're left with the question, 'WTF! Did I watch!?. Another fault of the film could be the overacting and underacting of the actors. Tom Atkins as the protagonist, Dr. Dan Challis wasn't what I call, memorable. He seem to fade in the background at times when stronger and more cartoony supporting characters are on the screen like Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy). Cochran is great, and really steals the film from Tom Atkins. He's a lot creepier than Michael Myers ever can be. Another reason why people might not like this film is because Myers isn't in it. Due to the success of the 1978 original, a sequel was indeed made, but when the studio want yet another movie. Producer John Carpenter had enough with the tiresome slasher. John Carpenter decided to transform the series into a yearly anthology of films centered around various aspects of Halloween. John Carpenter even try to pull the Halloween name from the film, wanting it to be titled Season of the Witch. The idea was made because they wanted to keep the franchise alive and fresh, but any one of the entries could in turn become a franchise in its own right, spinning off its own sequels. It sounded like a studio's dream. Other producers like Dino De Laurentiis went against it, as it could be used as a hook to get audience members to see the film. Instead, Dino De Laurentiis ask for more blood and gore to the story, to feed the audience hungry for Michael Myers. Too bad, the special effects for the film were pretty cheesy and mediocre. The original writer of the story Nigel Kneale left during the production, and sued the producers to take his name off the movie after seeing how violent cheesy, it was. Halloween III attempted to accomplish the violent task without Nigel Kneale and original director Joe Dante, but ended up met with a massive backlash from a fan base and critics. It performed poorly at the box office due to this reason. As a result, John Carpenter walked away from the franchise, which would be given a reboot with Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers continuing the story from the original two films. It's sad in a way, because Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is more a Halloween movie than the original 1978's slasher film as the theme of the holiday plays more into the plot. It's an intelligent, surprising, and disturbing holiday film with a number of nice touches like the Silver Shamrock commercial. Not only is the tune, catchy as hell, but it was haunting to watch. Yes, it could be a bit annoying due to the overplay nature of it, but that's what's scary about it. It's an evil thing, hidden under children innocent. A novelization of the film was published in 1982 by science-fiction writer Dennis Etchison under the pseudonym Jack Martin. Despite the film's commercial failure, the book became a best-seller and was even reissued two years after the film's release, in 1984. Overall Halloween III Season of the Witch is one of my favorite guilty pleasure horror movies besides the nihilistic ending. While, it's not a good movie at all. It's still, entertaining. "},{"Title":"Turn It Off!","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Day 24 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.Director Tommy Lee Wallace gives us a terrible installment in the Halloween Series with Halloween III Season Of The Witch. The film is about Dan Chalis played by Tom Atkins who is trying to take down an evil corporate business man who wants to kill kids with supernatural Halloween masks. The film is a total letdown and a complete waste of time the acting is poor and the story doesn't male sense and this film is just really disgusting. I suggest that you skip Halloween III Season Of The Witch.Rated R For Graphic Violence, Language And Some Sexuality.1hr 39min/99min.1 use of the F-word.BOMB/**** "},{"Title":"Makes no sense. Not even a good movie if it stood alone!","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was...well...strange. First off, the title is Halloween 3. For those of us who have seen John Carpenter's Halloween, we think Michael Myers killing people, but this movie doesn't even have Michael Myers in it, so why is it called Halloween 3? Second, even if this movie stood alone, it would still be a bad movie. The plot had huge gaps in it, the acting was below average, and I don't know what was going through the director's mind. Overall, this movie didn't really deserve to be made at all I think. It has no point, and it is worst than the fifty sequels that were made from the original Halloween (ok, maybe not fifty, but there are more than 7). I would steer clear of this movie if I were you. "},{"Title":"Abysmal","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always been a fan of Carpenter's original classic but beyond the first part I've never been very interested in the franchise. Sure, I've seen some sequel or the other on the small screen, even rented the remake a while ago, but the whole Michael Myers-Universe never did much for me. So, when I saw this flick last night, the pre-known fact that Michael would not be in it, that Season of the Witch actually has nothing to do whatsoever with the rest of the canon, it did not matter to me.What did was an abysmally bad performance by every single actor (with the exception of maybe O'Herlihy), a ludicrous screenplay that goes absolutely nowhere and falls apart between black magic, gimmicks and robot zombie businessmen and the worst editing I've ever experienced in my entire life. Nothing in this movie works or makes sense. At best it is mildly amusing for the enormous plot holes and the almost comically bad acting. The male and the female lead have sex, although there is neither a romantic, nor a sexual build-up of tension. Stylewise Wallace borrows exclusively from mentor Carpenter, so he never develops his own style but regurgitates a washed-out version of everything his master is known for (anamorphic camera, still shots of people standing put, anti-hero lead). Especially the open end, something I often enjoyed in Carpenter's oeuvre, is beyond good and evil. It's so sad and such a painfully obvious evidence for the director's cluelessness that it renders the movie almost unwatchable. And don't get me started on the power drill-scene or the showdown-fight with the zombie-robot-chick - lousy.The only cool thing about it is Carpenter's synth-music, which is subtle and nice to listen to. The movie itself is an abomination and can only be enjoyed for its accidentally comical scenes. Shame on everybody who worked on this nasty piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood and overlooked, but still a very bad movie","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sat down and went into Halloween III the other night, come the end of October and all, with a weird sense of anticipation. It's one of those movies I hated as a kid because Michael Myers wasn't in it and blah blah... Peer-pressure, one of the most dangerous and evil forces entangled with childhood! I can't say I expected it to be any better than any other 80's schlock movie, and for about twenty minutes or so, I felt that I was watching something... well, really quite watchable! But after it all was done, to my great surprise I realized that, while it may be for other reasons, this is still a horrible movie!At a surface level, Halloween III has a lot of things going for it. It's dark, has a nice thick atmosphere and some surprisingly effective gore that seems to not gross out for the sake of it and therefore it rather becomes strange and fascinating, which is the key, I think, to good gore effects. The music score is nice, albeit not as wonderful as many defenders would like to have it (it does the job but is very primitive and a little half-assed). Also, Dan O'Herlihy is always a delightfully cooky villain.That's really as far as any positive remarks goes with this movie. And I suppose I can understand that a lot of people like this movie because of no other reason than that it looks good and has some gore. Actually, I might have accepted this movie for that too had it not been for one totally crucial problem of this movie It totally lacks any kind of motivation. The plot has no roots, no platform, it's just a series of events with no or very thin consistency. The problem isn't at all that the movie isn't about Michael Myers. I know a lot of people will take this as total blasphemy, but I really don't need Halloween 4, 5 or 6 if I instead could have a couple of diverse and original horror movies, having nothing in common but a very suitable Halloween theme. But nothing that happens in Halloween III has anything in common with anything.Tom Atkins, in a very confused and uncertain performance, plays a doctor who gets puzzled when one night they roll in a guy on an emergency stretcher shouting that They're going to kill us all, only to be executed later on by a guy in a zombie state of mind who inexplicably walks into his car, pours gasoline all over himself and lights himself on fire. He hooks up with the dead guy's daughter (Stacey Nelkin, who also makes a poor performance - and you can tell when her first scene is the identification of the grossly murdered father and her reaction is laughably unconvincing). Atkins should pick up his kids who are with his ex-wife but, oh no, he goes on a detective hunt with this girl while the movie totally shifts into a, very poor, thriller with romantic undertones. They aren't at all confused about what they are doing, they are suddenly very determined to find out the mystery behind it all, and they even have the time to get personal! They arrive at the most implausible of implausible Twilight Zone-communities and when one ridiculous piece of plot device leads to the other, we eventually end up in the lair of a Bond villain - though it doesn't look more high tech than Wall Mart - who has a plot involving mass murder of children - for no particular reason! And there's a piece of Stonehedge there too! This could all be forgivable if there was something there to forgive it for. But I don't care about the people in the movie, I barely know anything about them and they don't make any sense. Nothing that happens seems likely or suitable. I recognize the scenarios presented in themselves - from better movies - but why am I watching them? It's like they just make it up as they go along. The main, and I mean the most obvious and fundamental, reason the original Halloween worked was not because of Michael Myers, it was because I understood who the characters were and what the situation was. The plot worked at the most basic of levels - it was tangible. A plot involving mass murder of children should come off as either 1. Over the top and just plain mean-spirited or 2. Great shock value, but it comes off as neither since it's not tied into anything sensible. I'm not buying it at all, I'm only thinking that the people involved couldn't come up with anything. Every attempt at a suspenseful setup is predictable, the dumbest might involve a grown man jumping up and down tied into a chair with a stupid skeleton mask on his head. I get the feeling whoever wrote this screenplay had a gun to his head and like twenty minutes to go from start to finish. No, what am I talking about. The finale must be the dumbest. When they have come this far with the parades of anti-climaxes and bland bits and pieces of would-be suspense, including the most diplomatic death pose of a villain in cinematic history and a fembot with manners that would make Austin Powers laugh, do they REALLY expect us to care for these stand-in child actors, that annoying commercial jingle and a telephone call which suggests hitherto unknown powers from some random doctor to the entire global television industry of America? And do they expect us, in the midst of this well stirred up inferno of plot holes, to keep a straight face upon the final lines? STOP IT! STOP IT! STOP IT!!! I honestly suspect it's some kind of joke. I mean; You said it, doc. "}{"Title":"Quit being stupid and watch this without Michael Myers on your mind.","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a decent movie. Its Not great but it is different and as original of an idea as you can get. I watched it as a kid and yes I thought it was odd it didn't have Myers, but not everything to do with Halloween has to do with him. I thought perhaps it was a movie having nothing to do with the others and didn't pay any attention to directors and sequels etc when I was young and first started watching films.Season Of The Witch is a very unique movie about a strange old man who for some reason wants to kill little children by using their masks. My only argument was that there were three masks to choose from and I am sure that, unlike tickle me elmo, not all the kids would want one. Who wants to look like everyone else.This movie always entertained me as a kid and I will always continue to watch it when I watch the Halloween series. It is a nice break between the Michael Myers films which all look the same if you watch them back to back.Tommy Lee Wallace did an amazing job writing and directing it and I am a fan of his work. I mean he wrote Amityville The possession which is one of the scariest movies ever made.This Halloween was suppose to be a new direction. Myers was dead and Carpenter wanted to release a new movie every year with a new Halloween theme, but all these stupid people started whining wheres Michael Myers where is Dr. Loomis Wheres Jamie Lee and they never gave this movie a chance - it shows that people who did that aren't very intelligent cause this was a pretty good movie - so I urge people to get their head out of their ass and watch this movie as Season Of The Witch and forget Myers for five minutes and with all the sequels and all the crappy remakes and Hollywood garbage being fed to us these days you should appreciate something original like this!!! "},{"Title":"Never have I seen a worse movie","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen A LOT of horror movies, including Leprachaun Back 2 the hood (And all the other movies in the Leprachaun series for that matter.) But NEVER, and I mean NEVER, have I seen a movie that was this bad. Not only was it a snooze fest, so utterly boring that halfway through it felt like I had a Chinese man dripping drops of water on my forehead after tying me down, but it was also incredibly low budget, had so many plot holes, had no moments of suspense (Well, none that were in reality suspenseful) and had the worst ending of any movie, horror or not, that I've ever seen! The only reason I watched it is because i'm a huge fan of the Halloween series, even though this movie doesn't involve Micheal Myers, I still felt the need to see it to be able to say I'd seen every one. Trust me, I don't recommend doing that, it's not worth it, if anything you become less of a fan because you think Wow, did they really put that in the Halloween franchise? And you lose respect. PLEASE DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"what were they thinking not putting michael in this? still okay though.","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only reason i give this movie 5 stars is because if it weren't for the other 7 halloweens it would be a pretty good horror movie. However, due to the other 7 halloweens this movie is nothing but a lost cause and a hole in the Halloween series. Halloween III has absolutely nothing to do with the other 7 films and most people don't even consider it as a part of the series, including myself. When I watch the series I skip this film. All in all probably worth seeing, again not a terrible movie but just kind of ruins the Halloween series so if your looking for something to watch and you are not interested in watching the entire Halloween series you might as well check it out because it's got a pretty good story and an eery atmosphere. "},{"Title":"good name bad movie","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" well first of let me say i just recently purchase the Halloween boxset and i LOVED most the movies... except this one! i mean i saw the first 2 ones i liked them and then i saw this one, And when i was done i was like WTF was that? it has no story no good actors and NO feeling, all it has is a good name, it makes you wonder what did John Carpenter think about making this movie?? me personally think it was all about the money he Had a known name and he used it to make a Bad movie semi good because of the name face it only reason i watch the whole thing is because the name was Halloween 3, and i want to say clearly i loved all the other movies but when i watch 4-5-6-7 i just codent stop thinking about no3 and how i disliked that kind of Hollywood behavior where a name is more important then the movie,A little tip if you haven't seen this wonder full series of movies, watch them! it is a very good story about a very sick man ) but i must say to get the best experience skip this one and go right to no4. // A disappointed Halloween Fan "},{"Title":"At least they tried to do something different.","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween 3 (1982) was an interesting concept.  Instead recycling the sameold Michael Myers, the producers decided to have a new horror tale comeout ever Halloween.  Sadly the movie going public didn't buy this concept and it died at the box office.  The next movie would be a return of MichaelMyers.  Hey you can't fault them for trying.A weird toy company is producing masks and is using a successfulmarketing campaign across the nation to get the children to buy these gaudy foam rubber masks.  The company that produces the mask is located insome small creepy town in California.  A young lady hires some middleaged hard-boiled P.I. to help investigate the town, the company's weirdCEO and his bizarre henchmen/technicians.  Fun stuff.The movie was heavily edited of it's violent content.  But don't let thatscare you off.  It's an entertaining film.Recommended.BEven though the films are not related they have one theme in common. You'll find out after you watch this one, part two (director's cut) and Partsix (producer's cut).  Like they say, it all comes out in the wash. "},{"Title":"Micheal? Jason? Freddy? Pinhead? Anyone?","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is little I can say about this pityful excuse for a horror movie. I first watched it with a few of my friends and when it finished we thought it would be a good idea to destroy the tape in various ways (smashing, burning, jumping on, target practice, etc) and because it was a rental we had to re-immberse the shop but damn was it worth it. That really is how bad it is. Myers isn't even in it, the whole story is just sad and leads itself into no where and it ain't even scary at all. I recommend that is you get a copy of this film (it'll be an accident I hope) that you do what me and my friends to save the namesake of horror movies. "},{"Title":"what kind of movie is this???????","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie made no sense at all michael myers wasnt even in it.the movie was stupid and pointless and about a toy factory killing people. WOW. a toy factory let me get my guns ready.  if you read my review dont watch this film its a waste of time trust me everyone agrees with me peace "},{"Title":"I thought it was awful, where was the scary bits?","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this film, I was 10 years old, it was on TV late one night. I thought it was awful, where was the scary bits?.  This is the first 'Halloween' I saw...  I thought that the whole series was like it then someone said that it had nothing to do with the others THANK GOD FOR THAT!! Yes the original is V.Good and I have seen the whole series now and Halloween III is abysmal!b Why make a film that has nothing to do with the series?  The only bit was scariest(Not!)'SPOILER ALERT' was the bit were the woman was in bed and saw this 'Badge'on the floor and it had like microchip bit on the back and she pick it with a hair grip.  This laser beamed at her and burned her face then  this 'cockroach' crawled out of her mouth!! I recently saw this again on TV and I wish I hadn't bothered wasting my time watching this! I tell you another 'Horror' film is as bad as this is 'The Howling 2Your Sister is a werewolf'. Howling 2 gets a extra point because its funnier!!  Why do people waste time make these films that are not going to make it big?. "},{"Title":"A Good Series Takes A Bit Of A Turn","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"     This Movie, When Compared To Other's In It's Series, is The Worst, Although It Wasn't A Total Lost. Tom Atkins's Acting Was Very Great. The Only Goof Up In The Whole Movie was The Absence of Jamie Lee Curtis, Michael Myers, A Knife Welding Maniac(I Say This Because I am Not Sure Michael Was The Killer In H20), and Most Importantly Donald Pleasence. Something I Didn't Care For In The Movie ,That You May Love, Is The Gore. This Movie is Extremely Gory. I Am Not Talking About The Type of Gore From Others in It's Series, Like The Blood From Knife Wound. I Am Talking Lasers Melting People's Faces into Goo, Bugs Crawling On People, Etc. The Type of Gore That Makes People Vomit. They Could Have Made The Movie not Any Worse By Simply Editing It.   My Favorite Things From Halloween III Were The Robots. The Robots Were In my Opinion what Made The Movie.Another Good Part From The Movie were The Commmercials For The Shamrock Masks That Appeared on the T.V.'s Throughout The Movie about every 10 Minutes. I Also Was Enjoying How The Original Halloween is Playing On T.V. while Atkins is Tied Up   Would I Reccommend You Take my Word For It and Watch This Movie? NO. I Reccommend You Take Someone Else's Word For It And Rent This Movie. It is A Good One to See Every Few Years. The Ending is Good, Because I Always Forget What Happens, Then When It Does Happen, I Am Completely Shocked. I Would Hope That If You Are A Fan of Hellraiser, Alien, Leprechaun, or Invasion Of The Body Snatchers That You Would Rent This Movie. I WOULDN'T Recommend This Movie for you If You Like Slasher Flicks Like Other Halloweens, Friday The 13th, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Psycho, Ed Gein, or Nightmare On Elm Street "},{"Title":"What a piece of Junk","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a waste of celloid, a devoid and useless piece of trash.  If you thought 4-6 of this series was bad check this one, this one makes 4-6 look Shakespearian.  The first thing is this piece of junk has nothing to do with the first two.  This one has to do with a sick mask company and its plan to kill off all the children on Halloween Night.  You get robots and all witches and even pieces of stonehenge if you can believe it.  You also get the most annoying theme song of all time that awful Eight more days to Halloween, song makes you want to rip your hair out.  So lets sing to that song to end this review This movie is a piece of trash, piece of trash, piece of trash, this movie is a piece of trash...... AVOID AT ALL COSTS "}{"Title":"What the hell?!?","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am honestly not sure whether this move was suppose to be a joke or a sequel to the other two. Firstly-Where is Michael Myers??? (-5 points)-The acting was a disgrace (-3 points)-The music was plain annoying compared to the first two (-1 point)The reason why I would give this movie any mark at all is because it only went for 1 1/2 hours and the Halloween masks looked kind of interesting.Rating 1/10. Even if you find horror films good, you would think this is rubbish!  "},{"Title":"WATCH IT TO COMPLETE THE SERIES!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not going to go crazy, but what were they thinking taking Michael Myers out of halloween, he is Halloween, he is the man. I have to admit if Halloween 3 was a single movie out of the series it would be an okay movie but not as Halloween 3. I love the catchy song 3 more days to Halloween, halloween, 3 more days to Haloween, Silver Shamrock The story is this mask making company make these makes that on Halloween if you are wearing them and watching this TV show the mask will kill you. A pretty lame sex scene in a hotel is in it but not a good one. Not much gore, an average watch. only watch it to complete the Halloween series. "},{"Title":"A good and underrated horror.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It still amazes me to find out how many viewers hate this stylish and atmospheric horror. I know that people who dislike this movie feel that way *only* because it is a sequel to Halloween 1 and 2. These people should spend five minutes reading an anniversary interview with Tommy Lee Wallace, from which they could learn that H3 was not planned as a sequel but only as the beginning of an extension of the series - a voyage into themes different from The Shape's line. It was never planned to be titled Halloween III, actually - only at the last moment did the studio owners decide to do it, against Tommy Lee's will and to his annoyance. This film should simply be treated as a standalone project, only connected with the series by the fact that it takes place at the time of Halloween. Only then will you be able to see that it's in fact a good, very 80s, horror movie, with an excellent, ambient soundtrack - in fact, this film has the best synthesizer soundtrack ever created. As for the famed annoying song, it's not annoying in the least, and in fact it gets spooky in the end. And the lyrics to it are read by Tommy Lee Wallace himself! "},{"Title":"Sorry but I just cannot suspend my disbelief to this extent","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First I don't care about Michael Myers not being in this film or the fact that it is called Halloween III, I understand the Anthology nature in which Carpenter wanted to take the Halloween franchise and I am not a Michael Myers Fanboy either so that said on with my two pennies worth....Now generally to enjoy a film we are required to suspend our disbelief to a certain extent, after all we suspend our disbelief when a guy is shot several times at point blank range with no visible body armour and apparently shot dead only to end the film with the disappearance of his body as though he got up and walked away to get ready for a sequel...That's fine and we enjoy such nonsense because there really is nothing to compare it with in real life except possibly a Junkie on PCP who is oblivious to his injuries because of the drug...But this films premise is that this crazy old git has just managed to steal a huge block of stone from Stonehenge, a World Heritage site, without anybody noticing? Let me draw a comparison to a real life equivalent, everybody has heard of the Mount Rushmore monument yes? You know the big rock carvings of several United States Presidents in the side of a cliff?Do you think that if somebody stole one of the Presidents heads from Mount Rushmore tonight that anybody would notice it was gone tomorrow morning? I have visited Stonehenge several times and believe me unless it is a special day such as Summer Solstice you need some serious permits to even approach the Stones in the circle let alone taking heavy lifting gear to steal one, and it is this level of disbelief I find it hard to suspend which is what makes this film ridiculous even as entertainment... "},{"Title":"This might just be the worst","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" HORRIBLE!! If you are a fan of the Halloween series and are going through watching them all (like I was) skip this one. Where do they get off calling a movie Halloween and not featuring the star of the movie. Can you picture the writers around a table coming up with this???Yeah so the first 2 films have done great. Let's come up with something different to keep them guessing. Hey, why don't we just get rid of the Michael Myers guy? Yeah, it's old.How dumb can it be? The movie is about masks that kill kids on Halloween. The main characters are complete nobodies with no emotion and we don't care about them at all. They go to the mask factory to stop them from being made. And of course they eventually succeed. Sorry for the spoiler but I do not want anyone to go through what I went through. Waiting and waiting for Michael Myers to show up. TERRIBLE movie. Please, do not ignore this warning. There is a reason why all the movies after it were about Michael Myers. DUH!!!!! "},{"Title":"Pointless and Pathetic","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew this film was going to be completely different from Halloween and Halloween 2, no Michael Myers, no Haddonfield, no Donald Pleasance and Jamie Lee Curtis and no stalker killing babysitters! But I have to say after watching Halloween 2, I actually thought Hey maybe the people are wrong and maybe Halloween 3 is just as good without Michael Myers! so I rented it on DVD, I was so wrong.The movie starts disappointing with no Halloween theme song by John Carpernter (director of the original Halloween) so I had worries and it grew worse and worse. The murder scenes are just so fake, the special effects are poor and you can tell the actors behind the witches in the movie. It's a terrible movie. "},{"Title":"An interesting story, although there was no reason to associate it with the Halloween franchise.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, I should identify that Michael Myers does NOT appear in this movie; there's not even any mention of him (except for a scene where they watch the original Halloween). Halloween III Season of the Witch portrays a toy company making a costume with a deadly secret. What's interesting about this movie is really that it's more than just a who's-gonna-get-slaughtered-next story. I didn't recognize any of the people in it - although apparently, Jamie Lee Curtis's voice is used. All in all, one might interpret this movie as a warning against the dangers of excessive holiday commercialism. So are you ready to go out and buy any more toys? "},{"Title":"horrid","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  halloween is generally considered to be one of the greatest horror movies ever created. i tend to agree. the third chapter of the series, however, is truly terrible. not only does it lack michael myers, it's simply an awful movie in general. it has a story with potential, but the acting is atrocious and the execution is laughable. "},{"Title":"Has nothing to do with the series, still it's awful.","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horrible movie! The fact that HALLOWEEN III  THE SEASON OF THE WITCH has nothing to do with the HALLOWEEN series doesn't mean that it deserves to be bashed with no mercy because of being the bastard of the series.  It's a bad horror movie and that's visible. The plot is somewhat creative but the awful acting and the terrible character development ruin all the good aspects. The direction is somewhat good, Tommy Lee Wallace's (FRIGHT NIGHT II) job in the chair is o.k. That may be the only good thing about this movie.Lame horror movie, it's destiny was to fail  for having the HALLOWEEN name and not having Michael Myers, Dr. Loomis, and Laurie Strode. The best part of the movie has to be the original HALLOWEEN playing on Dr. Cochran's t.v.! Sad, I know.2/10 -After watching it, immediately boot it to the trash can! "},{"Title":"A nice try at an original idea....","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!I was not at a theatre in person when this movie was released in 1982. But I can tell you that I was personally disappointed in this third installment of the Halloween franchise.  I am a very loyal movie goer. Sticking with the Friday movies all my life, even after the debacle of part 8 and 9.  But having a Halloween without Michael Meyers is like having party without beer.  You need something to draw people in.  Meyers puts people in the seats, despite the horrible acting and character development. Tommy Lee Wallace had a nice original idea for a horror movie, but used the wrong vehicle to get it out.  And thanks to AMC last October, I got a chance to revisit this film.  Thank god I forgot the annoying Silver Shamrock song which porvays almost 3/4 of this flushable movie.   Is it me or does Tom Atkins star in like every early 80's or Carpenter-este film?       0 out of 5 stars IMDB Scoring 1 star "}{"Title":"People you don't care about doing things that make no sense","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Personally, I don't care about the absence of Michael Myers from this movie. I was very disappointed with Halloween II and was looking forward to a new direction. Little did I know that the direction was straight into the garbage.The thrust of the movie is this; a toymaker has stolen a piece of Stonehenge and smuggled it into California. He has sold millions of masks (in only three, highly clichéd designs) and has enticed his young purchasers to watch a commercial, that will somehow be seen by all the children of the US at the same time, regardless of the time zone they live in. When they watch the commercial, the children will be eaten from the inside by bugs and snakes. Oh, and some uninteresting people are trying to stop him.The movie falls apart when you consider that the villain has expended a huge amount of effort on his plan, but has neglected to give a reason why he should do so. He mentions wanting to bring back the fear of the old pagan gods, but for what? Wealth and power? He clearly has plenty of that already. Is he a religious fanatic? Okay, but how does mass murder further his cause? Is it all a big Halloween prank? You don't commit mass murder for a prank on the people of the US, you hire David Lynch and have him make a show called Twin Peaks. Some will try to jump in and point out that Michael Myers had obscure motives for his murders. This reasoning neglects the fact that Myers was a solo operator using very simple methods. The audience isn't supposed to understand him, they are supposed to fear him, plain and simple.The villain of Halloween III, by contrast, has an amazingly detailed and convoluted plan. He must have had moxie to set this up, and he must have had a clear goal to put out the effort he did. In a case liken this, the audience cannot help but think what his motivations and goals might be. When a movie sets the audience up for big payoff, then blows it off, it deserves nothing more than to be labeled a one-star cheat. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is the worst movie i have ever seen i mean look if you want to see a Halloween movie you want Michael Myers to be in it well your gonna be disappointed in this one. There was absolutely no plot. terrible acting including the end on how he kills the bad guy by dropping a bunch of magnetic things down i mean come on there was supposed to be a action scene. The worst part was the whole  THREE MORE DAYS TILL HALLOWEEN HALLOWEEN ThREE MORE DAYS TILL HALLOWEEN HALLOWEEN SILVER SHAMROCK god turn that crap off. so check it out on how bad it is. Another spoiler was that the whole robotic thing was so freaking lame. i mean near the end the Atkins (main character) punches right through this one guys stomach what the hell is that! At the end there was no point in making him kill his girlfriend 4 times. They could have made it better by making it a movie called Season of the Witch or similar but that was horrible. "},{"Title":"What's this about a witch, now?","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Almost universally hated for being such a digression from the much known and loved Halloween movies, Halloween III comes along almost like John Carpenter and Debra Hill, who produced it, are trying to sneak up on audiences and show them something they weren't expecting. While it's true that it has absolutely nothing to do with the two Michael Meyers slashers that came before it other than the fact that we see commercials for the original Halloween film on TV sets in this movie a couple times, it's not true that this is one of the worst horror films ever made, as I've heard it called very many times. I saw the movie about ten years ago, when I was in junior high school, and the two things that I remember were bugs crawling out of the masks while they were on peoples' heads and that god-awful music they played during the Silver Shamrock commercials. So when I watched it again tonight I tried to look at it as a separate film from the other Halloween movies, because I think that it's association with them is a large part of why so many people hate it. In a horror series that at the time of this writing has spawned seven sequels, including this one, it's the one movie that simply doesn't belong. Unfortunately, even as a separate film, Halloween III doesn't have much going for it.Clearly, there was enough stock put into the disturbing nature of the crime involved, since we are not given a reason for its existence. An elderly toy maker has developed a scheme to sell masks rigged with secret electronic devices, then on Halloween night at 9pm stage a Big Giveaway on TV, at which point he will broadcast a special commercial I supposed reminiscent of those commercials in Japan that are supposed to give you seizures. This version will activate the electronic devices lodged in the masks and cause them to somehow turn kids heads into piles of creepy crawlies.What is the purpose behind this scheme? What does this guy hope to achieve? And what the hell does Stonehenge have to do with anything? His hordes of robotic assistants is at least explainable by his need for secrecy given what he's really up to in that factory (and I imagine they have something to do with his remarkable ability to essentially hold an entire town hostage without even a single person leaving and complaining to authorities.Early in the film, a guy runs frantically into a gas station asking for help and is brought to a hospital to receive medical attention. Once there, a well-dressed gentleman walks calmly into his hospital room and pulls his skull apart, then just as calmly walks outside, gets into his car, douses himself with gasoline and promptly sets himself on fire. The subsequent mess is left to the hospital staff to clean up, as the car is left smoldering in the parking lot the next day without an inch of police tape around it and a lab technician is left to pore through the ashes. What is truly funny is the length of time that this technician spends sifting through these ashes before she realizes that they are nothing but car parts, a stupendous explosion of idiocy that she describes as a 'colossal boo-boo.'The doctor working at the hospital takes it upon himself to do a little investigating into the situation, traveling to the town that houses the Silver Shamrock factory, which of course sports an Irish caricature of a man presiding over the local hotel. I have to admit that I thought that the 'misfire' scene was pretty impressive, and is one of at least a few scenes that tend to argue that this movie deserved a title that would not have cast it in an eternal shadow. For the first thirty minutes or so, the movie is very impressive. The opening shot of the man running as fast as he can out of a calm night is especially unsettling, as is that entire chase between him and his robotic pursuers, whom we know nothing about at the time. But the more we learn about what's really going on, the less believable the movie becomes, until it hits rock bottom with Conal Cochran, the evil toymaker, gleefully giving Challis, the investigating doctor, a tour of his underground facility and a detailed description of his wicked plans, coming dangerously close to a Scooby-Doo ending. I really don't think that the movie is as bad as so many people seem to think, it's just too bad that it starts out so well but by the end the last attacks of the final un-killable robot are simply tiresome. By the end, I was just waiting for it to end, but at the beginning I found it very interesting. I think that these two things balance themselves out in terms of the quality of the movie, and then the association with the other two previous Halloween films is just another nail in this movie's coffin. "},{"Title":"One of the Strangest Sequels in the History of the Cinema","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III is a below-average film that is somewhat memorable because of a strange footnote.  It has absolutely nothing to do with the first two Halloween films or the four that would follow it.  In fact the only reference to the first two films is on a small television set in a crowded bar.  A movie trailer is shown advertising the original film, but that is it.  If you blink you will miss it.  This film is about a crazed company who make Halloween masks that do strange things to their owners when they watch certain things on television.  Halloween III is a somewhat disturbing film, but it gets away from its core story and this makes the film feel artificial to say the least.  If the film did not have the Halloween name, then it would have been better.  It could stand on its own, but it does not.  A strange movie all the way around.  2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Not Quite as Good as Its Two Predecessors","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie begins with a man running away from a couple of people in a car. Although he manages to escape, one hour later he collapses at a gas station and is subsequently taken to a nearby hospital. While in the process of being quickly examined he is suddenly awakened by a Halloween commercial on the television and starts screaming that They're going to kill us! This results in his being sedated. Not long afterward, one of his assailants enters his hospital room and murders him. After that the assailant gets into his car, douses himself with gasoline and then sets himself on fire. Shocked by all of this Doctor Challis (Tom Atkins) and the victim's daughter Ellie Grimbridge (Stacey Nelkin) decide to investigate the murder by driving to the last place that the victim visited prior to becoming hysterical. As it so happens, this particular location is also the same place that makes the Halloween masks the victim was clutching upon entering the hospital. Now rather than reveal any more of the plot I will just say that when I first watched this I was somewhat disappointed because I had expected something more along the lines of Halloween or Halloween II. But having recently watched it again, I have to say it wasn't as bad as I initially thought. Having said that I must also admit it still isn't quite as good as its two predecessors and as a result I have rated it accordingly. Average. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie but with many flaws","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know that this movie does not involve Michael Myers so I was very much prepared to just view this movie as a stand alone horror movie. I see that the movie generally has divided viewers and there are people who are praising the movie to the skies and others who think it is junk. Frankly I thought that while it is an interesting movie, it has too many flaws that prevent the movie from being the best of the sequels. I love the soundtrack! John Carpenter's soundtracks have been amazing and here too, they make a mark. It reminded me of the Thing soundtrack but maybe a little faster especially towards the end. I have a soft spot for these electronic themes of 80s movies. Other positive aspects are the movie's premise and the performance of Dan O'Herlihy as Cochran. There are some standout scenes especially the scene where Cochran explains the motivation. This character has to be one of the most evil characters in horror movies. The idea itself is quite controversial and that, in my opinion, makes this movie very unique. The ending is quite stylish.In the last 30 minutes or so, the movie descends into corny territory with some ridiculous deaths and scenes which don't really make sense. What is the point of that whole throwing the chips down and killing everyone stuff? That whole robot hand scene was also lame. I guess these things are common in 80s horror movies. But still we expect better things from a movie produced by John Carpenter. The whole romance thing was really contrived and annoying to watch. The lines are so cheesy. How come we always see men and women jumping into bed immediately in 80s films despite being in big trouble? I also didn't like the male lead too much. There are a few scenes which are maybe added to increase the running time. Overall I actually liked it but there are maybe there are way too many flaws for me to recommend the movie. It could have been a classic with the premise but too much cheesiness ruins it and makes it a somewhat average movie.6/10 "},{"Title":"Disregard the title.","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie shouldn't bear the Halloween name. It shouldn't be considered part of the franchise, but it is. If you go into this not expecting anything other than a horror B-movie, then you might leave somewhat satisfied. I did, at least.Apart from the movie taking place during Halloween, there's nothing in common with the series. A mad Brit is trying to eradicate humanity by using parts of a stone from Stonehenge (that he somehow managed to steal), latex Halloween masks, and a TV commercial. By attaching a tag that carries parts of the stone to the masks, he can somehow trigger a reaction by airing an epilepsy-inducing TV commercial at a time he knows all the kids will be watching, which will... make the masks rot, and the kids turn into bugs and snakes, that in turn will kill the parents.It's the perfect plan. Except, Conal Cochran (that's the mad Brit), didn't take the nosy doctor Challis into account, who hears about this from a seemingly deranged old man that arrives at his hospital while the other doctor is unavailable. This Doctor Challis is divorced, and clearly suffering from it, spending most of his time at the bar, or flirting with younger women. The deranged man is murdered at the hospital, death by having his cranium torn apart by a robot disguised as a human (controlled by Cochran, of course), and I'm gonna go ahead and guess that the reason the doctor is interested in the entire thing is because the deranged man had a really cute daughter. For some reason, without actually discussing it or getting to know each other, the two decide to pose as man and wife to infiltrate the small town where Cochran's company, Silver Shamrock, and its factories are located.Pretty much the first thing they do once they get a room at a motel, is have sex. True, they only have two days to solve this before god knows what happens, but first, sex. Considering how there's no actual nudity, I don't see how there's any point to the two having a sexual relationship whatsoever. But hey, I'm not the movie maker around here.The most infuriating part is that the movie tries to avoid having to explain anything at all by having the lead bad guy say trade secrets. Still, with all that bashing done, the actor's aren't bad, and there were a couple moments that had me giggle. Some of the killings are seriously brutal, and all the insects definitely made me feel a bit uncomfortable. I wouldn't classify this as one of the so bad it's good movies. It's a decent flick if you want something that isn't too serious. "},{"Title":"Workable stand alone movie","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr Daniel Challis (Tom Atkins) is on call in the hospital. An old man was on the run is being treated there. Someone comes in to kill him in a murder-suicide. His daughter Ellie Grimbridge (Stacey Nelkin) wants to solve his murder leading her and Dr Challis to a small town of Santa Mira where halloween masks are made. It is a company town run by company president Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy).First off there is no Michael Myers. They kept a few notes from the franchise and they actually had a commercial for Halloween on the TV in the bar. But this is a stand alone effort like a Twilight Zone episode. Apparently that was the original intent of the franchise but it was very poorly received. People expect and want Michael Myers. As a stand alone effort, it has its charm.Tom Atkins is not a big name actor. He's more a workman actor, and he's solid here in this movie. The premise is pretty interesting but it can't really pass a tough examination. Some of it isn't logical at all. There are some really cool stuff happening here. Some are very memorable like the bugs. If it didn't get tangle up with all the Halloween stuff, it'd probably be better received. "},{"Title":"More of the sa-- oh, hang on","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Abandoning the Michael Myers loop that had already grown tiresome in 'Halloween II', the third entry suggests that the series might have been more bearable as an anthology. 'Halloween III' isn't a very good film but it does offer a brief respite from the formula of Myers slicing people up with a knife; instead we have killer robots smashing people's heads in, so that's a refreshing change.In a riff on 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers', doctor Tom Atkins is troubled when a man is brought into his hospital mumbling dire warnings and clutching a Halloween mask. The stranger dies and Atkins and the man's daughter (Stacy Nelkin) follow the trail to the Silver Shamrock novelty factory, where they uncover a plot to massacre all the kids who buy the company's products. It's certainly a different direction, and along with the watchable 'Curse of Michael Myers' this is the only sequel that isn't utter garbage; there are a few creepy bits here and there, like the fate of the kid killed by one of the masks, and the grandma robot, and the ending is genuinely interesting.But it's flat and humourless, with uninteresting characters I didn't care about and a romance that lacks credibility. The plot is full of weird holes like the mask that somehow causes snakes and beetles to crawl out of one victim's head, and an evasive explanation for how a five-ton rock from Stonehenge is transported to a small American town ('We had a time getting it here. You wouldn't believe how we did it.'). Worst of all is the jingle for Silver Shamrock ('Two more days to Halloween, Halloween, Halloween&#x85;'), one of the most irritating pieces of music I've ever heard that's played and played and played until I wanted to put my head through the TV.A noble effort in some ways, but it didn't pay off Michael Myers returned in the very next sequel. "},{"Title":"Why, John Carpenter, Why?","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was not Halloween III. This movie was not about witches. Hence, my low rating for this movie. I am infuriated, insulted, and over-all confused by this movie. Here's the deal Michael Myers died at the end of Halloween II, but was alive at the beginning of Halloween 4. Also, during the span of time in between the movies, Jamie Curtis had a kid and died, which also went unexplained. You would think Halloween III would explain HOW any of this happened, but this movie failed to do that.Masks that kill people had no correlation for any of the other Halloween movies. Honestly, I didn't watch it. I sat through the first 15 minutes, and having been thoroughly unsatisfied by the story, fast-forwarded straight through to the end. I have no problem with the fact that John Carpenter wanted a different story for the series, but find it insulting that nothing about this movie had ANYTHING to do with the series.I saw Halloween 4 and 5 on AMC when I was 13 and then 1 and 2 during next years horror movie marathon. So, Halloween III was in fact the last one I saw. I thought everything would finally fall into place, that it would all be explained. I felt angry, baffled, hurt, but over-all disappointed. I'm left with questions unanswered, suspense without climax, and no explanation for any of it. Just like 2001 A Space Odyssey. "}{"Title":"Just Terrible","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the worst horror movie EVER!! John Carpenter- I thought that you could write better than this piece of trash!!! Disappointing is what this movie is. The story-line is stupid and so childish, everything changes every minute, and why is the town SOO quiet? I Don't KNOW WHY. The first two halloweens were perfect and VERY GOOD, and now this, why change the story and make it into a completely different style? That is just a recipe for disaster. But really, come on, this isn't scary, its a child movie, the ending left us with nothing but an empty plot hole, and what happened with Elly? YOU HAVE NO IDEA what happened to her. This is just bad,bad,bad. The only good thing was the sex,but other than that, it was just a waste of my time, no wonder its rating is 3.7/10, and I expected a BIG FAT ZERO. Please, for those of you who haven't watched HAPPY Halloween III, Don't. "},{"Title":"Science-fiction does not necessarily go well with horror","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only film of the series of five that will not deal with the insane immortal criminal with his kitchen knife. Here Carpenter moves to another theme  some crazy Irishman is going to play a trick on the children of this world and then take over the whole world. The first task will be performed through the millions of Halloween masks he is producing and selling in the world, with television as the trigger to ignite the malevolence of these masks which will turn the kids into wasps and snakes and plainly kill them at the very neat hour of 2100 hours on the 31st of October. The second task will be achieved through the army of robotized mechanical human beings that will just rake over the world and destroy any resistance. We are in science-fiction this time and fear is definitely less important. It may terrorize the audience but with the menace of a mad scientist this time and again. But it does not horrifies the audience because this concept of taking over the world with robots is too gross to be really believable. Many films have done better along that line since then and even before then. The Time Machine and 1984 for the older generation and The Matrix or Cube for the newer generation. In other words it is rather disappointing though it is altogether kept going at the proper rhythm and the end is both predictable and fresh enough not to look too simplistic. But definitely too many allusions to and borrowings from too many films and other works of imagination to be attributed any imagination of its own.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"I'm aware & others are that there's no Michael Myers in it..","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, I do NOT hate this film because it leaves out Beloved Michael. I knew full well going into it that it was a completely new story, and was well prepared for something different. I don't hate this movie because it's different, I hate it because it's bad. Michael Myers and the rest of the Halloween series is the only reason why this film even got a DVD release in the first place. There is a reason why Halloween 4 went back to the Michael Myers story line. I know there are people out there who don't believe that this is a monumentally stupid film. And since I have my collection of bad horror that I love and everyone else hates, I'm not going to slight them for that. I'm just going to do my best to explain why I personally don't feel that people should watch this movie under any circumstances.First of all, there is no Michael Myers. Our story centers around two people, a man and a woman, who are out to uncover a conspiracy that a company selling children's Halloween masks is really trying to make spiders, snakes, and other icky stuff crawl out of the kids' heads at exactly the same moment. For reasons far too ridiculous to recount here, the masks will cause this to happen on Halloween night when children all over the country will gather around their TV sets for something called The Big Giveaway. Now, I know that this movie is trying to make some sort of crappy point about commercialism. But why would a corporation even want to do that? They got theirs when they convinced the kids' parents to shell out the money for those trendy masks. Is it some sort of human sacrifice for the God of Corporate Greed? I suppose it could be seen as a lousy metaphor for the negative influence of advertising on children, but they couldn't come up with anything better than this? Now what really burns me up about the anti-commercialism message is not the fact that it's a poorly constructed metaphor, but the blatant hypocrisy of it all. This is called Halloween 3 because it takes place on Halloween. Clever, huh? Well, Halloween 3 is not just a clever title. They used that title for this movie so that all the idiots who loved the first two Halloween movies would rush out and see this craptacular travesty of cinema, believing it to be the next in the series. (Idiots like myself, perhaps?) Exploiting the success of a popular horror franchise with a third-rate sequel? That is commercialism at its worst! At one point, the man and the woman have to check into a hotel. The man says something that I will roughly translate here as, Hey, we're both pretty unattractive, I'm a lot older than you, there is zero sexual tension between us, and more importantly, we have to get moving to stop all those kids from having spiders and snakes crawl out of their heads. But since you're a woman, and I'm a man, and we're in a hotel room right now, can we have sex? Now if this were a REAL Halloween movie, Michael Myers would come and kill them. As we know from watching the first Halloween film, the source of Micheal's angst is that he knows that sex must only be enjoyed within the confines of the sacred bond of holy matrimony. And these two tramps are breaking his rule! But alas, this is a faux Halloween movie, and you will find yourself hoping against hope that these two one-dimensional characters will be killed off.It occurs to me that Micheal's mask is so much cooler than any of the dorky masks the kids are wearing. If they tried to make this an anti-commercialism movie by mass marketing his image as a serial killer, and selling kids masks that looked like HIS, it might be a little more interesting. But of course, that is like saying that watching paint dry on an artist's canvas is more interesting than watching paint dry on a white wall.A lot of people think this movie sucks because Michael Myers isn't in it. But if this garbage never purported to be a Halloween movie in the first place, and was released under a completely different title, it would still suck! (What title would that be anyway? Season of the Witch? I'm not exactly sure where that came from. I know it's a rather odd George Romero movie about a bored housewife, but this movie doesn't have anything to do with that movie, or witches, for that matter.) Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is bad for reasons that having nothing to do with how good the Halloween series was before this godawful entry.After you watch part 2 forget about part 3. Don't worry about watching part 4 later, and not knowing what's going on, because it won't matter. If you rent the Halloween movies, just pretend that the video store clerks left a crappy, unrelated movie in between part 2 and the next in the series, which they did. I am doing everything I can to repress the memory of this movie, but you can stop it before it starts. "},{"Title":"b.o.r.i.n.g","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is movie is so boring!! its so NOT scary!! its really really fake and has the most stupidest ending u could ever imagine!! The theme tune for the Halloween TV thing in the movie is quite catchy but it is very very very bad! these people told me that i have to write a minimum of 10 lines so I'm just taking up space so I'm sorry. Anyway, i am quite surprised at the end of the movie how bad the movie was. i at least thought the story was going to continue in the next Halloween movie but it didn't!!! there was only this one scary bit where my friend screamed but it wasn't THAT BAD!!! so if u are interested in a bit of really lame and horrible 1980s kind of horror films, i suggest u see this one. U can watch it with heaps and heaps and heaps of people or u could just watch it by yourself! its up to u. OK, well i think thats more than 10 lines so thanks for reading this and so go and watch the stupidest movie of a lifetime!!!!! "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firstly, yes this has little or nothing to do with the other Halloween films, and it is the worst so far. To gave it credit though it must be said that Carpenter wanted to take the series in this direction, telling a different story in a different film each Halloween. This was an ambitious and exciting idea which had potential, even if that potential was limited. Unfortunately this film is a mess, and flopped, ending Carpenter's idea. Viewers were expecting more Myers mayhem and were disappointed by the complete change of direction here.An evil toy maker decides to kill millions of children via his Halloween masks. He is the owner of the company Silver Shamrock, and infuses all the masks with black magic which will burn any child who wears it on Halloween night when a special jingle is played. After a successful advertisement campaign it seems that his mask is a massive hit, and his plan will be complete. Only Doctor Challis and Ellie can stop the evil, but will they make it? This was the first Halloween movie I saw, when I was very young, and a few moments have stayed with me since then- Cochran's goons on patrol, killing anyone who gets in their way, and the jingle which is admittedly creepy, though a familiar tune. The idea is good, but it falls on its face through a combination of bad acting and poor storytelling, and in the end little makes sense. The shock ending is still good though, but its potential impact is decreased by the fact that we don't care for the characters, that we don't really meet any kids, and that we have become bored by the end.Plus the makers seem to have forgotten about the time difference in a country the size of North America. Little is explained, most of the deaths are bizarre, while sufficiently bloody. Plus the whole thing looks cheap and doesn't have enough scares. If there had been a better cast, more thought with the storyline, and better direction it could have been a lot better. It even could have become an effective satire on Commercialism, especially during the holidays. For fans of the series, watch it once, but don't expect much.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not a 'Halloween' Movie","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is the odd one out of the 8 movie series. Michael Myers is not even in this movie, he is in the hospital recovering from 3rd degree burns, and later appears in Halloween 4. This movie basically shows a group of aliens disguised such like the enemies in the Matrix to take over the minds of little children using masks built from the Silver Shamrock Corporation.On Halloween, every child who has bought one of these masks will sit in front of the TV and watch a clip. The chip installed into every mask causes a reaction with the screenings to infest the child's head in a gruesome way.Two people try to save Halloween by stopping the bad men and killing the head alien. The mask throwing by the main character killed the movie for me. You can't throw a mask onto a video camera with your hands tied together. 4 out of 10. Do not waste your time. "},{"Title":"Failure","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH (1982)starring Tom Atkins, Stacey Nelkin, Dan O'Herlihy.plot After the mysterious murder of a man gripping a Halloween mask in the hospital soon before the killer catches himself on fire, Dr. Dan Challis (Tom Atkins) and the man's daughter Ellie (Stacey Nelkin) trace his steps back to a creepy town all ran by a man named Cochran. Little do they know, Cochran is actually a warlock with robot minions who plans to kill millions of children using masks with stones from Stonehenge.the good John Carpenter adds a very creepy and well-done score which adds a sort of eerie mood.Some cool deaths are in here such as decapitations and a scene with a drill.the bad John Carpenter, Debra Hill and Tommy Lee Wallace decided that after HALLOWEEN and HALLOWEEN II, they'd make a series of unrelated Halloween films in a Twilight Zone-like series. Thankfully, they failed.Not only is this movie pointless because it is in the middle of a series of films of a mute serial killer murdering his family members, but it is just all around cheesy with cheesy acting, directing and special effects.4/10 "},{"Title":"Not so bad","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the reasons people like to bash this movie is because Michael Myers isn't here to kill people (while no one seems to notice), get shot and stay on his feet and finally escape at the end. Halloween III may not be the average flick that you can call good horror, but you can be sure that there are a lot of movies out there that are worse than this one.  Besides, this film has a few scary moments to gloss over it; I am talking about the androids that were like stepping stones for the creation of the redoubtable Agent Smith.People who watched Halloween III for the first time probably expected it to be a follow up to Halloween II. The bitter disappointment is accompanied by an illogical plot with a  chain of holes and mistakes that can many anyone wonder if the screenwriter never bothered to read his own script.Halloween III has an entrepreneur who owns a company that fabricates masks. So far, so good. Then we learn that some of his employees are robots. Did he bring them from the future? The movie is toying with our credibility now. But it is definitely not finished. Because our entrepreneur wants to sacrifice children in the name of Samhain. In order to do so, he puts chips on every Halloween mask his company makes. These chips will kill all children as soon as they watch a commercial (with a very annoying song, I must add) on Halloween night. Obviously the bad guy doesn't know that children like to see how things work and may open the chip (like that woman inside a motel did) and get themselves killed. They may also remove the chip and lose it. Parents may see it and call someone to find out what it is. These are things he never thought about. As bad as this is, he also believes that all children, on Halloween night, will immediately forget their candies and stick to the television when the dreadful commercial comes. Obviously he has been hanging around androids way too long.Don't read any more if you haven't watched the movie yet.A few scenes in the movie are clear examples of bad filmmaking. Take for example the scene where a couple and their son get inside a room for an experiment. The kid starts watching the commercial on television, and suddenly, for no reason, he puts on a mask with the chip on the back. When the chip kills him, cockroaches and snakes come out of his head. -apparently all the company's masks come with cockroaches and snakes that get big when a head explodes. Credibility has been murdered along with the kid. Adding insult to credibility's injuries, the kid's parents see that their son is dead and don't seem to react. Then, when there are cockroaches and snakes all over the room, his mother faints. Father runs to the door. Where are the tears? The screams? Are they robots too?Then there is the ending. How does the protagonist destroy the company? He just runs the deadly commercial and then throws some deadly chips around, so they will blow up. While the commercial runs, the evil and dumb entrepreneur just looks at the hero and applauds. Doesn't he know how to turn off a VCR and stop the commercial? The ending can make you picture the director screaming Let's wrap up this thing and go home, everyone.One of the good things about this film is the androids. If you watch Halloween 2, you may realize Michael Myers doesn't mind getting shot and being set on fire. He survives. He also survived getting his head chopped off in Halloween H2O. Hey, maybe the sole purpose of Halloween III was telling us that our beloved antihero is actually a renegade android that just kills people and repairs himself. That would explain how he re-attached his head when Jamie Lee Curtis cut it off.My advice for Halloween III, don't take it seriously. Think of the scary moments. And think about how good it could be if it felt in the hands of the Mystery Science Fiction 3000 guys.   "},{"Title":"It was one of the most original horror halloween films ever! It was ok!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok while this may not be one of the best horror movies of all time it was definitely better than the Michael Myers films. Why? Because thrillers (like Myke Myers) are always the same. A crazy dude stabbing people to death, big deal. Very predicatable too. This is one of the few to have this sort of style to horror and its setting gives it a higher rating to watch and get spooked from. Other than that halloween 3 does have its mistakes as it was mentioned long before, but yet halloween 3 deserves most of the attention .i don't care if people (most) hate this film, they just don't see the true genre of horror. The other halloween movies aren't horror, they're thrillers/chillers which is way different. Thrillers mostly deal with murder horror on the other hand deals with real fiction. That's why I love horror better than thrillers. Thrillers are always boring and predictable. Halloween 3 deserves a lot of credit, though, i would have written it a lot better and taken my time to complete it. Now killing innocent kids on halloween is reallt intense and sick, if they were teens it would still be the same. Halloween Season of the Wicth, rated R for some disturbing/intense violent scenes of torture and language. My version of rating because the torture to me is the awful deaths of the kids. 7/10 for its originality, 6.5/10 for the movie itself. "},{"Title":"DON'T EVEN BOTHER TO SEE THIS!!!!!!","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the worst movie ever made in the world since ManosThe Hands of Fate. IT WAS THAT BAD. The movie had no plot at all. When I first seen this, I wanted to burn it,but I couldn't because I rented it. Don't ever watch this movie. Oh, and i forgot to say that it doesn't even have Micheal Myers in it. So don't watch it even if you're planning to see all of the Halloween movies. "}{"Title":"How to Enjoy this film . . .","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Halloween 3 Drinking Game - Take a shot every time you hear the word Halloween.Seriously, okay, I watched all the Halloweens except for this one, knowing it had a common trend in the name department.  Even went to Halloweenmovies.com, read some interviews with the cast & crew from various films, read a lot of the behind the scenes stuff and learned why Season of the Witch became the bastard child it did.  So with that knowledge I sat down to watch Halloween III years later with an open mind.  Let's judge this as a stand alone film with no connection to anything.It's mediocre everything--that's why so many people won't give it a chance. Halloween 1 & 2 had Michael, they were strong films--Halloween 3 comes along and changes everything (which alone will turn a few a way) but the new direction is mediocre in all categories.  Unless this film beat out the original 2 films combined, Season of the Witch was in for one hard ride. Hence it's reputation.  I try not to compare Halloween III or even include it in the pack when I'm talking about the Halloween series; I don't feel it's very fair.  Given, I still don't like Season of the Witch as a standalone or as a part of the Halloween franchise.The film opens with very retro, very poor computer pixelated animation of a pumpkin.  The music had the ring of the typical 80s synths, no sense of atmosphere, no memoral visuals or scenery.  The villains didn't really have any intimidation to them, not once was there a threatening presence on screen, the plot and characters could never get comfortable with themselves enough to flow naturally--it just seems so forced.  Was the film meant to be serious horror?  Was it meant to be taken lightly?  If so, it could never quite place its tongue in its cheek or scare--whichever it intended to do.Perhaps if things fell into place more cozily than they did, the film would rise above mediocrity.  However, as it stands, it has wierd make up effects and shock going for it.  Nothing else really stands out.  But that's not only what sets it apart from the original Halloween, that's what sets it apart from -any- good horror film. "},{"Title":" I will kill all children on Halloween","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Stacy Nelkin is gaurded as Eleanor in this poignant horror flick. The remaining cast is senseless. The costumes are adorable. One of the fair farces in the genre, Halloween 3 Season Of The Witch allows less horrors. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I don't care what anybody says, I LOVE this movie! NOT!!!!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was the worst Halloween movie ever created. If I had to choose between watching Barney's Great Adventure and this %$#&ing movie, I'd choose Barney. It's that bad. Really. If there were no masks and androids, but just Michael Myers, and in place of Tom Atkins we had Jamie Lee Curtis, this would have been a whole lot better. I would title it Night of the Mask instead of Season of the Witch. Halloween got off to a good start. Halloween 2 was kinda, um, good in a way. Then came the insult to the series. H3 (bum bum bum). I would give it a five out of ten, but Michael and Laurie aren't in it, and Richard Attenborough would have done better than Dan O' Herthloieyshnoggaer (Sorry, forgot his last name.) Looks like final rating is...-134,904 out of ten. F-------------      "},{"Title":"This Movie Desecrates the Name of Halloween","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basically, this movie was one of the worst sequels in movie history.  It had no connection to the plot of Halloween, or Halloween 2 (although H20 had no connection to 4,5, and 6) but atleast they stay on the same tangent as the Michael Myers storyline.  Would any of you like to buy a used copy, I'll pay you a dollar to take it off my hands.  In all reality it's at best 1/2 * out of **********. "},{"Title":"A very silly movie and worth avoiding","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *May contain spiolers* This movie that has nothing to do with the original Halloween should not have even had this title.  It starts out that a man runs from these men in suits and finds a gas attendant and goes around talking about these men that are going to kill everybody.  The men come after the man and his daughter goes out to find whoever went after her father.  Along with her and this doctor that has little experience in acting and this is very observant in his caracter because he fails to uplift his caracter and is instead very dull and unmoving in this film.  The lady that ends up to be his fling does not do a very good job with her role as well.  She ends up looking at the doctor as nothing but a sexual object and they end up just tagging along with eachother during the investigation.  Anyway, they end up at a laboratory of robotic workers that make masks and put a chip in the back of the masks and when the commercial of the masks comes on, thousands of children are supposed to die.  This is stupid and we only see one example of this happening and that is during an experimental demonstration.  then the part of stonehenge missing and the lab ends up taking it somehow mysteriously and cutting off chips of it and making it for the masks.  Then the ending is the most silliest thing I have seen in this movie with the doctor sitting on the phone calling television stations demanding that they cancel the commercials of the masks before it's to late.  This movie is terrible.  It shouldn't have even been connected to the original Halloween whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Okay, this movie, like, blows!","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, what the heck was Carpenter thinking?  I mean, you've got the first two Halloween movies good and then you've got a changed storyline in this one and it gets you thinking, oh no, no, no, why this series?  All it's about is just some doctor and some lady who tries to find her dad's killer and stumbles upon some famous guy who makes masks and the masks are like some type of killer along with these robotic type figures.  What's the joy in that?  Man, thank goodness I only saw this movie once.  I would definitely not recommend this movie to anybody who wants to see another horror movie with Michael Myers, because, sorry to tell you this, buddy, but you won't get him in this one. "},{"Title":"Where's Michael?","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To begin with, I'm going to forget popular belief by saying you don't need Jamie Lee Curtis to make a good Halloween film. You could even make a good one without Donald Pleasence (though it would never quite be the same). So what do you need to make a good Halloween movie? Michael Myers (a good story wouldn't hurt either). I admire the attempt to do something different and do a movie with a Halloween theme, but come on. The story is weak and acting is too far off either. And why give this movie the title, Halloween III? People probably wouldn't hate it so much if it didn't have that title. Thumbs down on this one. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone thinks...","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah, so it doesn't follow the same storyline as the other Halloween flicks...but it's a pretty damn cool movie.  This film has many of the Carpenter crew involved, and that right there gives it some credibility. Tom Atkins was always one of my favorite Carpenter regulars, and he is fabulous in this picture.  This movie seems like one of Carpenter's own, what with the great music and the unknown ending.  I am glad that they never made a follow-up to this and ruined it like the rest of the sequels to Halloween did to the original.  The scene where Cochran gives his speech about his origin is classic, and the little touches of the first film are in the right spots.  It does have a few bad points to it, but overall I believe this film is rather good.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"not awful but lame","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In a follow up not connected to the other two films, a mean old man wants kids to wear his companys masks while watching a certain tv program, so that they will die.  Why?  Not quite sure.  But the concerned adults find themselves in a decently suspenseful plot, with some interesting moments.  As mentioned, Pleasance, Curtis, Myers et al are not featured here.  Theres even an ad running on a local tv station for an airing of Halloween part 1.  The yucky moments this time around are administered by robots and lasers that get pretty gooey at times.  And though a majority couldnt stand it, I loved the 8 more days to Halloween song the company used in its commercials.  Its so dopey I still laugh at it.   And theres a creepy opening credits sequence (that looks like 3-D) with some good music, though hardly as cool as Carpenters reworked classic theme from part 2.  I'm not a die hard 'Ween fan like some, so I'd say this aint that great, but not horrible. "},{"Title":"A Poor Sequel Directed By Tommy Lee Wallace","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Sequel Sucked First Off Michael Myers Is Not Even In The Film But Only A Brief Appearance On A TV Screen At The Bar And That's It And Their Is Also A Brief Another Appearance Of Laurie Strode When Tom Atkins Is Tied Up By A Bunch Of Goons From A Clip From The First Halloween Instead Of Having Michael Myers It Has An Evil Bunch Of Bad Guys Going Around Killing People What Ever Do Don't Watch This Film Because It Sucked It Has No Connections To Any Of The Other Halloween Films In The Series So Forget This Sequel Whoever Likes This Sequel Is Dumb And Weird Because Michael Myers Is Not In It It Is Just As Dumb The Remakes Are So Don't Even Rent Either Or Go See It Love Ya From Brandon DeVore "}{"Title":"'tis the season","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The obvious argument for why this is so unpopular is that people are just disappointed it didn't hold Michael Myers. To be fair, that probably is not the entire explanation. For those who don't know, this was what Carpenter and Hill intended; a series where every Halloween, another flick would hit cinemas, and they'd all be new ideas. They didn't want to bring back MM. Unfortunately, audiences seem to prefer something sub-par that they can recognize to anything they can't, as evidenced by the fact that after this, there were five sequels, and now Zombie's done a reboot and a follow-up to that, as well. No, this isn't perfect, and not entirely unique(to get the full experience of your first viewing of this, try not to find out what it's reminiscent of, and do not read the plot here on the site). However, for this being Lee Wallace's initial attempt at directing, he certainly does pretty good. I'm serious, if you give this a chance, you will find it has a quite effective mood and atmosphere, built up relatively well, and it is also genuinely creepy. This is more of a mystery than the two that precede it, and there isn't particularly chasing. It is scary and suspenseful, though. While I don't know how close to Nigel Kneale's script this stays, I understand that it doesn't deviate all that much. The concept is cool and eerie, the reveal is effective and surprising, and the opening credits sequence is well-done. Instead of the usual excessively good lead, this one has a flawed person, and moves away from teenagers being the focus. With that said, the characters aren't entirely credible, or all that well-developed. And the romance is not convincing or realistic. The acting isn't all that impressive, aside from Atkins himself, Nelkin and O'Herlihy. At least the kids aren't terribly irritating. That theme tune is, which is clearly on purpose. On that subject, the music is great(I think John is the one responsible for that). The FX are well-done with few exceptions. Dialog varies, as far as both writing and delivery go. This can be campy, and it definitely does not take itself too seriously, or pretend to be smarter than it is. It's distinctive(to a greater extent than the others in the franchise, other than the 1978 one), and the small town setting works well. No, it is not entirely original, and no, the final twist does not make sense or hold up to scrutiny, but it's *fun*. It actually is. And that is noteworthy, since you can't say that about all the movies that try to be entertaining. There is plenty of brutal, bloody and gory violence, frequent moderate to strong language, and brief, gratuitous nudity and sexuality in this. The DVD holds an interesting commentary track by a film critic and a horror expert and production details in text form. No subtitles. Maybe I got a specific one. I recommend this to fans of the genre. Do not go into this thinking it will be a continuation; if you need to, mentally erase that one word from the title. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Skip to 4","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first thing you may notice about this film during the opening titles is that neither Jamie Lee Curtis nor Donald Pleasence is in it. This is unusual, considering that either one or both of them are in every other Halloween movie. Then if you pay attention to such things, you may notice that Halloween creator John Carpenter is only around for the score, and that the only person returning from the previous Halloween movies is the producer. The best moment, however, is when you realize fifteen minutes in that Michael isn't even a part of this movie at all.Yes, indeed, Halloween 3 has absolutely NOTHING to do with the previous movies, except its title, music, and a few references to the previous two movies. Now if they had done something like this today, for instance if Saw 4 turned out to be a movie about a man who decides to dress in a gorilla suit and stalk a daycare center, people would be outraged. I guess back in 1982, giving a franchise name to a totally unrelated product was acceptable. Considering that this came out one year after Halloween II, it may just be that Carpenter and his producer liked this already finished work and decided to give it their title so as to give it larger distribution. Or somehow the De Laurentiis company was just being stupid (it's happened before).Okay, so this movie has nothing to do with the other movies. But is it a good movie itself? Well, it has its moments. As in, two of them. There is a nice creepy scene involving a town completely under control of a Halloween-mask creating empire, and there's the neat gore effects of a woman shocked by the, uh, metaphysical killer laser ray bug-creating thing. The rest of the movie is pretty much an old, ungraceful doctor bumbling around making an ass of himself while trying to stop some guy from killing all the children in the world because he's some kind of weird Celtic Pagan or something. I guess I could give this movie credit for originality (I've certainly never seen a plot like this before), but it's kind of hard when it just doesn't make any sense.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Dear God, The Horror, The horror. *","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The worst part of the Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is when you watch the film and think about what might have been if dear old Michael had graced the film.  To settle my own anger about the film, I have written ideas for what they could have done with Halloween 3 if they hadn't made the mistake of excluding Myers from the film and story line.  Even the story, when you watch it with your anger aside is lame and stupid.  The film's acting, story, and photography is bad.  The film does not have a creepy atmosphere due lack of seedy and creepy lighting and photography.  The only good thing about the film is the sound track which is impressive and exciting.  "},{"Title":"The Most Terrible One In he Series!!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was just down right awful and even if it wasnt apart of the halloween series it would still be a very bad film. My only question is why was this part of the series? Not only did it have nothing to do with michael myers but it made no sense to anything that was in the previous two stories. This movie isn't even a side story it is just a stupid and very senseless movie that thought it would catch popularity because it was called Halloween III season of the witch. In my view it should have been called Season Of the Witch (just leave out the halloween III part) "},{"Title":"Heinous. Absolutely heinous.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was heinous.  It has nothing to do with the first ones or subsequent ones.  Now I see why it came free packaged with Halloween II.  They had too many copies in the warehouse and just had to give them away free.  There is no reason to see this movie.  Even for those of you who like to go watch all the movies in a series, there is still no reason to waste two hours of your life that you will never get back on this movie.   "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Blah, this was a horrible movie, that had no plot, bad acting, gratuitous gore, no scares, no wit, and definitely no impact the first 2 had. Need I say more? Avoid this one! 0 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, language, some sexuality, and nudity. "},{"Title":"Horrible Movie","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie i can see why it had no tie-in with the original, Halloween isn't just a holiday for Michael Myers but for others too, witches, vampires, werewolves. The movie had a good idea, and in parts it tried to be good, but it just wasn't. It coulda been much better. My Rating Zero Stars out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Oh, how could you?","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Truly bad.  Bad, bad, bad.  Whether or not you are dead set against this film becasue of no Mike or Jamie, this is a ridiculously stupid time-waster. Pieces of stonehenge in children's 'Haloween' masks, used for mind control, in a hokey take-over-the-planet plot.  Now that sounds like a film for the truly distinguishing viewer.  Bah.  "},{"Title":"Man, what a piece of crap","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a horrible movie. I don't care that Mike Myers wasn't in it because, to be honest, I'm not a big fan of the Halloween series. The movie was just horrible. Sure, some director tries to do something differet. Does that make it a good movie? Far from it! The plot was just awful, the acting was awful, the ending was awful. Season of the Witch is a generic Halloween seasoned title even if there was no witch in the movie. There was no character development, the main guy we can only assume is a creep for cheating on his wife. Unfortunately, my friend had to buy this movie to complete the Halloween series. What a horrible mistake. He will never again look at that DVD again. "},{"Title":"Mustapha Akkad is a bastard","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd like to say that this is definitely the worst Halloween to ever come out. HResurrection was pretty terrible but this one will always hold the crown. But I don't blame anyone for this travesty except that piece of sh*t, Mustapha Akkad. First of, he starts off by making the movie have nothing else to do with the rest of the story. Next, the story was ass and balls. Killer halloween masks is really the best he could've came up with? Last, but not least, he goes out of his way to insult our intelligence and love for the Halloween series by showing clips from Halloween 1 in the film. How much pain could you put viewers through? Needless to say, you'd have to be on crazy amounts of narcotics to like Halloween 3 because this movie just an insult to humanity. "}{"Title":"Uuuh...i'm sorry, what?","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has got to be one of the worst movies in the history of horror films...no, not because its a movie that dares to bear the title of 'Halloween' and not have Michael Meyers, even though that in itself is blasphemy, but because the movie itself is just ridiculous.An evil super-company makes halloween masks...except they aren't just maks...on halloween they air a special program that makes kids' heads turn into BUGS!!!!! AAAAAAAAAAAAAAH! SO SCARY! So without any motivation or reason behind it, we have this evil company turning kid's heads into insects and one doctor trying to stop it. To top it all off, the super mega evil company has released a commercial on television getting kids to buy their masks!! Boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-8 more days til halloween! blah blah blah! So we get treated to a commercial with a retarded kid shaking his head back and forth to the music when one of the evil bug masks comes on him, and the doctor goes to a small town where the super-mega-evil-corporation has its HQ to stop them. He fails. Kids' heads turn into bugs. Movie sucks. The end.Why this movie bears the title of 'Halloween' I will never know...it has nothing to do with the previous 2 films, or any of the following sequels. Its ridiculous, the acting is terrible, the scenes are amateurish....this is just one of the worst movies i've seen in quite a long time. This movie is blasphemy, and should be completely ignored. "},{"Title":"Unrealized potential.","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie had a rather interesting plot and had potential to be really good, but it just needed more.  Of course my review is based on the TV cut of this movie not the theatrical cut so that version is a bit gorier in places.  Most people don't realize what they see on a channel like amc is not what you would see in the theaters or on tape.  Halloween 2 also had a TV cut that wasn't as good also.  I don't believe this movie deserves to be on the bottom 100 movies of all time, this is mainly due to the fact that fans of the series rate this one low simply because Myers isn't the killer, they somehow couldn't get the fact that he died in part two.  So after this movie more Halloween's were made, and I think they are all worse than this one.  Myers went from being a rather believable serial killer to Jason Voorhees, which is ironic because Friday the 13th originally copied Halloween.  This movie though does a couple of things wrong.  One it should have called itself Halloween Season of the Witch and not Halloween III season of the witch.  This was not a sequel so don't advertise yourself as one.  Also, it actually plays the Halloween movie within it, which only reminds people of Myers and they don't like the idea of him being reduced to a movie character within a movie.  The story here is about a mysterious toy company that is within a mysterious town.  Which is probably why I like it better than some.  I always enjoy the strange town plot in horror.  This movie also features this really annoying jingle that plays throughout.  No superstars in this one, but it does feature Atkins who was also in the Fog.  In fact this movie reminds me of the fog a bit.  The music definitely sounds more like the Fog than Halloween.  This movie though could use a couple of more deaths and the finish is way to flashy, reminds one of Star Wars.  Other than that an okay movie, nothing great, but a lot better than any of the sequels that would follow...of course I didn't see part 8, but I will assume it wasn't to good. "},{"Title":"Was John Carpenter conscious when he made this?","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the travesty of 'Nightmare on Elm Street', I felt certain that I'd seen the very worst horror film ever to make it into the common tastes (discluding bizarre, cheap films apparently made during the night when the director got his sound stage time with a lock pick and some bribes). Then, last night, I mistakenly put Halloween III into the VCR.I'm not exaggerating when I say that this is the most absurd failure ever put into film, made worse by the fact that it shares the title of one of the very best horror films of the last few decades.  I don't particularly like labeling things as 'best' or 'worst', but I've seen average-intelligence kindergarteners write better plotlines than this one.  I've seen 'Don't Go In the Basement', and I still think that H III rates lowest.First of all, why was it a sequel?  The reason that so many people expected something of Michael Myers and Laurie is because the title clearly implied it.  The assumption that some of the film's dignity (if it had had any to begin with) would have been salvaged had it not been made as a sequel to a movie far, far its superior may be correct-- if I hadn't assumed that it was connected with Halloween, I never would have seen it.Secondly, I honestly can't imagine a worse story.  One of the most irritating things in a horror novel, story, or film is when the plot is not realised at long last, or when 'loose ends' are tied up hastily and cheaply. However, H III does even go far enough as to tie them up, it leaves them dangling like idiotic windsocks.  Why was this Cochran fellow making children's heads fill with...suspisciously harmless critters (ring-neck snakes rarely bite, are completely non-poisonous, and crickets-- please.)? The only motive that seemed to surface was that he was cuh-raaaazy.  Used car salesmen are 'cuh-raaazy'.  That's a very poor motive for such an elaborately stupid scheme.  Perhaps viewers are meant to assume that it's somehow 'witchcraft' that is driving this man, which is equally stupid and biased.  Yes, Mike was deranged, but he followed the concepts of his own affliction, and things made sense.  The second movie was hokey and not up to the work of the first, but it worked.  It had a functional plot.The special effects were almost non-existant.  The man who was apparently murdered died of some sort of brain trauma-- yet he didn't spasm, twitch, or shudder, which would have provided reality AND chills.  But no-- he laid as still as if he were a poor actor in cheesy make-up.  Odd.  Also, cyborgs, I hope, are not made of floppy foam rubber, Jell-O butterscotch pudding, and twists of multicoloured wires.  The destruction of the woman's face was totally unrealistic and unbelievable; there was no reason for her to have insects in her mouth.  The child's head exploding with bugs and small, garden-variety snakes was so incredibly wrong that it was impossible not to laugh.  They may've well have had him start sneezing out cheese-whiz and purple ketchup and chanting something remotely Lovecraftian.  I can't mock this scene extensively, as it does the job itself.What was the point between the doctor and the young girl-robot sleeping together?  Do we care about these characters?  Of course not.  There's no reason for us to feel anything for them, least of all affection.  And frankly, I was more concerned for the creepy girl than the doctor-- the man's moustache changed shape, colour, and size in almost every scene.  I was afraid that the film might take one more step in its tenacious mediocrity and have the false hair attack her.  I hope for the man's sake that it was spirit-gummed and not a natural growth of his face-- it was as eerie as Snidely Whiplash's.It would be impossible to accurately detail everything that's wrong about this film.  It's not frightening; it's poorly put together; it has more corny gore than actual thrills.  Hitchcock's masterpiece, Psycho, had only ONE vaguely gory scene, yet the movie is still frightening; Lovecraft rarely touched on actual blood and guts.  This is because FEAR comes from the mind, not from poor effects.In addition, there is...no point whatsoever.  It vaguely plagurizes various old stories and films here and there, and there are virtually no likeable (or even believable) characters.  The doctor is a bad actor; his ex-wife is obnoxious; his children are irritating and rude; and most of the smaller parts are similarly disappointing, yet less notable.  The single interesting character was the town drunk, who had his head torn off in a horribly plastic scene.In conclusion, this piece of excremental matter has so many plotholes that all of the gooey beige pudding concept simply runs right out of it.  I'm thankful that Jamie Lee Curtis wasn't in this, as an afterthought, because I rather enjoy my current state of respecting her as an actor.  What's worse about this cinematic plunge into the scatological is that it depends on its overblown gross-out scenes to support it, as opposed to trying to be intellectually stimulating.  There are good gore flicks out there that aren't intellectually stimulating in the least, but they at least present good gore.  And they label themselves as such.I can't really understand how this film survived in video form.  It's a disgrace in all ways.  It's actually disgustingly poor.  Had I known then what I know now, I would have stared at the bug zapper instead of actually watching this garbage.  I can't even give it stars.  It doesn't deserve rotten fruit matter.  Negative 1 out of five.  And that's generous.  "},{"Title":"Can't Mask the Pain","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometimes it is very hard to understand the powers that be.  What kind of thinking was used to create a Halloween film without using any of the Halloween elements?  No John Carpenter in this one.  No Jamie Lee Curtis.  No Donald Pleasance.  And most importantly...no Michael Myers.  This film instead boasts Tommy Lee Wallace in the director's chair with a cast headed by Tom Atkins and Dan O'Herlihy.  The story is indeed unique as we follow Atkins, a dubious physician, slowly unravelling a plot by a mad mask maker who wants to destroy the world by making children wear masks that will turn their minds into mush.  There is an explanation of druidic ritual being behind the maniacal O'Herlihy's plans, even going so far as to say that some of the stones of Stonehenge are stolen early in the picture through the news.  The first half of the film isn't too bad.  Wallace creates some nice pacing and the acting is adequate.  But hold on when that second half comes!  The plot becomes just too incredible, ridiculous, and contrived.  The special effects are incredibly inept, and the music for the commercial becomes more irritating than anything else.  Despite some nice ideas, the film turns into a major disappointment, especially for those folks wanting to see a serial killer of the likes of Myers rampaging through a small town on Halloween.  Instead, all they get here, is a few truly stupid deaths with no or little suspense.  "},{"Title":"horrible, Horrible, HORRIBLE!!!!!!!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How come the third and by all means worst Halloween movie has to take a step in a totally different direction?! Halloween 3 could have been so good if they kept with Michael Myers's storyline. But NOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!! It had to go in a totally opposite direction from the others and screw up the whole series. The story had absolutely NOTHING to do with any of the others. It wasn't even a sequel because Halloween was playing on TV during the movie!!!!! The story was sooooooo bad that I was so ashamed that it has Halloween in the title. And that stupid song was the most annoying song I've ever heard in a film. The end was also probably the worst ending I've ever seen EVER! The movie's acting is horrible, The special effects are laughable, and the plot is the worst plot in movie history! I just don't know what Tommy Lee Wallace was thinking. "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad, Terrible.","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had nothing to do with the Halloween series.  It isn't even about Michael Meyers or anything.  One of the most awful sequels that I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"A sad entry into a good series.","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season of the Witch is an in name only sequel to the first two movies. Halloween III makes the drastic mistake of getting rid of Michael Myers, moving away from Haddonfield, Illinois, and focusing on different (and far more bland) characters. This movie tells the story of an evil mask maker who has inserted ancient Celtic runes into his masks with the intention of killing every child wearing one of his masks. If you think that sounds stupid, you're right. That's basically all there is to the plot, and the movie is incredibly boring. Nothing of great interest happens, except it gets pretty gory once in a while.The acting in this film sucks. Whereas the first two films had some accomplished actors like Donald Pleasance and Charles Cyphers, and the future superstar Jamie Lee Curtis, this movie has a whole bunch of nobodies acting worse than soap opera stars do. If they had tried, it might have raised the quality of the film...But that didn't happen. Tommy Lee Wallace does a crappy job taking over in the director's chair. This movie is so poorly made, I wonder if he was even there half the time. John Carpenter decided to stay on as producer/composer. His producer credit must not have given him much input, because his style isn't present in this movie at all. He even changed his chilling score from the first two Halloweens into an annoying unmemorable tune. I guess he decided to leave the series after this film for a reason.Really, any fan of the Halloween series should totally ignore this entry. There's no point to watching it whatsoever. I caught it during a Halloween marathon, and I sat there wondering So where's Michael?. To be fare though, you can view it as its own film. I think that if this movie had just been called Season of the Witch, it might have prompted two stars out of me instead of one.1/10 "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this is the worst movie i have ever seen.  it's not even a horror movie, in the true sense.  the first two halloween movies were very good and i expected the same out of the next one when i bought it.  to find out that i has nothing to do with the other movies, in fact, it shows the first halloween movie on the televison as an actual film and not something that would have happened, as a sequel should be. this is more like some cheesy, stupid, 80's sci-fi movie and should not even have the halloween name.  if you have this movie, you should burn it and if you don't, dont ever see it or even waste money on buying it (like i made the mistake of).  it really sucks! "},{"Title":"Totally Disgusted","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When i saw Halloween 3 i wondering how myers could have survived the fire (which was explained in 4)...but this movie all i kept saying was when is myers coming, when is myers coming...no myers.I had never been more disgusted in a movie like this..the acting was terrible, the writing was terrible...everything was terrible...i can't believe i am writing a review on the piece of ****.and i can't believe they showed a trailer of the original Halloween movie in this movie...arghhhhI suggest you keep away from this movie it's about as scary as a box of whet bix and that's saying something...this movie could have almost killed the Halloween series what was john carpenter thinking!!!.This is My least favorite Halloween Film "},{"Title":"Sucks the big one","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, note I love bad movies. Especially bad horror films. I rented this tape recently as was really horrified by this film. Not that doesn't mean it was good. The acting was bad, plot was stupid and pointless. And it has the most annoying commercial EVER!!! I felt like blowing up the tape after watching it, but didn't want to have to pay to replace this monstrosity. THERE WAS NOTHING GOOD ABOUT IT!!! Well seeing the annoying brat get killed was a plus. Just kidding.. though I didn't mind seeing it.I give it a 1 out of ten. It is just so awful.Here is the commercial (Synthesiser version of London Bridge) 8 more days to Halloween... Halloween.. Halloween.. Ugh I can't even finish it. Brining up the horrid song to mind is making me sick. I bet it will make you physically ill too. "}{"Title":"About As Bad As It Gets","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III Season of the Witch is about as bad as a horror film can ever be. Few films in this genre can get any worse. There are so many problems with this film that it's hard for me to figure out where to begin.One of the biggest problems with this film is that the storyline is about as absurd as it can get. This reminded me of something R.L. Stine would have written in his Goosebumps series. This may be scary to a seven year old, but nobody else.Another problem is that this has nothing to do at all with any of the other Halloween movies. It is an insult to the Halloween series that this picture is part of it. However, it is only fair to judge this film by itself, and not compare it to the other films in the series. Doing that, it is still an absolutely terrible waste of anybody's 90 minutes.And now my complaint about the main character. If anyone has ever seen Tootsie with Dustin Hoffman, just imagine the old actor in the television show. Dr. Daniel Challis from Halloween III and the old bad actor from Tootsie act almost completely the same. The only difference is that in Tootsie it was on purpose.Halloween III Season of the Witch is a horrendous piece of crap, whether you are judging it on its own or with the other Halloween movies. Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"Could you imagine a worse movie?","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I can. It goes by the name of Dracula vs Frankenstein and it was made in 1971. Then there was also Godzilla's Revenge....but at least neither of those movies attempted to be serious.  If you want a good example of how a movie series can go from above average quality to one of the top ten worst genre movies ever...see the original Halloween trilogy. Halloween I + II were both awesome, while this one simply was ninety minutes of my life foolishly wasted.  Many say that this movie doesn't get the recognition it should because it was a Halloween movie and people were expecting Michael Myers...well I wasn't expecting Michael Myers and I absolutely hated it. The movie's set up was okay but from there the story became...well, boring. It wasn't to further the story, because there was no story. The male and females leads were lifeless and there weren't any amusing supporting characters to make up for them.   Simply put, a movie that is a sure-fire cure for insomania. "},{"Title":"Silly, cheesy, messy...but really not THAT bad","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Without legendary psycho Michael Myers or Dr. Sam Loomis appearing anywhere in this film, it turned out one of the biggest fiascos in the horror movie industry and perhaps the most hated movie among fans of the genre. All together, this is a pretty unrighteous reputation as Season of the Witch stands on its own as a rather solid movie, with a premise that leans much closer to the actual meaning of Halloween than an indestructible madman chasing his sister with a knife. With a marvelously wicked plot, coming from the versatile mind of Nigel Kneale who also wrote stories for films as Quatermass and the Pit, this Season of Witch tells the tale of a devilish toymaker who developed the fiendish plan to kill all children on Halloween eve by making them wear gruesome masks that are in fact diabolical machines. Doctor Challis and the beautiful Ellie Grimbridge are the first ones who discover that there's something strange going on in the old toy-factory, led by the mysterious Mr. Cochran and start to investigate the matter&#133; Season of the Witch depends on a rather amusing magical atmosphere, taking the commercialized event that Halloween has become back to initial roots of witch cults and child sacrifices. Too bad that director Wallace optioned for villain Cochran to resemble an insane scientist rather than a Celtic sorcerer, which more or less ruins the 'evil'-aspect of his character. Near the end, the entire promising concept of this film regretfully changes into a messy 80's flick with silly twists and cheesy make-up effects. But even then it remains hugely enjoyable, also thanks to the above average acting performances by the immensely underrated Tom Atkins and Dan O'Herlihy. John Carpenter, who once started the profitable Halloween cycle, provides the movie with an eerie musical score and strict production values while the camera-work by Cundrey makes the film look better than it actually is. Even though hardly comparable, Season of the Witch ranks as the second best film in the Halloween series in my humble opinion. Yet, you better regard this as an independent horror production and make sure you don't start watching it before you got rid of all the typical prejudices. "},{"Title":"An interesting concept with poor writing","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For aficionados of the Halloween franchise, it is a known fact that Halloween II (1981) was supposed to be end for the character of Michael Myers. After the explosion in the hospital, that was it. Myers was no longer relevant. John Carpenter's plan after that was to create a franchise based on the holiday of Halloween, not Michael Myers. This is the reason why this sequel although related to the franchise has nothing to do with Laurie Strode, Dr. Loomis or Michael Myers. These particular characters were never intended to have a continued story. Because of this reason alone, it is obvious to why the film performed poorly and had fans turning their heads. The surprising thing is, is that it's not the concept that didn't work. It was practically everything else.Instead of the story revolving around a serial killer, the focus changes to that of a much bigger scale. Dr. Challis (Tom Atkins) comes across a strange case where a patient is killed in his hospital over what seems to be a regular halloween mask. In order to understand why his patient was killed, he teams up with the patients daughter Ellie (Stacey Nelkin), to find out the problem. The mask that Atkins finds, brings them to the factory that makes the rest, headed by Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy - most notable for his role as the old man in RoboCop (1987)). The rest of the cast is completely forgettable. As for these three actors, they do their best but the problem is that their acting can't save them from either sounding or being extremely silly on screen.Tommy Lee Wallace (better known for directing Stephen Kings It (1990)) wrote and directed for his first time in this picture. Unfortunately, it's quite apparent that Wallace's experience isn't polished because there are a number of things that don't work in its screenplay. Characterization is one. Tom Atkins is a respectable actor, yet his character and his Nelkin's character are written with little development. Dr. Challis' motivations are extremely confused when it comes to women. He has a wife and kids, flirts with his nurse, dates a coroner and makes out with the patients daughter. Is he really that careless and sleezy? Why exactly is he like that? Cochran's motivations are explained but don't make much sense either.A lot of the dialog is also forgettable and awkward at times too. This takes away much of the tension that the story tries to build up, which isn't good. Then there's these robots that are lead by Cochran. It is never explained to how they are made or how they exist. They're literally just there to add creepiness and that's not even fully exploited. Even stranger is that this movie continuously makes references to the last two Halloween movies. Wallace films Cochran's robots like they were Michael Myers due to their stiff poses. Clips are randomly played and even Jamie Lee Curtis plays an uncredited voice in the film. If you listen carefully, you might be able to tell when she speaks. Nevertheless, why do this? All this does is remind its viewer what either they could be watching or reminding them that this isn't that movie. Either way, it only distracts.Thankfully, there are some redeeming qualities, which don't make impossible to sit through. The special effects are noteworthy for when they are on screen. For example, the intro credits basically digitizes that of the first two Halloween films, which was different and creative. The gore scenes were relatively new as well. Not all of them make sense because of how they're connected to the plot, but it still can be enjoyed. The element that worked the best was John Carpenter's score to the film. There wasn't a main theme this time but that's appropriate since Michael Myers isn't in it either. The intro track strangely sounds like Brad Fiedel first terminator score. But with that are other tracks that sound creepy, which work. Sadly this isn't enough to make it entirely compelling. I wanted to favor it but it lacked a lot.It has good music, decent effects, respectable actors and an interesting concept but its writing is so flawed in its execution. The characterizations, motivations and plot are very flimsy. "},{"Title":"The One Without Michael Myers","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is *that* Halloween; you know, the one without Michael Myers.The thinking, apparently, is that the series would evolve into something akin to Tales from the Crypt or Creepshow, where each movie is an independent feature that's not connected to its predecessors in any way (in terms of characters, story, etc.). So, in that sense, Season of the Witch is an oddity.To its credit, the film makes a concerted effort to put a unique spin on the Stonehenge/Druid mythos that's mentioned only briefly in Halloween II (and is apparently the primary influence behind the sinister motivations of both Michael and the unlikely villains featured in the series' third installment). Instead of there being a single slasher who's driving the action/suspense, this time around it's a company called Silver Shamrock that produces a series of Halloween masks for children. These aren't ordinary masks, though; they're outfitted with a chip&#x97;that also contains bits from a stolen Stonehenge block&#x97;that, when worn in front of a television set playing a specific jingle and image combination, causes its wearer to convulse, begin vomiting bugs, and to shrivel into a quivering flesh pile.Uh&#x85;what?I'm fine with the writers playing up the pagan mythology as one of the driving forces behind the evil taking place, but what happens in Season of the Witch is just a little too far-fetched. Suspension of disbelief is a requisite for a movie like this, but what the movie hopes for&#x97;at least in many key sequences&#x97;is unbridled stupidity. Though unquestionably a work of horror (literally, figuratively, and whichever other way you want to take it), the movie is also a detective story. The leads here are played by a mustached protagonist who's a divorcée and emergency room M.D., as well as the daughter of a small business owner who's father died in mysterious circumstances involving Silver Shamrock. To go into any more depth about the ridiculousness of the plot and the hammy love story that ensues would be pointless, so I'll conclude by simply saying that Season of the Witch is, far and away, the worst entry of the Halloween series.Did I mention that it also features killer robots wearing business suits? Yeah. And it's every bit as random as it sounds. "},{"Title":"Drinking and doctoring.....","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silver Shamrock, a mass-producer of Halloween masks, plan to kill millions of innocent people worldwide.By placing pieces of a stolen boulder from Stonehenge into small tags and attaching them to the masks. When children all over the world sit down to watch the Silver Shamrock advertisement, terror and panic will spread.Dr. Dan Challis investigates a series of bizarre and horrifying incidents that begin to unfold before Halloween evening, and he comes face to face with the sinister figure of Conal Conhran, maker of the evil masks.....First of all I cannot believe the low rating for this movie. It may have to do with the fact that this doesn't centre around a certain Mr. Myers, although he and Jamie Lee Curtis do feature briefly in this.But for once, the story is very good, and it's a very eerie film to watch. Narrative runs slick through the film, and the three main characters are fantastically believable.It's a very macabre affair, and it's almost sombre in it's final execution.This could be another reason why this film wasn't that well received, it's not a typical Hollywood ending. This ending sticks in the mind for a while after seeing this.Worth seeing, but it's a shame it has the Halloween title, this could have been an amazing stand alone film. "},{"Title":"the one that hadn't have Michael Myers","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Season Of The Witch or better known as Halloween 3 is the weirdest entry into the franchise. At the end of Halloween 2 The Shape is supposed to be death and John Carpenter decided to give the franchise another direction. Instead of exploiting The Shape he wanted to make every year a flick centered around the holiday itself. Further on John also made the decision to stop writing or directing another Halloween. Editor and production designer from the original Halloween Tommy Lee Wallace wanted to create something completely different from the first two entries. He wanted to leave the slashers and wanted to go more into the 'Invasion Of The Body Snatcher' story.Of course Halloween was know for The Shape and had so many fans that they all hated Halloween 3. There is no 'Shape' in it, there is no worth about Laurie Strode, not even one single worth about Michael Meyers. The funny thing is that when Dr. Daniel 'Dan' Challis (Tom Atkins) is watching a flick it's the original Halloween that is playing. But is it all that bad as they say? Well, indeed, as a continuing story it really doesn't fit into the series, they should have only called it Season Of The Witch. On the other hand, if you watch it as a stand alone it isn't that bad after all. It is slow, that I admit but it also has some cruel and even some gory deaths. The effects used at the end are not up to date to today's standards. But the effects for the killings were well done, the decapitations really worked as did the masks and for example the bugs coming out of ones face. The stunts were created by Dick Warlock who played The Shape in Halloween 2. It doesn't fit into the slasher genre which was at his top around 1982 but it has plenty of other things good acting, an interesting mystery, a sinister villain, an appropriately dark tone, and an eerie atmosphere. It might not have Michael Myers, but it fits well into the genre.Gore 2/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Story 3/5 Effects 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"So terrible it's almost beautiful","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very rarely can you find a movie that just gets absolutely everything wrong. It's a true gem when you find a movie so doomed from the very beginning that what comes after can only serve to heighten the experience of a terrible movie. The acting is awful, the story is garbage, the plot makes no sense, there's no witch, no real witchcraft. I mean... just wow. And all that said, this movie was a pleasure to watch if only because a movie this unintentionally bad is just so damn fascinating.It feels like the filmmakers decided not to even bother trying to live up to the previous two films. So basically, here's the story. An old man comes into a hospital one night with serious injuries. He's terrified, incoherent, and his doctor does everything he can to care for the poor old man.But, a bland man in a suit waltz's into the hospital, kills the old man, then walks out to his car and sets himself on fire. Where DOES one buy disposable assassins? Are they cheaper than assassins who plan on living after the job to spend their money? Or do they want full life insurance coverage? Anyway, so the Doctor is so intrigued by this mystery that he completely ignores it and goes to a bar. While here he sees a commercial for Silver Shamrock masks, and get used to this annoying commercial jingle, because you'll hear it about ninety times in this movie. Also, for some reason, there's a commercial for the first Halloween on television. Why? Because the writer and director are openly mocking you. So anyway, Dr. Can't-Act is approached by the daughter of the old man who died, and she convinces him to help her investigate the murder. They see the last place he went to was the Silver Shamrock factory, and decide to go there. They get a lukewarm welcome from the locals, and decide to pose as buyers of Silver Shamrock masks, the most popular item this Halloween season. They start investigating the weird town run by Donal Cochran, the head of Silver Shamrock, and find that it's a strange kind of Big Brother controlled town.A woman staying in the room next door finds a little Silver Shamrock coin in her mask that contains a microchip. She fiddles with it and for some reason, this causes a laser to shoot her in the head, killing her, and spawning a bug in her mouth. Why? God only knows.Welcome to our first stop on the train to WTF town. Trust me, you'll know when you've arrived. So after seeing the woman get carted away by, who else, Donal Cochran and his people from the factory, they decide it's time to dig a lot deeper since something's obviously weird about this place. No kidding? They start doing research on Cochran, but Cochran overhears their plans via the worst-placed listening device in cinema history, and sends his bland men to stop them. There's a fight, and the Doctor kills one of the bland men to find out he's a robot.Robots. We have Robots in a movie called Halloween III Season of the Witch. Just think about that. So the girl is captured, the doctor goes to try and rescue her, but fails and is also captured. He is brought to the control room where Cochran begins explaining his evil plan. I hope you're wearing a helmet, because this just might blow your mind. His plan He's put little microchips in all his masks that, when given the appropriate signal, will transform the heads of anyone wearing them into piles of snakes and bugs. It kills them. Now... this would sound silly for even the sillier of the James Bond rogues gallery. We have now arrived at WTF town, your baggage has turned into a cat and your passengers are all wearing tutu's. Why? f*^$ you, that's why! So Cochran ties up the Doc and puts a mask on him while delivering a villain speech that sounds like it was pieced together from a half-dozen other villain speeches. It makes no sense and gives us zero idea to what is motivation is. At one point he does say it's all a big joke, but I'm sorry, millions and millions of dollars into research for a scheme like this? I mean, do you set out saying 'I'm gonna change people's heads into bugs and snakes... WITH SCIENCE' or do you stumble upon such a thing accidentally and just roll with it?And if you can change people into insects and snakes, why not turn all those children into wild dogs under your control? Or wolves? Or werewolves? SOMETHING that has SOMETHING to do with the horror genre?! Something that might even let you, I don't know, take over the world or something? No, snakes and bugs. So anyway, the Doctor escapes, frees the girl, and sabotages the factory by throwing a box of microchips down on the robots. Why does this work? F*#$ if I know.So the consoles all glow, turn into a big glowing ring, which zaps a big stone, which zaps Cochran, killing him...? The two escape, but surprise! The chick's been replaced by a robot. So the Doc defeats the fake love interest, gets to a convenience store, and starts calling TV stations begging them to pull the plug on the commercial that will send the evil signal.Somehow, this works for two out of three stations, but the third one doesn't seem to listen. We cut to black on one of the least convincing Noooooooo's... in film history. And that's Season of the Witch.It's like the writers all sat in different rooms in different cities and wrote different scripts, then randomly stapled the pages all together. See it just for the sheer WTF value alone! "},{"Title":"0/10","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, 1 is for the movie because i can't put a 0. 1 is for the acting because i can't give a 0. 1 is for the music because it's worse than Tokio Hotel.The plot ? A mustache ninja is in a conspiracy from planet nowhere with masked robots and... that's it. You understood ? So did I. This movie is a complete fart. The morale of this story is that big firms that produce Halloween masks are evil because they kill local stores where you usually buy your Halloween masks. Thanks a lot again for this brand new idea. Thanks for not watching it. "},{"Title":"Michael went witch way?","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably because of higher expectations I had for #2 did I rate 'Halloween III Season of the Witch' a half star higher. 'III' wasn't a great movie, not even a good movie, but not the worst I've ever seen. I admired a few things that brought my rating to 2/5 stars. I admired its ambition to not only say Michael really did die in #2 (a rarity in slasher sequels) but continue the series with a new angle/twist. I also liked, as morbid as it sounds, that not only was the target children, but they actually killed an innocent boy (albeit a brat) on screen. Seldom will they show that on screen, so it's not so much I liked that they killed a child, but the gall to actually break away from what might offend some. In addition, they stacked more gore than the first two combined, if you're into that sort of thing. All that said, this really was a mess with enough holes that 2 stones from Stonehenge couldn't plug up. (Hmm..it seems to be 9PM all around the world at the same time!) We begin with a hilariously uninteresting and painful to watch chase scene where a man claims everyone's gonna die. Enter Dr. Who('ll never work again) and sidekick on the Scooby trail of the Mystery of the Masks. Apparently, there's a dark secret behind the masks, which are aided by an eerie commercial. Well, eerie the first time and downright annoying the 2nd-45th time. Throw in a 'Tales from the Crypt' rejected script with a total 80's plot with 80's opening, action, romance, bad guys, comical multiple endings and the funniest Well, I'm going to kill you anyways, so here's my evil plot dialogue ever. Question without spoiling, ask yourself why the killer in the opening not only used gloves, but wiped them clean. Of course, you might as well ask why a 'witch' movie contains no witches. "}{"Title":"A stupid movie","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just re watched it again after probably 20 years. It was as dumb as I remembered. 1st of all, they shouldn't have used the Halloween name as it had nothing to do with the great 2 classics. 2nd, the movie could have been OK if they would have thought about what the masks were supposed to do a bit longer. I mean, I can get behind the mad mask maker, I can get past the robotic employees, I can even take the premise of the Halloween give away that turns into a massacre. What is impossible to get past is that BUGS, SPIDERS & SNAKES come out of peoples heads that watch the give away! LOL???? Who in the heck came up with that idea? Why did the studio not smack him and fire him? I mean if it were black magic or something OK, but its all computers and chips & technology in the factory SO ITS JUST FRIGGIN STUPID! I must admit that everyone who like horror movies needs to see this, but only on a night where they want to watch a comedy! "},{"Title":"They're going to kill us. All of us! All of us!","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me tell you what I really find ridiculous in this movie from the outset. Tom Atkins and Stacey Nelkin hooking up on the first night together. Give me a break. The docs a boozer, and she is ready to jump into bed with him. That is low standards, lady.Outside of that, it was a decent movie. The acting wasn't that great. Conal Cockran (Dan O'Herlihy) had about as much emotion as his bodyguards. The scheme was far-fetched, but sci-fi fans wouldn't mind.It had some good horror effects with the decapitation, and the misfiring button, and the final act in the factory. I can't comment on another good surprise, or it wouldn't be one, now would it? No too bad if you can get over the fact that it has nothing to do with Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"anyone who says this is good","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is AWFUL, someone said the only reason people didn't like it was b/c there was no myers. I whole heartedly disagree.I was flipping channels one night and came across this piece of crap, when it was over I called up a friend of mine and said, I just watched this awful movie, I don't know what it was called, but it had something to do with masks killing kids on halloween, and this theme song that kept counting down, 3 more days til halloween halloween.He called me back and told me it was halloween 3, I was like, what? no way, did uwe boll make it?If it was so good, and the director was behind it, why then was it forgotten about and never mentioned again? "},{"Title":"The one without Micheal in","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Written as an attempt to break away from the Halloween/Micheal Myers franchise. This is the one with the annoying masks, the equally annoying song/TV advert and the evil mask makers who want to kill millions of children on Halloween.Clearly they had a bad experience from Trick Or Treaters? The film starts a bit like the end of the original version of Invasion Of The Body Snatchers with the man and his mask and his claims that their coming to kill us all and the creepy men in smart suits.After the man who warned them is killed the local Doctor and the man's daughter decide to trace her fathers footsteps which lead them to a town that has a curfew (come on? no-one challenged a curfew? In America? Never going to happen!).Of course they discover the town is being controlled by 1 man who is bent on destruction using unexplained (or unexplainable) technology. The mystery men in suits turn out to be automatons covered in wax which explain their superhuman strength. The deadly Silver Shamrock advert is tested on a salesman and his family who are all killed.Of course their both captured and he escapes (having seen clips from Halloween the move on 2 separate occasions) and of course he's stupid enough to go rescue the girl after he tries to warn his wife to protect his own kids.Using a trick he'd already learned about earlier (which killed the woman in the motel complex) he destroys all the wax automatons and seemingly kills the guy in charge. (it's a bit hazy about exactly what happens with the big stone in the warehouse).After escaping it appears the woman he saved isn't the girl, she's been replaced by a wax automaton so he kills her but is almost killed by her arm. The film ends pretty much the same way it started but he manages to ring the TV stations and warn all but 1 of them. Very weak ending to a very weak film that's thin on plot. "},{"Title":"What Was This?","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had never before in my life, seen something as stupid as this, until saw it. I remember thinking it could be good, because I hadn't read into the storyline, so I sat and waited for a good hour looking for Mr. Meyers, who never showed. That was my fault, because I, who had seen the first two, had not given much thought prior to seeing it. What is this anyway? It goes from some scheme drama, to icky gooey chiller, to hokey poky sci-fi! How in the name if god is this a Halloween film? It doesn't even give off a feel for the traditional All Hollows Eve. At least it was not a Meyers related sequel. I'll give it that. Had it been good, it could have been a good set up for the rest of the series, alas, the nightmare isn't over, but you can blame the rest of the sequels for that! If not titled a Halloween film, Halloween III would be a better film, and even strike up a few notches on the rating scale, but just the same, it's poor and cheap. "},{"Title":"pure crap","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Crap I have took it upon myself to change the name of this film from season of the witch, to the crapping of the crap. Should be burned Generation of children are going to laugh at how rubbish this film was I actually fell asleep while watching this film. Do not see this film Rated R for rubbish. If you have not seen this film yet than I advise you not to. I mean it does not even contain Michael myers, how can you have a Halloween film without Michael myers. Are people crazy. I cant actually believe that anyone likes this film it makes me angry how crap it was. Resserection wasn't even this bad. Okay I've put my opinion forward. "},{"Title":"Doesn't work with or without the Halloween title.","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Season of the Witch is a movie that was born doomed because as everyone knows, Michael Myers or any of the Halloween movies elements aren't present.Many people state that without the Halloween label it could work as a watchable movie, and others say that it's a good horror movie if you watch it objectively. In my opinion, the movie is bad from any point of view.I tried to watch this movie objectively not trying to think about Myers, Lauire Strode, or Dr. Loomis. I watched it as an independent horror movie from the Halloween series. The result wasn't satisfying. The plot tried to be creative but it's rather boring and uncreative for a horror movie. Halloween 3 is more a sci-fi/fantasy than a horror movie. There are NO scary scenes although there's a decent amount of gore.Tom Atkins performance is decent but it seems that he wasn't thrilled to act on it. The best thing about the movie is Halloween playing on Dr. Cochran's t.v. That's it.2/10. Mediocre early 80's horror flick. "},{"Title":"DISGUSTING!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Halloween III is the most violent movie I have ever seen.  The violence was so graphic, I shut off the VCR at the scene where a child was watching the Silver Shamrock commercial with a Jack o' Lantern mask on. The mask melted itself and the child's head, and snakes and bugs poured out and killed the parents.  I thought I was going to throw up.  But this is beside the point. I mean why make a movie in the Halloween series without Michael Myers? STUPID!  Director Tommy Lee Wallace obviously has a sick mind and is a disgrace to the Halloween series. "},{"Title":"Halloween III Season of the Bitch!!!!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What has this movie got to do with the rest of the Halloween´s, NOTHING!!!. I noticed this minor detail when i bought this movie, it was not only that but also the plot was so idiotic that even the Cartoons in the newspaper had a better one. There was some neat special effects but that was all. Don´t be tricked by the name, this is not the movie you want to see! "},{"Title":"Felt ripped off with this movie.  Michael myers isn't even in it.","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw 'Halloween 3' on the shelves in a video store (yes, back before DVD came out) I hurriedly grabbed it and rented it. That night I watched it and have never been so disappointed in my life with a film. Okay, the film is mediocre. At best. I wouldn't go so far as to say 'Omigawsh, it was absolutely amazing, stop bashing on it' like some of the morons have written in here, because the acting was absolute rubbish. What I am most angry about is the fact that the title says 'Halloween 3'. Normally, in sequels, it's a continuation on from 1 or 2, right? I feel the producers/directors of Halloween made a rubbish movie, thought 'Uh- oh...what are we gonna do now? I know, let's slap on the title of Halloween 3 to lure in unsuspecting people into watching this garbage. I believe the movie is titled wrong, and should simple be called 'Season of the Witch' and leave it at that, and totally just take the title of 'Halloween 3' away from it, because it has NOTHING to do with Michael Myers AT ALL. That is all. "}{"Title":"The stigma for every Halloween-fan","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not even going to explain this movie's plot, since it is as thin as a piece of paper and its certainly not enough to keep someones attention throughout the film. Basically, if you are a fan of the original Halloween, you can forget about everything that made that movie a classic. The great theme-song by Carpenter is gone, and so is Michael Myers and Jamie Lee Curtis. I just can't figure out what the creators where thinking when they came up with this... Its like making a James Bond movie without James Bond. Or better yet; a Friday the 13th movie without Jason. It is doomed to fail and this movie rightfully did so because this is a stain on the horrorgenre and incorporates NO entertainment value at all.What you get instead, is this weird plot about haunted Halloween-masks. It isn't exactly scary what so ever, and the stunningly bad acting doesn't help either. And if you thought it was already bad that the movie doesn't include the original Halloween-score, then you will be even more amazed by the fact that this has been replaced with the most terrible annoying pieces of music ever that plays on commercials throughout the film. It has been composed to give you a headache and if you completely watched this piece of junk it will make you wish you've never layed eyes on this awful movie. Trust me when I say that it goes on, and on, and on, and on, and on.On top of that, the horror-element is also very shallow. So fans of gore and splatter can skip this movie right away. Season of the Witch (I'm not even going to call it Halloween 3) is also one of the most boring pieces of film-making I have ever witnessed. And just when you thought maybe the creators saved the best for last you will be confronted with one of the most shitty endings in movie-history, and all the hope you initially had for this garbage is crushed. Its like the creators just ran out of money and wrote the ending in 5 sentences or so. It pisses me off to no end and does not satisfy the viewers endurance for this film what so ever. It only makes you feel ripped off, and thats just what this is; a rip-off.Don't even think about renting it for fun either, because its not. Its not one of those hilarious bad B-movies, this is just plain mediocre and boring. It includes no humour what so ever, it has one of the most uninspired dialogs ever, and more importantly it signed the deathmark of Halloween as a series. Stay away! "},{"Title":"There was NOTHING good about this film.","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was a fan of the original Halloween, but all of the sequels made after it were bad, really bad (the second one was mildly bad). But this is by far the worst of them. It doesn't even have anything to do with the movies of Halloween series. The plot was horrible. It has huge holes, no surprises or twists (that aren't painfully obvious), and it is so simple. It's like someone shot a 6 sentence movie in 1 and a half hours family goes to town, meets weird doctor, strange things start happening around town, turns out doctor is evil, he has evil plan, dad of family tries to stop him...the end? The movie ended in the middle of the climax, so the whole story was unresolved. They should have at least let us know a hint of what would happen after. If they had just filmed one minute more, it would be past the climax, so they could get away with a 20 second resolution to the movie. On top of that, most of what happened in this movie had no possibility of ever occurring. At least most films with magical things like Harry Potter actually seem plausible! I give the plot a 1/10. The acting was horrible all except for the main character. He was in between okay and bad. I give the acting a 1.5/10.The special effects were not so good for an 80's film, I've seen better effects from earlier films from the 60's and 70's. It reminded me of the classic 50's sci-fi films that have spaces with plainly visible strings attached. I give the special effects 2/10.Music, well, there wasn't really much memorable music in the film. I've already forgotten if they used the original Halloween theme (which was only good because it was a classic horror film tune). The repeating string of notes is better than anything that this movie has to offer and this movie doesn't deserve it. I give the music 1/10.Overall the movie was terrible. There really was nothing good about this film. No good acting, plot, music, or special effects. If you're one of those die-hard fans of Halloween, and you want to watch all the movies in the series in order, simply skip this one and move on to the next one, then the next one, then the next one...(sigh). This barely deserves to be called a film. I give the movie a 1.5/10, which rounds up to a 2/10. Save yourself; DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Must... stop... singing... that... blasted... jingle...","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the apparent demise of Michael Myers in Part 2, the makers of the Halloween series seized the opportunity to try something a little different with their next instalment giving the population of Haddonfield a break from being slaughtered, Halloween III Season of the Witch follows Dr. Daniel 'Dan' Challis (Tom Atkins) as he investigates the murder of one of his patients. Accompanied by the dead man's pretty daughter, Ellie Grimbridge (Stacey Nelkin), the doctor follow clues that lead him to the town of Santa Mira, where a druidic mask maker (aided by his army of superhuman androids) is planning to plunge the world into a new era of ancient religion and magic through the sacrifice of the thousands of children who have bought one of his deadly Silver Shamrock masks.With the only references to the original movie being a couple of clips of Carpenter's classic glimpsed on a television set, Halloween III is completely free to experiment with lots of new ideas that, although rather silly, are loads of fun and definitely a welcome breath of fresh air after the first two films (I love Parts 1 and 2, but the standard stalk and slash formula can soon become tiresome). Season of the Witch's goofy plot allows for a spot of iffy mysticism, some womanising from the good doctor (this being the 80s, he's even able to grab a female colleague's ass without fear of a law suit&#151;must be the blow-waved hair and Magnum-style moustache that does the trick), a scathing attack on consumerism, a spot of reasonable gore, and one hell of a catchy jingle (which features in the Silver Shamrock adverts, and will never, ever leave your brain), all delivered with a delightfully camp approach that even allows for a touch of gratuitous child killing!Of course, there are some moments that don't make complete sense&#151;the 6 o'clock curfew in Santa Mira is never explained, and the ending, which sees an Ellie android attacking Dan as he races against the clock to prevent disaster, is kinda dumb&#151;but the movie's brisk pace, the excellent cinematography by Dean Cundey, the spooky synth score, and the fine performances (Atkins is, of course, über-cool , and Dan O'Herlihy makes a memorably chilling baddie) easily compensate for the film's less logical moments. "},{"Title":"HalloweenSeason of the Witch","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A rambling unhealthy old man, clutching a specific Halloween mask, stumbles into a Northern California hospital claiming that a toy factory is going to kill us all. This declaration remains buried in the mind of doc on call that night, Dr. Dan Challis(Tom Atkins, in his first starring role)who is certainly bothered when a mysterious man, in a business suit, enters the hospital killing the old patient by snapping his cranium before dousing himself with gasoline setting his body on fire, exploding the car in the parking lot. The dead old man's daughter, Ellie(..the sexy small-framed Stacey Nelkin)wishes to know why her father was killed in such a vicious..and suspicious..manner and convinces Challis to pursue the truth behind his claims of malicious intent regarding the mask in his possession. Tracing his previous steps indicate the old man was in Santa Mira, hometown to the Silver Shamrock toy factory whose chairman, Conal Cochran(Dan O'Herlihy, in a chilling performance, portraying him in a sly, all-smiles manner, unveiling his sinister side as the movie continues)is the major name in the Halloween mask business. Challis and Ellie find that Santa Mira is quite a silent, guarded place, where the citizens keep to themselves and the streets remain mostly quiet. Cameras are everywhere and a curfew keeps the townsfolk in doors at a certain part at night. They will soon find that Cochran is running a corrupt operation where the manufactured children masks being shipped to stores all across American contain a gadget(..carrying the Silver Shamrock logo)holding tiny particles from a stolen statue of Stonehenge which unleash bugs and snakes killing those kids who watch a specific commercial which houses a signal while wearing them over their heads. Will Challis and Ellie stop Cochran's plan or will all the children who tune in be wiped out as a part of an ancient Celtic form of sacrifice? I'll be the first to admit that this film had me biting my nails to the quick. That pulse-pounding score from Carpenter & Howard really does the trick, the electronic beat moves the viewer along with a sense of urgency and builds dread for those who face potential danger. Writer-director Tommy Wallace benefits from his association with Carpenter and Debra Hill because Dean Cundy provides fabulous cinematography which gives this rather okay effort a stunning visual polish masking certain problems. Also, having Atkins as a very capable leading man doesn't hurt as well. This film was a real chance for Wallace and Atkins to show what they were made of. The flaws of the story are enormous, but the film's initial premise is indeed terrifying..the idea that a mask can cause insects and snakes to destroy your child while wearing it really gives you a reason to root for Atkins. Atkins gives you the kind of reactions anyone might have when facing such a bizarre crisis as the truths he uncovers. The whole Stonehenge part, how such creatures can come from a gadget on a mask, how these gadgets can wipe out Cochran's multitude of mandroids yet a certain one somehow survives(..this (wo)mandriod must've been a better model), why Cochran wouldn't just kill Challis right away instead of toying with him like a villain would James Bond, the logistical time-frame problems of kids in different time-zones..all these screenplay problems open up crater-size flaws which aggrevate. Yet, the spooky Santa Mira town really is quite an interesting backdrop which echoes Carpenter's Escape from New York as mandroids stationed throughout appear on the far side of the screen or from the shadows. This film has an unpleasant tone of menace regarding how the mandroids kill innocents who might so happen to compromise Cochran's operation(..such as how a forensics scientist is drilled through the skull, how one hobo's head is pulled from his neck). The climax, which does allow Challis a chance to strike back against his captors, has a rather grim end which might leave you sad or horrified. The mandroids, when damaged, resemble the android who is destroyed in Alien. "},{"Title":"Designer Film-Making Gone Wrong","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter hoped to cash in on the Halloween brand name by transforming it into an annual anthology series while farming out the work and scoring a production credit. The experiment began and ended with Halloween III Season of the Witch which received mostly bad reviews and went on to be the least successful in the franchise at that time. Tommy Lee Wallace was given the insurmountable task of transforming the lousy screenplay into something worth watching. He almost succeeds. The story is as follows; the owner of Silver Shamrock is a druidic warlock who with the aid of his robot slaves is distributing Halloween masks embedded with chips from Stonehenge in a conspiracy to kill the children of the world via supernatural and scientific hokus pokus. Why? I don't know. Neither does anyone else. And that's the problem here; the movie is stupid. The franchise languished on the shelf for six years following this fiasco until Carpenter (kaching,kaching) sold the rights. "},{"Title":"No Michael Myers This Time!","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Michael Myers was left out of this third Halloween film; instead, story involves a doctor(nicely acted by Tom Atkins) who becomes involved with a sinister plan by an evil toymaker(Dan O'Herlihy, quite good actually) to kill the nation's children(don't ask why...) with his deathtrap Halloween masks, which will explode on the children when they watch the silver shamrock TV campaign(unrelentingly repeated throughout the film Happy, Happy Halloween, Halloween, Halloween, Happy, Happy Halloween, Silver Shamrock!) Special final broadcast that night will bring about the insidious deaths...Though a failure at the time, the idea of doing anthology films with a Halloween theme is a good one, but this nonsensical, overly violent, and ultimately absurd film killed that idea...still, this does have a certain so bad it's good charm, and has a big cult following(reissued on DVD with Part II by Shout/Scream Factory, in excellent special editions.) "},{"Title":"What a piece of garbage! No Michael Myers, no Halloween movie!","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I said I would not be doing an in-depth review of HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH, so I will keep this short by doing this in 12 sentences.1. The plot of this movie is just horrible as heck and it does not even try to make me believe in the story.2. The direction of this movie is just stupid as heck as well as the writing of this movie. 3. Michael Myers is not in this movie at all.4. The acting is dreadful, but credit will be given to Tom Atkins in his performance as the character he plays, but even he could not save this film from sinking into the ground.5. The Halloween theme is missing in the musical score and I don't like the theme of this movie's score.6. The tone is not scary at all.7. The visual effects and make-up are cheap looking and not looking good at all.8. The movie is way too short and has way too many kills in this film.9. The film received a lot of negativity because Michael Myers is absent from this film and was a financial box-office disappointment.10. The movie has the HALLOWEEN title in it.11. The film is distributed by Universal Pictures.12. The film is not good and not a good movie that anyone would see or buy on DVD, Blu- Ray or digital download this film at allOverall, this movie is just stupid as hell. I was expecting for Michael Myers to show up and kill people, but no.1/10. "},{"Title":"A Halloween movie without Michael Myers. How do you think it turned out?","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Halloween movie without Michael Myers in it? Ooooooooookay. That sounds really stupid and pointless, but I guess it could be good? Maybe? Hopefully? Of course it's not good. What was I expecting? How could a Halloween movie without Michael Myers in it be good? I must have been crazy to expect anything worthwhile. The plot is both ridiculous and slow moving, which makes the film really, really boring. The villain's motivation for what he is doing is because I felt like it, which is stupid and dumb and made me roll my eyes. Those are the two main problems and I don't think I need to go into any more detail into why this movie sucks so, just know, this movie is awful and don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Definitely Among the worst sequels of all time","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween was a movie on it's own ground a classic and definitely the best out of it's genre. Definitely like the movie John Carpenter is one of my favorite directors ever, this one was left on an open plot line which was why I watched Halloween 2.Halloween 2 was a decent sequel definitely not as good as the first but definitely as a stand alone movie it was good. This movie unlike the first one did not have an open plot line and therefore could not make a sequel Now here was the time when Horror movies made 27 sequels regardless of continuity, but this has absolutely nothing to do with the original.If the opening credits aren't enough to give you seizures it is followed by crap. There is this ad for a chain of shops that sell 3 different Halloween masks (the antagonists) that the ad plays (if not the physical ad the song) every 30 seconds you feel as if it's desensitized product placement like in Wayne's World.The basic plot a man runs away, from these antagonists that were supposed to match up to being as entertaining villains as Michael is from the first 2 but all I see them as is those guys from Knowing in suits. The guy runs to a hospital and the doctor there treats him then villain pops up and kills the Guy walks into a car and lights him on fire. YEAAAAH great villain guys, almost as great as the villains in such classics as Plan 9 From Outer Space or Catwoman. then the doctor investigates the mask he's holding in his hands (Who is he, Sherlock Holmes) with the dead guy's daughter, that's the movie without spoilers,Truly among the worst sequels ever made "},{"Title":"Oh My God","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horrible,pathetic,stupid,terrible,bad,lame,a waste of time,a waste of money,an abomination,dumb,cheesy,and a hour and a half that i will never get back.What do you get when you take a classic that goes by the name of 'Hallowen' and mix it with a so called sequel that has nothing to do with the plot of the first two movies and makes no sense at all whatsoever?Un fortunately,you get Halloween 3Season of the Witch.This movie is so bad,that I can't even finish it without wanting to kill the director of this piece of trash that should've started an apocalypse on humanity.Stay as far away from this movie as possible.It's for your own good. "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 season of the witch makes u think that there is now two serial killers on the lose one being Michael Myers and the other being a woman known as the witch but if you thought like i did then you'll be sadly mistaken as it Halloween 3 as neither of them! As soon as you watch Halloween you watch it for the thrills that Michael Myers brings but the thrills are not in this Halloween, as it bores you to death and stresses you with the terrible acting i have seen kids in school plays act better than the actors do in Halloween 3 as it brings disappointing horror, disappointing acting and a disappointing story meaning a really awful film disappoint all Halloween fans and all horror fans and all movie fans. It brought happiness to film critics who love to write a bad review. I would advise all people to do something better with there lives and not watch this because you will be disappointed just like i was no Michael Myers means BAD Halloween now remember that was the comment help full ??? "},{"Title":"Dismally ignorant wannabe","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is more a true sequel to the idea behind the Halloween line than it is to Michael Meyers. However...Carpenter's intent was to have a fresh new movie each Halloween, each bearing the Halloween name and each with a new story and a new director. So based on his intent, this movie is the only real Halloween sequel. Unfortunately, that does not make it GOOD!!That having been said, this attempt is rather puerile and attempts to execute a plot line which could have been written by an eight-year-old. It is mediocre at best, bearing huge plot holes, major annoying contrivances and only a half decent story line. The song, 8 More Days is both memorable and possibly the most annoying commercial jingle ever created. The musical score is an odd blend of theater and church organry and in some places it's an almost unbearable combination of both.SPOILERSThe premise An evil toy company has hatched a plot to kill all the children via some really freaky little Halloween masks, subliminals, and magick used with evil intent. This same company is the largest in the world, yet seemingly only manufactures three cheaply made masks, while it also manufactures androids and the AI to run them?! And they have aspirations of world domination. Of course they do. Plot holes and contrivances. The movie is riddled with them. The acting quality is laughable and the character development is non-existent. Not that either of these elements could have saved this attempt.It bears a distinct 80's Children of the Corn type feeling in that it involves the entire town, is horribly dated, and frankly, does not bear a remake. The story here simply does not rate it. Some critics have praised this story as original, clever, inspired work. Honestly, the reason why it had the advantage of never having been seen before is because it is about the most inane piece of garbage on film.I personally don't see anything inspired about it. It lacks intelligence on even the most base levels, utilizes cheap thrills (not that there ARE any thrills) and goes for that gag reflex, three unattractive elements for ANY movie. Unfortunately, those were the good points.Michael Myers or no Michael Myers, this movie reeked, all by itself. Other critics say this is a fine stand alone movie. Compared to what? This does not stand, it lays there, so flaccid and weak it cannot even hold up its head.It rates a 2.2/10 on the B scale. That's somewhere like a 0.8/10 on the A scale, from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Either the worst or the best dumb horror movie ever made","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankly, I can't decide whether this film is bad or good. It has nothing to do with Michael Myers's 'Halloween' franchise, so that makes it bad. Also, the movie has a somewhat weird plot line but good special effects and gore and an unsettling and nerve-wracking music score, which makes the movie good. The acting was mediocre, so that makes it bad. It was predictable, which makes it bad, too. It was intense, which makes it good. It was kind of one of those, 'so bad, it's good' films, which makes it good, too. If you watch it, you can have fun making up your own mind because I can't make up mine! Original MPAA rating RMy MPAA rating R Graphic Violence/Gore and Language My Canadian rating 14A Gory Violence, Frightening Scenes "},{"Title":"Less fun then actually dying yourself","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Id like to write as little as possible about this film. But one half of me wants to continue thinking it might be fun to rip it apart.Firstly, this isn't a bona fide sequel in the Halloween series. This isn't a sequel to anything at all, which in a way is fortunate as I cant imagine another film in this god forsaken vein. An evil toymaker is making evil masks which when worn in front of the TV during an evil commercial playing an evil hypnotic song turns kids......evil. Or dead. Its just as bad as it sounds. Oh and there are robots too. Well there are people you see who do the evil bidding but when you kill them they aren't actually evil - they're robots. And have yellow blood and everything. Oh and the evil theme song? At least something in the film was genuinely evil. If I hear that one more time I'm gonna smash my TV in. I'm surprised the people in the film weren't all turned in raving psychos before anything could happen due to the fact the commercial seemed to be on ALL the radio and TV stations ALL the time? The film has some little moments. A guy gets his head ripped off but the impact is lessened later when you realise it was done by an EVIL ROBOT. The test run of the EVIL COMMERCIAL and the effects it has on a family was pretty good. Until that is it ran on and on and on and on....in the end the production crew must have thrown half the zoo in on the kids body such was the amount of spiders, snakes, worms, centipedes and anything else that looked green or yucky. Talk about overkill. I cant remember at what point I woke up after that scene. Oh yeah the bit when the guy finds out his girlfriend was an EVIL ROBOT. Something you think you would notice after having sex with her not half an hour ago. Maybe he was just so into it he didn't notice all the metal and gooey yellow bits. What an attentive lover.Its easy to see why that felt the need to tack on the Halloween name on this shambles of a picture. Calling it what it is - EVIL ROBOTS SELL EVIL MASKS TO KIDS WHILE GUY HAS SEX WITH AFFOREMENTIONED EVIL ROBOT AND Doesn't NOTICE might have given it some redeeming features. The phrase its so bad its good seems to be a favourite on IMDb.com. I wont use it on this film because its so bad that it is just satanically terrible. A part of me died while watching this film. My love for sex with people I would automatically assume are human.Save yourself. Rent Battlefield Earth instead. "},{"Title":"Not bad, just a bit silly perhaps.","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In all honesty, this really isn't a bad genre movie, that still could had used a much better story though.This movie is only an Halloween-movie by name. It's story and characters have really nothing to do with the Michael Myers Halloween-franchise. Appearantly after Halloween II it was intended to continue the Halloween franchise by releasing new Halloween movies each year, each with a separate new horror story and characters in it. They abandoned this idea pretty fast again, after this movie proofed to be a failure at the box office and with the critics.But well really, as a stand-alone movie you really have to conclude that this isn't a very bad genre movie to watch. It has some decent horror elements in it, though the movie is perhaps being more of a mystery than an horror one really. The movie is maintaining enough to watch but it's also really far from a perfect one.The movie is being a bit silly with its story. Besides the story just isn't very mysterious or hard to figure. From pretty early on you already understand what is going on and to which climax the movie is heading to. Really, you don't have to be genius or into the genre to figure this all out. Had they spend some more time on the movie its story and originality the concept perhaps could had proved to be successful one and that way we would had been saved from all those Halloween sequels, featuring the immortal Michael Myers in it.The movie could had also done with some better characters in it. The main character, a divorced doctor and father who sleeps around with young woman, just isn't a very compelling one. Besides, Tom Atkins looks more like an '70's porn actor in this. Luckily the movie also still has Dan O'Herlihy in it, who is a nice main villain for the movie.Simply good and maintaining enough, as long as you don't expect a typical normal Halloween-movie entry.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween 3 (1982) *** (out of 4) Oh man, do I remember renting this thing when I was a kid and throwing a fit afterwards because Michael Myers never showed up. I was under ten when I first watched it and I honestly went back to the start just to make sure the title said Halloween. It did and this is the reason a lot of people hate this film. However, once you get over the fact tha Myers isn't in the movie the thing turns out to be very entertaining. A woman (Stacey Nelkin) starts to investigate the brutal murder of her father with the help of a doctor (Tom Atkins). The two end up in a small town that makes Halloween masks and the deranged owner who is going to use them to kill all the children. This film has a whole lot going for it including a very good story that manages to have some nice, suspenseful scenes including the ending, which is just great. The way the director builds up the tension is a lot of fun and makes for an ending to talk about. I also thought the performances were very good but then again I've always felt that Atkins was an underrated character actor. The gore effects, what little there are, are very good and how the masks work is great. "},{"Title":"Name only addition to the Halloween series of horror films, it's a little silly but I actually kinda liked it.","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the opening title sequence of a pumpkin face being drawn on a monitor in extreme close-up which I thought was pretty cool looking and the filmmakers at least tried to do something original and a little bit different with the credits, we are informed via an on screen caption that we are in 'Northern California' and that it is 'October Saturday the 23rd'. Harry Grimbridge (Al Berry) is running along a deserted street, a car in hot pursuit. It starts to pour with rain and he seeks help and shelter at a gas station, the attendant Walter Jones (Essex Smith) takes him to the local hospital. Harry is seen to by Dr. Daniel Challis (Tom Atkins). A guy (Dick Warlock) in a smart suit walks into Harrys room and kills him. A nurse (Maidie Norman) screams, Challis runs after the guy who gets into his car douses himself in petrol and sets himself on fire. 'Sunday the 24th', the Sheriff (John MacBride) questions Harrys daughter Ellie (Stacy Nelkin) while Challis curiously looks on, unconvinced by the Sheriff's theories. 'Wednesday the 27th', Challis visits a friend at the coroners office named Teddy (Wendy Wessberg) and manages to convince her to do some digging around and see what she can come up with. Challis and Ellie decide to team up and try and find out what happened to Harry and who the assassin was. The only clue they have is the Silver Shamrock mask Harry was holding when he was admitted to the hospital and the day before he was supposed to pick up a delivery of them from the factory that makes them in the small town of Santa Mira. When they get there it's now 'Friday the 29th'. They use the story that their there to collect an order of masks, and book themselves into a local motel. While questioning a local man named Starker (Johnathan Terry as Jon Terry) Challis hears some strange rumours about the factory and the man who runs it, Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy). 'Saturday the 30th', Challis and Ellie use a family from San Diego whom they have befriended, Buddy Kupfer (Ralph Strait) his wife Betty (Jadeen Barbor) and their young son Buddy Jr. (Brad Schacter as Bradley Schacter) who are there as personal guests of Cochran, to gain behind-the-scenes access to the factory. Ellie notices her fathers pick-up truck there and Challis sees lots of men in suits who look very similar to the one who murdered Harry. It soon becomes clear that there is a very sinister plan in motion that could threaten millions of lives on Halloween night and it's up to Ellie and Challis to escape Cochrans clutches who wants to shut them up, and warn the outside world! Written and directed by Tommy Lee Wallace I simply don't understand the venom aimed at this neat little film. So what if it doesn't have Micheal Myers in it? It didn't bother me in the slightest, even though technically he is in the film as while watching T.V. in a bar Challis sees an advert for the original Halloween (1978) which I thought was a nice touch. At least they tried to make an original and somewhat different film in the horror genre which many filmmakers don't, for that I believe this film deserves some credit. The script is sometimes a little silly, especially towards the end as things are revealed, and one or two things could have been expanded upon and explained a bit better. But it keeps moving along nicely and reveals it's plot bit by bit which kept me interested in watching it right through to the end. A special word of mention goes to the Silver Shamrock commercial which features one of the most annoyingly catchy and cheesy tunes I've ever heard! There is some decent gore here too, a man has his head ripped off, some has a drill inserted into their head and someone has their lips burnt off by a laser beam which then makes loads of insects appear and crawl over their face. Technically the film has a nice polish about it and looks good all round. Acting is OK and Atkins makes for a pretty likable hero, Nelkin as Ellie is attractive enough as Atkins love interest and O'Herlihy makes for a sinister villain. The first time I watched this film I was genuinely surprised by the original storyline and for that I must congratulate the filmmakers as it's not an easy thing to do when you've seen as many horror films as me. If your looking for something a little different in the horror genre than give it a go, just don't expect a dull slasher film. It probably wouldn't hold up to repeat viewings either as once you know the story it would lose it's effectiveness. It's not a perfect film, far from it in fact but I still liked it despite it's faults. "},{"Title":"Not Really A Nigel Kneale Script","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew the studio politics before I saw SEASON OF THE WITCH . That is I knew that the producers had decided to release a film every year under the Halloween banner that had absolutely zero to do with Michael Myers so there was no disappointment on my part that this wasn't a stalk and slash sequel . What disappointed me was the credits reading  Written by Tommy Lee Wallace  when I knew fine well who wrote the screenplay . However after seeing the movie I could see that Kneale's contribution had been diluted to death and that's why he wanted his name removed !!!!!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!!!!! It's easy to see what parts of the plot belong firmly to Kneale , namely the central story of Stonehenge being used to destroy the children of America ( Similar to QUATERMASS ) and of a sinister factory being used for a covert invasion ( Similar to QUATERMASS 2 ) along with concepts welding the supernatural and science together . Unfortunately the rest of the script lacks Kneale's strength of painting strong characters and making memorable dialogue . Worse the script shows signs of being so written to death someone has forgotten to explain why the bad guy is planning to kill all the children on Halloween , or at least that's how it seems on first glance The producers deserve some credit on trying to do something different to a movie franchise , but it's obviously a failed experiment . If only they'd let Nigel Kneale do his own thing "},{"Title":"awful stand alone movie (and i mean awful)","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" on this suckiness scale,this movie ranks right up there.it's a stand alone movie that has nothing to do with the rest of the Halloween series.i didn't like much about this movie.i actually felt dirty after watching it.thankfully,it's not all that memorable.but i remember all i need to about it.it sucked.myself,i didn't see that point.i know without a doubt that i will never view this movie again.there are only a handful of movies i can say that about(so far,any way).i'm not sure of the exact running time.it's somewhere between 96 and 99 minutes.coincidently,its also between 96 and 99 minutes too long.this is just my opinion,of course,and some people will disagree with it.the only thing i can suggest is,after watching it for awhile,and you find it's not very good,turn it off.it doesn't get better.for me,Halloween IIISeason of the Witch is an abysmal 0/10 "},{"Title":"About as watchable as seeing Sadaam Hussein under a strobe light","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know what John Carpenter and Debra Hill (producers of this film) were on while making this film (probably inspired by Dr. Dre likeness of smoking weed until you see little green dancing midgets), but this film su-huhuhuhuhuhuhu-cks. After watching the film I had an expression on my face like your dog does when you put him on the phone. The film is in no way at all connected to the original classic Halloween, and owes more to Invasion of the Body Snatchers as the story follows a plot to kill all the kids on Halloween. Oh just beautiful. The film gives a new name to bad horror films as it is in no way scary, no way chilling and at the very least is annoying. No wonder Carpenter left the series after this. Oh well. F "}{"Title":"Halloween 3 is a no no.","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III made no sense at all. It did not follow the story line of the others. Any person with any INTELLIGENCE would know that that film was not bad but good. It wasn't even bad ,cause it was horrifically terrible. If you are going to make a movie that is a series, please at least stay on the storyline.I attend a university were some friends of mine did a Top 100 survey on worst scary movies. And you want to know what it was ranked. Number Three. Not number 76 or 45 or 12 but 6. Now that should obviously tell you something. Now does it not. Pleeaassee. My one year old cousin first words were stupid after she saw THIS MOVIE!!!!!!! WARNING!!! DON'T WATCH IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Sad Horror Film","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just recently viewed this Halloween film and was interested at first with all the masks being made and all the secrets that were going on in this so-called Toy Factory. You would think it was a Bush Bean factory with all the robots guarding all the entrances and people seemed to disappear. The evil person in this film who made these toys thought he was a Hitler and ready to destroy the human race, especially children and even parents who got in his way. The entire plot went down the drain, this film is not even good for Halloween, which was a big waste of time and money. Most of the other Halloween films kept you on the edge of your seats and you were glued to the silver screen, this film was put on pause and rewind. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi thriller capitalizes unfairly on other Carpenter films...","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Part of the disappointment in HALLOWEEN III is that the title is a misnomer. It had audiences expecting Michael Meyers to make another slasher appearance rather than settle for a fairly straightforward sci-fi thriller borrowing heavily from the theme of Invasion of the Body Snatchers. This time, it's Halloween again and mysterious doings are investigated by TOM ATKINS (a doctor) and a young woman (STACEY NELKIN) whose father has been mysteriously murdered. Their investigation leads them to a factory for producing lethal Halloween masks as some sort of evil plot against children by corrupt DAN O'HERLIHY who runs the factory staffed by mechanical men designed to stalk and kill in brutal fashion.After a rather unexpected ending at the factory, there's still a further twist as the hero and heroine escape and their last scene is played in the car as they make their getaway. Without giving a plot development away, it's a chilling moment right out of something Rod Serling would write for The Twilight Zone.The film has been mercilessly panned, but it's really not that bad as far as these sort of things go. The plot itself is ridiculous, yes, but it does manage to stir up enough suspense through some good performances by TOM ATKINS and DAN O'HERLIHY. However, the girl is strictly a liability as Atkins' love interest.Probably ranks among the weaker Halloween films but it's not a total loss. "},{"Title":"I don't dislike it, because it had nothing to do with the franchise, I dislike it cause it's a horrible film.","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Halloween III Season Of The Witch is a movie despised by many due to the fact Michael Myers has nothing to do with this movie, but perhaps they fail to realize what a crummy movie this really is. The Silver Shamrock commercial is cute at 1st, and remains quite catchy for the 1st little bit of the movie, but I couldn't take it anymore by the time the movie was over. I also had many problems with the pacing of the movie. It started off with a bang, with a great thrilling chase sequence with a mechanic, but then it just started to die off with boring investigations, like the one at the Super Shamrock factory. There isn't really anybody to root for, I mean Tom Atkins is great, but he's riddled with wooden dialog and a crappy character that I had no use for what so ever. It had some great gore effects, I will admit to that, and the musical score was very chilling whenever I heard it, John Carpenter&Alan Howarth are geniuses at that stuff.Performances. Tom Atkins is solid I suppose, with the crappy material he had to work with, but I couldn't give a damn about his character. Stacey Nelkin is alright, but she looked silly near the end. Dan O'Herlihy is decent as the film's villain, if a little bland. Nancy Kyes has a cool cameo as Atkin's ex husband.Bottom line. Halloween III flat out sucks in my opinion, and I can't make it any clearer then that. I'm not criticizing it because there's no Mikey, I'm criticizing it because I don't like it. Halloween fans will likely be curious to this film, but i'd avoid if I were you.3/10 "},{"Title":"A Bad Tooth Ach","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What A Horrible Film Im Very Confused Why They Made This Ill Never Get It Why Micheal Wasn't In This Film Is Beond Me There Not Much To Say About This Film Altho It Sucks,This Film Is Just As Bad As Fiday The 13ths Part 5 And All The Rest Micheal Must Have Taken A Vacation Because He New He Would Be Getting Himself Into Quite The Masterpiece Of A Bad Film. Between This Film And Halloween Resurrection I Really Don't No Whats Worse Don't Waste Ur Time Watching This Film Trust Me.I Supposed I Like This Movie In A Way But Then Again I Do Love My Hangovers.Its Like Why Make A Sequel If Its Not Going To Be Good Halloween 1 2 4 6 & Rob Zombies Prequel Are Worth Watching Id Watch Halloween 2007. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous sequel that is as rubbish as it is a mystery","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This unbelievably silly second sequel to the 'Immortal classic' (sic) Halloween often features prominently on many a horror fan's 'worst horror sequels of all time' list, and for good reason. Before seeing the film, I thought it might be due to the fact that it doesn't feature cinema's most boring serial killer, Michael Myers at all. However, now that I have seen it; the reason has become clear. Quite frankly, this movie is ridiculous. The plot follows a factory, lead by a madman, that is producing Halloween masks that, wait for it...have mind control abilities. Oh dear. This plot is followed by an 'investigation', which is only ever laughable at best. It fails to garner any intrigue, simply due to it's complete lack of credibility. I seriously cannot believe that whoever wrote this rubbish thought that they would be able to pull it off. Even as a horror-comedy, or a spoof it doesn't work; let alone a serious horror film.As mentioned, Michael Myers isn't in the film. Well, not quite; we do get a view of him on a TV screen after the first movie is described as an 'immortal classic' (sounds like something John Carpenter would say), but other than that; he's not in it. This may sound good to you (it certainly did to me), but it's actually just another bad point for the movie that has bad points coming out of it's ears. Halloween fans wont like it because the star of the series isn't present, and non-Halloween fans (like me) wont like it because it's rubbish. I'm not even sure why this movie is in the Halloween series. Perhaps the producers decided that they wanted something more than the dull kill-fest's of the first film (as opposed to exciting kill-fest's, shown in other films), or perhaps someone had written a Halloween-themed horror movie and wanted people to see it. I don't know. Saying that; the movie isn't all bad. It mostly is, but there are a couple of death scenes that, ironically, are far better than any of the boring ones in the rest of the Halloween series. One of which involves a drill, the other; two fingers in the eye sockets. Ouch. "},{"Title":"Halloween III Season of the Witch","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When your making a sequel to a great film, or as part of a series, and you completely eliminate the original feel or premise, specifically getting rid of a famous killer like Michael Myers, it's pretty obvious your going to have a stinker, from director Tommy Lee Wallace (Fright Night Part 2). Basically the Silver Shamrock Corporation is advertising and producing heavily their stock of Halloween masks for kids, and the head of the company Conal Cochran (Dan O'Herlihy) is planning something evil. He has implanted all new masks with computer chips, containing small pieces of a boulder from Stonehenge, and through an ancient Celtic ritual these masks will kill anyone who wears them. Dr. Dan Challis (Lethal Weapon's Tom Atkins) is the man investigating the strange incidents and assumed murders going on, and comes across this sinister scheme, and he must stop both Cochran and the advertising before the clock strikes midnight for Halloween. Also starring Stacey Nelkin as Ellie Grimbridge, Ralph Strait as Buddy Kupfer, Michael Currie as Rafferty, Jadeen Barbor as Betty Kupfer, Bradley 'Brad' Schacter as 'Little' Buddy Kupfer Jr., Garn Stephens as Marge Guttman, Halloween's Nancy Kyes (or Loomis) as Linda Challis, Jonathan 'Jon' Terry as Starker and Al Berry as Harry Grimbridge. The only very, very mildly entertaining moment was one of the villain's robot-like henchman pulling a man's head off and it spurting blood, oh, and ironically, the original film is mentioned as a TV trailer. I didn't realise that the filmmakers had planned a new kind of series, where each film would be a different horror story on Halloween night, this being the first, but they brought Michael Myers back when this failed, thank god they did. The critics got this absolutely right, it is an original story, but not in the good way, it wasn't scary, it wasn't entertaining, it didn't have Michael Myers, it wasn't something I'd want to see again, and where's the witch anyway? Definitely the worst. Poor! "},{"Title":"Gruesome and pointless","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pretty terrible horror film. It's about a large Halloween company making masks for kids that will do something terrible to them on Halloween night. Daniel Challis (Tom Atkins) and Ellie Grimbald (Stacey Nelkin) discover this and try to stop it.I caught this at a theatre back in 1982. I was able to deal with the fact that Michael Myers is not in this. I knew that before I saw it so I'm judging it on its own merit. As a stand alone horror film it basically sucked! The plot itself is pretty sick--unless you find the idea of tons of kids across America being killed amusing. There's also some needlessly gruesome killings which goes totally against the subtlety of the original Halloween--but then again Halloween 2 was pretty graphic also. There is some good acting by Nelkin and old pro Dan O'Herlihy (who must have been desperate for work) but Atkins is dull and wooden in the lead. Add to this an ending that leaves you hanging (my audience booed and threw things at the screen) and you have one BAD horror film. This film was a bomb at the box office (no surprise there) and stopped the Halloween series for a few years. Unfortunately it came back and gave us an increasing number of stupid sequels. Still even the sequels with Myers aren't as bad as this! A 1 all the way. "}]