[{"Title":"Sexy vampire noir has boredom written for those of a different taste","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"84 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  THE HUNGER, unquestionably one of the most impressive stylized filmmaking of its kind. Using such techniques as classical music, and visual storytelling, not to mention the usage of sound as well, this sexy tale of blood, lust, and demonic dealings takes vampires to the next level. Susan Sarandon is struggling medical woman, trying to discover the secrets of natural aging. Bowie and Deneuve are well out as eternal bloodsuckers meeting a tragic end, as Bowie finds himself rotting away, slowly. Once Bowie is out of the picture, Deneuve has her sights on Sarandon(unique love scene between the two). While never failing to deliver well plotted story, this one grows boring at times, to those uneasily interested. Many incidents, which prove affective to some,are often slow and dull to others, perhaps aquired taste best describes the tone for most viewers. Playing more like a tragic drama, the creators catch most attention with an opening to hard to resist. Even the most uninterested cannot turn from the Bela Lugosi Is Dead act, as well as Shuberts Trio In E Flat oversounding the sad moments bringing the film to an automatic saddness, which never really goes away. Still, always impressive in many other ways, this film might enlighten others who need soap opera-esque escape matters. THE HUNGER may not grace some people, but others will find this one to be very thrilling in different ways. Always give the film a chance before judging too harshly, and THE HUNGER has its own way of getting attention, it got mine. "},{"Title":"Gother Than Thou","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"62 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Hunger opens with the by now familiar Goth anthem Bela Lugosi's Dead by Bauhaus.  Not a bad way to open a vampire film, though nowadays it would seem almost a parody.  Undead undead undead indeed.  Enter Cathy and Bowie into a slick, sleek, neon nightclub, filled to the rafters with post-punks & pre-Goths playing dead.  Too bad they weren't as ready for the real thing as they thought they were.  You see, Cathy and Bowie are vampires.This is a visually stunning film, making up for in effects what it sometimes lacks in coherence.  It seems that lovely, immortal Cathy, called Miriam, is a vampire queen who has been around since the Sphinx was built, apparently.  Bowie is her consort, a once mortal man whose two hundred-odd year lifespan is suddenly winding down at a frighteningly rapid rate.  Desperate to find a cure, he seeks out scientist Susan Sarandon, who at first disbelieves Bowie's claims, but is soon convinced when the young and handsomely androgynous man suddenly ages over the course of a few hours time into a decrepit ruin. Miriam, who has had countless lovers over the centuries, gives Bowie the heave-ho and turns her attention to lovely young Sarandon.   But Sarandon, though initially easy to seduce (in an erotic lesbian scene) proves to have a will stronger than Miriam's, and Miriam's habit of keeping her collection of ex-lovers cadavers close at hand, proves to be a mistake.This is a strange film, almost as cold and dispassionate as one might well imagine a vampire to be.  It seems to hold the viewer at arms length, not allowing them to experience the emotions of the characters...but the characters, for the most part, are severely lacking in emotion anyway, so the stark emptiness of the film becomes a brilliant mirror.  Some vampire enthusiasts might find this boring and confusing, but it's a good effort and not a total loss.The three main characters are worth watching simply for their amazing beauty and grace.  Tony Scott (brother of Ridley) has made a nice, if somewhat bizarre and chilling, work of art here and, like most works of art, it's up for interpretation. "},{"Title":"Stylish Vampire Movie- Love Is Eternal While It Lasts","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"53 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In New York City, the lovers Miriam Blaylock (Catherine Deneuve) and John (David Bowie) are vampires that survive through time under the Egyptian symbol of Ankh. When John starts an accelerated aging process, he seeks the specialist Dr. Sarah Roberts (Susan Sarandon). However, he does not survive, and Miriam selects Sarah to be her next lover.The Hunger is one of the best vampire movies ever made. I recall when I saw this movie for the first time, in an art cinema in Rio de Janeiro, and later at least three times on VHS. Now on DVD, this stylish film improves with the fantastic melancholic and artistic atmosphere, with a magnificent music score and wonderful cinematography. This movie is totally underrated in IMDb since it is one of the most beautiful vampire movies ever made, actually a masterpiece of the genre. Catherine Deneuve, David Bowie and Susan Sarandon have overwhelming performances in this unforgettable movie. The remarkable scene of the lesbian love of Miriam and Sarah is among the most erotic in the cinema history, never being vulgar. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Fome de Viver (Hunger for Living) "},{"Title":"Critics hate it and I love it...go figure.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"51 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For all the critics have to say, I must admit that this is one of my cult favorites. I keenly remember anticipating its release and seeing it at the 8th St. Playhouse theatre (where the weekly Rocky Horror movie/show ran for years in NYC). The mood and cinematography attest to its aspirations and for me are quite successful. In particular, the choice of soundtrack music is quite adept and urbane although only those very familiar with classical music will appreciate the tie-ins Deneuve's playing of Ravel's Gibet from Gaspard de la Nuit for piano after John passes and after Sarandon's character makes her first kill...her husband. This piece is Ravel's programmatic interpretation of a French poem which describes a person wearily walking under the intense scorching sun and seeing something in the distance, approaches, only to find a corpse strung up, rotting in the midday sun. Beautiful usage of Schubert's Piano Trio as well as haunting movements of a Schubert piano sonata. Then there is the obvious thematic tie-in with Lakmé by Délibes. (Lesbian love) And you've got to love the use of the band BAUHAUS in the opening sequence-with the lead singer singing Bela Lugosi's Dead in the suspended cage. Deneuve is absolutely ravishing and used to great effect and lovingly photographed. David Bowie does an exceptional turn as her lover. What I admire most is the movie's ability to paint a feeling and mood of their existence outside time, eternally present yet eternally on the fringe, startlingly beautiful yet shrouded, veiled, amorphous and ultimately predatorial. Finally, the thought that Deneuve's past lovers never die but are trapped eternally in a constantly decaying shell is absolutely frightening. Did I mention that Deneuve is sublimely beautiful?! "},{"Title":"Totally Eighties","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Before embarking onto this one, you must decide whether or not you enjoy films which look like a very extended (and quite expensive) MTV video clip of the early to mid 80's. If you don't, don't bother with this, it'll probably annoy you greatly. If you do, you're in for an indulgent visual ride and great entertainment, because every frame in Tony Scott's cult classic is carefully planned, beautifully orchestrated and wonderfully filmed - from the iconic opening sequence through to the heavily filtered last shot, it's polished until it gleams. Production design is given full reign and is faultless - the sets, lighting and costumes work fabulously with the soundtrack and the editing, creating a very recognisable style which is a genuine product of the trend aesthetics of the decade in question. And there's an added bonus of knowing use of music - this being the film that relaunched the Delibes' Lakme aria, paving the way for it becoming a monster classipop hit it is today. The film also employs Ravel at his most frozenly emotional,and, to stunning effect, Deneuve at arguably her most frozenly beautiful. One of those films remembered for perfectly encapsulating the visual style of its times. "},{"Title":"Interesting to watch","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A film with lots of style, beautifully shot, almost like a dream. This must be Tony Scott's best film to date, why do you ask? The director shows vision, not only in its visual medium but the editing, the music, the production design, the classical costumes and the chance to work with some talent.David Bowie is very good, almost perfect for his part and Catherine steals the whole film. Susan Sarandon is also very good, the infamous Lesbian scenes are highly erotic and also very artistic.This film isn't your usual Vamp movie, the film adds depth to these so-called Vampires.The film probably required a bit more plot but nevertheless, this is all about style, this film looks fantastic.Do not watch this in pan and scan, make sure you see it in widescreen because the director and cinematographer make full use of the panavision width. "},{"Title":"Stylish vampire flick.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Hunger(1983)by Tony Scott is a stylish vampire flick filled with some wonderful visuals.The film is excellently acted-a stunningly beautiful Catherine Deneuve is truly memorable as Miriam-an ageless vampire and former Egyptian queen.There is plenty of blood and vampire lesbian sex,so everyone who is into horror films or Goth music should see this cult flick.The opening scene with Bauhaus playing Bela Lugosi is Dead is priceless! "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"38 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Perhaps the first movie to explore the join and pain of being a vampire and, most importantly, what it means to be immortal. Excellent soundtrack, photography and cast. Not the usual vampire film, it's beautiful and philosophical. I'd say it is even better than Interview with the vampire (also a great film). "},{"Title":"Dream-like bloodsucking","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Dream-like horrorWhitley Streiber's highly suspenseful and thematically rich novel is transformed into something entirely different by Tony Scott.The film is a dream-like arthouse horror pic with diamond-studded production values.Catherine Deneuve is very, very good as eternal blood drinker Miriam Blaylock. Although it has never been acknowledged (as far as I know), the look and behavior of her screen character is a re-imagining of Delphine Seyrig's peerless vampire Countess Bathory from Harry Kummel's 1971 classic DAUGHTERS OF DARKNESS. David Bowie is superb as Deneve's not-so-immortal beloved and convinces us to emphasize with his condition (he is aging rapidly)This was Tony Scott's first feature and it is a beautiful piece of work that is rich in texture and design and demonstrates adroit control of cinematic craft.The sound design and rich catalog of music cues are pitch perfect.Certainly bearing little resemblance to Streiber's novel (just as Michael Wadleigh's WOLFEN also moved away from same author's source),  THE HUNGER is, nevertheless, gorgeous art. "},{"Title":"Really beautiful tale about love,loneliness and death...","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"34 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Watching The Hunger is an unforgettable experience.This is a real vampire film,not a laughable stupidity like The Lost Boys.Highly atmospheric,incredibly stylish,erotic,bloody and chilling-these adjectives can simply describe this great movie.The acting is splendid(I love especially wonderful Catherine Deneuve as a bisexual female vampire)and the atmosphere is full of strange melancholy.Some scenes remind me a bad dream.If you love horror movies with artistic touch,you can't miss this one.In my opinion a masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Blindingly Beautiful People Live Forever, Apparently","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ENDING SPOILERThe Hunger is a difficult film to categorize. On the one hand, it's great because of the stunning cinematography and the performances by the actors. On the other, there is a noticeable lack of a coherent story here. Unless you have read the novel by Whitley Streiber, you may find it difficult to understand what is going on. Furthermore, the film jettisons the entire concept by tacking on an inexplicable ending that defies the story's own sense of self-contained logic.The plot involves an ageless vampire, currently under the personage of Miriam Blaylock. She is immortal and, out of loneliness and the desire to love, she develops the ability to turn humans into companions that seem to share her immortality. The problem is, eventually their bodies give out after a couple hundred years and they begin to age rapidly. This is the problem with Miriam's current lover, John. Adding to the horror is the fact that although her lovers are emaciated and crumbling, they cannot truly die and are sealed into coffins, forever hungry. Miriam keeps the coffins with her wherever she goes, although the film never really decides why. Is it out of her love for them? Or guilt over what she's done to them? Or is she simply afraid of being found out?The film seems faithful at times, abbreviated at others. In the novel, Miriam was not human, but rather a member of a race of humanoid creatures that Whitley Streiber suggested were the truth behind the vampire legend. Miriam clung desperately to her own life because, although she could live forever, she could also die if she lost a significant amount of blood, and lived her life in fear of dying.In the film, these weighty subjects are glossed over in favor of dreamlike imagery, which is actually a fair trade to certain degree. Catherine Deneuve is certainly a stunningly beautiful woman, and David Bowie is perfect as her currently disintegrating partner. Susan Sarandon gives a typically engaging performance as Sarah, the new object of Miriam's affection.The problem is that the movie doesn't seem to have time to explore the deeper meanings behind the motivation of the characters. Miriam comes off as beautiful but empty because we aren't really given a clue as to what she really is. Whitley Strieber's conception of vampirism is quite different from the traditional one, yet the movie doesn't define it for the viewer, so there could be some confusion about the contradictions that seem to arise (Why can the vampires come out during the daylight? Why don't they have fangs? Why are Miriam's lovers wasting away when she isn't?). Miriam's past is only vaguely hinted at in fleeting images, most notably her memory of an ages-old lover making a first killing out of an Egyptian slave.However, the film's biggest weakness is not the Playboy-style lesbian scene between Sarandon and Deneuve, but rather the confusing ending. Somehow it appears as if Sarah has usurped Miriam's position as the queen vampire, which is impossible in the context of the original novel. There was no way Sarah could have become what Miriam was, so the movie seems to be suggesting something else was going on here.On the positive side, there are a number of great actors in this cast, even other than Deneuve, Sarandon, and Bowie. Cliff De Young is good as Sarah's lover, Tom, and there is a memorable performance by Beth Ehler as Alice, a young girl who studies music with Miriam and John. Dan Hedaya is always a pleasure.What Tony Scott sacrifices in plot here, he makes up for in style. The narrative is carried by the visuals of the film as much as the script, and he makes excellent use of the classical music in the soundtrack. Today it is not uncommon for a film to run more than two hours long, and The Hunger could have been much, much better if Scott had been given full reign to flesh out Whitley Streiber's original concept. "},{"Title":"Artistic, Visually Interesting, But at Points Incomprehensible","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The plot of this movie is somewhat thin throughout, you got a nearly eternal vampire who takes lovers to whom she promises eternal life. Her promise is illusory. Eventually she comes to her own end, although it is not clear exactly why or how. We see the actual how but it seems a very easy/simple end to a cunning and eternal being. I assume she comes to her end out of the the enmity of the others caused by the promise of eternal life that is not quite what they thought it was. We learn from the story of John of Miriam's past lovers who never actually die, they just aged rapidly and were stored in coffin-like boxes upstairs in Miriam's NYC Townhouse. Suddenly John and the others get out of their boxes and force Miriam over the side of a stairwell, where she falls to her apparent death and rapid transformation to an aged corpse.The movie leaves unexplained how these weak, previously boxed up vampire-lovers suddenly get out of their boxes and unite against Miriam. Also left unexplained A) Why Miriam loses control over the former lovers, falls and dies at their hands--how can this happen? B) There are all these birds in the top level of this apartment. What do they symbolize? What purpose or role do they play in the movie? Why isn't there bird guano all over the top floor of this house? C) Why and how does Sarah (Susan Sarandon) apparently take Miriam's place after her death? I mean, why was Miriam not replaced by John (David Bowie) or one of the others? D)Why is it that the other aged lovers appear to disintegrate in death before our eyes, but Susan Sarandon shows up in the final scene, apparently the new eternal vampire replacing Miriam. Why does she survive? E) Susan Sarandon apparently commits suicide in Miriam's embrace, however, when David Bowie asks Miriam to kill him, she tells him that it cannot happen, that he's eternal. So there is an apparent inconsistency here. Why can one commit suicide but the other not die? This movie needed a lot more detail filled in to make its end comprehensible to the viewer and it needed some critical details to be consistent. "},{"Title":"Vampire films are so very boring - but not this one.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Vastly underrated, but it's easily the best vampire film. Seems to be regarded as some kind of a trashy lesbian story, with a little bit of horror and gore thrown in for good measure; well, that's nonsense. These critics would have us believe that some silly Dracula film from the 30s is a masterpiece while this original approach to vampirism is a cheap, exploitative, erotic tale. The film is visually terrific, very atmospheric, has a good cast (Sarandon is excellent), and a superb soundtrack. Sarandon and Deneuve naked in bed is not exactly a deterrent, either. The last scene - a combination of visuals and music, is the absolute highlight of the film. If you'd like to read my parody/biography of Susan Sarandon (and other Hollywood intellectuals), contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Yo, Derry, Make Mine a Bloody Mary!","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hey! Like, what in the name of Count Chocula is going on here!?...... Why is it that modern-day movie-vampires are such messy buggers?? They are. When it comes to their favourite drink, Blood-Thick Slurpees, they splatter and spill the stuff around, all over the place, like it was going out of style.Take The Blaylocks (that's the oh-so-refined Bowie/Deneuve vampire team), for example, they get more blood on the walls and on the floor than they ever do in their mouths. I'm not kidding. And half the time they can't even get it into their own mouths at all. Most of it ends up dribbling down their chins and onto the fronts of their very fashionable frocks. (tsk. tsk) I'm tellin' ya - Vogue magazine would never approve of this. Never.The Blaylocks are total mess-cats when it comes to cadaver snacks and full-meal-deals. And not only that, but they are unbelievably reckless and, yes, stupid, too. When these ultra-chic bloodsuckers are finished with their feed for the night they actually haul the torn and chewed up scraps of their dinner down to their cellar and (get this) burn it up in their very own incinerator.I don't know about you, but I'd say that this is none too bright. After all their trendy townhouse is situated right in the centre of a New York City neighbourhood. And unless the locals there have all lost their ability to smell, the stench and smoke caused by the burning of flesh, surely must have 1 or 2 folks around the hood wondering about The Blaylocks' barbecue specials. But the strange thing is, no one ever complains, or anything. I don't get it.In the good, ol' days of movie-vampires (pre-1950's) The Count, Nosferatu and all their assorted cronies always seemed to be so careful whenever they drained a victim of their life-blood. It's true. You rarely ever saw even a trickle of blood run down a vampire's chin or drip from their victim's neck wound. It seemed back in Hollywood's hey-day that these movie-vampires meant business and sucked the body dry. Yeah,'Good To The Last Drop' was their motto, I'm sure. Everything was so clean and easy back then.But these hip-cat movie-vampires of today let the blood fly everywhere, making big, bloody messes from one end of their fashionable condo to the other. What in the world are vampires coming to? And not only that, but Miriam (Mrs. Blaylock) has a neurotic habit of not letting go of her previous lovers. So, whenever she moves from place to place she, literally, lugs around a dozen god-damn coffins that contain the remains of these dried-up deceived ones who she had promised 'forever' to. If a pile of coffins isn't the sort of thing that will draw attention and suspicion to this particular vampire's undead activities, I don't know what will.But Miriam is also big on betrayal and even before her present lover has actually set foot inside his own box she's out shopping for a replacement. She likes to pretend that this isn't so, but she's no fool and, besides, she is utterly repulsed by the touch of old, wrinkled flesh. Who isn't, baby?I have to give Miriam credit for her latest choice for a lover. Sarah (Sarandon) is actually kind of hot, (as opposed to the scrawny Bowie) but on top of that she really seems to have a brain in her head. At present Sarah's working at a clinic and researching the connection between sleep and ageing. This could well prove to be worthwhile research. And I suspect this is one of the reasons why Miriam chose Sarah. Miriam, I'm sure, has very strong desires to slow down her own ageing even more. And maybe Sarah's knowledge is the key to an answer.But as vampire-lovers these two high-fashion females are doomed. Domination is their downfall. One must rule. One must die. Who that is to be all comes down to the one with the more cunning mind. Who that turns out to be will certainly be of no surprise to anyone, I'm sure.Anyways - From a visual point of view 'The Hunger' is a very impressive film to look at and admire. Lots of moody lighting and stylish sets give it an above average look for a mere vampire flick. Director, Tony Scott (Ridley's brother), does a fine job of setting a even pace in the film's story line. And the gore will satisfy any fan of horror movies, in particular the final confrontation between Miriam and all her long-dead and dehydrated lovers. This girl certainly wasn't idle for a minute. And now the mummified lovers are all coming back to 'thank' her for her loyalty. (Tee-Hee) "},{"Title":"Does not make you hungry for more","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not much to say really. Deneuve and Bowie are posh vampires, the latter is dying so they try to get help from scientist Sarandon. At least that's what I think it was about.After a while it gets horribly pretentious, ignoring plot or character development in favour of curtains blowing in the wind accompanied by piano music. At least half of the film appears to have been filmed in slow motion, or maybe it's just that the actors sleepwalk through the length of the film. Those brave enough to sit through the whole thing will be rewarded with an ending that must have been some stock footage from an episode of Tales from the Crypt.Is there any reason to see The Hunger? Perhaps if you're desperate to get some sleep, or if you fancy some brief moments of lesbian vampire action. Other than that, it's pretty pointless. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Elegant","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Ivan Davis and James Costigan story does not quite make sense, partly perhaps, because the film does not follow the Whitley Strieber novel. Further, director Tony Scott seems to have a gaudy (adolescent) sense of the story that the plot and characters of themselves do not demand. Still, the film has a certain elegance that engaged me. Stephen Goldblatt's cinematography enhances the pervasive iconography of empty sophistication. The pervading tone is one of sorrow and anxiety covering a violent world masked by music and stylishness but always tedious for the main characters.Tediousness underlies an underlying irony that Catherine Deneuve's Miriam and David Bowie's John are truly living dead, who hide their predations behind a mask of supposedly high culture. A further irony is that Cliff De Young's Tom Haver seems much like them, but Susan Sarandon's Sarah Roberts does not. The plot made it hard for me to understand what happens to Sarah even though I have watched this film many times. This is not Karel Čapek's The Makropulos Affair but the film ends with a similar vision. Endless life takes many forms of nightmare.The musical score, the David Hamilton style photography, and even campy special effects somehow work. David Bowie felt constrained by the heavy makeup he has to wear but he is quite effective as are all the other players. I find this more than a guilty pleasure exploitation film. "},{"Title":"Stylish above all","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Definitely a film with more emphasis on how it looks than character development or storyline. Nonetheless I thought the director pulled it off.The lighting, sets and costumes play a huge part in the development of the eerie atmosphere.The film looks beautiful. Is Deneuve's performance brilliantly enigmatic or is she just bored? We'll give her the benefit of the doubt.Some scenes don't make easy viewing. The scene where John Blaylock(Bowie) kills his young neighbour goes on for long enough to make you feel really uncomfortable, especially when you know she knows something is up.Liked the ending as well, with Sarandon's character having to carry on where Deneuve's left off.One I'd watch again but definitely not to everyone's taste. "},{"Title":"Highly styled gothic story","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just watched this film again for the first time in maybe 15 or 20 years and I did forget how slow moving this film is. I don't mind a film taking its time to tell a story but there are so many scenes where nothing happens and the characters are just staring at one another. Lots of style and beautiful cinematography and great sets really set the gothic mood in a contemporary setting. But while all this looks great there really is not much in the way of characterization. Film could have benefited from that. The make-up is terrific as we watch David Bowie age in a short time. For you trivia buffs they're are some recognizable actors in small roles like Willem Dafoe, John Pankow, Ann Magnuson and Jane Leeves. Not a bad film. Well made technically and some effective music but little characterization. A real curio. "},{"Title":"Vampires with dentures...","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Except for a killer opening scene with Bauhaus performing Bela Lugosi's Dead and a brief, yet tastefully shot, lesbian scene between Catherine Deneuve and Susan Sarandon, THE HUNGER has little to offer. Deneuve plays an ageless vampire currently enamored with teddy boy David Bowie. Bowie, who's about to expire --- and does so via some great Dick Smith old-age make-up --- is terrific but not on screen all that much. Deneuve plans on replacing him with Sarandon, a specialist on aging. Ah, IRONY! As a horror movie, THE HUNGER is not scary. As a thriller, it's deadly dull. Director Tony Scott fills virtually every scene with dry ice making this one of the dustiest movies imaginable. "},{"Title":"Smell that tobacco!","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Time may be irrelevant to vampires, who suffer none of its ravages, but it hasn't been kind to this film, which has dated badly and isn't worth two hours of our mortal time. Depending too heavily on style over substance, The Hunger now looks terribly self-conscious. There's far too much smoking going on, an affectation that's no longer cool (and really wasn't by 1983 either). It's one thing for the vampires to smoke (it won't kill them) but Susan Sarandon and the other doctors should be somewhat more enlightened. You can just smell the stench of tobacco in every scene. Even the prospect of feasting your eyes on Catherine Deneuve for two hours is undermined by the harsh, unflattering photography. The plot is slow going and ultimately unrewarding. On the plus side, the soundtrack is an excellent mixture of classical music and new compositions that set a somber mood. This film may still appeal to certain tastes, others will find it self-indulgent. "}{"Title":"Lackluster","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I came across The Hunger while searching movies on the database of my local library. Seeing that it starred Catherine Deneuve, David Bowie, and Susan Sarandon, I immediately checked it out. Big mistake. This film was a waste of time. I think that the only people who would really be fans of the movie would be those who enjoy the shocking scenes of lesbian lust. Even though the film is relatively short, it seemed much longer due to some of the extended shots of birds fluttering, fabric blowing, etc. The movie was in no way scary, as a true horror film should be, nor was it enlightening or entertaining in any other way. Thumbs down from me. "},{"Title":"I am the Very Model of a Modern Yuppie Vampire","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Possible SpoilersJohn and Miriam Blaylock are a wealthy young New York vampire couple. Yes, I know that vampires are more traditionally associated with Eastern Europe, but this is the early eighties, the yuppie years of the Reagan-Thatcher era, when even the undead have abandoned their crumbling old Transylvanian castles and joined the beautiful people in their Manhattan penthouses. Here John and Miriam can enjoy all the benefits of the yuppie vampire lifestyle- a beautiful apartment, exquisite furniture, passionate lovemaking, performing classical music with their teenage friend Alice and the seeming ability to murder disco goers to drink their blood without ever arousing the suspicion of the police.Did I say John and Miriam were young? I had better qualify that somewhat. John is actually over two hundred years old, and Miriam is even older- in fact, she is immortal and ageless. John, however, is not. He is not a vampire born and bred, but a human being converted to vampirism by Miriam. This causes one problem. Although such converted humans have a lifespan way beyond the normal threescore years and ten, they are not immortal, and after reaching a certain point start to age rapidly, whereupon they start to decompose into a sort of living corpse. (Miriam keeps all her previous lovers in their coffins in her flat). This starts happening to John in the course of the film, and he doesn't like it. He consults Sarah, a scientist specialising in research into the ageing process, in a vain search for a cure. He kills Alice after learning that Miriam is planning to take her as her next lover (the modern vampire chick swings both ways), although it is not clear why he does so. (Bloodlust? Jealousy? The thought that this is the only way he can save Alice from a fate worse than death? Or (given that the actress who plays Alice was only fifteen at the time) the thought that this is the only way he can save the film from the fate of being condemned as kiddie porn?In the event, Sarah calls at the Blaylock apartment, thinking that John will make an interesting subject for her research, but ends up being seduced by Miriam, who is hoping to convert Sarah to both vampirism and lesbianism. Cue the famous love scene between Catherine Deneuve and Susan Sarandon, followed by an ending that makes very little sense, even by comparison with what has gone before. 'The Hunger' is a mood, a look, an ambience created by Tony Scott. It is the lighting of Stephen Goldblatt, it is the production design of Brian Morris, it is the clothes created by Milena Canonero. This quote from the publicity material for the film- taken from `Halliwell's Film Guide'- makes interesting reading and indicates that, although the film may not have many intellectual pretensions, it seems to have aesthetic ones. Those who made it clearly had an ambition for it to become some sort of arthouse classic. The look of the film is certainly unusual. Whereas most vampire films (and horror films in general) have an atmosphere of darkness and gloom, `The Hunger' is frequently light and airy, accompanied by soaring classical music rather than the spooky chords normally associated with films of this type. The lesbian scene is a case in point. This is, in fact, surprisingly tender and erotic, with effective use of background music. Today Delibes's `Flower Duet' from `Lakme' is a familiar piece- possibly over-familiar from its repeated use in TV commercials. In 1983, however, it was still relatively unfamiliar (at least it was to me), and its ethereal, otherworldly quality seemed strangely appropriate in this context.The reviewer who compared this film with `Flashdance', another film from the early eighties, may have had a point, despite the very different subject matter of the two films; both clearly bear the hallmarks of the pop videos of the period. `The Hunger', however, lacks completely the joie de vivre which is the main redeeming feature of the other film. Despite the look of the film, it revels in death and decay in a way that is more reminiscent of the Decadent movement of the 1890s than of anything else from the 1980s. A film can have elegant artistic touches and beautiful music on the soundtrack and still be deeply unpleasant and sadistic as well as deeply silly. `The Hunger' is such a film. It falls a long way short of its ambition to be an arthouse classic; at most, it is a cult movie for those with decadent tastes. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"good style but no thrills","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Egyptian vampire lady Miriam Blaylock (Catherine Deneuve) is about to rid herself of her present lover John (David Bowie) like so many others before him. He is rapidly aging and falling apart. In desperation, he seeks the help of famous Dr. Sarah Roberts (Susan Sarandon) and her boyfriend Tom (Cliff De Young) who are researching rapid aging in primates.This movie is filled with good moody atmosphere and interesting style. However the story moves so slowly with Bowie trudging along as an old man. One could really fall asleep watching this. It is truly shocking that action director Tony Scott made this. Maybe he learned what not to do from this movie. But it does look good. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Some advice for those who are planning to watch this film First of all, this is definitely not your regular cup of tea. I don't love this film and I haven't seen many who do. My advice is, don't go and set aside the time for this piece. It's rather interesting to watch once, but if you have better things to do, do them!The movie uses a lot of visual effects and sounds to create a spooky, vampiry atmosphere. While the blue theme and the whole dark setting works quite well and the outcome is quite impressive, some people would say that the method is too slow or frustrating. Just keep in mind that this is a visual film. Don't expect too much dialogue, but remember to listen carefully to the things that are said, especially to Miriam (Deneuve). Otherwise you might miss some points and end up in a confused state.As for the acting, David Bowie is remarkable in his little part, Catherine Deneuve is all class and beauty, and Susan Sarandon has some good scenes. If you're seeking to watch this movie solely because you want to see one of these actors (like I did), you probably won't regret it. But what will get your attention is all the fantasy about how the vampire life works in this story. There are some illogical and not too well thought out theories playing at hand, but when you're watching any fantasy movie, you have to let your imagination take over.Personally, I think this movie is more fantasy and drama than horror or romance. The whole vampire idea will get your attention because of its relatively novel qualities, but the story is also about a vampiress and her tragic love affairs. I suppose the movie doesn't explore too much into this area. It would've been better if they had. For those who're interested, I recommend the book by Whitley Strieber, which does a better job of explaining things. "},{"Title":"Crimson Tide","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm looking at a lot of vampire movies these days. I'm discovering an amazing number of the better ones feature redheads.One has to trudge through junk by hacks like Carpenter, but we do have some high spots. I like Tony Scott's approach to film lots of flash, lush sets, energetic camera, lack of concern for character depth. This is his first real film and he shows real passion; it as if he were possessed by the blood himself. I am not a fan of either Sarandon, Deneuve or Bowie and think their handling here -- as props -- is about right. None of them understand how to place themselves in several perspectives at once.The thing I like about this, despite all its immaturity, and the annoying directness of the actors is the direct relationship among the vampirism, the lust, the sex, and the lush eye.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"The Hunger","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If not for David Bowie's short but strong performance, some good aging make-up effects, three beautiful leads the camera adores, and a token lesbian sequence between major actresses you'd normally not see partaking in this sort of thing(Scott's lone accomplishment in this film, because it's sure not the terrible editing job) this hunk of smutty bile, director Scott would hope you'd find a stylish vampire tale, would be less of a discussed cult item. Scott tries to pass this thing off as an erotic European type of vampire horror cinema, but all the doves, windy see-through flowing curtains, and blood trickling in specific arty shapes down skin, can not salvage no content in story or plot. A terrible film.Oh, the synopsis, or lack there of..a vampire femme,Miriam(the lovely Catherine Deneuve who brings little depth to this character..perhaps the script provided little chance to do so) from Egypt with her pendant always hanging from the neck, watches as her chosen lover John(David Bowie)is beginning to rapidly age with no stop in sight. She wishes to put him away up stairs in a casket letting him realize that the whole you'll live forever has it's disadvantages. We also see that other caskets join him as she fondly speaks to each love personally. Her next conquest id Dr. Sarah Roberts(Susan Sarandon)whose field of study is immortality..or slowing the aging process down using primates dying of a rare aging disease as guinea pigs. The film shows how Sarah succumbs to Miriam's cold advances(one of many failures..this supposed bond comes off unsuccessfully because Scott doesn't allow the plot to grow;they meet and have sex without much room for small-talk)and faces the hunger..that yearning for blood that drives the vampire. Cliff De Young portrays Sarandon's lover and colleague at the government funded institute they work. "},{"Title":"Not What I Was Expecting","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Miriam, a centuries-old vampire, preys on urban clubgoers with her vampire lover John. When John suddenly ages and wastes away, Miriam casts her spell upon Sarah, a doctor who researches premature aging.I figured with Catherine Deneuve and David Bowie, this had to be a home run. Deneuve is an incredible actress, and Bowie has had some impressive roles. And usually very quirky ones alien, goblin king, Andy Warhol. But we did not get much of him here.I don't know if this was just trying to be too mainstream or what, but it was not what I was looking for, and was not super excited about it. In fact, I found it rather challenging to pay attention, which is no compliment. "},{"Title":"Weak entry, could've been better","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After developing a special formula, a scientist is invited by secretive vampires to help them with their plans and when their encounters make others curious, they eventually stumbles across their true and tries to save her before she becomes fully integrated into the society.There wasn't much right to this one. The main part to this one was the lesbian relationship having a lot to it. Besides being exposed to a lot of great nudity, there's also the really great scene it happens in. Taking place behind a big veil, it's a much classier and inevitably more romantic scene than the high-end sleaze it easily could've gone to. The strange part of that veil is that it comes into play on another really great scene, the funeral of the other vampire as the veil obscures it enough to tell what's going on but makes it still really impressive when combined with the unique lighting on display. Also among the best parts of the movie was the vampire's resurrection scene, which here is just really cool-looking. Along with its kills, these are the film's positives as this one had a couple problems to it that really hurt this one. The biggest issue with this is the nearly large portion of the film that doesn't have anything exciting happen. Frankly, nearly all of the beginning of the film is just incredibly dull, with almost nothing happening at all as it's mostly just a series of scenes depicting them doing nothing but talking back and forth over whether or not the drug even works at all or how they're going to get closer to her. This really loses its appeal after the first couple times witnessing these scenes over and over, which pretty much make up all of the first half of the film. The whole of these scenes are just ungodly dull due to the repetition of these scenes and it makes them all quite painful to get through. This is pretty much a slow-paced film to being with, taking a fairly long time doing nothing of real importance since the lethargic pace really takes a long toll. This is mostly prevalent for the film's last half when it deals with the relationship between the two as this is long, drawn-out and quite useless. The last part to lower this is the lack of blood and gore with this one is very dry and doesn't have very much that would give it more of a chance to bring in more since the opportunity is hardly ever there anyway. These here are what lower the film.Rated R Nudity, Graphic Violence, several sex scenes and Language. "},{"Title":"23 Skidoo","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is dedicated to Tony Scott, who leaped right out of the world the day before. I thought the man would be best remembered not as the effective Hollywood professional, but as an ambitious young man hungry for cinema. Forget about vampires for a moment. You should know right off the bat that Scott was very fond of the 1970 film Performance. Growing up as an artistic person in the swinging sixties, he could not have failed to appreciate the alluring opiate blend of rockstar lifestyle, Borges, Nouvelle Vague, Eastern mysticism, and counterculture paranoia. That film was about an encounter with madness that goes all the way to achieve purity, shifting (sexual) identities, damaged minds, achieved by multilayered fractures that continuously zonked you out of reality.This is two films at once. The second is the one Scott promised to deliver and adapted from the novel by the same name. It is a dark, glamorous vamp fairy-tale of eternal damnation filmed in the slick, syncopated beats of a music video. The atmosphere is pop-gloomy, and mostly devoted to dreamlike digress and attractive sexuality. My guess is Scott had no traction with horror and only wanted this project because it offers near unlimited possibilities for sensual , pulsing imagery. It is not at all from the Hammer tradition anyway, despite being (primarily) British.You will know what it's all about by noting a ravishing Catherine Deneuve as the enigmatic, ice queen with flowing blonde hair and luscious red lips. No doubt, she channels the absinthe vision of Delphine Seyrig from Daughters of Darkness and that whole movement of early 70's erotic art-horror most notable in continental Europe.That's fine, a matter of appealing style. But it's the first film that I believe matters and Scott really wanted to do, the one that references Performance.It is anchored on a rockstar, after that film (Bowie in place of Jagger).He does not play himself in the film, but just the same, it's a stroke of genius casting. He is no ordinary presence, primarily because we know he is Bowie and enter this with associations to a glam stage and androgynous , alien sexuality. He is, more than an actor, a synthetic avatar of different , coveted selves that shift and realign, gibbering, performing, pattern as light becomes vibrant.His plight in the film is that he is aging inexplicably fast, his looks rapidly deteriorating from one cut to the next. He becomes a withered old man before our eyes, a shell of bones and ravaged tissue.In a different plot-strand, a scientist is studying a monkey inside a glass cage and attempting to explain behavior patterns (we are, studying the man and attempting to explain).Your key is all in the first scene. We open with a rock concert, and right away we are pummeled away by a barrage of multifractured visions, each one its own glimpse of perhaps a story. This is your template. It is not about a story, so much as snippets of successively sliding realities being simultaneously channeled and happening at once. Their violently rapid shifting opens spontaneous air corridors in the mind. The theme that holds them together is the Bauhaus song performed, Bela Lugosi is Dead (a legend dies).I could hold onto three of these realities, maybe you will more. One is obvious enough, as said a rockstar confronts mortality. The second is a nightmare of being washed-up and forgotten by the world, tied with the first. The third and most poignant is an old man, it could be any old man, maybe it is you, alone at his house recalling past loved ones to perform.The story about vampire-bit damnation gradually creeps in, and little by little the cloud of sliding realities goes away and subsides, but the first half-hour is a must-see and perhaps Scott's finest moment, the one with the most fragile light.In an eerie connection, the main driving force behind Performance was not Roeg, as often believed, but Donald Cammell. He took his own life in 1996. "},{"Title":"Stylish and classy vampire fare","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Hunger, the directorial debut of Tony Scott (Ridley's brother), is a stylish, beautifully directed and sensual film starring Catherine Deneuve as vampire Miriam Blalock, and David Bowie as John, the most recent in her succession of chosen humans she has turned vampire to be her lover and companion. The two live together in a beautiful New York townhouse, private tutors of classical music as their cover. At night they haunt nightclubs, dressed in elegant clothing and sunglasses, hunting prey (look for Ann Magnuson in a bit part as one of their meals).Miriam is a centuries-old bisexual vampire dating back to ancient Egypt, who met John in 18th century France, promising him eternal life; unknown to him, she has promised the same to many others before (she alternates the genders of her chosen companions throughout the ages). The lie begins reveal itself as John starts to have trouble sleeping, then as he abruptly and rapidly ages in the waiting room of Dr. Sarah Roberts (Susan Sarandon), a researcher of sleep and aging disorders. Miriam looks to Sarah as John's potential successor; Sarah falls under her spell when she goes to the townhouse to find John, and encounters Miriam instead, leading to the scene for which this film is best known.If you're expecting a fast-paced vampire film showcasing fangs, flying bats, wooden stakes, and the usual trappings, look elsewhere; The Hunger is a film of striking imagery and languid elegance, even in its violent scenes, and an all-encompassing sexual atmosphere right up until the shocking and almost surreal ending. The performances of Deneuve and Bowie (Deneuve is the epitome of the classy and distant blonde ala Alfred Hitchcock's preference for his female leads, and Bowie expertly handles his character's transition from young to old, both physically and emotionally) ensure that The Hunger will remain known as the perfect vampire film of the 1980s, and a timeless cult classic in its own right.The 1981 novel of the same name by Whitley Strieber is a compelling read, and a fitting addition to the bookshelves of anyone who enjoys books by authors such as Anne Rice or Charlaine Harris. "}{"Title":"An Art Horror Classic","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is a shiveringly beautiful, sophisticated vampire art film with ground-breaking editing, cinematography and design that paved the road for such brilliant films as Let the Right One In. Plus, I defy anyone to resist the combined appeal of Bowie, Deneuve, 80's goth music (performance by Bauhaus), and vampires. You can't! The angle of vampire mythology the film focuses on is longevity. What would the experience of living eternally have on the individual? Sure the fluttering gauze curtains get a bit over the top at times, but this is an art horror classic to be enjoyed and poured over. Just be warned This is a slow, contemplative film at times, so if you're expecting non-stop blood-sucking go elsewhere. Plus, note the Barry Lyndon references! "},{"Title":"The Hunger for Lust&#133;","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Watching The Hunger is like watching a stylish music video from the 80s. The film has plenty of contrasting and expressionist shots. The Hunger Tells the Story of John Blaylock (Played by David Bowie) and Miriam Blaylock (Played by Catherine Deneuve), a vampire couple who hunt the blood of the young and reckless every other night. Until one day John stats to feel tired and start aging rapidly. Miriam, on the other hand stays young. John seeks the help of Dr. Sarah Roberts (Played by Susan Sarandon) who is a studding aging disorder on chimpanzees and humans. When John tells Sarah of his rapid aging problem, she doesn't takes him seriously and tells him to wait for her thinking that he will eventually get tire of waiting and leave. When she sees him hours later she is shock when she sees that John has grown older in only a few hours. John returns home and asks Miriam to take his life and set him free. But Miriam refuses and takes the almost rotting body of John, to where she keeps her docent of former lovers from different centuries that she keeps in a living dead state. Sarah, desperate to find out of John, she comes to meet Miriam, and then Miriam seduces Sarah so she can become her new companion. The photography of this film is beautiful but in my opinion, there is too much contrast. The performances of all the actor where really good but the one that stand out the most was the performance of David Bowie. This movie explored the view of the vampire and how they deal with the loneliness of eternal life and how selfish they can be&#133; a concept shown in the film Interview with the Vampire. It also explores the sexuality of the Vampires and there lust for companionship. The love scene between Susan and Catherine proved to be both provocative and controversial for its time. Vampires in this movie don't have any transformation like fangs or creatures, but instead they use an Egyptian shaped pendant to cut their victims throats. One thing that I consider disturbing in this movie is the fact that Miriam's lovers never die but stay in a zombie decaying state and she keeps them in coffins in what appears to be a collection of undead companions. This demonstrates the selfishness and cruelty of Miriam by confusing Lust with love. I recommend this film for all the hard core Vampire fans. "},{"Title":"A Question of Hemoglobin.","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Hunger is adapted from Whitley Strieber's novel of the same title (Strieber is also the author of Wolfen) by Ivan Davis and Michael Thomas, who wrote the scenario. Following the deconstruction and alteration of the vampire legend with Anne Rice's book, Interview with the Vampire (1979), and Frank Langella's film, Dracula (1979), Tony Scott made a definitely modern film by doing away with all the old clichés and myths attached to the commonly accepted vampire lore. Scott's vampires move about in full daylight, there is no mention of garlic or crucifixes, the vampires have no fangs, and the word vampire is not even pronounced once in the entire film. Scott proceeds by opposition the rhythm is at times dry and nervous, and at other times tender and lascivious; the protagonists inhabit an elegant, airy townhouse located in a large metropolis instead of a traditional dark, gloomy castle. Scott prefers the beauty and sophistication of the trio whose elegant garments are in stark contrast to the inherent hideousness and monstrosity of the traditional characters and their tattered, grimy attire. He substitutes a delicate daylight chiaroscuro for the night, and he replaces the traditional funereal music with one of J.S. Bach's graceful Suites, an aria from DeLibe's opera, Lakmé, trios by Lalo and Schubert, and the unsettling Ravel's Le Gibet. The cinematography by Stephen Goldblatt gives to the image a combination of the gloss of a deluxe art magazine and the sensation of a Gothic novel. The subdued, vaporous blues and greens colors of the interior scenes are awe-inspiring, and Tony's editing is MTV-like. The original music by Michel Rubini and Denny Jaeger comes and reinforces the morbid, Gothic atmosphere of the film.David Bowie appearance is relatively brief, and it is his charismatic presence rather than his acting which is memorable, although the scene of his rapid aging as he waits for Sarandon's return is unforgettable (and so is his withering, thanks to Dick Smith's make-up wizardry). A seductive, frightening, and thoroughly elegant Catherine Deneuve, La Belle Catherine, is sublime in one of her most sophisticated roles. Her enigmatic presence dominates the film from its very beginning to its end. Susan Sarandon is remarkable undergoing her incongruous evolution from a dedicated, successful doctor to a somewhat willing participant in her transformation into a blood-lusting vampire.Of course, The Hunger became notorious for its Sapphic erotic scene between these two famous actresses. The scene is tactfully rendered, although still rather shocking to American audiences at the time. The seduction of Sarah proceeds with Miriam injecting her with some of her genetic material through a tender bite in the hollow of Sarah's arm, to the music of the (too) well-known women's duet from Léo Delibes' Lakmé. While this beautiful music may seem appropriate, I find it a bit too obvious, and somewhat too cliché. But, contrary to the usual seduction of the damsel found in the more classic vampire films, we clearly get the feeling that her seduction is not necessarily against her nature, and that she surrenders willingly to this forbidden love. In The Celluloid Closet (1995), a documentary film on the homosexuality in the cinema, Susan Sarandon comments on this particular scene, which made Catherine Deneuve somewhat of an lesbian and gay icône (which, it is said, the actress enjoys immensely).The film's ending is a great disappointment. It parts totally from the Strieber novel's ending, which most likely was what Tony Scott intended. The studio, thinking that Strieber's original conclusion would be immoral, imposed instead on the Director an ending where Miriam is actually being punished, violating in the process all the themes and rules on which the film was based.Although one would not expect in most cases a worthwhile theme(s) to be associated with a vampire film, except with Bram Stocker's original Dracula (1897), there are several themes in The Hunger. The first theme is that of addiction, in this particular situation, an addiction to blood in exchange not for a high, but for immortality. The second theme is that of the fear of aging and death. This theme is explicitly present in the first half of the film, when John realizes that time is catching up with him at an alarming speed, and he mounts a desperate and vain effort to stop its ravages. It is also implicit in the second half of the film, as Miriam had found the solution. However, this solution has become the raison d'être of her apparently endless life, to the exclusion of everything else.The Hunger is a very experimental film and more than twenty years following its first screening, it remains a unique cinematographic experience. I would have given it at least a four-star rating, but for its ending, I give it three stars. "},{"Title":"Jean Rollin, for American audiences","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tony Scott's The Hunger seems to be the black sheep of 80's vampire films. While more mainstream works such as Lost Boys and Near Dark took a grittier, fast paced, and overall more fun approach at the subject matter, The Hunger went for something more patient, character driven and throuly more 'arthouse' like. It's style can be easily tracked down in films such as Harry Kumel's Daughters of Darkness and the works of French filmmaker Jean Rollin, famous for his avant-garde lesbian vampire films such as Lips of Blood and Fascination. Never mainstream hits, Rollin's work gained a cult appeal as some of the most stylish, unique and haunting horror films of the 70's. While the film is in English and Scott replaces the crumblin chateaus so predominent in Rollin's films for a Gothic Manhattan penthouse, the essence of the former's work is still there, and as result, it was both a critical and commercial failure. Yet those who can appreciate the works of that underrated director, will totally enjoy this real gem of a vampire classic. "},{"Title":"Ropes","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" David Bowie is at his best in this classic cult film. The scenario is majestic. The score is excellent. The plot is similar to a Dracula story yet this movie explains the unresolved feminine-trauma of reproduction and nature was Draculka having sex in his castle at night or playing with his bunnies? David Bowie plays sharp edge in this excellent film he delivers, he is an actor, an trained in classical arts his production excels by far the best I have seen. Mme. Deneuve is the world-beauty she is known for bring your aunt Tita to this ride of the Magic Mountain! You will like it, it is a good movie. You will enjoy it, it is a classic eat popcorn and read some alchemical writings in the way to your favorite restaurant in Tour, France. You will think of this when the movie is over. "},{"Title":"Intriguing stylish unusual film has some great moments but it leaves the viewers confusing as well.","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Miriam Blaylock (Catherine Deneuve) and her lover John (David Bowie) are actually Vampires living in New York City. These vampires are different, they also live by day and hunt their preys on various night clubs. Miriam is a Egyptain vampire, who will become ageless forever. But her lover is actually aging and dying fast, since they don't have the same life-line as her. Now Miriam is looking for a new lover, which she becomes interested to a attractive woman named Dr. Sarah Roberts (Oscar-WinnerSusan Sarandon). Which her lover went to see Sarah for help, before he aged too rapidly. Since she's a specialist for aging process, she trying to find a cure for the disease. After Miriam and Sarah make passionate love together after one night. Miriam has giving Sarah her to dark gift to live for many years. But Sarah isn't prepared for it and it seems there's no way back to her former self.Directed by Tony Scott (Beverly Hills Cop 2, Enemy of the State, Revenge) made an fascinating horror drama that has its share of some erotic moments and strong visual sense to his strong premise. Which the film is based on a novel by Whitley Strieber (Communion, Wolfen). This is actually Scott's first theatrical film and he does an fine job with this intriguing if flawed movie. This has excellent Widescreen cinematography by Stephen Goldblatt (Batman Forever, Closer, Rent). It also has genuinely well done make-up effects work by Oscar-WinnerDick Smith (Altered States, The Exorcist, Ghost Story) and Carl Fullerton (Friday the 13th Part 2 & 3, My Demon Lover, The Silence of the Lambs). Bowie is a standout in his strong supporting performance and he's steals the show, when he is on-screen. Deneuve and Sarandon gives good performances as well. After reading some reviews, it seems the most remember sequence was the tasteful love scene between Deneuve and Sarandon. Which it is tastefully done and quite erotic. But the main problem of the picture, it never really catches fire. There's many fine scenes but the movie lacks heart. Some viewers will be extremely confused by the storytelling, especially towards the end. It is one of those films that you have to watch and pay attention to the story. It is not as great as i would expect. But overall, it is a good picture. It is certainly fascinating if not the best films of Scott's great movies. Plenty of familiar faces appears in bit parts and in cameos. Followed by a TV Series that is loosely based on the film. Worth a look. Panavision. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Lush scenarios in a weird vampires story with three attractive protagonists","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The film talks about Catherine Deneuve ,she's a seductive vampire living along centuries with David Bowie.They need fresh blood for the eternal life .But Bowie is about to disintegrate and is substituted by a new lover,an enticing scientific-medic ,Susan Sarandon.The picture is a bizarre bloodsuckers film and for somebody considered with a cult movie's status.It displays luxurious scenarios,arty photography although mostly developed on interior studios.The French actress Catherine Deneuve,as always, is cold and elegant.David Bowie as young and older vampire in an exciting transformation is well.Susan Sarandon as an obstinate scientist is good.Features known secondary actors, Dan Hedaya as a Police Inspector and Cliff DeYoung as Sarandon's lover. Besides future famous actors in small roles, almost extras, as Willem Dafoe,Anne Magnuson,John Pankow and English actors as Sophie Ward and Philip Sayer.The creepy sequences by stop motion referred to an aging monkey are made by Dave Allen.Splendid cinematography reflecting luxuriously sets and scenarios by Stephen Goldblatt.Stylish,elegant costumes by the expert Milena Canonero and wardrobe department and gowns of Catherine Deneuve by the famous French fashion designer Ives Saint-Laurent. The movie is classified by the MPAA with the rating R for blood,violence,gore and kinky nudism.The motion picture is well realized by Tony Scott though a little slow-moving and quite boring.He's nowadays much success and getting high box-office with hits like  ¨Crimson tide, Enemy of state,Spy game,Man of fire and Deja Vu¨ and founded along with his brother Ridley, ¨Scott-Free Production¨. "},{"Title":"This beautiful film has a built in paradox","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When it was first released it did not do all that well because of what it wasn't. It was too intellectual for horror fans, and had two much horror for intellectuals. The Hunger as much as the later Interview With the Vampire, is an attempt to break out of the suck my blood, I vant to bite your neck mold. It does it with a highly erotic love triangle and with a lot of eroticism. David Bowie has been kept alive for a long time while serving as the lunch cum lover of the Vampire Miriam ( Catherine Deneuve) But he has just about reached the point where she can not keep him alive any more, so she now seeks a replacement. Enter Susan Sarandon. I enjoyed this film, but was left feeling not quite satisfied at the end. One needs to view it in the context of when it was filmed. "},{"Title":"Vampire stuff","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With icons like Bowie, Deneuve and Sarandon, this is almost the best non verbal film ever. It tells its story with images so effectively in the States people condemned it for being too stylish. Critics called it a feature length perfume advertisement. They missed the wonderful narrative dynamics. For a change I thought it was even better than the Whitley Strieber novel it was based on. Those visually stunning images-the monkeys, the aging process-stay permanently in your mind.....and have been aped in many music videos since. I'm not so fond of Vampire stuff as I used to be, its become the most tired of horror metaphors. But this parallels vampirism with heroin addiction, and the way addicts try to get others addicted. "},{"Title":"Kinky pleasure","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Arguably one of the best looking film of the 80's, The Hunger have passed the test of time quite well, despite director Tony Scott's infatuation with smoke and veils and all those over-aesthetic antics him and bro Ridley are so well-known for. Ironically, these period items are the very reason why the picture holds up so beautifully till this day. The sketchy story, the mannered (or let's say in tune with) acting, the commercial inspired montage all to the service of a formal extravaganza, yet a controlled one. And all they converge to create this mesmerizing piece of cinematic fluff, a strange fruit to be sure, but these things becoming increasingly hard to get out of the Hollywood tree... treat yourself, have a bite.  "}{"Title":"could've been fantastic","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It comes pretty close. The Hunger looks brilliant. From the beautiful interiors of the house where vampire Miriam (Catherine Deneuve)lives to the sophisticatedelegance of the main three characters, this is a feast for the eyes. However, these characters are so uninteresting and only mildly intriguing that theirpresence becomes tiresome not before long. It begins well. In fact, it begins very well, as Miriam and her lover John (David Bowie, not bad surprisingly)enter a nightclub and seduce some disposable prey to take back to their doom.Everything, from the editing to the superb use of music, shifting from 80's Gothic rock to classical, oozes atmosphere and danger. After that though, it gets really, really dull. The problem with The Hunger is that it's too serious. We are supposed to feel for these characters but they are so hollow that its difficult to pick up interest. At its best the film is mysterious and dark, at its worst it is horribly pretentious and dramatically uninvolving. The end is mildly interesting for its sheer weirdness but the horrific pay-off is a cold experience because, like the billowing curtains that block our view of anything in the hilariously exploitative lesbian scene, Tony Scott doesn't let us into this world completely. We are detached outsiders, and this approach may be fine in his later no-brain pieces of garbage like Top Gun, but not in a film that seems to be feigning an interest in real drama when really it's doing nothing of the sort. A real pity, but a triumph of photography, editing and lighting.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films Ever","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I sincerely think this is 'One of the Best Films Ever'. Excellent script, acting and directing. I found it very deep and moving. I'm not into 'vampire movies' and so I just got into the theme about life and death, love and immortality, I saw the vampire aspect of the film as secondary in many ways. The love scene between Susan and Catherine is exquisite and has to be one of the most beautiful lesbian interactions I have seen in cinema. Bowie was also at his best. A must see! "},{"Title":"Love isn't forever even for vampires, but a great film is.","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Easily the sexiest vampire film ever and the greatest cast for a modern era vampire film, what sets The Hunger apart even more is the perfect balance of art cinema and storytelling.  Director Tony Scott has yet to match the level of artistry and emotional power that he helped to achieve in this film.  Don't watch this film for the blood and bats, watch it for haunting eroticism and heart-rending romanticism.  The layers of subtext and emotion keep it interesting viewing after viewing, if watching Bowie, Deneuve and Sarandon aren't enough for you (though you may have to be undead yourself for that to be so!).       "},{"Title":"Very Stylish!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really love this movie. The acting is a little ho-hum, certain things run a little long here and there and the story isn't all it could be, but hey... it looks incredible. I mean, gorgeous! I also love vampire films and I love David Bowie, so for me, movies don't really get much better. I normally would deep six my opinion of a movie if it came down to just the style and cast, but this one (for some reason) I grant full pardon of its short-comings. It is amazing. I honestly do think the first five minutes of this movie are perfect. I love the music (Bela Lugosi is Dead, performed by Bauhaus), the editing, the cinematography, the titles, the costumes (hey, it was 1983), the whole bit. It gets me going. I do really wish the whole movie would have kept up the momentum it started with the beginning, but its worth seeing for the beginning alone. It is a fun movie, nothing very deep, but its a good time. You can laugh at it one minute and then it will come back and shock you the next. But style takes the drivers seat in this picture (not such a bad thing)...keep one eye open for a brief, walk-on by beginner, Willem Dafoe! "},{"Title":"Strange, but sensible","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Catherine Deneuve, mercy , mercy, mercy, what a lot of us americans have missed with her being around in our films, but at least this classic is to stay with me for a very long time. This movie from both critics and even IMDb users is very underated but it's strange and kind of struggling to watch but I liked it, this is the kind of movie that had scared me to death and created a lot of nightmares when I was younger and when I watched even last night I was still petrified of it, a good movie will lock that suspense in your veins and keep it there and this is a film that reached my hundred all time greats.May contain SPOILERS When I first saw this film I think I was only five and didnt grab the concept of it, that and the Howling movies were always on when I was younger and I would always sneak up and watch films like that but only bits and pieces, the terrifying part in this movie was the screams and the slow echoes of it throughout the gruesome scene's, I like that best in a horror movie is when the screams echo like that and the direction sometimes is in slow-mo and drowsy. David Bowie was riveting in this movie as his performance of Miriam's lover, and also another actor which never got his good virtues matched up with horrible critics. When I first saw it I never thought I like it , because it kept having scene's splash everywhere and looked weird and strange and might be hard to follow but you do have to use a little knowledge in this movie to follow it but it's the beautiful, enchanting atmosphere of a vampire ode....in contemporary New York and the clothes was suitable, the music disturbing....it's a horror film but it felt like sometimes watching a delicate masterpiece of a fine art or Danielle Steele writing one of her nightmares. The lesbian scene was erotic and designed beautifully. The movie was shady and dark and mysterious, which I like also! But the sad thing about this movie is that watching Catherine Deneuve portray her character to a tee, her eye's are stunning and at forty years old she could easily pass as a thirty one year old woman, in which you didn't know the precise age since she was a immortal vampire....but her eroticism and delicate feauture's spellbounded you and turned you soft and in the climax you had felt sympathy of watching her character fatigue.My bottom line is that it was underated and the performance of a actress that could of played in a lot more american movies throughout the eighties and nineties with applause and perfection. And for Tony Scott, I would say this is one of his best efforts of a darker side to his directing! 9/10 "},{"Title":"forever?","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A beautifully stylistic film by Tony Scott. Catherine Deneuve and David Bowie star as ageless lovers who sustain eternal youth by drinking human blood. Although, this is not a vampire movie. These two immortals cast reflections and walk about in sunlight.THE HUNGER is more art than horror. The colors, shot compositions, framings, and concept edits are wonderful. Bowie gives a convincing performance of a man faced with his own inescapable death. And make-up effects artist Dick Smith has great work (as always) in this film. His best moments are the subtle effects (a few wrinkles around the eye etc.) on David Bowie.This film is an example of how the motion picture medium can be used as a vehicle for visual art. Director Tony Scott's trademark color schemed atmosphere (consisting primarily of blues and oranges) is here in full force. His technique of concept edits in this film, alone, is worth watching.The standard format version (non widescreen) is an absolute debauchery of the director's work. A film like this is overwhelming evidence of how standard format butchers the beauty of a film.Perhaps that is a reason why this film is and was largely neglected by viewers. However, over the years this film has developed a small fanbase (primarily) of Bowie/goth fans. In fact, the movie opens with a quasi-music video of the band Bauhaus performing none other than Bela Lugosi's Dead.The film also inspired a Showtime Original Miniseries of the same name in the late 1990s.  So, at least, I know that I am not the only one who likes this movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Haunting","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The many negative reviews of this film astounds me. I must admit that its been over 10 years since I read the book and I do remember that the movie fails to live up to the novel. But The Hunger is still a beautiful and haunting movie. A lot of reviewers are poo-pooing the fact that these vampires don't act like vampires. The author, Whitley Streiber, seemed to suggest in the novel that the character of Miriam Blaylock (Deneuve) was a sort of humanoid and not your classic lives-by-night, fanged blood-sucker. That's why the vampire lovers hate this film so much. In all fairness, I don't think The Hunger is a vampire movie at all. It's a story of an eternally young and beautiful humanoid woman with vampire-like qualities. The soundtrack is awesome. I was lucky enough to have met the woman who sings in the scene when the skater is attacked by Bowie. Funny story I was at a party in Alta Dena, a suburb in northern Los Angeles. I knew the hostess was a singer but did not know of her connection to the film until I saw that she had been awarded (a Grammy or AMA, I think) for her work on the soundtrack. Of course, as a big fan of the movie, I was quite impressed and happy that my roommate had invited me! I will love this movie...forever and ever. "},{"Title":"Graphic vampire tale well worth seeing (spoilers)","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is wierd, but what do you expect with someone as strange as David Bowie playing a vampire.  This movie is about a centuries old woman that lures men as well as women in her life and turns them into vampires such as she is.  There is a twist to this type of vampire tale that shows the lovers of the woman suddenly turn old as soon as they become her victims.  They die and the woman finds someone else to take the place of the old lover. There are awsome graphics in this movie that are intence as well as the acting of Bowie, the woman (forgot her name) and Susan Serandon who has played in a few movies portraying lesbianism.  The ending is well worth watching.  It captures the very meaning of the movie.  One thing that I find different in this movie is the lack of usual vampire movies that have the vampire biteing the neck of thier victims, where in this movie, the vampire uses a necklace in the shape of an Egyptian cross that is used as a dagger. "},{"Title":"Blut ist ein besonderes saft","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Easily one of the most stylish movies of the 1980s, The Hunger takes obsessive love to the nth degree.  An ancient vampire seductress turns her lovers into vampires but cannot stop them from inexplicably wasting away. As they disintegrate, she grieves (briefly) and then adds them to her collection, tucked away in caskets, their mouths gaping with the inaudible screams of their eternal suffering.  But she quickly seduces a replacement (of either gender) with her promise of love and life forever and ever. But after what may be thousands of years of such cycles, the gorgeous vampiress meets her match!Two elements of this film make it a must see  the inspired and terrific cast and the sensational art direction.  The magnificent Catherine Deneuve stars as the uber vampiress and her performance is at once alluring, touching, and startlingly sadistic.  Playing opposite Deneuve are chic and gorgeous David Bowie and Susan Sarandon.  Directed by Tony Scott, brother of Ridley Scott, and released one year after the latter's acclaimed Blade Runner, The Hunger shares a similar vision but it is arguably not only a better film but even more visually compelling.Simmering beneath the surface of the gothic story line are early allusions to AIDS, and the dangers (and excesses) of medical experimentation.  It's a heavy mix but never intrudes on the movie's strange beauty.  Still popular as a cult favorite, The Hunger satisfies and satiates! "},{"Title":"See the movie, read the book","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Great movie! Superb acting, excellent story...based on a book by Whitley Streiber. I read the book first, though, and reading the book provides a more sequential description of the plot and a more detailed history and analysis of the characters. Some may find that seeing the movie the first time leaves the viewer with some unanswered questions. Nevertheless, the film is excellent and displays the formidable acting talents of the three main leads (Deneuve, Bowie and Sarandon). Overlooked fact The Hunger was nominated for two Saturn awards (costumes and make-up). Guiding Light fans will want to watch to see Beth Ehlers (Harley, GL) at age 13 or so playing Alice. Ending is oblique, contradictory to the book's ending, and more than just a vampire movie. "}{"Title":"An intoxicating and seductive film","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Why is it that Bowie made such visually stunning films, but one was never sure what was going on in them? This movie is so beautiful it hurts. Deneuve never looked better than here as the sophisticated porcelain skinned and incredibly well dressed Miriam Blaylock. But just what really happened at the end? It appears that rejection of her victim/lover leads to her demise, can it be all that simple, we all need love even the vampires?On the other hand the juxtaposition of sound and sight in this film was well balanced. If there was a flaw, and there was, it was in the fall back to cliched horror screams in the last minutes of the movie. A little too much Tales from the Crypt, it just didn't fit with the style and taste of the movie.All in all an excellent, if at times incomprehensible, film. Quite like the victims pulled off of the streets and clubs of New York, one is swept away with the experience, intoxicated and utterly taken in left with the lingering feeling that it might not be so bad to be bad after all. One can well identify with Sarandon's best line Are you trying to seduce me? No, Susan, you can't seduce the willing and we are all too willing.  "},{"Title":"Eternal","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This what I call a cult movie in all the expresion. David Bowie and Catherine Denueve made a couple that you can't forget. All the movie is slow (one of the Scott's anti-trademark in their upcoming works) and melacholic. I love this movie for the Eternity. "},{"Title":"David Bowie is ageless.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  David Bowie ages before our eyes. Catherine Deneuve doesn't. The makeup was extraordinary. This film has such an eerie melancholy mood. Normally I don't like melancholy, but I found The Hunger to be totally riveting. "},{"Title":"Ravenously About Sex","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This, to my mind, is the best vampire movie, cause it's the only one which really GETS it. Vampires are really all about sex. And though the interplay between David Bowie and Catherine Deneuve is fun to watch, especially the opening  scenes with the famous music, for my money it's the Deneuve scenes with Susan Sarandon which make it worth the price of admission. The wine on the blouse scene is still one of the most erotic in cinema. Getting hungry just thinking about it...  "},{"Title":"A slick new breed of vampire with a human twist","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Dark suited, pale skinned vampires with sunglasses and golden Ankh necklaces alternate with billowing curtains and Gothic clothed flashback scenes.  _The Hunger_ provides a refreshing change from the classic vampire film, portraying the relationship of Bowie and Deneuve, a romance that has lasted 300 years and is only terminated by Bowie's rapid descent into age and death.  These vampires are not affected by the sun, nor are the more standard trappings of vampire films - holy water, stakes and vampire hunters - in evidence.  A visual feast. "},{"Title":"Vampire goth pseudo-horror more cerebral than most vamp films","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Despite only ever having the chance to see it on video or TV, I was nonetheless captivated by this film and its juxtaposition of classical beauty and gothic macabre 'horror'. The film contains some unusual material for it's time.  Stuff ranging from the soundtrack combination of classical (Schubert) and contemporary 1980's gothic pop (Bauhaus) placed alongside the flashback images (like flowing chiffon drapes in dreamy memories of an ancient egyptian killing) and contemporary New York City.  And there are the scientists attempting to understand the aging process of their lab animals while simultaneously being approached for desperate help by the rapidly aging and dying vampire (David Bowie). There is the lesbian overtones and love between the beautiful vampire and the scientist (Deneuve and Sarandon); there is glamour mixed alongside trash as Deneuve trawls through the NYC nightclubs for the next victim. The Hunger was a refreshing change from the usual crucifix hating, garlic fearing vampire of old.  This had a lot of beauty and yet something of a realism. Whitley Streiber (the author) made a number of storyline changes in the screen adaptation (particularly in the latter half of the movie) but the overall effect is not lost; the book takes a detour into a more emotional attachment between the vampire and her at first unwilling new partner (Sarandon), but this would have clearly been too difficult to portray on film.  The Hunger is styled along the lines of the 'film noir' of old French movie-making. Along with 'Interview With the Vampire' (I must rate them equally), the Hunger is the most beautiful vampire movie/concept to date. "},{"Title":"A sexy, slick shocker.","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One will note that The Hunger is not the typical vampire story. In fact, the word vampire is never uttered in this adaptation of the Whitley Strieber novel. These vampires don't possess fangs, nor does sunlight harm them. They're still predatory, yet refined and well dressed in the classic tradition. Their main concern is the ageing process, which in the male's case is greatly accelerated. French icon Catherine Deneuve and singer David Bowie play this fiendish couple to great effect, in this movie that marks the theatrical directing debut for Tony Scott, who of course went on to great fame directing things like Top Gun and True Romance. Bowie's efforts to deal with his ageing problem lead him to researcher Susan Sarandon, whom Deneuve sees as an excellent candidate to replace Bowie. Horror elements are only stressed in bits and pieces until the end. For most of the running time, The Hunger is really more of a combination of art and exploitation, stylishly made, with striking lighting schemes by Stephen Goldblatt and production design by Brian Morris. In fact, it very much has a music video sense about it, and begins, appropriately enough, with musical group Bauhaus performing their popular song Bela Lugosi's Dead. Palpable atmosphere and mood also add to the effectiveness of this admittedly leisurely paced movie, which is extremely sensual, and gets a lot of mileage out of Deneuve's alluring quality and her coupling with Sarandon. The makeup effects, the work of Carl Fullerton and the legendary Dick Smith, are impressive, with the distraught Bowie (who delivers a standout performance) seen to age before our eyes. Doses of gore here and there add to the visual power of the movie, which combines picture and soundtrack quite nicely throughout. For the first several minutes of the movie, the story is told more in images than words. In addition to our three leads, the acting is sound from supporting actors Beth Ehlers, Cliff DeYoung, and Dan Hedaya, with people like Ann Magnuson, Bessie Love, John Pankow, Willem Dafoe, and Sophie Ward in noteworthy bits. The whole thing is decidedly grim and is played with a noticeable lack of humour, which may put some viewers off, but intrigue others. In any event, this isn't a bad movie at all, and it works as an 80's style update of the cycle of erotic vampire films of the 70's. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"A very sexy and stylish 80's vampire horror winner","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Centuries old Egyptian vampiress Miriam Blaylock (Catherine Deneuve at her most gorgeous, spellbinding, and serenely chilling) and her husband John (splendidly played by David Bowie) live an opulent lifestyle in a posh townhouse in New York City. However, John like all of Miriam's previous lovers suddenly ages into a wizened old man after 300 years, so Miriam decides to replace him with strong-willed geriatric research specialist Sarah Roberts (an excellent performance by Susan Sarandon).Director Tony Scott brings a hypnotic high-gloss panache to this inspired and intoxicating cinematic blend of decadence and elegance. Moreover, Scott pulls off several stunning set pieces the Goth rock group Bauhaus performing the terrific song Bela Lugosi is Dead while Miriam and John search for victims in a swanky nightclub, John rapidly aging while waiting to speak to Sarah at the research center, and a gloriously macabre climax in which Sarah's spurned and rotting ghoul past lovers exact a fitting revenge on her for neglecting them. The script by Michael Thomas and Ivan Davis poignantly addresses the basic need for companionship and offers an admirably fresh and unique take on the standard premise of vampirism (these ageless immortals can walk around in the sunlight and use small daggers to cut open the throats of their victims because they don't have fangs). The sound acting by the able cast rates as another significant asset Deneuve, Sarandon, and especially Bowie are all first-rate, with sturdy support from Cliff De Young as Sarah's concerned boyfriend Tom Haver, Dan Hedaya as pesky homicide detective Lt. Allegrezza, and Beth Ehlers as brash teenager Alice Cavender. Popping up in nifty bits are Ann Magnuson as a victim and Willem Dafoe and John Pankow as a couple of menacing punks who accost Sarah at a phone booth. The famous lesbian love scene between Deneuve and Sarandon is genuinely erotic while the moments of sudden grisly violence are quite startling. Stephen Goldblatt's sumptuous cinematography gives the picture an exquisitely chic and dazzling look. The pulsating score by Michel Rubini and Denny Jaeger hits the funky spot. Worthy of its cult status. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, elegiac vampire story","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have admired Tony Scott's The Hunger since the day it was released when many others thought it a pretentious bore, not quite horror, not quite thriller and certainly not kitsch. This film came out of the golden age of London/Hollywood films that began in the 1970s and ended at the end of the 1980s. It was a long run a fine, unusual films coming from a studio system that was just coming out of the long period of 1960s technicolor, star-studded movies that were more often than not fake and boring.The f/x of the day were nothing like the CGI overkill we have to endure now, though The Hunger would have benefited from some computer generated bodily decomposition in the final scenes. People used to the current ultra-realism, that seems to have circled back to the fakeness of the 1960s, will think The Hunger about as believable as an earlier generation found the classic sci-fi flicks from the 1950s to be. But with a little forbearance and tolerance and an open mind and open eyes the viewer will discover a very beautifully filmed, scripted and scored film about vampires which steps out of the usual blood-sucking envelope and tells a sad, tragic story of love betrayed.The betrayer is Miriam Blaylock, played exquisitely by the unbelievably beautiful Catherine Deneuve. She was always a treat to behold in all of her films, notably Indochine, but here she surpasses herself in elegance and bewitching savoir faire. She is partnered by David Bowie, as John her 300 year old boy toy she picked up in the 18th century. John's time has run out, contrary to what Miriam tells her lovers before she changes them into 'eternal' vampires, which is a lie she tells to get the object of her desire and to keep her company on her long lonely voyage through time. Susan Sarandon has also never been filmed to more beautiful effect, and she is a brilliant actress and puts Deneuve slightly in the shade because of the latter's more subtle acting style. Sarandon smacks the screen with those Bette Davis eyes of hers where Deneuve caresses and almost disappears before your eyes in a mist of golden beauty. This is poetic language but The Hunger is a poetic film and, as far as artistic creations on celluloid goes, is one of the most beautiful things to behold I've ever seen.The supporting cast is excellent, everyone acting in natural and understated manner, none of them being clichéd in any way. And there are some interesting cameos from actors who went on to bigger things, in the case of Willem Dafoe who doesn't speak a single line, and Sophie Ward, the exquisite English rose who went on to do fine work mostly in British television. You will also see Ann Magnusson who was an icon of the 1970/80s alternative theater scene.There is not much action which eliminates this from the thriller category I think, and the horror is not so much in scary rotting corpses rising from their coffins to wreck revenge upon their duplicitous lover, Miriam, but in the terrible fate of these poor creatures who are not allowed to die but forced to lie in their coffins, slowly rotting but still living, until, that is, their maker dies.The Hunger, for all its shocking killing, is a classic romantic tragedy, but the lovers are gorgeous bloodsucking vampires. This is a perfect film to watch at home on a rainy autumn afternoon. "},{"Title":"The Hunger...one of the best films ever","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie was superbly off-beat. Filming was beautifully done. Acting was incredible! One could pick-up on the character's feelings by expression and with the direction of the camera alone without any words spoken. An out-of-the-ordinary film where the journey of Susan Sarandon's character transforms out of passionate curiosity to a world beyond. Yes, their's is a strange world where the viewer becomes a part of it just by watching. This movie will keep you enthralled. You will be thinking about it for a long time after wards and wishing there was a The Hunger 2. I highly recommend it. Ten Stars or Two thumbs up for this Unique Masterpiece! "}{"Title":"As beautiful & stylish a horror film as you will ever likely see.","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Hunger tells the tale of a centuries old Egyptian Vampire named Miriam Blaylock (Catherine Deneuve) & her lover John (David Bowie) who both seem to enjoy immortality as long as they satisfy their 'hunger' for blood. They live together in present day New York preying on random people who they seduce, kill by slashing their throats with a hidden knife & drink their blood. However their existence is threatened because for some unexplained reason John starts to rapidly age, he seeks the help of Dr. Sarah Roberts (Susan Sarandon) who is conducting research into premature ageing in a New York clinic. Sarah doesn't believe John at first & ignores him, after psychically witnessing his deterioration she is eager to help but John isn't interested anymore after being treated with contempt. John heads back home to Miriam who has seen this before, the attic in their house is full of the coffins of Miriam's past lover's who continually age but never die. John, who now looks like he's about 150 years old, kills a young girl named Alice Cavender (Beth Ehlers) but her blood doesn't make any difference. Miriam sticks John into a coffin & puts him with the rest as her thoughts turn to finding yet another lover. Sarah feels guilty about not believing John & decides to visit, as John is somewhat unavailable being shut in a coffin in the attic, Sarah speaks with Miriam but not for too long as they decide to jump into bed with each other. As they do what two adults usually do together in bed Miriam bites Sarah on the arm turning her into Miriam's next lover. As the days pass Sarah starts to get the 'hunger' that can only be satisfied by one thing, human blood!Directed by Tony Scott I thought that The Hunger was a unique, stylish & daring horror film. The script by James Costigan, Ian Davis & Micheal Thomas based on the novel by Whitley Strieber fore-goes most traditional Vampire folklore, there are no fangs, crucifixes, Vampire hunters, stakes through the heart or bats. The only aspect that defines The Hunger as a film with Vampires is that Miriam & John both drink blood occasionally. The Hunger is as much a romance as horror with the tragic relationship between Miriam & John & Miriam's eventual need for someone else to share the centuries with taking centre stage for most of The Hunger's running time. It's a great story which I found very engrossing, interesting & ultimately it worked for me on an emotional level which many horror films don't even try & attempt. Scott packs The Hunger with clever visual symbolism & directs with great style that encompasses wonderful use of light & colour, fantastic cinematography by Stephen Goldblatt in which not a single part of the frame is wasted & is used to near perfection & please whatever you do make sure you track this down in widescreen as it's the only way to both watch it & do it justice, great selection & use of music which ranges from classical to rock, unusual editing where not a single shot is pointless & which inter-cuts different scenes together to terrific effect & simply gorgeous production design by Brian Morris especially the attic scenes with the flowing white curtains blowing in the wind & white doves flying everywhere. There is a fair amount of nudity in The Hunger & it amazed me that Scott even made the lesbian sex scene between Deneuve & Sarandon seen like art! The special make-up effects credited to Carl Fullerton & Dick Smith are exceptional with David Bowie's transformation into an old man frighteningly realistic, there are also some nasty slashed throats & plenty of spurting blood along with a house full of rotting zombies at the end. The Hunger is technically brilliant throughout, is a pleasure to watch & I don't think you'll be able to find many better looking horror films. The acting is very good & Deneuve is pretty sexy. I think The Hunger is a film that I could probably talk about all day long as there are so many scenes which stand out & the themes it brings up are also worthy of longer discussion but I think it's a film that needs to be seen to be appreciated properly. It is a little slow at times & I definitely don't think it's for everyone, especially those who have a short attention span or those who don't like films that try to be 'different' shall we say. A unique horror film that I really enjoyed but isn't for everyone. The subsequent TV series spin-off The Hunger (1997 - 2000) has no connection to the film. "},{"Title":"Stylish and Seductive","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Title The Hunger (1983) Director Tony Scott Cast David Bowie, Susan Sarandon, Catheryn Deneuve Review This was director Tony Scotts first film. The Hunger was a great first stab at directing and a is a film that showed that Tony had a lot of promise. He went on to direct more commercial films like The Fan, The Last Boyscout, Days of Thunder, Beverly Hills Cop II and Top Gun. Recently he directed the Denzel Washington vehicle Man on Fire. As you can see he couldn't have strayed further from the horror genre. But the one horror film that he did make was excellent and I will go on now explaining why I liked it so much.First off, the story develops around a very old vampire called Myriam Blaylock. Shes lived for thousands of years and from time to time turns whoever she chooses into a vampire. She lives with that person for sometime, but unlike her, they don't last forever. For some reason (unexplained in the film) the people she turns into vampires only live for about 200 years and then they shrivel into a corpse and die. David Bowie is her most recent companion to suffer from the aging curse and he is looking for a way to survive it before he dies.Artsy and Stylistic films are my weakness. I favor style over substance and don't bitch and moan when a film puts its style over its character development or story. I don't think thats the case here though, because even though this films strengths lie in its style its story though simple, is very well developed. Its obvious when you watch this film that Tony is brother to Ridley. In The Hunger you will notice that the film has a noirish style to it, lots of shadows and strobes of light and smoke filled rooms. In terms of look this film looks and feels a heck of a lot like Ridleys Blade Runner. But being heavily influenced by his older brother is understandable here, hey, after all this was Tony Scotts first film.But for a first film, it sure shows a lot of control over the whole artistic aspect of the film. Visuals filled with lots of curtains blowing in the wind, lots of shadowy figures. The use of classical music also fits perfectly with the idea that these old vampires have existed for hundreds of years, and not only that it adds a touch of class to the film. Not to worry though, there's also some cool rockin tunes, hey, the movie opens up in a goth club scene while playing Bela Lugosi is Dead by Bauhaus. Which reminds me that this movie has the look that certain MTV music videos had in the late eighties and early nineties, this is most evident in the nightclub sequences.The movie breaks away from vampire clichés and goes its own route, there's no sunlight that will kill these vamps, crosses or any other traditional ways of killing a vampire are gone. These guys are simply vampires because they feed on blood and can live forever if they take good care of themselves.Susan Sarandon, David Bowie and Catheryn Deneuve all deliver great performances. Bowie of course is perfect for this role since his enigmatic rock and roll persona from his musical past (and present) add a lot to his vampire character. Susan Sarandon was once young and sexy and she flaunts her physical attributes here in a lesbian love affair that sizzles on the screen.The only negative thing I can think of saying on this one is that there's a lot of plot holes in it. I mean there's this monkey that apparently suffers from vampirism and there's these scientists studying it. Why the hell would a monkey be a vampire? Who knows, its never explained. There's a few other plot holes in the film that are never explained and seem to make no sense, but I wont get into them, I don't want to spoil the ending.In conclusion Id say that this movie is not for everyone since it can get slow at times there's no car explosions or guns being shot every five seconds sorry. But for those few outhere who appreciate films with a strong artistic and visual presence and a love for the bizarre should have a good old time with this one.Rating 4 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Undead, undead, undead...","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is a goth classic.  It includes the Bauhaus song Bela Lugosi is Dead plus plenty of blood and lesbian sex.  I might add though that as a female - what is the male pre-occupation with lesbians?  I'm not fascinated with gay male sex myself and nor are females generally.  Hmmm... The original novel is by Whitley Strieber who also wrote Communion.  This movie really does The Hunger justice while I felt the movie of Communion was not as good.David Bowie needs a mention here as does Catherine Deneuve.  Bowie is a great and severely underrated actor.  The whole cast is great though and the film is beautifully shot.  It is very atmospheric and visually stunning. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SpoilersI saw THE HUNGER when it was released in theaters back in 1983. I was disappointed by it because it didn't live up to the good (but not great) book and the whole experience was too stylish, not enough content. Flash-forward twenty years and I saw THE HUNGER again and my idea of it hasn't changed. The filming consists mainly of very tight close-ups, which on the big screen was really annoying because at times it was hard to follow what was going on. The entire film feels disjointed. A good example of this annoying style of filmmaking is the scene where the hustler walks around the house, going up and down the elevator. Because we only see close-ups, we're often left with no point of reference and we hardly know what the characters are doing or going. Are we supposed to feel suspense, fright, terror, whatever? Because so much visual information is eliminated with these close-ups, the film feels totally frivolous. There's no weight to it at all. This kind of filmmaking is best suited for TV screens and THE HUNGER does play better on TV but it still doesn't change the fact that there's simply no story here. Once Susan becomes a vampire, the movie suddenly ends or the last part of the film is very abrupt. This is when the movie falls apart. I simply cannot believe Miriam was devastated by the lost of Sarah as they didn't know each other long enough for her to feel like this. The kind of operatic tragedy the director was trying to create ends-up looking very kooky, when you think about it.And I never felt that there was any point to the script. What was the main drive of the story-line? Was it all about turning Susan into a vampire? If so, well, I never felt it only until the very last part of the film, which is not good. And why spend all that time with David Bowie's character dying at the beginning? THE HUNGER feels like two movies. It's as if the first half (when Bowie dies) we see the ending of one  film, and the second half (when Deneuve seduces Susan) is the beginning of another film that's never completed. Because of this, THE HUNGER feels incomplete.Then there's the ending when the former lovers come back to life. I NEVER understood this scene. And why does Miriam age very fast after she hits the floor? It just doesn't make any sense, even for a vampire flick.THE HUNGER is a frustrating movie experience. VERY frustrating when you add the style of filmmaking that consists mainly of close-ups. The film ends-up feeling over-baked and undercooked.But there are good things here and there. The music is a definite plus. Catherine is great. She's an amazing beauty and holds her own amidst the messy direction. Susan is good but here role is seriously underdeveloped. And her unsexy hairdo looks terrible (I thought it looked terrible twenty years ago). Like I've already said, THE HUNGER works much better on TV and there are a couple of effective scenes here and there. It's actually a good film to watch on TV, if you turn your mind off and watch it just as a visual experience. THE HUNGER reminds me of VAMPYROS LESBOS. Even the direction in both films are identical (it's only about visuals) and both films are  frustratingly disappointing. But THE HUNGER is more entertaining with its over-the-top approach  than the snoozefest that is VAMPYRE LESBOS. "},{"Title":"When is this classic to be released on DVD?","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, this movie is a visual masterpiece! Also the synthesiser music is wonderful, but on the soundtrack album that was released there is only music that never appears in the film.... I especially like the scene when the skater is nearly killed... it looks like out on a music video. Well I read somewhere that this movie set the standards for the 80s MTV-look. And Schuberts Trio in Es at the end... This movie has so wonderful images. I wonder when this classic is going to be released on DVD? "},{"Title":"Good looking but hollow vampire film","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Hunger looks brilliant. From the beautiful interiors of the house where vampire Miriam (Catherine Deneuve)lives to the sophisticated elegance of the main three characters, this is a feast for the eyes. However, these characters are so uninteresting and only mildly intriguing that their presence becomes tiresome not before long. It begins well. In fact, it begins very well, as Miriam and her lover John (David Bowie, not bad surprisingly)enter a nightclub and seduce some disposable prey to take back to their doom. Everything, from the editing to the superb use of music, shifting from 80's gothic rock to classical, oozes atmosphere and danger. After that though, it gets really, really dull.The problem with The Hunger is that it's too serious. We are supposed to feel for these characters but they are so hollow that its difficult to pick up interest. At its best the film is mysterious and dark, at its worst it is horribly pretentious and dramatically uninvolving. The end is mildly interesting for its sheer weirdness but the horrific pay-off is a cold experience because, like the billowing curtains that block our view of anything in the hilariously exploitative lesbian scene, Tony Scott doesn't let us into this world completely. We are detatched outsiders, and this approach may be fine in his later no-brain pieces of garbage like Top Gun, but not in a film that seems to be feigning an interest in real drama when really it's doing nothing of the sort. A real pity, but a triumph of photography, editing and lighting. "},{"Title":"yes, vampire films have been overdone....but","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This one is well worth watching especially for the subdued performance of David Bowie as a man aging and who needs young blood to keep him from eventually dying. Catherine Deneuve, lovely as always as Mrs. Blaylock, his companion and mysterious neighbors in an upscale NY brownstone.Susan Sarandon is very good here as research doctor attempting to discern the cause of the disease pro geria, wherein people age at a rapid rate. Cliff De Young (her co-star in Rocky Horror Picture Show) is pretty believable as the clueless and possibly impotent husband.The sexual scenes between Deneuve and Ssrandon are very subtle and visual, almost like a stylish photo shoot for high fashion. Deneuve is a wonderful and erotic actress, and even today retains her beauty and sensuality.Overall we have seen the basic theme before, but the visuals and innuendos of complexities of love, sexual attraction and the search for youth and ecstasy are effective and haunting. 8/10. "},{"Title":"An interesting start, a lesbian middle, a confused and cheap end.","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this film last night at Cinespia, located at Hollywood Forever Cemetery (i would recommend seeing any film there). The setting for the film was great but I would not recommend the movie, unless you are obsessed with the 80s, Vampires, Lesbian (soft) porn, David Bowie, and/or Susan Sarandon's nipples.Ultimately, I projected meaning onto the film, where there was none. My analysis is that Tony Scott and the actors were subconsciously tackling the issues of HIV/aids and homosexuality.Really though, it's just a stylish 80s vampire film with a horribly weak and confusing ending (someone described the ending as stock footage of the tales from the crypt... totally on point).The first part is interesting but promises more than it delivers, and offers an interesting take on what it means to be a vampire. i was able to look past the big and obvious questions i had, like why are these vampires able to be in sunlight, need to use jewelery to slash necks, and suddenly age to corpse like zombies... i found myself challenging my limiting definition of vampires. kudos for rocking my vampire paradigm. The middle is full of curtain flowing, white pigeon flashing, nipple hard lesbian love making. I wasn't on the edge of my seat with lust, but some in the crowd were definitely feeling it. I was just kinda bored and thought that it was a little ridiculous. There's a line during this part of the film which really just sums up the whole thing...While the script may have read, put your faith in me what came out through a thick accent was, put your face in me. and there you have it. the entire crowd cracked up, and at this point i lost all hope of a decent ending...So to the ending... which is absolutely horrible. It was rushed, completely inconsistent with the rest of the film, and very very cheap. There are huge questions left unanswered, not so much in a deep and intellectual way, but in a story telling kinda way.Why do the past lover corpses come back to life, why is the main vampire killed so easily and why does she rapidly age, why does Susan sarandon seem to be alive and the new queen when she committed suicide... major holes. "},{"Title":"Just note 6?!?!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Note 6 for a such good movie like this? Are you guys f*****g insane? Go watch Queen of the Damned so...How could a guy make a nice film like this and after make a stupid as Top Gun? It seems that was just about the money.Unfortunely, we can't see David Bowie more often in the movies. He does quite a good job here among two great actress like Catherine Deneuve and Susan Sarandon.And so, we got here the efficient soundtrack of Bauhauss, which falls as a glove to the movie. But, who expects a common film about vampires must avoid this one. It's art, not slaughter and spilling bloody. "},{"Title":"Exotic cuisine","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The essence of a superior horror movie is not merely the act of giving the viewer a good scare; any halfway competent filmmaker can do that. Good and great horror films can do considerably more by manipulating the perception of reality and putting the viewer in an atmosphere that is unsettling, yet pervasive, seductive and spellbinding. From the stagy theatricality of the original Dracula to the hambone flamboyance of Vincent Price in any of his Edgar Allen Poe adaptations, to the juxtaposition of blandness and madness in Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO, or the mystical ugliness of THE EXORCIST, memorable horror films have a distinct style. This is a look or a mood that lures hapless viewers into little worlds of evil, lulling them into a state of gullibility. This is why Tony Scott's THE HUNGER is so alluring in the post-Friday THE 13TH era of bogeyman freak shows, Scott created an adult horror film that returned a sophisticated style to the beleaguered genre. Combining the luridness of an MTV rock video with the ultrachic posturing of a cosmetic commercial and the cool, alienated indifference of a European art film, all embellished with flashes violence and simmering erotica, THE HUNGER is a NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD as conceived by a high fashion photographer.While this might not add up to a genuine style as such, the film does achieve a certain bastardized beauty that is fascinating and difficult to forget in its clash of the gorgeous and the garish, the grandiose and the grotesque. The interplay of beauty and ugliness is a central motif that is elegantly personified by Catherine Deneuve as Miriam Blaylock, a modern-day vampire leading a fashionably aloof existence in her palatial East Side Manhattan townhouse. But Miriam's icy, ageless beauty conceals the cruelest of hearts and the emptiest of souls. She has the dubious gift of immortality, an everlasting life and beauty that is dependent on fresh and frequent quantities of human blood. Obviously, it is an existence not readily open to enduring relationships. She can alleviate her solitude, however, by sharing her blood, and thus her immortality, with another. But, as always, there is a catch; in this case, with a Dorian Gray twist Miriam's chosen lover can share immortality, but the accompanying state of ageless youth is only temporary. Eventually, time and debauchery take their toll, causing rapid and irreversible aging, unrelieved by the certainty of death. In effect, Miriam's lovers become the equivalent of Dorian Gray's portrait, a lasting symbol of her evil and her ability to cheat mortality. The dilemma of John Blaylock (David Bowie), her companion of the last couple of centuries, is that his time has come; he is in a state of chronic decay with no hope of death to relieve the agony of feeling his body erode. In desperation he turns to Dr. Sarah Roberts (Susan Sarandon), a scientist studying the effects of aging. John is beyond hope though and soon Miriam stores him away, alive but hardly kicking, in a pine box in the attic, along with a number of other suspiciously similar coffins. She then turns her attentions from the good doctor's research to researching the good doctor herself. The cast is excellent, Deneuve is, as always, breathtakingly beautiful, even when just registering emotional indifference, but her moods shift subtly from cruelty to amused sexuality to despair to smug self-assurance, giving her character surprising depth. Bowie, in a part that is regrettably brief, is cocky and sensual as a young man, but even under layers of make-up during the aging sequence, he displays marvelous sensitivity as panic, anger and despair define his helplessness. The Blaylocks are monsters to be sure, but even so they inspire a certain pity. Roles that could have been played as inhuman predators come off instead as bitterly human. Sarandon, cool and efficient as the archetypal professional woman, vibrates with barely controlled rage at the loss of her precious independence and the mixed feelings of lust and betrayal that she feels toward Miriam. She doesn't play the role traditionally, as a hapless victim. Viewers not predisposed to horror films probably will shrug off THE HUNGER as an empty exercise in stylistics, flashiness as a disguise for bloodlust. But horror cultist and even casual admirers of film horror should find it mesmerizing. And the film has found an added cult following over the years due to both its implicit lesbian subtext and its accompanying explicit lesbian love scene. The nature of the vampire has always been innately erotic and this is one of the few films to bring the homoeroticism to the forefront. "}{"Title":"Boring, dull, repetitive.","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I didn't expect this movie to be a classic or anything, but even so I was let down. Very boring. Tries to be so stylish and dreamy, but just repeats itself ad-nauseum and doesn't even feature anything worth making a movie about. The only things I liked in this film were the very beginning (i love the band Bauhaus, so seeing them featured in the club at the beginning was very cool & sinister/dramatic--too bad that feeling ends so quickly, it had me psyched for a good movie!), and the make-up work done on Bowie to make him appear to age. Also, one of the revelations about Miriam's past lovers is cool. But that's pretty slim pickings for 96 minutes.This movie is slow, boring, dull, not worth watching--unless you really like hearing slow piano music while watching curtains drift in the wind; if that's your type of thing, then you'll love this movie! If you like plot, dialogue, interesting characters, good acting, drama, then look elsewhere! "},{"Title":"A feature length Obsession commercial","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie suffers from trying to cram too much into one movie.  Plot points are introduced and then forgotten (most notably, the monkeys that went haywire, what was the point of that?) and the film's ending is completely baffling.  I guess director Tony Scott was more interested in style over substance.  Many shots of curtains billowing in the wind, birds flying around and reflections, clutter up the film.  My main complaint is the too short scene on Bauhaus performing Bela Lugosi's Dead, I wanted to see more of them.  I guess the only thing to recommend is the love scene between Susan Sarandon and Catherine Deneuve, basically big budget softcore porn with big stars.  I can't imagine that this movie ranks high on either one's personal portfolio.  It's frustrating because if a lot had been stripped out and the film focused on Deneuve's attempts to replace lovers and Sarandon's battle with her vampirism, it could have been a good gothic horror film but instead, we get a commercial. "},{"Title":"If you'd read the book beforehand, you'd throw rocks at this movie.","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The only way to do the novel justice is as a miniseries. Whitley Streiber takes us down to depths of existential despair that no other vampire novel has ever realized. And the historical sequences are long and engrossing and give us enormous insight into the character of Miriam, not the flash frames that we get in the movie. Miriam is a character of immense loneliness; she keeps her transformed humans with her as pets, not equal partners. She is not evil, she's just not human. So her moral code is not a human moral code. To us it is monstrous, to her it is supremely right. And her first rule is life no matter what. Loving someone doesn't mean putting them out of their misery. It means locking them in a box for all eternity. THE HUNGER may be the greatest vampire novel ever written. It is certainly one of. "},{"Title":"Stylish ...","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At the time of writing, Dave Bowie has recently died. To describe him as a singer/songwriter doesn't even begin to describe his musical genius &#x96; he was a true pioneer, several times over &#x96; and he has been widely recognised as such. His acting career, however, has attracted more mixed comment.He initially impressed in Nick Roeg's 'The Man Who Fell to Earth' film, in which he very convincingly played an alien in human form. He was using cocaine regularly during this time and his memory of the film is somewhat hazy &#x96; possibly that leant something to his 'out there' performance, which was powerful and desperately fragile at the same time. After a spell on stage playing The Elephant Man (without make-up, using his body and vocal inflections to communicate John Merrick's physical deformity) other parts followed, including that of John Blaylock, partner of Catherine Deneuve's Miriam Blaylock and centuries old vampire in this Tony Scott (brother of Ridley) directed film.Critics have not been kind about 'The Hunger'. The main comment has been that it is 'style over substance'. Whilst the direction, lighting and pace is extremely artistically framed and shot, the storyline is thin at best. But is that a criticism? Not as far as I am concerned. Some of my favourite films are very languid in their telling (a number of them are reviewed here) and surely the lack of a fast pace allows us to become familiar with the characters, their lives, their relationships and the world in which they inhabit. When things happen to them, we care more because we know them better than if their characters had been communicated between spectacular effects shots or a desire to get the story over and done with amidst, as Bowie might say, 'tits and explosions'.So when John Blaylock begins to look his age, it is apparent something is very wrong. It seems Miriam has tired of him somewhat, and he is alone seeking help in a hospital waiting room. The staff at the hospital seem determined not to come to his aid, and in the space of a day, he appears to age 70 years. The make-up and performance are incredible here. As Blaylock's hair comes off in clumps in his hands, as we are given glimpses of the heavy lines appearing and deepening around his eyes, we are witnessing a slow, uncomfortable demise. It is never specifically established that he dies. He is placed in a coffin, now a crumbling shell of a man, by Miriam whilst still showing signs of life &#x96; indeed, he appears to haunt her towards the film's end, although this could be an hallucination.Deneuve and Susan Sarandon (whose characters become inter-twined) get the lion's share of screen time &#x96; the idea of the eternal vampire living in accepted society has been done a number of times, of successfully so. This is no exception. It's as convincing portrayal of the supernatural existing in our time as any I have seen. "},{"Title":"Ebert's Review Is Way Off...","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With the passing of the legendary David Bowie, I can't help but ponder this phenomenal foray into 'Vampire eroticism 80's style.' Time has shown 80's films often don't hold up but Tony Scott's atmospheric feast is the exception for sure. Not a wink link in the bunch here as Susan Sarandon, Catherine Deneuve and David Bowie all converge to generate a tremendous amount of heat, and shed copious amounts of blood! Early reaction to this film was quite awful (ironically.) Only time, distance and revisiting a film many years later can determine how it will truly age. Am aghast at Roger Ebert's scathingly mean spirited review of this film, clearly he was satiating excesses of his own to really enjoy it. If you've not seen it, hunt it down immediately. Its lush, erotic, modern-day-noir feel, exquisite acting and perfect orchestral underscoring will haunt your senses long after viewing. "},{"Title":"A vampire film not guaranteed to live forever, but one that will not die quickly","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Miriam Blaylock (Catherine Deneuve) is an immortal vampire, who promises certain humans they will embrace eternal life if they become her lover. We see her current lover is John (David Bowie), a young and attractive cellist. The two comfortably live within their own means, sucking blood from unsuspecting people at the nightclubs they frequently venture and assimilate to New York life quite nicely. Feeding on young souls is what keeps Miriam and John eternally young and attractive, and presumably have an incorruptible youthfulness in terms of appearance and state-of-mind.It isn't until John begins to suffer from chronic insomnia that robs him of his youthful looks and makes him show his age, roughly over two-hundred-years-old, meaning that while he has inherited eternal life, he will never inherit eternal youth. John seeks the help and companionship of Dr. Sarah Roberts (Susan Sarandon), a veteran gerontologist (age specialist) who has researched the aging effects in primates for many years. As John tries to decide whether to fight or come to terms with his aging, which has rendered him lethargic and hideous, Sarah tries to find comfort and answers with her sexuality and her own mortality. Her boyfriend Tom (Cliff De Young) notices her spending more time with Miriam, leading him to question her intentions as she becomes dangerously drawn to the lifestyle Miriam lives by.Tony Scott's directorial debut The Hunger is one of the damnedest films I've seen in quite sometime, and certainly one of the more interesting vampire films, and directorial debuts for that matter, I've seen, as well. It's a combination of an exercise in modern Gothic style and the elaboration on vampire life in a way that's serious and believable. The Hunger plays like a devilishly sleek and visual soap opera that never so much as scares, but entrances, as it moves with the grace and elegance of a femme fatale, but hulks and lingers like Nosferatu in terms of the presence it reveals.Simply put, this is an experience more-so than it is a film to find yourself attached to. I found myself rather alienated by the characters in the film, and more concerned with Scott's approach to style and filmmaking craft. The dichotomy of filmmaking brothers Ridley and Tony Scott always fascinates me because where Ridley lacks in craft and detail, Tony always seems to excel, even in his later action pictures like Unstoppable, which have now become grounds for vulgar auteurism. Tony gets the details of The Hunger down to a tee, be them in an aesthetic perspective that allows the bright color of red to pulsate through the screen at various points in the film, or in a narrative perspective, which has Sarandon's Sarah the main subject of serious commentary on sexual awakening, particularly lesbianism and whether or not her story is a parable of coming to terms with one's own sexuality.The Hunger is less a film defined by the strength of its acting, but by the sheer presences and personalities its performers exist as, particularly Catherine Deneuve, who radiates enigma throughout the entire film. A beautiful soul in the film, yet undeniably troubled and weighed down by circumstance, Deneuve's Miriam manages to be one of the film's most fascinating characters, despite most of the crucial events of the film happening to David Bowie's John, largely because of her ominous presence throughout the course of the film.The Hunger's most prominent shortcoming comes in the regard of its editing, which juxtaposes the story of Dr. Roberts with Miriam and John's, causing a rather tumultuous and unpolished editing scheme that has Scott at a quandary in terms of maintaining narrative cohesion. Because of this, Scott can't focus on one particular character or situation and fully develop them, and instead, tries to balance out the playing field by throwing in another story when, in reality, bot need separate developments. It's a classic device many use on their directorial debut to try and prevent monotony and give the audiences a lot to digest, though it backfires here largely because of its strange and carefully plotted story.With that, the aura of The Hunger and the cast itself, are worth the price of admission. This is a vampire film as original and immersive as it is perplexing, and the style of the film mimics that of Gothic/Victorian-era decor without being too overbearing or reliant on setpieces. Scott and company have, in turn, crafted a vampire film not guaranteed to live forever, but one that will not die quickly thanks to all it lays out on the table.Starring Catherine Deneuve, David Bowie, Susan Sarandon, and Cliff De Young. Directed by Tony Scott. "},{"Title":"A false promise of immorality","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The late Tony Scott's theatrical debut feature, a UK production assembles three household names from three different countries, THE HUNGER is a Gothic horror taps into Whitley Strieber's novel about vampirism but only vaguely specifies its origin. It takes place in New York (although the shooting was done almost entirely in London), Miriam and John Blaylock (Deneuve and Bowie) are blood-seeking immortals (the word vampire has never been disclosed through the entire film), living in a grandiose mansion, but immortal turns out not to be the case for John, since he is originally human and the eternal life which is bestowed by Miriam has a life expectancy (several hundreds years supposedly), so he seeks help from Doctor Sarah Roberts (Sarandon), whose research team is working on the relation between sleep and ageing, but his doom seems inevitable, and it also directly introduces Miriam a new disciple as John's successor, only this time, a shallowly characterised succession will alter their fate forever.As a first-timer, Scott competently captures the ethos of the time to embellish the vampire subculture with the sonic alternation of synth-pop (Bauhaus' opening performance of BELA LUGOSI'S DEAD) and classic pieces (Schubert's PIANO TRIO NO.2 and Léo Delibes' LAKMÉ THE FLOWER DUET) to underline the dual facets of vampire's lifestyle their innate dependence on gore and their noble superiority of eternity; also his visual stratagem is exemplary to cast a sensational vibe during the utterly male-skewing erotic lesbian sex scenes and the pigeons and ghastly cadavers galore finale. But as a whole, the film is wantonly garbled without a through- line to sustain the coherence of the plot (e.g. why Sarah's scientific background doesn't elicit any interest in Miriam's undying mystery? also, what on earth happens to the frenzied monkey which kills its partner and ages drastically?).The icy but ever-so-glamorous Deneuve is stunningly camera-genic, Bowie endures a terrifyingly rapid progeria downturn with the zombie-alike make-up efforts, and Sarandon is so earthly banal compared to the alien but dazzling Deneuve. But none of them can outstrip the ill-defined story. The hunger for eternal youth and the fear of ageing play out as one can expect, but mostly it is an enticing piece of kitsch drawing on blatant erotism and gimcrack horror. Nevertheless it does spawn many tributes for latecomers, off the top of my head, John Woo's trademark fascination of pigeons in the action set pieces and the latest American HORROR STORY HOTEL, the entrance sequence of Lady Gaga and Matt Bomer is surely an updated representation of Denueve and Bowie here. "},{"Title":"Masquerade of Empty Souls Preserved in Amber","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Hunger is a fairly empty exercise in Style, but, ooh-la-la, what style! Tony Scott's transition piece from shooting commercials to directing features, it feels like a 97-mnute Chanel ad. Nowhere in evidence are the grotesque framing, cutting, editing, and color-filtering choices that mar so much of Scott's later work. The Hunger boasts three gorgeous leads, and incredibly rich photography and of-the-moment music, combined with the lazy, narcotic pacing of an afternoon spent lounging in an opium den. It was cutting-edge culture in 1983, and has influenced countless film-makers ever since. A much, much better movie than Only Lovers Left Alive, IMO. "},{"Title":"Really liked it with David Bowie","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" David Bowie was absolutely amazing at playing his role as a goth guy. I really wish he appeared more and given more lines in the film. He is just a legend like!I thought the sex scene's were really well done. Susan Sarandon and Catherine Deneuve made their relationship blossomed and gave each other passionate with love not rushed throughout this film. Both ladies were absolutely stunning! I liked how stylish the actors looked because it gave us that feeling of the early stages of goth subculture. It just looked really attractive to think they wore them back then. I'm pretty much a sucker for goth fashion so I'm really glad to have watched this film! "},{"Title":"Too Much Style and Not Enough Substance","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Hunger (1983)** (out of 4) When vampire Miriam Blaylock (Catherine Deneuve) bites a new lover, they don't age, which is a great benefit but that changes when she's done with you and wants someone else. John (David Bowie) finds himself aging at a rapid pace so he goes to a doctor (Susan Sarandon) for help but soon the doctor finds herself under the spell of Miriam.THE HUNGER features some truly great stuff but sadly it's all pretty much lost in this rather bland movie that's certainly a strange take on the vampire story but in the end there's just way too much style and not a lot of substance. Director Tony Scott certainly likes his style even when it overtakes any sort of story that might have been in the screenplay. There's all sorts of quick edits here and it's clear that the director wants you to be impressed with how many cuts there are in one small sequence. As far as the story goes, I guess they figured since you had two beautiful women naked and making out with each other you didn't need a story.As I said, there are some terrific things here including the special effects of Dick Smith who had to take a very young Bowie and age him in front of our eyes. The special effects used are simply brilliant and you almost with that the entire 97-minutes would have been devoted to watching Bowie grow old. This sequence doesn't contain the power that it should have, thanks to the direction, but there's no doubt that you're eyes will be one the effects. Another major plus are the actual performances from the three leads. Bowie is marvelous here and steals the film as you really can feel his character's fear of growing old, which of course means his life is going to be over. Deneuve is also extremely good having to work with limited dialogue. The same with Sarandon who falls under her spell.The now infamous lesbian scene has two beautiful women who are obviously easy to look at but even the style to it wasn't all that impressive. Obviously, I wasn't overly thrilled in how director Scott handled the picture. It's really a shame because there aren't too many horror movies that get this type of cast and in the end you can't help but feel that it was a wasted opportunity even with the great moments that are scattered throughout. "}{"Title":"Trite, pretentious ultra-chic mess","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gorgeous, wealthy vampire Catherine Deneuve takes on lovers throughout the ages with the promise of eternal life, neglecting to tell them that after a few hundred years or so, they will age rapidly and spend eternity old and feeble in coffins. Her latest lover, David Bowie, starts the aging process and seeks help from scientist Susan Sarandon, who is doing advanced research in the field of accelerated aging. Unfortunately, she does not believe his tale until it is too late for him, and she herself ends up being ensnared in Deneuve's web of intrigue.Ridiculous film would be laughable were it not for the fact that it takes itself so seriously, so it ends up merely being dull and pretentious. It was a flop at the time of release, but has developed a cult following. It is difficult to see why. The plot is of almost no consequence here and functions as little more than a shaky framework on which to attach the next sex scene or violent attack. The entire film plays like one over-stretched perfume commercial.Gads of ink were spilled regarding the lesbian sex scene between Deneuve and Sarandon at a time when such things were just not done by name actresses. The scene itself is tastefully handled and a few misguided critics overpraised it, while conveniently overlooking that the film which surrounds it is pure ultra-chic garbage.Director Scott films everything and directs his actors so poorly here that one waits for one of them to face the camera with a perfume bottle and start hawking it. The plot is fairly incoherent, especially as the film proceeds. Bowie manages some decent moments, but he leaves the film entirely too early. Cliff DeYoung is wasted as Sarandon's ill-fated boyfriend. Deneuve and Sarandon are both filmed ravishingly, but this is neither one's best day - Deneuve is particularly dreadful here.If anyone can fathom the motive behind the absurd final moments where an army of Deneuve's decrepit former lovers rise for some reason from their coffins (has she been dragging all these coffins all over the world with her?) and rebel against and attack her, while she shrieks I love you. I love you all! in a laughable monotone, then you are doing better than I. "},{"Title":"From Hunger","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I am not a fan of vampires in any shape or form. Except in the shape and form of David Bowie, who was the only reason I watched this piece of terminal preciosity in the first place and the only reason it gets four stars instead of zero. Well, okay, Tony Scott too, a little. But the rest of the cast, no. Catherine Deneuve always strikes me as a beautiful blank-faced animated dressmaker's dummy, and Susan Sarandon's perky feisty little shtick is wearing very, very thin.But. Vampires. I find them incredibly boring and banal, so really I was just, as I said, watching for Bowie. He looked fantastic, but the part didn't give him a whole lot to do. The shower scene was pleasant enough, and he did have a bit of actual acting to deal with on occasion, but he spent most of the film in old-age makeup, which kind of defeated my purpose. And lesbian sex between Deneuve and Sarandon, oh ick. I'd rather have watched Bowie play some more cello. Anyway, I was bored and annoyed. But don't go by me. Vampire groupies probably love it. "},{"Title":"Bowie=vampire. Casting=brilliant.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Let's see, the ubiquitous Bowie has appeared as a spaceman (The Man Who Fell to Earth, a goblin king (Labyrinth), a famous teleporting scientist (The Prestige) and Andy Worhol (Basquiat). But his vampire role in The Hunger goes down in my book as being Bowie to the max.The Hunger is an elegant, artistic, original vampire story which came very close to perfection, improved upon the book in one particular way but then blew it in the last few moments. I won't ruin it, but just bear in mind the last 2 minutes were tacked on at the insistence of the studio suits who wanted to set the stage for a sequel. The problem, as Susan Sarandon says in the commentary, is the studio's ending completely negates the point of the story (at least the way she intended to play her character). So if you're left a bit confused, just ignore the last few minutes and maybe it'll make sense. Other than that, this was an almost perfect thriller that boldly crosses the line into art house film.The film takes a very stylish, chic look at vampires in the modern world (although, make note that the word vampire is never used). Note that both the book and the film pre-dated Anne Rice's stylish Interview with the Vampire by 10 years. I think it's fair to say that The Hunger might've been the first story to take the classic Victorian vampire story and make it into a fashionable, urban, young & sexy tale.A large part of its stylish presentation is the artistic camera & lighting throughout the film. I can't call this a dark film because actually the scenes are full of light. But the light is always blocked, shuttered or obscured, leaving the actors steeped in shadows and contrast despite the gleaming ghostly light sources. The result is a feeling of isolation, or rather, INSULATION from the daylight ...a secret world of shadows hiding right under the sun. There are lots of flowing curtains, gossamer sheets and graceful camera movements, complimented by classical cello & piano sonatas, giving it a smooth, intimate vibe of a dream.Or should I say 'nightmare'? This film definitely has its disturbing moments. The shots of blood & gore are convincingly done and quick, making them seem even more unsettling. The film also oozes with sexual encounters which might make some feel uncomfortable, but just bear in mind it's still pretty tame compared to the book. But really, the film's approach is so different from the book that no comparisons should be made. I do believe that the film added a great degree of poetry and beauty to the tale, giving it a distinct style that few films have been able to achieve. With ample use of classical pieces (the Lakmé opera from 1883) and an artist's approach to colors, contrast, flowy movement & surreal visuals, The Hunger is definitely a thing of beauty.If I had to list similar films (this is a tough one), I'd probably put it in league with the obscure art-house scifi films Tykho Moon, and Wim Wenders brilliant Until the End of the World. Its heavy pacing & graceful presentation is hard not to compare to the well known films directed by Tony's big bro, Ridley Scott (Blade Runner) but moreso like Peter Blatty's criminally underrated masterpiece Exorcist III. As far as more recent films go, it has a similar tense, brooding atmosphere like in Black Swan. Movies like these are pretty hard to come by, so don't miss your chance to see em. "},{"Title":"Good debut from Tony Scott","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of the few movies with vampires that I like . It's one of the best horror movies of the 80's and it's underrated. It's also the only horror movie made by Tony Scott (RIP). He later made many action and thriller movies , which is surprising because when you're watching  The Hunger you could think he was born to make horror movies . Sadly , this is his only movie from this genre.  The Hunger is such a relentlessly revisionist vampire film that we never see any fangs, crucifixes or even hear the word vampire mentioned anywhere throughout. The vampirism is implied as being scientific in nature (associated with blood transfusions, a gerontology lab).The most supernatural the film ever gets is the seeming subconscious telepathy that Miriam and Sarah share.David Bowie , Catherine Deneuve and Susan Sarandon make a great trio. The chemistry between them is undeniable. The acting is top notch . You don't see actors trying to be like vampires , you see vampires from flesh and blood. Basically , the whole movie is build upon those 3 actors and without them it would fall apart. You really care what happens to the characters.The movie is visually beautiful . Just like his more famous brother Ridley , Tony has a love of dusky chiaroscuro lighting schemes filtered through hazy smoke-filled rooms, strobe-lit action scenes and the heavily symbolic use of doves. The old-age makeup work by Dick Smith is outstanding.Very rarely you will see such well directed horror movie . More than anything, what the film embodies is a fear of death and aging. The pace is often slow. There are some short , but very intense scary moments. There are also some lovely erotic scenes , but I wouldn't call The Hunger an erotic thriller . This is horror movie , folks.I don't think that this movie is rather too deep . It is a triumph of look over content. However , it asks some important questions about humanity , love and death. From today's point of view the movie is little outdated and there's more style instead of substance . Despite that it's enjoyable and definitively worth watching . Watch this instead of Twilight.I give it 7/10. Watch out for Willem Defoe (The Platoon) in small role of a guy near the phone booth. "},{"Title":"Great Movie with Erotic Touch","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The movie is bit unusual in that French, British, and American actors all share a starring role. The movie perhaps for that reason seems to be made to appeal to both American and European audiences. The tone of visuals are more like artsy European movies, but the plot that aging process is being scientifically investigated is kind of American science fiction-ish touch. The story is about vampirism, so there's erotic touch to the story. But the erotic touch is different from any other types of movie I've seen. It's gorgeous and seductive at the same time.All three leads, Catherine Deneuve, David Bowie, and Susan Sarandon looks fantastic in this movie. I've never seen any of them so beautiful before. It's really one of a kind movie performed by top notch actors at the height of their beauty, and is worth a watch7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgic 80's fang-less affair","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Directed by Tony Scott and starring Catherine Deneuve and David Bowie The Hunger is a vampire film you'll either love or hate. In a nutshell the story follows Miriam (Deneuve) as she subsists with John (Bowie). John doesn't age... However, once Miriam falls out of love with him he has less than 24 hours to live. Scott creates a perfect art house type film, minimal dialogue, packed with visuals and some nice flashbacks through time. The Hunger has a unique mystical atmosphere throughout which is heightened by an elegant and at times chilling music score. Bowie's great ageing make up still holds up and there are great performances from the entire cast.It's a straightforward, yet stylish vampire affair, and since 1983 the fang-less vampire flick has gained a new added strength, a now nostalgic 80's look at New York. If you like a slow paced film that is very far removed from the usual vampire predicable story, The Hunger is one to watch. "},{"Title":"Skintastic Vampires","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is stunning in it's makeup (especially watching David Bowie age!) and costumes, as well as the sound and visual aspects, like the baboons during the opening attack, but it really shines as a skintastic experience.The beauties peeling for the camera are Catherine Deneuve, who made being a victim seem sweet; Ann Magnuson, a goth chick fondled and bit by David Bowie; and Susan Sarandon, who already had an Oscar nomination for Atlantic City.The ending caught me off guard, but after reflection, it made sense and was tragic.Deneuve and Sarandon will ever be etched in my mind together. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Visiting London when I was fifteen, one night I wandered down to Kings Cross Saint Pancras to watch movies from dusk till dawn at what was once the Scala Cinema. One of those movies was The Hunger, and from the first shot, the very first note of the soundtrack, I was hooked for life. This is an extraordinary film. Some might - and do - accuse director Tony Scott of drifting too far into atmospheric abstractions, and even Scott himself now admits he'd probably do it a little differently if he did it today. But this heavily stylized vampire flick, in which the word vampire is never spoken, deals deftly with the particular difficulties vampires themselves must face in their perpetual quest for life, love and somebody to keep them company For ever and ever. The cast are perfect, especially David Bowie and Catherine Deneuve, who are so good as the sophisticated Blaylocks you can really believe the brownstones of New York City accommodate the wealthy undead. Another, lesser known star of this production is make-up artist Dick Smith, whose old-school effects magic puts contemporary digital technology to shame. The music is marvelous, contrasting the pop culture of the 1980s with the timeless and refined existence of its immortal inhabitants. The Hunger is what a great film should be ... a journey into another world. "},{"Title":"Vamping it up","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A Gothic 80's film that blends stylish cinema with the (then new) rock video image.It seemed to work well too. Despite it's dated look, it has aged gracefully. A new way to show vampires in a contemporary setting without turning it into a gore film or overdo the erotica. The slightly gritty look helped as well. It did seem like a European film at times too.It's hard to believe Ridley's little bro would go on to action films.The Deneuve-Sarandon lesbian scene gets most of the attention. It was actually done tastefully. Sarandon did edgy stuff in her youth.And David Bowie can act if he gets the right role. This was up his alley.My favorite scene? Seeing Bauhaus do Bela Lugosi's Dead in the club scene. I'm a fan. "},{"Title":"Gothic cinema among the greatest","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Let me start out this review by saying this I am a goth. And I must say that after recommended to watch this film I immediately got it, seeing as how influential it is toward the subculture. Of course, it has a plot, a story, and great acting. The best of all, was seeing Gothic rock legends Bauhaus perform in the opening sequence Bela Lugosi's Dead-a very brilliant shot of Peter Murphy himself. David Bowie and Susan Sarandon are great as usual-not ever lacking acting abilities. so i'd have to say i recommend this film to anyone, though in specific subcultures such as goth, punk, fetish, or anyone who loves a good horror film. "}{"Title":"Dark, stylish and anti conformist.","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Minor spoiler ahead.This movie almost succeeds as a realistic story about vampire life in the same line as Interview with a Vampire.The simple plot revolves around modern vampires with a disease twist involving a mundane doctor. Except from life expectancy and sensuality (especially women), it does not focus on vampire traits. Which is a good thing as it leaves room for other things. There are no direct references to vampires anyway and vampire enthusiasts will miss the usual coffins, stakes, bats and sunlight of the sort.Characters are not developed enough albeit some backgrounds are being nicely suggested. Bowie's character comes from nowhere. Deneuve's character lacks the experience a vampire of her age should prove. Police work is weak and its lame timing makes it difficult to believe. I guess that more character development would have made the drama even better.The acting from all main actors is decent (even for Bowie) as the characters do not leave much acting liberty. There is even short line from William Dafoe.As for the technique, very dark photography was used with many filters. Also very clean but too often static camera shots. Slow paced, almost esoteric montage with a nice piano soundtrack (using classics like Delibes' Flower Duet Lakme).From the 80's, it ages well but is not a cult movie. The make up is very well done for the pre-cgi period we got used to and is even well rendered on close ups.This cold, stylish and anti conformist fantasy-drama could be considered as an old découverte. Decent rental. "},{"Title":"David Bowie as a zombie vampire, with Peter Murphy!","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i only wish i'd seen this about ten years ago. the hunger is a very stylized film, but that does not detract from the impression it leaves. the Bauhaus introduction was absolutely fantastic, and i really doubt i would have continued watching it, had bela Lugosi's dead not drawn me in. David bowie as a vampire, it doesn't get much better than that. well, aside from David bowie as Andy Warhol (in basquiat). If the casting wasn't as well done, this movie would have been pretty awful. the ending scared the feces out of me and i couldn't sleep for hours. unfortunately, the hunger seems somewhat dated, but it is definitely one of the best vampire films. "},{"Title":"beautiful from start to finish....","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is near perfect. An extremely wonderful opening courtesy of the amazing Gothfather's- originator's of the genre- BAUHAUS... It just gets better. I have to disagree with the other reviewer, who said that if you didn't read the book, you wouldn't understand what was going on. It's completely untrue. The story is your not so basic Vampires in Love story. Cast is perfection. Bowie is incredible, Susan Sarandon is wonderful, as is the legendary cool, beautiful Catherine Deneuve. There are NO false notes in the entire movie. Sure, you can get distracted by the sumptuous settings, and the beautiful photography-- though that is the point! It's called THE HUNGER, so you have to be drooling to get into it. Get it??! I am being serious. There are other vampire movies that are as good, but IMHO, not better. Why? Because of the sensuality, which is rarely portrayed as nicely as this, even amongst the despair and the coldness of their 'mission' and the life these characters live. Especially Miriam. After a few views, you may not get over the background, the atmosphere, or what happens to everyone- BUT, you will appreciate it for what it is. A movie WITH substance, and style, and sensuality, and a BRAIN. It lets you think for yourself, and just drink in (pun fully intentional.) the lushness, the bizarreness, the beauty, and the complete decadence of their age--- as in society, and literally, how long they have lived. Just enjoy it. It's a movie, not an art exam! lol.side note Bauhaus is brilliant. Saw them this month. Incredible. GO SEE THEM!!! "},{"Title":"Complex but Fascinating","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It is difficult to discuss a film like The Hunger without rousing controversy. There is an age old question that surrounds it..Is this an affecting, daring, and beautiful piece of erotic art aimed at people who wish to analyse and critique, questioning it's style, digging deeper to find it's hidden meaning? Or...Is it pretentious drivel, laced with sex and violence purely to get the attention of the mainstream? Leaving logic at the door, how was this piece of rubbish ever allowed to be released? There are, believe it or not, not many people who still remember this film, its opening reception was cool at best, the critics slammed it for being self conscious and arty. But is this necessarily a bad thing? We have been bombarded by art films since film began, so why is this held in such ill-repute? For one, the market it was originally aimed at was wrong, this is not a mainstream film, it's narrative is blurred and questionable, opening it up for interpretation. It's visual style is elegant, beautifully edited, and clearly used as a backbone to the emotional subtext within what appears to be a wholly superficial script. The novel it was based on, by no other than Whitley Streiber (Wolfen), was dense with detail and background story, pushing characterisation. The film version, however, is an intriguing antithesis to this. It is minimal in plot and characterisation, using visual and aural flair to present itself. The past of Deneuve's vampiric goddess is hinted at in arty flashback sequences, but to truly understand this the book is definitely worth reading.All performances are strong, especially considering the material is limited, lifting what could otherwise could have just been an overlong perfume commercial. It is, undoubtedly self-conscious, perhaps even over stylised, but this just adds to its charm and its ethereal beauty.Tony Scott, I feel, is a talent that has been on a downward spiral, turning its attentions to money grabbing action films such as The last Boy Scout. Perhaps if he had been given a chance to mature his style employed in the Hunger, we could have a force in cinema to rival some greats.In short this film will never present any real answers, perhaps it was never meant to. This is a fascinating depiction of loneliness, depravity, and sexual hunger. Just read between the lines and I believe anybody could see this. To present yourself with this film is like walking on thin ice, just remember, life is not always black and white, so therefore, neither is cinema. "},{"Title":"Forever ... and ever","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Peter Murphy performing Bela Lugosi's Dead (!) in an 80ies-club, where David Bowie and Grande Dame Catherine Deneuve choose their prey... what a beginning! But the film soon changes pace, due to the harmonic and cultivated eternal existence of Miriam and John Blaylock.Problems arise when John shows signs of age, a phenomenon Miriam had witnessed before with her companions. Seducing research scientist Dr. Sarah Roberts, who hopes to find a cure against premature aging, Miriam's efforts are ultimately futile John is doomed to an eternal unlife inside a coffin, next to Miriam's past loves.Ridley Scott's younger brother perfectly captures the inherent problematics of vampiric existence (supreme egoistic life), the movie also themes most aesthetically on love, age, fear and (eternal) beauty. "},{"Title":"Hungry for more","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The timeless beauty of Catherine Deneauve, the stylish elegance of David Bowie, and the cool sexuality of Susan Sarandon. A movie that shows you the depth of emotion that is usually missing in most vampire movies. They often show the blood and gore without the complexities of the vampire psyche. Catherine Deneauve is stunningly beautiful and makes acting look effortless while Bowie is unbelievably suited for his extensive part. He comprises half of the film and boy he does a fine acting job I couldn't believe my eyes. The beginning is so creepy and yet so stylish. This duo is more like goth serial killers then vampires as you see the kills without the feeding. And unlike most vampires they dispose of their victims bodies like mob hit men would. A new age twist on a very old age story. And the music is fantastic and ties in the proceeding scene with the previous scene very smoothly. I could listen to that all day long. And yes I must mention the lesbian love scene is very erotic yet I felt it was tastefully done yet not too exploitative. This movie along with Interview with a Vampire actually makes you feel sorry for vampires the arch-typical bad guys. I wouldn't want to be one after seeing either one of those films despite their obvious benefits-sex, wealth, beauty, and how could you forget-eternal life. "},{"Title":"Stylish, dated guilty pleasure.","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK so it's shot like a bad, early 80's movie video but it has David Bowie and Catherine Deneuve as vampire lovers. Add in Peter Murphy as a caged, goth go-go dancer, homo-eroticism, music by Delibes and Iggy Pop and lighting inspired by Herb Ritts and you've got one good guilty pleasure. Works best for gay men, aging goth girls, lipstick lesbians and guys wanting to see Deneuve and Sarandon getting to know each other better. Cetainly no masterpiece that has survived the ages but I still pop it in the VCR once and a while. Director Tony Scott still hasn't lived up to the promise of brother Ridley Scott but if you like the shot-through-big-girl's-panties look of Blade Runner, you might just like it. Don't listen to the snob critics this one's alright. Just don't tell my friends I said that. Forgot this bit Watch for a young Willem Dafoe trying it on with Sarandon in a phone booth. Hey. How about it lady? Blink and you'll miss it. I believe it's his first movie line. "},{"Title":"I'M HUNGRY!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  tony (ridley's younger bro) scott's directorial debut is an opulently flashy 'pop video' type horror yarn/yawn about a beautifully cool vampiress in the guise of stunning catherine deneuve who decides to change partners after her former love david bowie's number is up. cue delectable lesbian love scenes and lashings of gore along with a fabulous opening featuring bauhaus performing 'bela lugosis dead' (which is without doubt the greatest bit in the entire movie).  "},{"Title":"Starts off rather good, but has real second half issues.","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This one started off good, but as soon as David Bowie exits the movie, it really goes downhill as the next part of the movie seems rather rushed and underdeveloped.  The story is about a vampire lady and her various loves.  I guess that is what it is about because the movie as a whole doesn't really explain things very well.  Stuff happens and you are left wondering just what happened.  I think though that has more to do with the fact I watched the movie on regular television so it was a bit cut up to shreds.  The movie starts with a rather somber and sad little tale with the vampire girl and her lover played very well by Bowie luring a couple to their home.  They don't kill how regular vampires kill.  As the story moves forward, Bowie's character seems to be aging rather rapidly...his time is apparently nearly up.  Unfortunately, he is not allowed to die, but rather face an eternity of rotting in the vampire gal's collection of lovers.  Though she does seemingly care for each and every one of them.  Then the story races to the finish as the vampire girl really moves fast to fill the void...to fast as this is where the story feels really rushed.  At one point Susan Surandon's character does something with a cross either stabbing herself or the vampire...I couldn't tell.  Then the movie franticly races to a bizarre zombie like scene and then the end which sort of makes sense.  If only it could have ended after Bowie left the picture. "},{"Title":"Stylish but empty MTV visuals from Tony Scott. Imagine an hour and a half long Ultravox video...","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'The Hunger' has aged badly. This is one of Tony Scott's earliest movies, and he is a director who has plenty of visual flair but is only as good as the script he is given. In most cases the scripts he works with stink (notable exception 'True Romance'), and 'The Hunger' has about twenty minutes of plot dragged out over an hour and a half. It's shot and edited in an early 80s music video style which was seen as innovative at the time, but now just looks plain silly. All the smoke and beautiful people and billowing silk around the bed, I almost thought I was watching an Ultravox video. I kept listening to hear Midge Ure wail this meeeeeans nothing to me! followed by a bitchen electric violin solo. The opening sequence which features Bauhaus performing 'Bela Lugosi's Dead' is pretty entertaining in a kitschy way, and Bowie is actually quite good (his sequences are easily the best parts of the movie), but Catherine Deneuve and Susan Sarandon are required to do very little but some rolling around on a bed, and it isn't even sexy. If lesbian vampire movies are your thing I suggest you check out Hammer's 'The Vampire Lovers' or Jess Franco's 'Vampyros Lesbos' from the early 1970s for something really hot. Goths who are content to make do with style over substance might enjoy this, but otherwise try some Jean Rollin for some genuinely erotic and creepy vampire frolics.  "}{"Title":"Pretty music, people, blood","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" That title about sums it up for me. A gorgeous film filled with handsome people, beautiful decor, rivers of technicolor red number nine, and music by Delibes. But you might as well be crazed with battery acid while watching it if you expect it to make any sense. The story, what there is of it, has already been outlined. But what about those mad monkeys at the beginning? What does the manic monkey have to do with anything? OLD monkeys, yes. Well, maybe. I still don't know how the deteriorating monkey has anything to do with the story, especially when it not only grows old instantaneously but decomposes into dust in a jiffy.How can Deneuve promise anyone eternal life when her previous lover, David Bowie, comes to look pretty dead after a while? And what, exactly, is eternal life if Deneuve can fall a couple of flights and not only get old pronto but die and turn skeletal while screaming. If the vamps need to feed their hunger for blood in order to keep from aging, then why does David Bowie not turn back into his old Etonian self after slaughtering the young violinist and presumably sucking her blood? There are gouts of that cute kid's blood all over the sheet music. What was wrong with her blood. Was it corky?And what about the skater who is a Tiny Tim lookalike? The ending I won't bother to go into. Well, okay, I will. Sarandon and Deneuve have become lovers and the shivering, sweating Sarandon must suck her boyfriend's innocent blood to restore her well being. But then why does Sarandon then plunge a tiny blade into Deneuve's carotid artery? Or was it the other way around -- the scene is so clumsily edited that either event fits into the scene. This may be a cult film, but it's not a cult that I belong to. The plot is a reckless jumble of expediencies. I wouldn't watch it again, although I wouldn't mind saving the soft-core encounter between Deneuve and Sarandon on some other tape. Those softly billowing see-through curtains over their entwined bodies are very exciting, although I missed the jasmine-scented candles. Go ahead and watch, if you like. De gustibus non disputandum est. It's very stylishly done. Deneuve is languid, flawless in her icy beauty and there is a great seduction scene when she sits in the darkened room playing the Flower Duet from Lakme on the piano and describes it to Sarandon as a song of two Indian women thrilling over the beauty of a lake, marveling over its birds and flowers. Sarandon remarks, It sounds like a love song to me, and she's right, and she goes on to ask, Are you making a pass at me? Without turning away from the piano, Deneuve says, If I am, I am not aware of it. I say, Ha Ha. By the way, their love making is very tender. Women know how to treat one another. But I'm surprised neither objects when the other bites hard enough to draw a couple of mouthfuls of blood from that oft-used injection site on the inside of the elbow. But, again, there is no disputing taste. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm.....","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie recently, and with the knowledge that this is considered a cult classic and is beloved by many. But, unfortunately, not by me. I didn't hate this movie, but I wasn't particularly impressed by what I was presented with. It's interesting and beautiful and all, but ultimately I was bored. I guess the Lost Boys, Near Dark, etc. must have done something to my vampire brain. It's not that I didn't understand it, or I don't appreciate artier films, because I do. Just not this one. I can't really put my finger on why I didn't like it. Well, if you no longer possess an attention span, and have a more Buffy or Lost Boys view of vampires, this movie is not for you. I'm an overall fan of vampires of all kinds, this just doesn't appeal to me. "},{"Title":"70% Style, Not Enough Substance","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A film that is around 70% flashy style and 30% narrative substance, The Hunger (1983) demonstrates that no love affair lasts forever...even those between eternal vampires. Thus, here, Catherine Deneuve, playing what must be the most beautiful bloodsucker in screen history (at least, since Ingrid Pitt last bared her fangs), is in a quandary when her current lover, centuries-old David Bowie, suddenly starts to age rapidly. She sets her sights on researcher Susan Sarandon (who wouldn't?!), in the hopes of acquiring another looooooong-term relationship.... The excellent Time Out Film Guide mentions that this film will best be understood by those who have already read Whitley Strieber's source novel, and I get the feeling that this is true. Much goes unexplained in this film, and the average viewer will surely feel that not all the dots have been connected. The picture is certainly interesting, featuring as it does very unconventional vampires (e.g., they can be seen in mirrors and walk about in daylight), and Bowie is excellent in his too-brief role (the film kind of falls apart figuratively after he does literally), but not enough info was supplied to satisfy this viewer. And the once talk-of-the-town lesbian scene between Sarandon and Deneuve now seems quite tame. Bottom line Those wishing to see a vampire lesbian film with both style AND, er, bite should seek out The Vampire Lovers (1970) or Daughters of Darkness (1971), next to which The Hunger just sucks. "},{"Title":"highly stylized and silly","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Apart from the fact you get to see Catherine Deneuve naked and a few interesting story elements, this isn't a particularly great film. It's definitely an odd take on vampire films for several reasons there is a weird 80s New Wave style about the vampires, they don't always pierce the victims' throats with their teeth (but use knives to slash them and lap up the blood) and the whole idea of what happens to the lovers of the vampires as the years pass is creepy and cool (more about that in a minute). It seems that the human lovers of these vampires DO live forever, too--but their bodies continue to grow more and more and more decrepit over time. You find out in the end ALL this female vampire's older lovers are in LIVING bits and pieces in coffins in the attic! Yech!! It's even more cool when they all come out in the end and demand her love--really CREEPY folks. Generally, though it seems there is a lot more style over real substance here. Apart from these elements, the story itself is a bit dull and too hip for the average viewer. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated horror.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Tony Scott directs this meeting between 1980's goth and the sophistication of contemporary New York City. A beautiful vampiress(Catherine Deneuve) tries to find new life sustaining blood for her dying vampire(David Bowie)lover. Susan Sarandon plays a scientist trying to understand the process of aging. While trying to aid the dying vampire, the scientist becomes the object of the vampire lady's affection. This is more of a vampire drama instead of horror. I think the combination of vampire and lesbian aspects may be a little too sophisticated for the kiddie set. In support are Cliff De Young, Dan Hedaya and Beth Ehlers. Somewhere there is romance in this dark story. "},{"Title":"Tedious, Boring, Dull, Just The Same All The Time","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Some credit must be given to David Bowie - he is the only bright spot of light in this endlessly tedious and slow boring kitsch film. All other characters are just a yawning bores, never catching attention or never ever even pretending to be thrilling. Bowie is great in his own right - when he has sucked some fresh blood, his old body gets younger and we see this tension when he is trying to master his new body and cannot do that. That is the best part of the film, and the rest, with all its sepia tones, unbelievably slow moments, obscure dialogs, pretty poorly filmed death scenes, is just very weak. The final scene with the two main heroes dying, dismembering, is agonizingly slow and not frightening at all. This is not a deep psychological treatise, this was supposed to be a bloody vampire story. Instead, we got a decadent pastiche. Rather weak. "},{"Title":"Good book, poor adaptation","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I decided to rent The Hunger while re-reading the original book in which this movie was based on. I believe this is the 3rd time, or so, that I read this good book.Since I watched this back in 1983, I couldn't even remember who were the other actors besides Catherine Deneuve and David Bowie. Susan Sarandon and Cliff De Young were kind of a surprise.And... sorry, but I hated the movie oversimplified the (interesting) original story. And way too gory. It also offers heaps of gratuitous pseudo-sex scenes and slow-motion cigarette drags.The film is relatively short (by today standards) but it seemed much longer due to its self-indulgence not scary, not amusing, non-interesting characters.If only, this film can be watched for the makeup effects of Dick Smith, Carl Fullerton, and Antony Clavet done in Bowie's face. More impressive yet if you remember this was done in '83.Anyhow, my recommendation is get the book, don't touch this movie. "},{"Title":"Style to burn...but deadly dull","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Miriam (Catherine Deneuve) a vampire and her current partner John (David Bowie) live in Manhattan and exist off the blood of punks (it seems). Then John begins to age rapidly (in what is easily the films best sequence) and seeks help from doctor Sarah Roberts (Susan Sarandon). It doesn't help and Miriam locks his body away but Sarah comes looking for him and Miriam seduces her.This film is easily one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen (wide screen viewing is a must) with a great soundtrack...but it's deadly dull. It moves at a snails pace and Deneuve (a wonderful actress) gives a rare bad performance. Bowie is fantastic but he disappears early on and Sarandon (who's always good) can't carry this. It was notable at the time of its release for a sex sequence between Sarandon and Deneuve. To be honest the sequence IS beautiful but it's silly and not that explicit at all. Sarandon takes off her top and there's lots of kissing but Deneuve remains fully clothed and nothing even remotely graphic is shown. Aside from the cinematography, music and Sarandon's acting this is a dull pointless vampire movie. It also ends with a scene that was so utterly stupid I groaned aloud. This seems to have faded into oblivion...it will probably stay that way. A 2...and I'm being generous! "},{"Title":"had fond memories","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've seen this before both at the cinema on release and some 20 years ago on video and had fond memories of a rather lush and sexy, bloody but beautiful tale of lust in a rather different take on the vampire myth. Unfortunately this viewing proved less impressive. Bowie is still good for the rather short screen time, Sarandon effective and Catherine Deneuve as icily convincing as ever but it does all look rather over glossy and so slow. If I was being generous I could say languid but no this is distinctly slow in parts and no amount of wind rustled curtains or flapping doves can make up for that. Basically this is stuck in the eighties and now looks like one of those over long television commercials for cars or perfume. So eighties is it that I guess it is interesting for that reason but it is a shame I can no longer see it as favourably as I once did. "},{"Title":"Starts off well, but falls apart","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Hunger is a marvel of a combination of atmospheric and Gothic horror in the style of Dracula.The film starts off with an impressive sequence with David Bowie singing in a discotheque meshed with Susan Sarandon's study of sleep and longevity using monkeys. From there, Bowie and Catherine Denevue soon become involved in Sarandon's life in one way or the other.It's an absorbing horror piece from Tony Scott (his directorial debut). However, the slow pacing does get under the skin of several movie fans (I'm one of those, despite the 7 star rating), while others might just fall in love with this film. Judge for yourself. "}{"Title":"afford to miss it","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not only was the acting, pathetic, I was excpecting more from Susan Sarandon. Also, what fangs?!?! I never once, saw fangs, except for once, in a close up of David Bowie, but maybe, those were just his teeth, there were similar ones in Labyrnith. What kind of vampires, seduce their prey, then, make them bleed to death, then decide to feast?!?! I'm not saying that it was terrible, ok, so it basically was, yet, come on, I was excpecting more out of the whole cast. Oh yeah, and shame on the director and writer of this pathetic movie, they decide to not follow traditional vampire ways, in more than one sense. Maybe, this movie some people could stand, I obviously was not one of them, and maybe you want to go out and see it, that's up to you. If you want to take a chance on it, fine, I'm just warning people, I've seen better acting from 13 year old Jennifer Connelly in Phenomena, preety pathetic. "},{"Title":"Scary...but not the way it was supposed to be...","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie had potential, but just didn't quite live up to it. They started out with a good idea, but that good idea got twisted a little throughout the movie. The cast were all wonderful actors, and it was well directed and produced, but that's all. Not really recommended... "},{"Title":"Hunger Pangs","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Deneuve was an inspired choice to play Miriam Blaylock, the impossibly beautiful creature created by Whitley Strieber in his novel The Hunger. After almost twenty years, I can still think of no other actress who could capture her the way she does. Deneuve and the exquisite Blaylock home are the best things about the film. Unfortunately, in the translation to film, the rest of the story loses much of it's brilliance. Any fan of the book will know what I mean. Because of this, I don't care for the film. The New Wave/Goth element seems little more than a gimick and Bowie's John Blaylock plays about as well as Tom Cruise's Lestat (I like Tom Cruise, but he's not Lestat). Again, having been a rabid fan of the novel probably spoiled the film for me. I ache to think what could have been had they steered more towards the original material.  "},{"Title":"Too choppy, too arty, but has its moments.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the kind of film that you'll either admire or despise - and you'll know which category you fall into after the opening five minutes or so. Much of it is pretentiously arty and choppy, but there are some effective moments, and a literally awesome, amazing sequence David Bowie, suffering from a rare disease that makes him age rapidly, waits for doctor Susan Sarandon, expert on such matters, to examine him; she thinks he's a nut and ignores him; and he gets about 30 years older within two hours. Awe-inspiring! However, when Bowie disappears from the action, the movie goes downhill.    (**) "},{"Title":"Too many billowing curtains!","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst films Ive ever seen. It does not work as a vampire film nor horror film nor drama or love story. It looks like a perfume ad.Believe me, I love those flashy 80´s movies like 9½ weeks, Bladerunner and Flashdance etc. with the smokey light streaming thru the venetian blinds with the suggestive music and high heels but this movie gives that genre a bad name! The acting is really bad by both Sarandon and Deneuve who really seems to be living dead. The same expresion thru out and pitiful english. Bowie´s scenes are thankfully short. This film has no suspense, just lots of stylish blood. Campy but unpleasant viewing. "},{"Title":"Bowie's Fab, rest is drab.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Hunger is the Flashdance of vampire movies.  The film is way stuck in the 80's to go on to classic status.  Bowie and his aging acceleration is marvelous and the overall effects are pretty amazing considering they are pre-CGI.  But the movie loses steam quickly, including the much-ballyhooed lesbian scene.  "},{"Title":"Not an original idea in its head...","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Haughty, psychic vampire Catherine Denueve seduces doctor Susan Sarandon, mixing together their blood to give them both eternal life. Vampires and lesbianism go way back in the movies--it wasn't an original idea in 1983 (despite the 'controversy') and neither was the Playboy layout-type sex scene between the two actresses. However, it was surprising enough to the uninitiated to warrant whatever interest this film had (though it failed at the box office). Lots of seductive ambiance, swirling-until-your-dizzy camera work, imposing classical music on the soundtrack--but still nothing new, no matter how fancy the dressing. Deneuve is predictably ornate and ice-goddessy, Sarandon flashes a hint of her feisty personality, yet David Bowie (as Deneuve's former lover, who ages and withers away) is really the only cast-member ideally suited to this glossy Goth job. Overwrought and unintentionally funny, The Hunger is as slick as a magazine spread and just as forgettable. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Should have been better","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Artful/arty vampire flick from MTV stylist Tony Scott. I actually quite loved the photography and art direction for much of the film. And I loved the story in general - Catherine Deneuve plays an ancient Egyptian vampire-like creature who grants immortality and eternal youth to those she loves. Unfortunately for David Bowie, she's fallen out of love with him. I'm not a huge fan of Deneuve, but she's quite pretty. David Bowie I am a huge fan of - I actually think he's a fantastic actor, and he's the best part of this film. The second half of the film involves Deneuve falling for a doctor played by Susan Sarandon. Hot, lesbian vampire sex is always welcome, but they couldn't find a hotter chick than Sarandon? Cripes, I dislike her. She was cute in Joe, but she almost immediately became homely. Plus, she's a horrid actress. I have to admit to liking most of the film quite a lot, despite some qualms, but Tony Scott's trademark bad editing eventually spins the movie toward an entirely incoherent climax. All in all, a good movie, but one that should have been better. "},{"Title":"I had more interest in the ant colony characters in Antz.","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I bought the book of this name many years ago when about to start a long journey. Both my time and the available selection were severely limited so I did not have any great expectations of my choice, although I hoped it would see me through my journey. It only barely did so, I nearly gave up on it several times as all the characters seemed to be lifeless cardboard cutouts in whom I could generate little interest. (For me there was more interest in the ant colony characters from the film Antz.) However Whitley Streiber's theme (brief spoiler), of a young woman, blessed or dammed with immortality, who selects a series of human lovers knowing that they will be her partner for only a short time before they age and are in turn replaced by a later version, seemed both original and potentially interesting. So when I saw a film version of this novel I bought it hoping that competent actors would flesh out the characters from the book and create a much more rewarding work. Unfortunately I was disappointed - the director, Tony Scott, seems to have concentrated on creating an outwardly stylish film with many of the less attractive features of music videos. There are a few quite striking photographic sequences which I enjoyed, and the shots of David Bowie ageing rapidly were reminiscent of a much more significant horror film The Picture of Dorian Gray (1945), but unfortunately Scott showed a complete absence of any ability to create a developing story, and total contempt for any effort to create actable parts. Consequently the film is utterly cold and, in my view, ultimately meaningless. Perhaps the fault lay entirely in the original book but if so he should never have taken on this assignment.The Hunger was one of numerous recent movies to have been promoted as a horror film. Such claims are nonsense - it takes more than gore to create a horror film. To be effective a horror film must show that, however mundane the life we lead, real horrors may be only a short step away. Every director considering making a horror film should put all thoughts of vampires, werewolves, possession and the living dead right out of their mind. They should also purge any intention of thinking up fancy new special effects. Instead they should review some of the classic films of this genre, starting with The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari and perhaps continuing with Play Misty for Me or Brimstone and Treacle. They should also remember that Hitchcock, the master of suspense, repeatedly showed how both terror and horror can develop naturally from suspense, as for example in Psycho and The Birds respectively. All in all a rating of 2 out of 10 for this film appears generous. "},{"Title":"cigarettes, aging whores in heavy makeup, and stupidity","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Why anyone would like this is a mystery. There is no plot. It is nonsensical. It had nothing at all going for it, unless you're into gaping plot holes, gratuitous sexual activity, and cigarettes scattered in place of plot. The entire movie revolves around filming cigarette ends, people smoking them, very unpretty aging actresses in pancake makeup and blood red lipstick and cigarette smoke as if that makes them sexually appealing, and very unpretty actors ditto without the makeup.Whoever did the casting must have been out of their mind to put bowie in this thing...the man never remotely looked decently good, much less good enough for the role.The plot holes involve such idiocy as a vampire who slits throats with a pendant, vampires who suddenly age from 30 to 130 in a few days and then lie in coffins looking moldy but not crumbling any further for centuries, the same coffined vampires suddenly for no reason whatsoever attacking the first vampire --why didn't they do this before if they could? who knows! certainly not the writer or director or producer of this turkey, the same coffined vampires crumbling into dust finally after tossing the first vampire over a stairwell, the first vampire thrashing about turning to 130 years old for no reason after being tossed over the stairwell, the latest made-into-a-vampire who cut her own throat and died for real somehow with no explanation actually being alive and having locked up the first one in a coffin of her own.The film is billed as stylish and chic. In a pig's eye. Sorry, but filming cigarettes and old heavily made up people in ridiculous clothing smoking, blowing white gauze curtains, sex, gore, and air filled with flour do not constitute style or chic.The only thing most people probably watch it for is the explicit lesbian sex scene which is also stupidly done and has absolutely no precedent int he film. "}]