[{"Title":"Three Dimensional Thrills?","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Why would anyone want to live in the Amityville house? It's got a bilious basement with a bottomless pit, a lethal living room, and feral flies that swarm in the attic. The sinks don't work either. In fact, this house is going straight to Hell - literally!Into this questionable piece of real estate moves Tony Roberts, a skeptical journalist who doesn't believe the horror stories concerning the house (or hasn't learned anything from the first two movies) and is determined not to let `superstition' get the better of him. But get the better of him it does&#133;   This is in no way a great movie &#150; but it keeps me entertained every time I watch it, the hallmark of good low-budget horror fun. And dig that neat poster &#150; great horror movie graphics! There's also some amusement to be had due to the presence of a few future stars in the cast &#150; such as Lori Loughlin as the daughter of the journalist, who would trade in her haunted house for a Full House. And then there's Meg Ryan, touring the Amityville residence and pondering the joys of sexual relations with ghosts. Whatever floats your boat, Meg! "},{"Title":"Actually, not bad at all...","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Probably the best movie of the series, I think. Okay, that's not saying much, but it's actually quite enjoyable. And probably the strongest, plot wise.A magazine writer who happens to debunk psychics ends up buying the infamous house for cheap, blackmailing the current owner (a realtor, who is worried about his reputation, he had leased the house to two fake pyschics). And wackiness ensues. But it's not over the top at first, more general creepiness. There's nothing really special effect wise until the end, at which it does get a bit silly, but it's quite a finish.It was originally in 3-D, and so you see a lot of shots that were intended to capitalize on this - frisbees thrown at the camera, flying swordfish, etc.Also notable about this movie, it's the source for a quote frequently sampled by My Life With the Thrill Kill Kult.  "},{"Title":"Good Ghost Story.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is not like the horror movies that were coming out around the time this was released. Everyone says how bad it is, but if this were made in the sixties, it would be one of the greatest horror movies of all time. It has awful special effects, but it contains ideas, like most good movies should. I suggest you rent, or even buy it if you stumble across a copy.  "},{"Title":"I thought this Amityville was full of cheesy fun.","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There must have been a law in the 1980's that stated that if you are to make a third film to a set of horror movies you must make them in 3-d as this was one of them, along with other such fine films as Jaws 3-D and Friday the 13th part III in 3-D. Sad to say, but I enjoyed all these movies even though I know in my heart of heart they were all bad movies. However, just because a movie is bad does not make it non-entertaining. Well at least to me it does not...perhaps to a more mainstream viewer, I admit I am a little more offbeat than most people to say the least. This story has a guy moving into the Amityville house for whatever reasons after he proves this one little group of people are fake psychics. Through a series of events though he begins to find out just how real the horrors are in the house that has had cast evil upon all those who lived there. I have to say the movie is not as graphic as the second movie, but it has a lot more to it than the first movie in the ways of scares and such and it has a nice conclusion too. Still the movie has to many 3-D moments too to be a really good movie. You know the scenes, pointless scenes where they aim something directly at the camera and such. Still, the movie runs at a fast clip and is entertaining to watch, plus you get to see a young Meg Ryan in one of her first roles. "},{"Title":"Just turn off your brain and enjoy the ride","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Whether you believe the events depicted in both the novel and film entitled 'The Amityville Horror' or not, you've got to admit it's a great story. One that, frankly, has yet to be adapted faithfully to the big screen. Oh well, maybe some day. Meanwhile, the 1979 film adaptation was followed by one of the biggest slews of sequels in horror movie history. Like with most other franchises, the sequels really aren't necessary, but at the same time that doesn't make them bad films or no fun. This is the case with this second sequel, which took advantage of the 3-D movie craze of the early 1980s. Know what that means? You guessed it, a no-brainer excuse for state-of-the-art special effects to be thrown at the audience. In the case of this movie, that's not a totally bad thing.Pros The pace never drags. Each cast member, except for maybe Tess Harper, gives the best performance they can with the material and at least seem to be enjoying themselves. Howard Blake, replacing 1 & 2's Lalo Schifrin, composes a decent, spooky score. Director Fleischer does a good job of making the old house look menacing and gets a few other good shots too. At least a couple good chilling moments. Some of the special effects are pretty good. A powerhouse finale. Cheesy fun if you don't take it at all seriously.Cons Lacks real scares. The plot is super thin and really just an excuse for the filmmakers to use flashy effects. Loaded with haunted house clichés. Some cheap effects, especially that one big fly. Tess Harper is the only actor in the film who seems to be uncomfortable and therefore gives a mostly stiff performance.Final thoughts Won't stand up well to classics like 'Poltergeist' and the original 'The Haunting,' but this second sequel to the 1979 chiller is good clean fun if you're looking for nothing more than an hour and a half of entertainment. Though I enjoyed this on some level, I can see why the subsequent sequels went straight to video because the series was starting to turn into self parody at this point.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"Succeeds on its own modest terms","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Surprisingly, this second sequel to the supposedly fact based thriller The Amityville Horror is a worthy installment in the otherwise wretched series of shockers.  Richard Fleischer, a Hollywood veteran whose directorial credits include such diverse fare as The Vikings and The Boston Strangler, brings a skill to the proceedings that were conspicuously absent from the original film, which was more notable for the laughably bad performances of James Brolin and Rod Steiger than it was for inducing chills.  The performances in Amityville 3-D, or Amityville the Demon as it is known on television, didn't deserve Oscar consideration, but they are professional and, in the case of Candy Clark's suspicious photographer, almost inspired.The movie opens in typical haunted house fashion  a seance is being held in the notorious Long Island house where, in earlier films, toilets backed up (shudder!), marching bands played in the dead of night (shudder again!), and a giant red-eyed pig named Jody roamed the premises and engaged in small talk with children (Babe in an early role?).  The seance produces mysterious apparitions and odd noises, all of which are exposed by two of the participants--a reporter and his photographer-- as a hoax.  The realtor denies any involvement in the souped-up spookiness and explains to the reporter (Tony Roberts on holiday from Woody Allen's repertory company) that the house's infamous reputation is such that he's willing to sell it at a bargain rate.  Roberts, newly divorced and eager for a peaceful environment in which to write his great American novel, buys it, all the while ignoring the warnings of his less courageous colleague, the delightful Miss Clark.Roberts, a stubborn type who sneers at the supernatural, moves in and continues his sneering even as anyone who sets foot in the house experiences terror and, ultimately, death.  But, dumbo that he is, he continues to pooh-pooh any notions that the house is cursed.Some talented performers are on view in this film, and if not for their admirable abilities to keep a straight face, the movie would be a lot funnier than it's supposed to be and sometimes is.  Roberts is his usual non-plussed self, refusing to accept any supernatural explanations for the bizarre circumstances taking place around him.The special-effects are adequate, but they do the trick, and probably worked better in 3D, which is the way the film was presented theatrically.  The process is evident in the use of so many scenes in which hands are extended toward the camera and, in one scene, a frisbee is tossed directly at the audience.Amityville 3D will never take its place beside the greats of the horror genre, but neither will its two predecessors.  However, unlike those failed shockers, number 3 succeeds on its own modest terms, providing, amid the occasional unintended chuckle, a few moments of genuine suspense and a thrill or two.  It's a satisfying spook show on the same level as the William Castle flicks of the late 50s and early 60s (The Tingler, House on Haunted Hill, et al). "},{"Title":"A solid horror film *** out of 5","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At this point the true events that took place in the house are no longer relevant. This is an entirely different story concocted by the screenwriters and I must say it's the best work of fiction on film that involves the Amityville house.The cinematography is great, the music, while not Schifrin, is still chilling, the acting is very very good. And there are some really scary moments in the film. The overall story I think engulfs the viewer. It's really interesting because the main character believes it's all a hoax, (much like a portion of the people do today) and he comes to find out that things in Amityville are much more unsettling than he thought they'd be.The only thing (as with all 80's 3-D films) is that there are obvious things going on which were supposed to lurch out at the audience. It seems rather silly when the camera stays on a certain image for more than five seconds when it is no longer presented in it's 3-D image. It induces a chuckle when ever this happens, but it doesn't detract from the film itself. "},{"Title":"Enter the gateway to hell","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A new dimension in ultimate evil has been added to the story to what has probably become the world's most notorious haunted house in America.A magazine writer's investigation into a séance turns to horror when an abandoned well beneath the basement floor turns out to be the gateway to hell.This film starred Tony Roberts, Tess Harper & Meg RyanIn my opinion this wasn't one of best entries in the Amityville film series, not the worst but no where near the best. It had a bad plot about the gateway to hell being a well in the basement. 93 minutes wasted in my opinion, it had a couple of entertaining scenes but nothing special.**/***** Poor. "},{"Title":"A silly sequel, but lots of fun.","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Even when viewed without the benefit of its 'third dimension', Amityville 3-D is still an enjoyably cheesy piece of 80s horror&#151;not quite as good as my favourite in the series, Amityville 2 The Possession, but still far more entertaining than the po-faced original.Subtitled The Demon, Part 3 sees its infamous Long Island property snapped up by reporter John Baxter who refuses to believe that the house is home to malevolent supernatural phenomena. Even when several of John's friends and acquaintances die in mysterious circumstances, his scepticism does not wane.However, after his own daughter Susan (Lori Loughlin) becomes the latest victim of the Amityville curse, the distraught writer finally agrees to turn his house over to a group of paranormal investigators who are particularly keen to check out the hole in the basement floor, which is rumoured to be a gateway to Hell!This being a 3D movie, director Richard Fleischer is obliged to deliver plenty of 'in your face' action, and objects are frequently dangled and poked towards the audience (which is kind of fun to watch, even in 2D), but to his credit, Fleischer also manages to conjure up quite a bit of atmosphere and a few decent scares along the way in particular, the scene in which photographer Melanie (Candy Clark) is left alone in the house is extremely well handled and very creepy, as is the moment when Susan's mother is confronted by the sodden ghost of her recently drowned daughter.Of course, this being a 'second sequel' made in the early 80s and a 3D effort to boot, it's not all well crafted scares there are plenty of tacky moments for fans of B-movie horror to enjoy, and the messy finalé is a total blast, with almost every prop being thrust into the foreground, and a silly rubber demon popping up to say 'Hi!' from the bottom of his Hellish jacuzzi. Oh, and don't forget that Meg Ryan also makes an early appearance as Susan's ghost obsessed pal Lisa.I rate Amityville 3D a reasonable 6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb; let's face it, any film that features a 3D fly attack and a flying stuffed swordfish has got to be worth at least that! "},{"Title":"Okay Sequel using 3-D for Ghosties.","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Mostly fiction sequel, where as 1 and 2 were based on true or supposedly true events. Interesting part with the Ouija and following event to create a continued rift between the father and mother. I will have to say that the house looks better in this one than it did in one and two(New Paint job I guess.) The 3-D was good as I remember it back when it was in theaters(way better than JAWS 3 but unfortunately released after. JAWS 3 ended the very short lived early 80's 3-D fad and probably killed any additional sales for this film by having it be another 3 in 3-D.)Another interesting thing to note is that the writer has added in post Amityville(True story) elements and layered it into the film in subtle ways. The whole aspect of Is this Fraud? is layered as the people performing the sceances in the house and the tabloid writing about Amityville and fraud, though it is kept just towards the medium and her husband in the film. There are real elements about the neighborhood that this house is located in and how the public has not forgotten about Amityville to the point that it made the house and I can't even unload the ones on either side of it difficult to sell or rent. No wonder with tons of people constantly coming by and trampling their lawns, though in the movie it is just because of superstition of the haunting. Later, a team of psychics with the reporter go into the house to investigate the phenomenon. Just like what really happened shortly after the Lutz family left for warmer states. Though this one was promoted even as complete fiction, it is awesome that the writer was still looking for bits of truth to weave into the film, keeping in touch with what Amityville is supposed to be.After viewing the review of Siskel and Ebert on youtube where Rog slams the story as being completely unrealistic because, Who would buy this house after what supposedly happened in 1 and 2? Well, that is what happened!Also, somehow it has circulated on the web that the character of John Baxter, portrayed by Tony Roberts, is really Dr???Steven Kaplan, critic of the validity of The Amityville Horror. The character in this film is in no way supposed to be Kaplan. It is also interesting to note the public's scrutiny of the Lutz family and The Warrens, but lack of interest in checking facts and credentials put forth by Steven Kaplan, who only claimed to hold a doctorate. "}{"Title":"Well at least now they won't have that house to play around with any more","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Hell literally freezes over in this third and final chapter of the infamous Amityville House by the river with the place being blown to bits taking an entire crew of ghost investigators, or busters, and ghost detectives along with it. I wondered watching the movie unfold if it was the two investigative reporters for the skeptical Reveal Magazine John & Melanie, Tony Roberts & Candy Clark, trying to be too smart about their ability to expose psychic frauds that lead to the horrors that happened to them as well as everyone else in the movie. Doing their job in exposing psychic frauds both John & Melanie flush out the Caswells, John Beal & Leora Dana, in a phony and staged psychic reading that they gave them for their dead young son Ricky in, of all places, the Amityville Horror House. Feeling good about himself in his job as a Ghost Exposer John really goes overboard by buying the dangerous and haunted house himself since no one wants to not only live in it but even live next to it. With John about to move into the haunted house strange things begin to happen. The real estate agent Clifford Sanders, John Harkins,who sold the house to John is found dead by John on the steps of the house from an apparent heart-attack.Melanie who took a number of photos of John and Sanders finds that the photos of Sanders have a strange smug on them that when it's magnified the smug looks like a little devil. Things start to get out of hand with Melanie ending up dead in a car crash where she burned to a crisp and John's daughter Susan, Lori Loughlin, drowning in the river outside the house. To the surprise of her mom Nancy Baxter, Tess Harper, she's seen alive walking up the stairs to her room dripping wet with a weird smirk on her face. John himself has a few close calls with death in an elevator in the building where he works and in his bathroom when he's confronted with live steam gushing out of the bathroom faucets and the walls in the bathroom closing in on him. With his co-worker , Melanie, roasted to death his daughter, Susan, drowned and his wife, Nancy, going insane John gives in and decides to have his house checked out by a Ghost Buster team lead by psychic expert and investigator Eillot West, Robert Joy, to find out and see if there's something to all this tragedy that struck John his family and friends. What the team finds out isn't pretty in that before their through checking out the Amityville House the Amityville House will be through with them.Passable horror movie that does have it's moments and at least tries to make some sense to it's audience of what's happening on the screen with a very young Lori Loughlin and Meg Ryan as Susan Baxter and Susan's best friend Lisa who's also a armature medium and psychic in the film. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Journalist moves himself and his family into the infamous Amityville house after a fake senace thinking all the rumors about the house are fake. Well....when his family starts to die and weird things begin to happen, he discovers that the house may be haunted after all. Horror film may have had some merit on the big screen in 3-D, but on video it comes off as slow paced, dull, and boring. Only point of interest is some early appearances by Lori Loughlin & Meg Ryan. "},{"Title":"An Unfortunate Misfire","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Trying to pin down precisely why this film failed is a bit of a challenge. The director, Richard Fleischer, had plenty of experience and made some of the finest films in the business. Star Tony Roberts had done plenty of great films, many with Woody Allen. We even get some nice supporting roles filled by Lori Loughlin and Meg Ryan, both before they went on to do anything big. This sounds pretty good.Even the effects and plot are alright. So what went wrong? Some say the editing, which may be true, causing the pace to seem slow at times. Maybe the producers were too concerned with the 3-D effects and let other aspects get neglected. Hard to say. It seems like there is a goo film in here somewhere just waiting to come out, but it never has the chance. Aside from from 1980s nostalgia, there is not much to offer. "},{"Title":"Like an old Kleenex, disgusting and disposable.","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is a scene deep into Amityville 3-D in which the new owner of the famous haunted house 112 Ocean Avenue comes home and hears water running in the upstairs bathroom. He opens the door and finds the room filled with thick clouds of steam. Waving his way through the steam he finds that the faucets in the sink are turned on full-blast with hot water. He struggles to turn them off, and after a few minutes, he does. Then the scene is finished. No ghosts, no blood, no murders, just a plumbing problem. That scene is pretty much a commentary of this terrible movie; it's needless, pointless and easily forgotten, like water running down the drain.Amityville 3-D is like an old Kleenex that missed the free-throw to the garbage can; it's disgusting and disposable. It's the kind of movie that you watch passively as your mind becomes preoccupied with all of the wonderful things that you're going to do after this movie is over. Fun things like laundry and cleaning up after the dog.If that sounds cruel, consider the mean-spirited intent that made this film possible. The two previous entries in this series, The Amityville Horror and Amityville II The Possession were very profitable at the box office, despite the fact that neither was worth the powder to blow them up. Yes, they were bad but you felt that somebody was trying. The problem is that there isn't really much to build on, once you've told the DeFeo story and then the Lutz story, there's really nowhere to go. That's good news for the filmmakers since they have clearly come into this project with no ambition to make a workable movie. The title is a brand name, and so apparently they figure that no effort is needed. Just put that creepy house in the frame, kill some people with special effects and no one has to work very hard. This isn't art; it's commercialism at its most cynical. Worse is that all the press releases for the film made clear in big block letters that this was not related to the two earlier pictures. It takes place in the same house, it has a big 3 in the title, and there are several conversations about the events that led to the first movie.Apparently these crass business people are counting on 3D to save the day. It's a crummy process, blurry and dark that adds nothing to the experience, and is only pliable so that something &#x96; a Frisbee, a metal pole, the movie's title &#x96; can come flying at the screen. That happens about every 15 minutes and it isn't worth the wait.The threading tissue that gets us from one indistinct 3D image to the next is something that might be mistaken for a story. Whereas the second Amityville adventure withered into a pathetic rip-off of The Exorcist, this film withers into a pathetic rip-off of Poltergeist. Tony Roberts plays a journalist from a tabloid rag called Reveal Magazine who doesn't believe in all the hooey about haunted houses. He and his wife (Tess Harper) are separated, and he's taken up with a new lover (Candy Clark). Still he buys the house at 112 Ocean Avenue because the Realtor is eager to unload this turkey as a bargain basement price. Roberts doesn't believe in ghosts and isn't even convinced of the validity of the supernatural claims when the Realtor drops dead on his third floor landing. He's not even convinced when ghouls start popping out of the well down in the basement. There are few things more aggravating than a horror movie with slow-learners at the fore-front.What is most frustrating about Amityville 3-D is that is breaks the first rule of haunted house movies You have to have rules. There has to be some form of establishment so the audience can understand what is at stake and what is happening. Otherwise the movie is just a free-for-all and we get a freak show without purpose. That's especially true when the movie takes the haunted house stuff away from the house. When the characters are killed in their cars miles away from the house, then we are left to wonder why. Are the people cursed? Is the car cursed? Those questions give you an even bigger headache than the 3D.Is there a high point to Amityville 3-D? Actually, yes. There's a brief performance here by a 21 year-old Meg Ryan making her feature film debut. She's bouncy and fun, but on screen in too few scenes. Her character postulates - through giggles - that a living person can have sex with a ghost. It makes you rethink that orgasm scene in When Harry Met Sally. 1/2 (of four) "},{"Title":"Fun In Its Way","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Magazine writer John Baxter (Tony Roberts) and his partner Melanie (Candy Clark) expose a fake psychic racket operating in the Amityville house. Being recently divorced and needing a new house, John decides to buy the place. He gets a good deal in exchange for keeping the real estate agent, who knew about fake psychics, out of the story. John is a disbeliever and skeptic of supernatural phenomenon so he's not worried about the house's history. Once he moves in, of course, strange things start happening. Amityville 3-D has a bad reputation and most of it is deserved. The plot is tiresome and the scares are often laughable. Still, I can't help but enjoy it on some guilty pleasure level. Tony Roberts is a stiff lead. He reminds me of a less charismatic Ron Perlman. Yet there's something fascinating about watching this guy work. Maybe it's the hair. Or maybe it's that he clearly believes he is above the material. Lori Loughlin makes her film debut as his daughter. She doesn't get a lot to do but she's good enough so that you wouldn't automatically assume this was her first movie. Meg Ryan (!) plays her friend in one of Meg's early film roles. I was a little worried after Amityville II that we'd get some inappropriate sexual action between Tony Roberts and Meg Ryan or, worse yet, Roberts and Lori Loughlin. But thankfully nobody has sex with Tony Roberts. The often awful Candy Clark rounds out the main cast. She's up to her usual scenery chewing so everybody grab a seat. The best performances would come from Tess Harper as the ex-wife and Robert Joy as a paranormal investigator.Perhaps the most amusing change to the Amityville series here comes from the fact the ghosts can attack someone even if they are miles away from the house. It's silly but allows for some enjoyable shock scenes. Look, this isn't a great movie. It isn't even a good one, really. But it still entertains in a so-bad-it's-good way. If you're looking for something like that, awesome! Here you go. But if you want something you can seriously be scared by, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Much too corny to enjoy.","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A reporter named John Baxter (Tony Roberts) moves to Long Island, into the ominous house where many unexplainable, supernatural occurrences have commenced. He and his wife have separated, and Baxter is not a believer, but peculiar things keep happening around him. The people he cares about die, and there seems to be no end to it. I enjoyed the second prequel (I mean sequel, whatever you wanna call it) more than the first movie, but it wasn't exactly clamoring for another installment. But we got one, and 4 more crappy DTV sequels, and even a remake as well. In fact&#x85; another movie about Amityville is heading to theaters later on this year. This was filmed in 3D. Naturally, it doesn't have any effect while watching it on DVD, but that was the big selling point back then. This movie never bored me, but it's inexplicably stupid. How much has to commence, for Tony Robert's character to realize that he should get the heck out of there? Everything weird happens when he moved there. It things happened to me like they did in this movie, for example. A haunted elevator, my daughter died, and my partner got burned alive, by being trapped in a car accident. I wouldn't wanna investigate the paranormal activities. I would be long gone! I also didn't have any proper heroes. Almost everybody in this movie is virtually unlikable. Tony Roberts plays a selfish imbecile, who is arrogantly oblivious to everything. I had no sympathy for him. Tess Harper (Nancy Baxter) is quite pretentious and claims Roberts is egotistical in this movie, to her own daughter. The subplot between her and Tony Roberts grated me. I understood that warning her daughter to stay away from the house was needed, but she was just as bad. Lori Loughlin plays it low key. It wasn't a great performance, but she's beautiful to look at. Meg Ryan's cheeky charm was just great. She had a very small part as Loughlin's friend, and she gives the best performance(!) Not much gore here. The burning sequence is harsh and quite disturbing, but the laughable looking skeleton hinders some of the impact. We also get the fly routine from the original, and a hilariously dated looking creature at the end, who spews a fireball. The effects were quite shoddyFinal Thoughts Never boring, but too stupid to enjoy fully. If you're gonna watch an Amityville movie, I'd pick the second movie, or the remake. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Some-things will remain infamous.","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After watching 'Possession' (which was surprisingly decent), I prepared to watch the second sequel of the franchise and this one was a little lacking. The big draw cards were obvious&#x85; the novelty of 3D effects (which seemed to be a big thing around this period) and at the time a virtually unknown Meg Ryan. Well too bad I wasn't watching it in 3D and Ryan (while memorable) is quite lesser character to the scheme of things. So what's there to like? Hard to really pin point, as when you try to draw good points, there's something else to counter-balance it.The story is kind of interesting (with it's scientific and skeptical reactions with a talkative script); but remains quite disjointed (made of set-pieces and ideas we've seen all before) and the lack of total cohesion becomes quite stodgy. By the end it doesn't show faith in its cluttered story becoming unsatisfying and succumbing to cheesiness (lookout for eccentrically unexplainable climax dogged with dodgy effects), after slowly grinding away with well placed touches of suspense and jolts. But it didn't entirely have the venom in its shocks, but an unnerving atmosphere still engulfed the Amityville house and the stormy score erratically punched the cues. A respectable cast featuring the likes of Tony Roberts, Candy Clark, Tess Harper and Robert Joy work their butts off to invoke something out their characters, but no one is terribly likable&#x85; with maybe the exception of Clark's character. Director Richard Fleischer (who has some fine films behind him) never draws anything in the way of style or suffocation through an effective backdrop, instead letting a downbeat vibe grow and the execution for most part is plainly devised.Re-cycled and blotchy, but mildly amusing haunted house enterprise. "},{"Title":"Not Great, but Okay...","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Baxters decide to buy the infamous house for a dirt-cheap price. No surprise there. Afterwards, what happens? Well, by now, you know the drill.There is probably two things that I found VERY exciting about the film and one decent thing. Everything else was either bland or not good at all.The first, and most exciting to me was the ending and what the results are to the family and the house itself. A wonderful ending, but it certainly limits possibilities for the other sequels, as it is well-known.The second is the demon usage of the film. It is briefly shown, but the point of this film is to express the thought of a demon in control of the house. Though it wasn't spectacularly-done, it was bearable.The side-thing was the amount of suspense, and the score for this film. It wasn't incredible, but it was above average, I'll say that much. "},{"Title":"Amityville 3-D shows us Meg Ryan & Lori Loughlin as teens starting out.","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville 3D is not a complete bust in any sense of the imagination. Of course, watching on you 'telly' the 3D stuff is diminished but,even so, the real redeeming quality of this flick is that we get to see a young Meg Ryan and Lori Loughlin before fame and television sitcom taints them. It is refreshing to watch them in this pristine early stage. There is one scene in which they are in the evil house with some teenage boys. The group gathers on the floor around a set of cards formed in a Quija sort of configuration. But, at the same time, there was a spin the bottle effect. The scene is alluring and in the midst of the tension, a mix of sexual and fear, a bit of Ryan's acting charm shines. Don't miss this because it is tucked away in a slow moving 3D movie, which ain't really all that bad. Candy Clark of American Pie fame is in the movie as well and does a good job as a nonbeliever who finally comes around to see the darkside.Another plus of this movie is there wasn't a lot of blood and guts. Perhaps this is why it is receiving the low ratings. Gore doesn't make a horror movie.Finally, this was a 3D film and the payoff in the end is good. There is even a Hitchcockian moment at the end with one 3D effect that gave me a bit of a thrill and then a chuckle after.The movie is far from a bust. Watch it and remember the context in which it was shot. Look for the gems. I believe they exist in every work of art, movies, books, paintings, etc. "},{"Title":"Trivia not exactly correct!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have this movie in 3D on DVD, officially released from Santuary Visual Entertainment in the UK. It is in anaglyph presentation, widescreen, and with a 5.1 surround audio track. A field sequential version of the film can also be bought, and is found mostly on ebay, but I do not know if that version is an official release. If you are looking for this movie in 3D, with the red/blue glasses (anaglyph), go to Amazon.com and there go to their UK branch then run a search and you will find it. On occasion, you will see a copy on Ebay.com, but it is rare to an extent. One last thing, the 3D is not the greatest, so if you have high expectations, you're setting yourself up for disappointment, but it is a nice set, also comes with a 2D version, and is fun just the same. I'm happy with it. Thanks. "}{"Title":"A lost experience made worse.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I usually don't comment on a movie unless it is terrible or extremely good, however this presents an interesting situation. I really think this was one of those movies that killed the 3D revival era of the 80s. Along with Jaws 3D, why not take the chance on a movie and make it worthwhile. A recent release in the UK offers the anaglyph (red/blue glasses) 3D version complete with the glasses, too bad the far superior polorization method (grey lens glasses) will not work with home theatre without special wired glasses that are way overpriced. I am hoping with the advent of DVD and increased clarity the US distributors see fit to re-release the 3D version as it seemed to be the only thing to give this movie that extra edge to make it even worth viewing, even if it is only anaglyph 3D. A simple plot, returning to a franchise of a haunted house in Amityville, NY this movie seems to have little to do with the other two movies, only connection I could make with the first two was that the second one was actually a pre-quel to the first movie and this was just another story in the chapter that did not feel like giving you much background on the house, assuming you have seen the other two, there was really no point to re-explain everything that happened in the past. Buy maybe not. I will save the plot line for you to read in other comments. I think poor selection of actors, overacting, common scare techniques, and just plain overdone explains this movie best. Yet, for some reason it can be enjoyed, and again, I think part of the key is experiencing the movie in it's original format, yet that would never change my opinion that this could have been so much better, the script was good enough, just very poorly executed. Not much else I can say on this one, on a rainy Sunday, nothing to do, want to watch some old horror films, hey why not do the trilogy thing. I usually don't comment on other users comments, everyone is entailed to their own, but just a reminder the first movie (and second) was loosely based on actual events, it is a real house that exists in Amityville, NY, which many people consider haunted (or was, if it is still there), and was the actual site of some very nasty murders in the 70s. It had never been proved the house is indeed haunted. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  True! the special effects are not that good but you also have to remember when this film was made. 1985, back then this type of special effects were amazing. The film itself is also not that bad i dont know why most people hate it. It has a good story and some very chilling moments. then you have your sos so moments but you got that with any film. This film is the 3rd in the Amityville series and is the only one that shows us what is really haunting the house. SPOLIER! a Demon that is haunting the house and hides in the well underground. The acting was ok and The Demon was pretty cool looking, it's eyes really scared my mom when we watched it a few weeks back. This film is over all very entertaining and like i said is one of the best in the series. The only ones i liked more than this one were the 1st, 2nd and Amityville 1992.Overall i give Amityville 3-D a 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Amityville 3 The Demon...   What Demon?","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville got worse... a whole lot worse.I watched this film on TV yesterday, funny enough i was studying the Amityville Horror for my art project. It seemed a pretty good opportunity for me to catch up on some of the film references, but everything was completely fictional and trashy...It was weird seeing the house for the third time now, pretty surprised they managed to grab hold of it but thats the only pro in the movie. I don't know whether they had limited resources or something but nothing actually happened in this movie... Fairly good storyline but where was the horror in this? i know this is 3-D movie but without the glasses your just watching a bunch of crap flying at your eyes, even that wears off after a while...The best part was actually the last 15 minutes, considering the film is only an hour and a half I expected the flipping house to blow up! And whats with the demon? we saw a weird swamp creature for a split three seconds, yet the title is based around it. Hardly worth watching... "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, lots of jumps in a dark room!","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I found this movie to be one of the better installments in the Amityville series, actually the second best, behind the original. The beginning with the con artists is hilarious, and I just love the characters in this movie. I found the characters likable, especially M.r Baxter's friend, the photographer. Meg Ryan also makes a guest appearance (before she was famous) and she is a delightfully annoying character. I also could tell this would be a very fun movie to see in its original 3D, especially the daughter's spirit in the end. The only reason this didn't get 10 out of 10, is because I didn't get to see it in 3D! Definitely watch this movie if you liked the first one! "},{"Title":"Kinda spooky, mostly dull","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Writer moves into famed Amityville house that was once the scene of murder and madness, and of course this leads to...murder and madness. Even though the story was debunked, the first two Amityville movies were supposed to be true, and this one is very clearly not. It's also not very good, but neither were the other two.The movie was originally shown in 3-D, as you can tell by the title, but of course it has yet to be presented in 3-D on home video, so you get to watch a lot of things hurled at the screen in an attempt to startle the 3-D audience. There's some kitschy haunted house stuff at the beginning, and eventually the plot turns to demons and suspicious deaths.Nothing in the film adds up to anything, and there are only a few creepy scenes, one of which involves a death by fire that's just plain disturbing. There's really no plot, just a series of scenes that involve the supposed curse on the house, but what the film does have is a very doomy atmosphere. Even though it was made in 1983, the movie has a pessimistic quality to it that's more reminiscent of 70s Doom films. This script probably should have had a few rewrites before it went into production, and it might have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"Awful. Even 3-D couldn't save this flop.","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Amityville Horror was based on a true story, and it was only one story. There's not that many stories you can tell. I guess the producers of this trash thought different.This movie tells the story of a reporter moving into the Amityville house after insisting the hauntings weren't real. Lo and behold, weird stuff starts happening. However, unlike the first movie, this movie relies heavily on violent deaths. The house even causes a woman to burn up in her car before she can get there. It's utterly ridiculous. The movie just gets even more goofy when paranormal investigators show up and demons start popping out of the basement floor and the house decides to implode on itself. The story is bad, the acting is bad, and it's not scary at all. It's actually funny.This movie was 3-D in theatres, though not on DVD, and even the stuff that was in 3-D wasn't exciting. What was it? Tree branches and fisbees smacking into the camera lens.2/10. The only good part is an appearance by a young Meg Ryan. "},{"Title":"campy horror with 3D gimmick","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Journalists John Baxter (Tony Roberts) and Melanie (Candy Clark) have a fake séance and expose two con artists in a sting. They happen to be in the Amityville home. The present owner can't get rid of it. Recently separated from his wife Nancy (Tess Harper), John buys it despite the death of the owner. Melanie sees strange things in her photographs which spooks her and then she gets killed. Nancy forbids their daughter Susan (Lori Loughlin) from the house. Susan's friend Lisa (Meg Ryan) gets her and two boys to go out to the house.The 3D visual is nothing but a gimmick to keep this material fresh. It's so gimmicky that it fails miserably. The technology is pretty bad back then. None of it is scary. With all the things thrown at the screen, it's a bit funny which is wrong for this movie. The pipe from the car accident is OK but why throw a Frisbee at the screen? There are some badly executed special effects which looks super campy. It's interesting to see young Lori Loughlin and Meg Ryan in this but it's not like they get the bulk of the screen time. "},{"Title":"Silly nonsense that only has the 3D going for it","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The law of diminishing returns is already well underway with this, the third in the AMITYVILLE series, which manages to be even worse than the first two. There is even less of a story this time around, merely a string of special effects and strange occurrences with different people reacting to them.There aren't many good scenes in this film. The best is probably the opening moment where a blatantly fake looking séance actually does turn out to be fake. This scene plays with the audience's expectations and therefore it's probably the cleverest bit in the film. Unfortunately, after this finishes, we're back in the realms of clichés and contrived happenings.The acting is nothing special, the cast is made up of nobodies, apart from a young Meg Ryan who probably leaves this off her CV these days. It's not that the film is exceptionally bad, it's just identical to many other haunted house films of the time, including the original, so it's just not memorable at all. In fact I find it hard to remember what actually happened throughout the film, other than the supernatural phenomenon.Which leaves the special effect as the best things in the film. It was actually filmed in 3D, which means that at every opportunity something will be thrown at the screen and at the audience. Silly, yes. The one spooky moment is where a man is attacked and killed by flies which swarm on his face. A female photographer notices that his face is obscured - almost mutilated - on the photographs she has of him. This is pretty disturbing.There is a car crash, a rotted corpse and, best of all, at the end, a hilarious big bald demon which sits in a well and looks like an overweight version of Yoda, except with worse special effects. It must have had a flamethrower in its mouth too, judging by the flames which spurted out at the camera. After that, the house, obviously made of polystyrene, collapses and explodes, and, surprise, surprise, there is a whole plethora of bits of debris hitting and flying at the camera.This film is a clichéd mess, plain and simple, with only some unintentional humour at the poor nature of the dialogue and the effects to while away the time. Avoid if you can. "},{"Title":"Lame.","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is one of a slew of 3D movies from the early 1980s, many of them sequels to very successful films. But Amityville 3 doesn't even stack up to Friday the 13th part 3 or Jaws 3. It may however be better than Treasure of the Four Crows, but that is hardly a ringing endorsement. Despite what appears to be a strong cast, and an intriguing premise, Amityville 3 quickly dissolves into a tame special effects dominated rip-off of Poltergeist.Having never seen part 2 of this series, I will have to assume this story somewhat picks up where the prior film left off. We begin with a reporter investigating the house of record which is currently occupied by scam artists living off the place's reputation. Once they are gone, the reporter is offered the chance to buy the house dirt cheap. He being recently divorced, and needing a quiet space to write a novel, decides to take the chance. Take it from this writer; solitude can be helpful, provided your house is neither haunted like this one, nor a dump like my old place in Lincoln. Anyway, even BEFORE this guy moves in, people start turning up dead around the place. Still, like all horror movie morons, he moves in. He even sets up a room in the notorious attic for his teen-aged daughter when she is able to visit. By the end of the film, we might as well be calling her Carol Ann.I won't say much more about this plot, since it moves ahead predictably, and without too many scares. Probably the most entertainment one can garner from these early 80s 3D movies is laughing at the obvious prop setups they need to remind you why you shelled out an extra buck or two for the glasses. There are several instances of objects (like the customary flies of this series) buzzing right in front of the camera. Also stationary objects such as arms and technical gear thrust out into a close-up. Oooh! Scary!! This film really does have a decent cast, though. Tony Roberts as the reporter is a talented actor, but maybe just lacks the physical screen presence to be a true star. Ben Stiller has smaller ears! Lori Laughlin and a young Meg Ryan are both competent and pretty. Candy Clark is like a poor woman's JoBeth Williams. Tess Harper has done better work than this. The conclusion will leave you dis-satisfied to say the least. Its one of those endings where it just looks like they ran out of both time and money. Overall, the whole thing certainly should have been the final nail in the coffin of this franchise. Alas, too many people must have shelled out some cash to see this instead of Stroker Ace. 3 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"The Amityville Horror isn't as hokey as I remembered it","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Everybody knows about the legend of the Amityville House at 112 Ocean Avenue in Long Island, New York. A family moves into the house and the older son murders them all in their sleep. When he's apprehended, he tells the authorities a voice told him to do it. Another family moves in a year later and they're plagued with paranormal incidences. Things get so bad, they abandon the house and never return.Whether or not you believe the stories are true,  The Amityville Horror provides good times for horror fans. Some want to revisit their childhood fears. Others want the opportunity to share the experience with their children for the first time and scare them to death.Upon watching the first two films again for the first time in over a decade, I realized a couple things. The Amityville Horror isn't as hokey as I remembered it. The last time I watched it, I was disappointed by how tame it was. I found it to be a satisfying watch now. Maybe I've come to appreciate its subtleness in the wake of so many graphic gore fests and torture-porn films. "}{"Title":"Haunted house sequel","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The house on the hill seeks fresh victims. Yes, the third instalment of the much maligned Amityville series sees another gaggle of hapless buffoons venture between the four walls where, if we remember correctly from part 2 a young man slaughtered his entire family with a shotgun and the walls dripped blood. Suave wannabe writer John Baxter purchases the property for a knock down price (not surprised about that, to be honest) and moves himself and his teenage daughter in and, yep, it's not long before mysterious things start to happen Voices, objects moving around etc etc. His daughter takes it upon herself to hold a séance with a bunch of friends, including a very young Meg Ryan, where she is informed that she is in peril. Shortly afterwards, she drowns. Or did she? Her mother swears blind that the daughter was with her moments before the alleged incident, but now she can't be found. Time to call in the psychic investigators, time to follow that pulsing light down to the basement and see what really dwells in the mysterious well. Could it be a big slimy monster? You'll have to watch it to find out but the answer is, of course, yes. It's all very run of the mill, using every horror cliché in the book, but it's not in any way terrible. It's not in any way frightening either though, but if you have an hour and twenty five minutes to kill one evening, you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Haunted House Yarn, But Lame Resolution","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After doing an exposé story on a supernatural scam at the infamous Amityville haunted mansion, a sceptical journalist going through a divorce decides to buy the cursed house. It isn't long before mysterious things start happening and people begin to die ...I quite like this movie, but it shoots itself in the foot in the last reel. For the first hour and a bit, it's a spooky little drama with nice art direction, good performances (particularly Clark) and plenty of suspense. Unfortunately, the ending is your standard all-Hell-breaks-loose finish which is not very impressive technically and spoils the creepy ambiance that precedes it. For a second sequel to what was a slightly hysterical horror flick in the first place though, it's not at all bad, with some nice ideas - for instance, I love the way the dead girl's ghost appears before we know she's dead, and there are some hair-curling moments like the scene with the walls in the bathroom closing in our unwitting hero. It does commit a heinous crime though by not taking the opportunity to kill Ryan in some gruesome fashion. This movie is one of a handful shot in 3D with Arriflex cameras, and features optical effects by Gary Platek, who also worked on the similar but far superior Poltergeist. Produced by the great independent mogul Dino De Laurentiis, who financed many interesting pictures in the eighties (The Dead Zone, Cat's Eye, Manhunter, Blue Velvet, etc). Worth catching if there's nothing else interesting on. "},{"Title":"House Of Evil","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Amityville 3 was not at all bad but has anyone noticed how old it looked? i know it was made in 1983 but just looked like it was made in the early 70s also amityville 2 1982 looks like it was made late 80s oh well. Me and my mother watch this film last night on video she said it was scary well i think diffrent i say Amityville 2 was way more scary then part 3. The acting is ok but not great nice to see meg rayn looking so nice i must say. The demon in the well was so ulgy and funny i was laughing just how bad it looked. Tell you the truth not alot in this film to keep you going just go and watch Amityville 1 and 2 and this film give it a go see what you think. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Great in 3-D, mediocre otherwise","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For some reason, many critics liked this entry, which, overall, got the best reviews of the series. There are certainly good points to it, such as solid performances, excellent cinematography and some terrific 3-D effects. But otherwise, there's little about this movie to recommend. Skeptical journalist Tony Roberts buys the infamous Long Island house, ignoring warnings coming from every direction, and shrugs all the phenomena off as a string of coincidences. His real estate agent has a heart attack in the house, his partner (Candy Clark) is burnt to a crisp in a car fire while investigating the house, and finally his daughter (Lori Loughlin) is drowned after having a seance in which the makeshift Ouija board tells her she's in danger. All coincidence, right? When his ex-wife (Tess Harper) goes berserk in the wake of their daughters death, he hires a parapsychologist friend (Robert Joy) to prove to her that the house ISN'T haunted. The team of ghost investigators sets up shop in the house and all hell breaks loose. Broken glass, furniture and even a stuffed swordfish fly at the viewer in a 3-D tour-de-force that must have been jaw-dropping in the movies. Finally, the demon (the same one that appears at the conclusion of AMITYVILLE II) bursts from the well in the basement and melts off Joy's face. The house explodes, and Roberts and Harper barely get out alive. Outside of a few wacky moments, this is a rather dull and uneventful movie. It's PG rating also ensures that any T&A or gore will be kept to a minimum. Meg Ryan has an early role as Loughlin's friend. Retitled AMITYVILLE THE DEMON for cable.It was recently released as a 2-disc special edition DVD by Sanctuary Entertainment in the U.K., with an anaglyph (red and blue) 3-D version on disc two. The 3-D version occasionally works, but it takes a heck of a lot of TV color and tint fiddling to get it right. "},{"Title":"3-D, Long Island, Meg Ryan...oh my!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not the worst horror movie (or horror movie sequel for that matter) that I've seen. It tried to cash in on the 3D revival going on at the time (Jaws 3D,anyone?)as well as the success of Poltergeist. It's pretty cheesy stuff overall but a couple of minimal chills can be found; I personally thought the teeny little image of the demon within the photograph examined by Candy Clark was creepy. I guess what is most frightening is seeing first-rate actors appearing in a movie that has 3D in it's title. Let's see we have Candy Clark light years away from her triumph in American Grafitti doing the supporting victim role she would repeat five years later in a remake of The Blob. Also Tony Roberts + overwhelming desire for first-billing DOESN'T > good script choices. Meg Ryan was still a nobody and ya gotta start somewhere. Tess Harper's character may not have been a victim in this movie but she was in real life having this appear on her resume immediately after receiving kudos from every direction for her role in Tender Mercies. I'll assume she was locked into this movie prior or maybe she wanted some variety. Going from critically-acclaimed Robert Duvall drama to 3D-horror flick would definitely qualify. "},{"Title":"Give it a second chance.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"     I know I've already commented on this flick, but I recently found a copy of this film in the bottom of my video store's discount bin. Breaking down and watching it again Man, that Meg Ryan is so timelessy cute!, it dawned on me that there are certain facets of this flick that border on making this a great movie, such as the scene where Tony Roberts wrestles with a pipe and the walls behind him unseenly move. I actually wanted to get into the movie to warn him !  I've never noticed that before! Spoilers withstanding,there's also a scene where Ryan and Lori Loughlin are petrified as an unidentified presence comes down to meet them in the basement. Still,much of this flick is just ridiculously pretentious,but still, there is a halfway decent movie underneath most of this crud. "},{"Title":"Good Idea Goes South","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   Yikes! I liked this movie the first few times I saw it,but the more often I see it,I get a little more bolder,a little more wiser and a little more sensible. Premise Magazine editor moves into reputedly haunted house to prove it is not haunted as everyone dies and wigs out around him.This great idea, however, goes awry as the scripts throws in every sort of haunted house cliche in the world. One nice observationI fell in love with the bad girl Lisa from this movie not knowing she would turn out to be the famous Meg Ryan years later.Her scene describing the Amityville mythos to Lori Loughlin is a small indication to the talent and repertoire she shows today. This movie does seem to generalize the actions of Dr. Stephen Kaplan, the prominent parapsychologist who went around debunking and citing hoax to the true original Amityville story. Tony Roberts' character almost mirrors the late Dr. Kaplan in common sense and logic. That should have been more what this movie should have been about,but instead it just fizzles out and dies. There is no psychological suspense as shown in the first movie,or any stream of style. The movie's just one long cliche and not worth the effort unless you're like me and just are a fan of the genre. "},{"Title":"1 was decent, 2 was mediocre, and 3 surpasses them both","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  3rd installment of the Amityville, series, was the last one to hit the big screen. !!!SPOILERS!!! A journalist investigates the infamous haunted house during a fake seance. The next day he decides to move in...BIG mistake!As soon as he enters, terrible things happen to him, his colleagues, and his family. The real estate agent dies, a friend of the journalist is burned to death, his daughter drowns, ect. Good story, and effects. *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"One of the 3 best in the series","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Of all the movies in this series (currently 8), this is one of the three best.  It is at least an average and a very watchable film (unlike some of the movies in the series which have parts that are like pulling teeth). While the effects aren't great on tape (ie no 3D and not a bunch of other stuff), the movie at least has an interesting story (including a paranomal investigator (who is just plain stupid;ok so he has to confront the demon, but does he have to do this by being sucked down the well?).  It also has Meg Ryan (in a role that is not totally explained (a family friend I guess).  And best of all it adds closure to the series. If The Amityville Horror, IIThe Possesion, and 3D were the entire series, then it wouldn't be all bad (especially if the ending to II was edited out).  Of course (the demon/well has to send a fly out to spread the evil (and thus continue the series).  Maybe they should re-release the 3D version.  "},{"Title":"Learning the hard way about this evil house!","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Some people need a lesson on spooky houses. For John Baxter(Tony Roberts), it's an experience he will never forget! John is a reporter who is out to debunk the myth about the infamous house in Amityville. During the so-called seance in that place once owned by man who would later die after giving it to the reporter. Once he got the place, his partner discovers the horror of it, and would never return. The daughter (Lori Loughlin, before Full House) gets a room, and have her friends to a seance with a homemade Ouija board. Following that, she would later lose her life in a boating accident. And they did find the source of the evil A demon! If the house was that evil, why didn't they destroy it in the first place. With all the skeptics running around, that's always the thing. Evil houses especially the one in Long Island, should have blocked off, not used as a tourist attraction. Better yet, not used for settling in. Its history is so bad it should have been condemned. Nice movie there, a little bit on the silly side though. 2 out of 5 stars "}{"Title":"This one of the weakest in the series","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I Will start of with the plot.Skeptical journalist John Baxter and photographer Melanieexpose a fraudulent medium who is operating in the infamous Amityville haunted house. Then John surprises Melanie by deciding to buy the house and live in it. John's estranged wife, Nancy is also surprised, then disturbed, when John encourages their daughter, Susan , to visit. The house attacks visitors with horrors that include insects and extreme cold and heat. Eventually, parapsychologist Eliot West comes to investigate.I remember seeing this movie for the first time, few years ago. there was only one scene that always stood out to me, it was scene where mother see her daughter go to her room, unaware that she had just drowned, this was only scene I could remember.I just re-watch this movie about week or so ago, I did seem to like it a lot better then the first time around, this time I could tell which part were for the 3D effect even in 2D, next time I will see this movie in 3D.First movie was okay, a tad over-hyped and the second was really good, which I think is very underrated,This movie wss really dull, this movie had nothing going for it, there no scary or creepy moment in this.it just felt flat from start to the end, like there no real story in it.it did pick up near the end with the explosions, which were really well done, those were okay scenes and the was really enjoyed watching.The acting was really good as well, from the whole cast.I will need to see this movie in 3D next time, without the 3D effect I am going to give this a 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Utter nonsense, another idiotic story about a killer ghost.","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is a sequel to the previous idiotic productions of the Amityville Horror stories, originally released in 3 dimensions with special viewing glasses for the theater goers, a hip thing of the 1970's and 1980's. As usual with Hollywood's evil ghost stories, there are many suspense scenes aided with the louder sound effects and the type of music that enhances the feeble minded one's gullible emotional responses. This particular story was built around a married couple's daughter whose soul has been taken or stolen, for lack of better words, by the evil presence that resides in that Amityville house that causes havoc in the residents' lives, their psyche, and their appliances, furniture's and walls! As I wrote in summary, it is idiotic, even ludicrous for anyone to take it seriously! A Pothead would enjoy a great laugh! "},{"Title":"It's not that bad... IT'S AWFUL!","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (Sorry for my writing, English is not my first language) After watching this film, I really wonder what Manos The hands of fate could be. They shown it on the BBC last night without the 3D, but seriously, I don't know what the hell was that, what I was watching.Let's start it at the beginning... First, the seance scene. I wasn't really sure then if this what would be the film like, luckily it was a fake scene, where the actors were playing actors. Huh... But after that, the actors continued like the same as that fake acting throughout the film, in a very forced way. It was terrible! Sometimes it had a feeling it was a nonsense Greek drama, where the bloody gore scenes wasn't shown, just a runner or message bringer came and told the news. It was the same in this film, but it ruined all. Like where did the old couple went in the beginning, when they rented that house? How did that guy escaped from the looked room? How did the girl felt in the water and why did she die of it? I can't even say things about this film, without swearing. And I would give this film the Worst should-be-scary monster-dummy award and the Worst death scene award. Seriously, he was attacked by animated flies(?! WTF?!) and he somehow escaped from the locked door, and had a nice Hrrrr-hrrrrrrrrrrr scene. I really don't know if I should laugh or cry... really. And the script was probably written by aliens, who never known the complexity of human feelings. The main characters partner has died, in a very idiotic way (She caught flame, without any flammable liquid near by, in a car, where the doors (of course) were stuck. Ahhh! The joke is that nobody had heard about this news... Nobody mourned her. And they not even mourned there daughter, who have died. Jesus. The mother was not crying for her dead daughter! What kind of a sick film is this?! This film even came up with the idea How to put the camera crew in the picture, without making them a goof (Crew or equipment visible) Ghost-searcher team. Genius (ironic) The best part was when they blew up that f***** house way up. Oh man, that was beautiful, because it meant the end and finally it was over. No catharsis, no nothing. I was just happy it ended. Too bad that they didn't need the house the make more of these Amityville films...If you see this film on air or in a video rental, don't watch it or spend any money on it. What you would get is hours of boring dialogs, bad acting, non-scary monsters, uninteresting plot, calculable scenes and terrible script.10/1 Doesn't deserves more. I wasn't afraid once.The best thing you could do with this film is gather your friends around, have some snacks, then mute down the film and make the synch yourself, dubbing the original. I done that with another horrible horror film. Believe me, it's way more funny that way. "},{"Title":"Okay 3D haunted house film","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville 3D is a pretty slow but entertaining haunted house film.**SPOILERS**John Baxter, (Tony Roberts) a paranormal investigator, buys a house in Amityville, Long Island despite it's reputation as being haunted. As he settles in, his daughter Susan (Lori Loughlin) arrives to help him out. He and his assistant, Melanie, (Candy Clark) start an investigation, and it starts to turn up real strange incidents. As more evidence mounts that it really is haunted, a series of supernatural occurrences freak out the family. When a death sends them all over the edge and is blamed on the forces inside, John seeks the advice of his friend Elliot West, (Robert Joy) to help solve the puzzle of the house.The Good News There's a couple of good things about this one. As is usual with the Amityville films, the house is really sinister and spooky-looking, and its huge attic windows that glare out light eyes, and its huge, imposing figure taking up a large amount of the screen. That is a fundamental part of the success of the series, and the house allows for some great jump moments as well. A great gag with a flying door works perfectly, as does a delayed reaction to a car accident. Surprisingly, some suspenseful scenes work their way in as well. Two deserve special mention the steamy bath-tub and a special photograph both send shivers down the spine. In addition, the flies make a very welcome return in one of the film's best scenes. The build-up before it is a great suspense-builder, with the noises heard off-screen and the history of the house adding to the suspense in the moment. I hate to admit it, but several of the 3-D gags in here are quite good. A flying swordfish is one of the better ones, and a couple instances of a floating orb is pretty nice, as well. Those are the better ones, though, so expect a couple others that are pretty striking. In response to the really slow beginning, the ending is pretty action-packed and full of some great moments. Mixing in some not-so-traditional ideas was greatly unexpected and fun to watch. A touch of violence, and it makes for a great ending.The Bad News Well, some of the 3-D gags obviously look very corny and not at all scary. The titles in the opening credit sequence are a great example, as several of the flying objects later on do as well. Adding all the missed gags together creates a great cheesy atmosphere that many of it's denouncers like to cite against it. It took a while to get to anything, as there was a long wait for something to happen. Bits and pieces of the film work, but they are too far separated by other scenes that take a while to get the film going. Lastly, why would spirits be able to interfere with goings-on miles away? Doesn't really make any sense for them to be doing so.The Final Verdict It's not as bad as some say, but there are reasons for their cause. The gags are in between, with about half of them being effective or not. It's got an undeniable cheese factor to it, so only a fan of those kinds of movies or of the Amityville series will want to check this out. All others should exercise caution.Rated PG Violence "},{"Title":"Not Scary, but Fun","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Okay - Amityville 3-D will not go down as one of the scariest films of all time. Not even one of the best. However, if you use your imagination and complete the 3-D effects in the film, it is a very fun time. Imagine the pipe shattering the car window coming through your TV screen. The spit of the old woman flying out at you. The boom mike ready to take your next words and amplify them through the house. Watch it again, and pay special attention to when the 3-D effects appear - and have fun with them. Also, a special acting nod goes to the branch at the beginning - scratching the camera screen, even when there's not a tree around. Now, that's acting! "},{"Title":"Clichéd to heck and back, but actually enjoyable.","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First off, check out Meg Ryan as the lesbian lover of the lead character's daughter. This flick is from 1983. That was back when she was still the darling of Another World (as Betsy Stewart Montgomery Andropoulos). Actually not part of the series (lies), and an actual work of fiction rather than a distorted claim of true story, this installment is better than both originals AND the remake. At the time of this writing, the IMDb average is 3.6/10 compared to 4.4/10 for 2, and 5.5/10 for the original stink-fest. But that's because, by 1983, we all knew it was not true, and no one cared anymore. Apparently, no one cares even now.It feels like a 1980's Made for TV Movie in its direction style, film quality, and musical score and plays like a half-interesting who-dun-it.All in all, not nearly as bad as the previous two, but still not great. 5/10 on the B scale from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"I just love 3D movies!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I always love watching movies in 3D! What makes them so great? Wearing special glasses and watching things pop out of the screen to you, of course! I also find action, adventure, and horror movies pretty awesome as well, and this movie, Amityville 3-D, combines all of those elements together into one special movie ride...of your life! Oh, how I loved it when the spooky stuff seemed more realistic - this makes other horror movies like Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Psycho, The Shining, and any Stephen King movie adaptation look like kids stuff. So if you're lucky enough to find this movie somewhere, I say go ahead and rent this 3-D movie awesome enough to be very 80s! "},{"Title":"Another Insult to the Amityville Series","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I only respect this movie as it features the Amityville House, unlike some of the other less favorable parts to the infamous series. But really, this was horrid. Even the 3D images fails to capture any imagination here, as we are given an overdose of stupidity including fast propelling Frisbees being thrown into the screen at force, and objects being moved around in what one might only describe as seriously crap.The Amityville Horror and Amityville II The Possession, along with Amityville IV - The Evil Escapes are probably the best in the series. I liked Amityville Dollhouse too.Anyway, this could have been so much better, in fact it was so slow I nearly fell asleep during some of the more mundane scenes... well I say *some* of the more daunting scenes, only to express they are all a something of nothing.Not scary in the slightest. You'd be better watching something else. "},{"Title":"Amityville 3-D finally available in 3-D in a Special Edition DVD double set from Sanctuary","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I bought the UK 2-disc Special Edition DVD of this film last year. This double disc DVD from Sanctuary Visual Entertainment (released 2004) contains both the 3-D version of the film on disc one, and the normal flat version on the other disc. The 3-D effect if you watch the movie on the computer with a LCD monitor is outstanding. It looks real nice with the dept of the picture throughout the movie. Pretty well done really. If you look at the film on a normal TV set, the 3-D effect is not as prominent as on LCD, but still good though. The normal version of the film is also very good in quality. Even the new 5.1 DD surround mix is very decent.The disc also have a running commentary track with experts Kim Newman and Stephen Jones. Also included in the set are an informative booklet telling everything you want to know about the movie and how the 3-D effect was created, plus five lobby cards and two pair of 3-D glasses. All packed together in a nice looking slipcase reproducing the original 1983 cinema poster artwork. The discs are housed in a thick robust Amaray double case.This is easily the best this movie has ever looked on any home format since its original theatrical showing back in 1983. So if you are an Amityville fan I recommend you to pick up this UK region 0 (will play on all DVD-players) DVD set. I doubt this film will get any better release than this.Amityville 3-D in its finest version ever. Applauds to Sanctuary. "},{"Title":"Decent 3-D effects makes a somewhat lacklustre entry more enjoyable.","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Third film in the AMITYVILLE series claims on it's box art that it is not a sequel to THE AMITYVILLE HORROR or AMITYVILLE II THE POSSESSION & that's because unlike it's two predecessors, it's a fictional story & not based in any way shape or form on a real incident.John Baxter is an investigator who spends most of his time uncovering fraudsters who claim to be psychics or debunking stores based on supernatural happenings. One of these fraudulent psychic mediums just happens to conduct their scamming business inside the infamous Amityville household. He then buys the house dirt cheap after it has been lying dormant for so many years due to poor publicity & the horrible happenings that occurred in that house a few years before. After moving in, he initially scoffs at the existence of supernatural going on's that occurred there, but finds himself surrounded by some pretty weird going on's, flies are manifesting by the dozens in the attic, faucets turn on all by themselves, footsteps can be heard when there is no one else in the house, windows & mirrors freeze up, the place is almost unbearably cold at times & anyone who has come into contact with the house or tries to warn him of the dangers he is in, meets a terrifying end.AMITYVILLE 3-D THE DEMON is a watchable but sadly not as interesting instalment in the AMITYVILLE series. What should be noted is how the film is the only PG rated entry in the entire series, unfortunately that also happens to be the films down fall, due to it's rating, the film is obviously hamstrung from going to far in terms of the scares & murder sequences. Weather this was intentionally done by the film-makers in order to try & put more butts in the seats or just by accident is not know, but regardless of this, the film is nowhere near as atmospheric, suspenseful, dark, bloody or weird as it's predecessor & lacks that eerie sense of dread of the original. AMITYVILLE 3-D does however boast some unique members amongst it's cast, in particular future FULL HOUSE star LORI LOUGHLIN & A-list actress MEG RYAN & the direction by SOYLENT GREEN director RICHARD FLEISCHER is pretty decent, as he manages to come up with a few interesting shots & the film at the very least mentions the DeFeo murders (In the sequel the DeFeo's were called the Montelli's & were missing one kid, since the DeFeo's were a family of seven & the Montelli's were a family of six) & the score by HOWARD BLAKE is just weird enough to tickle any horror fans liking, but the characters are nowhere near as interesting, Fleischer does indeed come up with some pretty good 3-D effects, such as a fly buzzing around, a floating Frisbee, a charred corpse, a floating orb & a tree branch which are the main focus of the 3-D effects. Unfortunately that appears to be the only thing both he & the production crew were really focused on, since everything else including weirdness, jump scares, suspense & tension were sadly ignored. While AMITYVILLE 3-D has some weird moments, they are not executed all that well & lack in the chills department. There's a pretty good demon monster suit that pops up briefly at the end, as well as some grisly ghost make-up seen during a nightmare sequence, but most of these scare sequences are poorly staged & can be spotted a mile away. I also frowned upon the idea that the supernatural presence would make itself known to a ton of people inside the house, who have cameras & microphones set up all over the place, in the previous two films the evil only made itself known to those living in the house, here it just shows up & doesn't seem to mind the fact that there are tons of people present recording it.Known in some area's as AMITYVILLE THE RETURN. In fact if one pays close attention, the name AMITYVILLE is the name of a real town & is therefore in the public domain, meaning that any film company could just latch their waggons onto the title & just make their own Amityville movie, which unfortunately was done a few years after the release of the first movie, as the film- makers & studio's omitted the word HORROR out of the title & just kept the name Amityville, why? because if they were to just call their films THE AMITYVILLE HORROR PART whatever, they would have to pay both JAY ANSON the original books author & the Lutz family tons of money, just to use the title.All in all, while I enjoyed watching AMITYVILLE 3-D, I will say that I was not as engrossed in the story or characters like I was in the first two movies, there was just to many missed opportunities that could have been taken advantage of here & at times the film is a tad sluggish & dull. Regardless of it's many short comings I still recommend this to fans of the series, but if you didn't like the first two than don't bother with this one. It looks at the climax that the infamous house of evil has been defeated for good, since it is destroyed right down to the ground, but such was not to be, as six years later it was followed by a made for TV movie called AMITYVILLE 4 THE EVIL ESCAPES*** stars "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Where's the 3-D?","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville 3 (1983) since I saw it on home video I was robbed of experiencing the movie in 3-D. So I had to sit through the video with no 3-D effects. What I saw was a movie that tried too hard. Yes, it tried too hard to be entertaining, it tried too hard to be scary and it tried too hard to give it's audience some cheap scares. To say that I was disappointed would be and understatement. This film had very little to do with the first film except it took place in THE HOUSE, there were those nasty flies and their was supernatural involvement.Oh well, not worth wasting your time, money and effort in trying to locate a copy (perhaps if it was available in 3-D and it was correctly L/B).Not recommended. "},{"Title":"not as bad as the others, but still a so-so flick.......","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The third entry in the Amityville series has a journalist (Tony Roberts) moving into the notorious Amityville house. Soon-famous Meg Ryan co-stars. Originally shown in 3-D. It's the best movie in the Amityville series, but that's not saying much. "},{"Title":" Susan!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Tony Roberts is fair as Jonathan in this tripal horror film. The remaining cast is respectable. The costumes are dreary. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Amityville 3 The Demon hurls tiny thrills. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Silly and Boring Movie, Where the Greatest Attraction is Meg Ryan in the Beginning of Her Career","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In the house where Sonny slaughtered the Montelli family, the reporter John Baxter (Tony Roberts) and the photographer Melanie (Candy Clark) disclose two charlatans, who cheated the persons pretending they were medium. The broker, who presently owns the house, is having difficulties to sell the mansion due to its fame, and John decides to buy the house by very low price. When he moves to the cursed place, many fatal tragedies happen with the broker, his daughter and his lover Melanie. This movie is very silly and boring. Its greatest attraction in the present day is to see Meg Ryan in the beginning of her career. The Brazilian DVD is a shame it has a recent picture of Meg Ryan on the cover, and her name is highlighted as if she were the lead actress, showing a total lack of respect of the distributor with the viewers and consumers. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) `Amityville 3D'  "},{"Title":"VERY VERY ENJOYABLE I DONT KNOW WHY EVERYONE HATES IT","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I do not know why so many people slag this film off its fast paced well acted all in all a quite high budget horror movie so ignore everyone else this movie is excerlent 9/10 buy it or rent it u wont regret it "},{"Title":"Talk about hell...","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...I have not felt this sinful since high school.  Nothing about this film is right.  The performances are terrible, as is the script, direction, and story.  It is too bad the gateway to hell did not swallow the crew of this monstrosity.  This was a total waste of time, and ended the series' theatrical hopes.  Well, boys, we always have straight-to-video!!  "},{"Title":"Wish I could have seen it in 3-D","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Skeptical Reveal Magazine investigative journalist John Baxter (Tony Roberts) and his photographer assistant Melanie (Candy Clark) bust a bogus séance at the Amityville House. Soon after, the place is cleared out and John decides to buy it dirt cheap from realtor Clifford Sanders (John Harkins), who seems more than happy to unload the place. Before John can even get the keys to the place, Sanders keels over from a stroke after a nasty encounter with a swarm of pesky flies. Thinking this is only mildly peculiar, John moves his stuff in and then the supernatural s--t starts to hit the fan. Stuff starts moving around, there are plumbing problems, rooms close in, an endless hole in the basement seems to be a gateway to hell, spirits show up in Melanie's photographs and friends and family begin getting killed off in odd accidents. There's a car crash, a drowning, a face fried by fire, some creatures and a pretty good nightmare sequence with a demon-corpse rises out of a water-filled hole in the basement. Eventually a team of paranormal experts (led by Robert Joy) are called in, but the house fights back and blows itself up, killing off most of the supporting cast. Tess Harper is John's ex-wife, who doesn't want her teen daughter (Lori Loughlin) to go over to dad's place. Meg Ryan has an early role as her horny blonde friend; who plays with a OUIJA board and says Do you know you can have sex with a ghost?While nothing special, it was the only film in the series to be rated PG and is no worse than the two films preceding it (slightly better in many areas actually). Though they are lost on the video, there were some supposedly great 3-D Fx in the theatrical release, including the opening titles, flies, steam, a Frisbee, breaking glass, a zombie, flying furniture and even a swordfish. "},{"Title":"Amityville 3-D Dull Dull Dull","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I can't say that I'm a fan of this series. The original is overrated, and I can't see why they would bother remaking it, but the remake can only be an improvement (are they going to remake the sequels too, or create new sequels?). I've also seen Part II, and The Amityville Curse (1990) (V), which should be part five if its release date is correct. However, the numbering of the titles skipped over Curse, and made Amityville 1992 It's About Time (1992) (V) part five. There's probably a story behind that, but I don't know what it is.Amityville 3-D carries a disclaimer that This film is not a sequel to The Amityville Horror or Amityville II The Possession. Seemingly that statement is required for some legal reason, but I'm not sure how accurate it is. The only similar disclaimer I can think of is for Witchtrap (1989), which insists it is not a sequel to Witchboard (1986). OK. But 3-D does make reference to the events of (as I recall) the prologue of the first Amityville movie - the DeFeo murders. And it's followed by Amityville IV The Evil Escapes. It's also in a 1980s tradition of making the third installment of a series 3-D, like Friday the 13th Part 3 3D (1982) and Jaws 3-D (1983).An investigator exposes a phony medium during a séance (phony medium=redundant) in the Amityville house for a publication he works for. The real estate agent offers him a very low price on the house, since he can't sell it. Seemingly, it is also a bribe, since the real estate agent may have had ties to the medium and doesn't want any bad publicity. The agent almost falls into a well in the basement, said to be a pit into hell, but dies inside the house soon after of other causes. Photos the investigator's partner took of the séance appear to show a ghostly figure of the agent, who had not been there.The haunted house also proves it can extend its power beyond its walls when it appears to be responsible for an elevator malfunction and a car crash.Not much happens in the movie, and it's not very interesting, and has nothing to recommend it that I can think of - perhaps it was slightly better in its proper aspect ratio and in 3-D. I can't imagine that would have made much of a difference though.The ending is pretty stupid. Lots of explosions. What brought that on? "},{"Title":"A new dimension in poor film making...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Oh, why did they bother? Nothing about his boring film is any good what so ever. I bought this on DVD and I was expecting something along the lines of the first 2 films in the series, but I should've known from the crusty packaging what was in store for the innocent viewer. The wobbly picture and crackly sound was made even more noticable by the clarity of DVD. Even Old Meg Ryan couldn't pull off a half decent performance and she was the best thing in it. And the effects, don't get me started about them. All I will say is ball of cotton wool on a string. That's about as scary as it gets. This pile of Foot-rot makes Howling III look like Vertigo. Do Not Watch! "},{"Title":"A Disaster of Biblical Proportions","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Perhaps I'm overdoing it a bit (And cribbing lines from Ghostbusters), but this movie is boring, lame, and inexcusably long.  With nearly a half hour left to go in the movie I nearly threw in the towel.  This movie drains away your soul like some sort of...well, souldraining creature.  If such a thing exists.This abomination is about a house (Presumably the same one that goes bonkers in the fourteen other movies in this series, forgive me for only having seen this one) that is haunted.  A cynical investigative reporter buys it on a lark, and winds up having everyone he knows and love terrorized or maimed by the wacky house all because the man is too dumb to believe something is wrong with the place.  Played by Tony Roberts (Who I know as Alvy's buddy Max in Annie Hall), you really just want to tell the guy to zip it.Anywho, the effects are fairly lame, made all the worse by the fact that the film was originally shown in 3-D, which did not make it to the video version (The box even says Amityville 3-D and then right below Video release - Not in 3-D.  Oops).  So there are lots of blatant 3-D effects, which aren't in 3-D, so you can imagine how annoying that gets.  And the huge 80s haircuts don't exactly enhance the spooky happenings.I wanted desperately to just give in to the movie, and at least enjoy it for the sheer fact that it is such a failure.  But it's just not fun to watch.  And unlike some other stinkers, there really isn't all that much wrong with this one technically.  There's no goofy editing, or booms in the shots, it's just a bad, bad movie.  Oh, but watch for those Before They Were Stars turns by Meg Ryan and that woman from Full House (You'll know her when you see her, she married Jesse).  Even they couldn't escape the sucking vortex of doom that is Amityville 3-D.   "}{"Title":"Another good one!","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Baxtor family moves into the infamous Amityville House. Their daughter dies in a boating accident but the mother sees the now deceased daughter alive in the house. Mr. Baxtor calls a paranormal investigator in to help and the investigator finds out the source of the household problems. One of the last good sequels in the Amityville trilogy, with some _Bizzare_ special effects (Some times in a good way, other times in a bad way), a terrific cast, some genuinely scary and thrilling moments, and a good atmosphere and suspense built by the director. Pretty good entry in the notorious Amityville series IMHO. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"No Flesh, Scares, Blood, Sex OR Cool Deaths. AVOID","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Terrible 80's horror sequel that has hardly anything to recommend. The is about a journalist that uncovers frauds dealing with the occult. He's divorcing so he ends up buying a strange and creepy house that has a history filled with blood and awful events. Soon the house starts to affect the people around him and he understands there may actually be a reason for its awful fame. The only thing interesting in all of this is watching a young Meg Ryan in one of her first roles. Other than that Amityville III is a complete and utter waste. Dialogs after dialogs make the movie drag and in the first hour there's only one death in a really lame scene. This is one boring movie let me tell you. No blood at all either. Body count is extremely low and the `campy' factor is absent because they actually took themselves seriously. The few FX are cheesy as expected and the acting would make John Holmes embarrassed. No hot chicks, no flesh, hell no fun at all.Just a bad story and people coming in and out of a house looking scared. If doors closing and strange noises upstairs make you happy go ahead and watch this. Otherwise stay away or risk falling asleep or raising your hopes about finally getting that script you wrote produced. Yes I know It cant be worse than this but still there aren't a lot of movies as bad as  Amityville III.You have been warned.  "},{"Title":"An Average Horror Film Damaged  Further By Inferior 3D FX","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Following in the tradition of Friday the 13th 3D and Jaws 3D, producer Dino de Laurentis went along with the 3D boom in the early 80s when making this informal continuation to The Amityville Horror. Because of litigation between the Lutz family and de Laurentis, Amityville 3D carried a disclaimer stating it wasn't a sequel although it's referenced in Amityville 3D in addition to the story of the DeFoe murders which was the framework for Amityville II The Possession. Richard Fleischer who has had a hit and miss career with classics like 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea to unmitigated disasters like The Jazz Singer missed the mark entirely with Amityville 3D. It's an old fashioned ghost story with unappealing moments of mean-spirited brutality to break the monotony. What really hurts Amityville 3D are poorly designed effects and a filming process that makes the movie look grainy. It flopped in theatres and as a result it would be another two decades before an Amityville film would appear on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Clapped-out horror","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of a spate of third chapters shot in 3D in the early 80s (see also 'Jaws 3D', 'Friday the 13th Part III'), this redundant sequel uses the technique to make up for a lack of effort in every other department, like story, lighting, direction and editing (see also 'Jaws 3D', 'Friday the 13th Part III').Plenty of familiar scenes are present &#x96; kids holding séances, self-slamming doors, red herring dream sequences &#x96; without much in the way of suspense or scares. Nothing happens, and it happens very slowly. The film is notable only for an early role for Meg Ryan, and even that's nothing to get excited about any more. All right, so these movies aren't exactly art, but would it kill them to put a bit of effort in? "},{"Title":"Amityville take #3","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The third installment to the Amityville movies finds a non-believer, John Baxter, moving into the infamous house to prove he does not believe the stories. Well, everyone who seems to come in contact with him and the house begins to die in bizarre ways. This movie was not horrible, but it just wasn't that great, even compared to the second installment. There were a few moments that were very good. I don't want to spoil the scene, but there is a particular moment that is very eerie and bone-chilling. One of the main issues with this movie is that it focused too much on what the evil force was behind the house. That is the same thing that hurt the second installment. The subtle creepiness of the original is what made it work so well, but this one seemed like it wanted to be a crappy Poltergeist sequel and fell flat. It was also odd that characters in the movie acknowledged the DeFeo murders, ignoring the Lutz family all-together along with the name change of the first family in Amityville II (Motelli). My only guess is that they were trying to suggest the first two movies were in-fact movies and this one was real, or they just forgot what continuity was. The acting was not that great, too many awkward pauses and poor delivery. I won't say this was the worst horror movie I've ever seen, but it is definitely up there. Watch at your own risk, or watch to make fun of it. "},{"Title":"Should Have Ended Here...","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Third film in the series does away with any real life pretense but continues the series as a skeptical reporter(played by Tony Roberts) buys the infamous house to disprove the supernatural rumors(big mistake!) His ex-wife and daughter also move in, as the demonic activity in the home is now located in a well(not a red room?) in the basement. When a team of paranormal researchers set up shop in the climax, all hell really will break loose in explosive fashion...Well directed(by Richard Fleisher) film does create some moodiness and atmosphere early on(with an amusing prologue involving a fake séance) but ultimately self-destructs with over-the-top melodramatics that create more laughter than fright. Still, it does have a memorable end...pity it was disregarded later! Falls somewhere between the first two films, and originally presented in 3-D. "},{"Title":"Amityville 3-D","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville 3-D takes us once again to the infamous haunted house where evil surrounds all who enter. In this one, a journalist played by Tony Roberts buys the house. The minute he does, people around him start dying in mysterious ways. This was the first Amityville to trail away from the true stories of the Lutz and DeFeo families. This here is all fiction. Of course, many could argue that parts one and two were fiction as well. I actually enjoyed Amityville 3-D a bit more than part II.The acting in this is pretty bad all around. Meg Ryan debuts, but only has a few lines. Nothing much. The demon in the house looked sort of good (for a 1983 film), but we don't see it until the end. I have to say I would have liked to see it in 3-D years ago. 3-D was the big thing in the early eighties. Jaws and Friday the 13th both used that format around this time.The 3-D objects include 3-D flies, 3-D swordfish, even 3-D spit. The film moves at a very slow pace and I lost interest in it quickly. It didn't do well at the box office, which is why the rest of the sequels were made for TV and straight to video.4/10 "},{"Title":"Wretched!","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Expectations were low to begin with and were even lower when finished viewing. The second Amityville picture gave us its rendition of what happened...sort of...with the Defeo family prior to the Lutzes moving in and then out 28 days later. Presumably this trash takes place after both of those incidents. You know you are in trouble when Tony Roberts is your main gate attraction. Trouble indeed comes, but first a brief look at the plot writer for a cheap magazine called Reveal buys house cheap and things happen to people he knows. people start dropping like flies...for those that sat through that..get it. Yeah, I need some levity no matter how small the dose because I sat through a real bad picture. The story has no hold on you at all as things in the house just start to happen. First character actor John Harkins gets flies all over his face and dies belly-up(for him no small feat). Tony Roberts gets in a weird elevator miles from the house. Candy Clark, his friend and photographer, stays waiting in the house for Tony. A fuse is blown and she gets air blown all over her from the basement door. Tony gets home and she screams not to be touched in a truly funny(though not intentionally) moment. Clark later is burned to a crisp in a car. Meg Ryan and Lori Loughlin, both hot, look the house over when Lori's dad Tony is out. Meg talks about ghosts having sex. Yawn. Tony'ex and Lori's mom forbids Lori to go to the house. She does...and, well, things get even more bizarre, stupid, and wretched again. This movie has no real story. The special effects are constructed in such a way that every shot, whether it be a fly buzzing in an elevator, should look 3-d. Roberts as the lead had me laughing as he has virtually no acting range whatsoever. After a couple deaths he looks exactly the same. Like he just got through trading witty barbs(though none witty here) with Woody Allen. Check out the special effects at the end of the film from the water well. Phew! Who came up with that junk? This movie is poorly scripted, poorly directed, and poorly acted. It makes the second Amityville almost look artistic. A truly bad movie all around. "},{"Title":"Predictable junk!","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A reporter moves into the haunted house and is tormented by the evil within. Boring and stupid , this film might as well have been not made as nothing really happens apart from one or two supernatural occurrences but anyone with half a braincell would predict what would happen in them and this makes the result ineffective and not scary in the least. The only exciting part comes at the very end where a demon pops up out of a well in the basement ( discovered in the first film ) and for some absurd reason leads the house to explode this part is well pulled off but last about a minute and doesn't make up for the garbage that makes up most of the film. Not worth buying or watching. "},{"Title":"Tired Sequel, Just Barely Scrapes By","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Amityville house once again wreaks havoc on anyone silly enough to spend time within its walls. But this time, its murderous days might be numbered.After an enjoyable sequel in Amityville II The Possession, which was essentially a rehash of the original but well-executed, writer William Wales is all too aware that a third trip to the well will need to offer up something different before the onset of serious deja vu. He succeeds in his attempt, but not before the equally formidable onset of serious apathy.Events have moved on since Sonny Montelli brutally murdered his family in 'The Possession'. By now, everyone in Amityville knows the house's reputation and not even a lease no more expensive than a couple of food stamps can convince anyone to move in. So brings the big sea change from the 'innocence' of the earlier episodes - with no unsuspecting family slowly discovering their new home sits atop a gateway to hell, instead, the lead characters *choose* to visit the house precisely because it's haunted as a challenge to their professional scepticism. Soon, they become drawn into events even they can't explain.Amityville III isn't the only horror sequel to take this route. When you've taken the unexplained as far as you can before repetition sets in, the only alternative seems to be to bring in the pseudoscience and the university postgraduate ghostbusters, immediately puncturing half of the atmosphere. 'Poltergeist III' began this descent, and the problem in both cases is we already *know* the explanation is a supernatural one, so unless the determined sceptic is well-acted and satisfyingly dispatched by the very thing he refuses to believe in like Dr. Seaton was with Reverend Kane, it's not very entertaining. This, I have to say, isn't the only 'Poltergeist' parallel the spectral loss of the main character's daughter, his efforts to get her back, the demon of the title and the film's climax all evoke Steven Spielberg's superior first entry in his trilogy - also produced in 1983.But Wales is aware that Amityville can't cruise down Exorcist Street a third time and so everyone who dies here is fully compos mentis. In fact, they don't even have to be in the house anymore. All it apparently takes now is for them to have visited the house at some point, and the building can then exert its malign influence no matter how far away they are. It's not an unreasonable approach, but the whole point of Amityville *was* about being possessed once you crossed the threshold. If you can die anywhere, how it is it then different from say, 'The Omen'? Still, it does allow for at least one fairly good death scene in a car - one of two in this film, the other involving an 'unexpected' ghost. The lack overall of decent death scenes is another of the film's weaknesses. Seriously, when it's time to bring out the killer bees, you either unveil Tony Todd and his leather jacket or you go back to the drawing board.I can't really say the principal cast stood out for me a great deal. Tony Roberts, the film's lead and its chief sceptic, spends a lot of time engaged in 'furrowed brow' acting while Tess Harper as his estranged wife plays a fairly sympathetic character whose concerns are justified, but she just comes across as annoying. Robert Joy looks as though he hasn't slept in a week (is it just the lighting?), but Candy Clark is a welcome presence, able to convey terror very convincingly and a highlight in one of the film's better death scenes. Annoyingly, Meg Ryan's character, who seemed to be around only to remind viewers of 'The Possession's storyline, survives to the end of the film.The film's atmosphere is bolstered not necessarily in a good way by some rather retro-sounding musical cues by Howard Blake (who recently walked in the air with the success of animated feature 'The Snowman'), sounding at times almost like 60s adventure - back when Richard Fleischer directed decent films like 'Fantastic Voyage', while at other times slipstreaming back to the modern sounds of 1983. It would also be remiss not to mention that this is the only Amityville to join the slew of films of the period that were propped up by 3D - presumably to hide the lack of a decent script. Thank god we don't see that kind of silliness these days. The sequences shot for the purpose are glaringly obvious, but then again, sections of the plot were clearly built around them, the aforementioned bee extravaganza being the key offender. I'm sure it was fun at the time.So three movies in and my favourite is still the second. The third really doesn't offer much by comparison by way of memorable characters, scare factor or death sequences, but it has a few key moments and just ticks over enough to hold off serious boredom. It really stands out for what it is - the idea-starved final in a film series that didn't have enough creative input to sustain it. It's either not at all surprising it took 6 years for a 4th effort, or surprising that someone actually went to trouble - can't decide which. "}{"Title":"I have this problem...","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have this problem that I see everything two times, caused by a car accident. this means for example that I cannot see images in three dimensions, I see everything like an image, but double images. when I watched this in three dimensions shot movie, I actually saw the same image four times. no joke. so I didn't really enjoy this horror movie... in fact, horror movie? it wasn't scary at all and I had no feelings whatsoever for the main characters. maybe it's because I've seen a lot of horror movies in my life. could be. but still, when I'm taking a shower I get more exciting. this so called sequel is in fact nothing more than a haunted house picture they've decided to call Amityville. but there where the first Amityville movie was based on actual facts that did happen (I also did read the book, that was some spooky stuff!), this flick has got only Amityville in the title to make it sell. boo! this movie was bad! and I don't mean the demon, I mean the movie itself, it's worthless. "},{"Title":"eh, after 'Amityville II' its starting to get a lil annoying","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" the original Amityville was pretty good, Amityville II, eh, it was alright, but after seeing two dumba**es buy a haunted house, i'm not really intent on seeing another gullible idiot buy it again. before i comment on the 3-D, i'd like to comment on the music. i'm guessing they couldn't get Lalo Schifrin to do the music for this one after the first two. His music in those two films was actually suspenseful and ominous, and i really admired it. the music in Amityville 3-D sounds like music you'd normally hear in one of those British soap operas, and it adds no atmosphere or suspense. now on to the obvious; the 3-d. the 3-D isn't horrible, but it's just really obvious in some scenes that the film's creators use almost any object on the screen to serve as a 3-D object (a hand, a jar, a pole). the same gimmick was used in 'Friday the 13th Part 3' a year earlier, except F13 part 3 was actually pretty good. the story is kind of ridiculous. this time, the series decides to leave the 'ghosts of the DeFeos' storyline out, and now go on to something really silly; apparently, the previous families had no idea that there was a giant hole in their basement - a hole, furthermore, that's one of the entrances to hell. this explains the theatrical poster, which shows a huge, creature-like arm coming out of the lower part of the house. eventually, all hell breaks loose (pun not intended) and the house convinces yet another family that the rumors are true. Very, very mediocre film. 4.5/10 P.S. the only reason to see this film is for the hilariously lame 3-D, and a young lori loughlin (Full House) and meg ryan in the supporting cast. "},{"Title":"Contains long shots of empty stairwells.","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie tries to build tension by having long drawn out shots of empty parts of the house with creepy music followed by a dramatic scene change.Most of them are of a very ornate and very empty stairwell.Some of them go on for well over a minute and end with a resounding nothing.There is only one possible conclusion as to what is haunting this movie...(For proper effect this should be announced while standing at the edge of the balcony in a crowded theater and pointing at the screen. Then shout the following phrase at the top of your lungs.)IT'S THE BANNISTER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" John Baxter, (Tony Roberts) a paranormal investigator, buys a house in Amityville, Long Island despite it's reputation as being haunted. As he settles in, his daughter Susan (Lori Loughlin) arrives to help him out. He and his assistant, Melanie, (Candy Clark) start an investigation, and it starts to turn up real strange incidents. As more evidence mounts that it really is haunted, a series of supernatural occurrences freak out the family. When a death sends them all over the edge and is blamed on the forces inside, John seeks the advice of his friend Elliot West, (Robert Joy) to help solve the puzzle of the house.Horror film may have had some merit on the big screen in 3-D, but on video it comes off as slow paced, dull, and boring. Only point of interest is some early appearances by Lori Loughlin & Meg Ryan. "},{"Title":"Sleep Inducing.","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tony Roberts, Candy Clark, Meg Ryan, and Lori Loughlin join hands for this third go around, a rather sluggish and dull entry in the hit or miss Amityville series. This basically adds nothing new to the series. Chose to jump on the 3-D wave when released, I'm sure it was fun to watch, but not without those goofy glasses. Slim story with unappealing characters, and features a tiresome build up to the big finale. The last few minutes are good (which features demons, flying swordfish, people being thrown around and crushed, and the big house completely exploding) but not worth the time it takes to get there. Strangely released with a PG rating (it's violent), originally released as a non-entry to the series, and shown on TV channels like TBS and WGN as Amityville The Demon. One Star. "},{"Title":"Horrofyingly Bad!","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Title Amytiville III The Demon (1983) Director Richard Fleisher Stars Tony Roberts, Tess Harper, Robert Joy, Candy Clark and Meg Ryan (yup you read it right!) Review Well in a time when 3-d films were the hot thing to do (Jaws 3-d, Parasite) some one decided that another sequel to the Amytiville series would be a good idea. Boy were they wrong.One of the main annoyances of this film is that since it was made for you to enjoy with your 3-d glasses on and not in the comfort of your own home, the 3-d effects just seem very silly on a regular screen, things get thrown into the screen for no reason at all. You'll find your self wondering why the hell are they showing that finger for so long? Then you realize oh, yeah, this is supposed to be 3-d. Not only that but that type of thing just takes you out of the story, and really makes you feel like, oh yes, this is a movie. It doesn't really let you get into the story. So anyhow, that's just one of the things that went wrong with this one. Let me get going here cause I got a long list of complaints.First of the film does open up with a nice spooky séance, with some nice atmosphere, the wind blowing, a dimly lit house, ghostly sounds and lit candles. But unfortunately thats as spooky or scary as this movie gets, it fails to live up to its atmospheric opening sequence.A pair of reporters doing an article on haunted houses find that in the now infamous Amityville home a pair of con-artists have been taking advantage of people, making them believe that they can contact spirits inside the home. Well, the reporters blow the lid on their scam and the elderly couple are kicked out of the house.Enter John Baxter (played by Tony Roberts) an incurable skeptic who doesn't believe in ghosts or the supernatural, therefore he decides to buy the house in spite of the houses bloody and supernatural history. That's were the trouble begins for poor old Mr. Baxter.Unfortunately for us the film never really goes anywhere, nothing really important happens for the longest time and we the poor viewers have to endure this torture of a film.As weird deaths start to happen (wouldn't you know it?) again in the house, Jhon Baxter, the skeptic, ignores it all. He figures that there's always a rational explanation for everything. Even when his reporter friend is going crazy after she's been attacked by the demon. As is common in these types of characters, the skeptic will wait till its waaaay to late to actually accept that yes maybe there is something weird going on. For some reason, just like in Poltergeist III, the evil turns things cold. Why didn't that happen in the other films? Who knows? Maybe the evil likes the cold this time around, I don't know.Most of the film is spent just debating if we should believe in the supernatural or not. Its nothing like the first two films which were actually entertaining and had that supernatural element always present.They also present us with Elliot West (played by Robert Joy) a paranormal investigator, who has got to be Egon Spenglers long lost brother. They decide to move in the house to see if there truly is some psychic phenomena going on. When the phenomena finally does manifest itself, it's in the form of some truly crappy and laughable special effects. I mean come on! One of the visual effects looks like a piece of cloth being thrown in the air. Only thing is that its purple and in slow motion. Huh? Is this what passed as good visual effects in 83? It has a very unsatisfying ending, did they beat the demon? Did they destroy it? Who knows, because that my friends, is never resolved. Unlike The Possession this ending will leave you wondering why you just waisted two hours of your life watching this wretched piece of film.Not even Meg Ryan's, who has a small role in this film can save it. She plays a rebellious and adventurous girl who likes to experiment with the supernatural, she really digs the fact that a lot of horrible deaths occurred in the house and decides to do her own little Ouija board session with her friends. So when a Ouija board tells here some one is going to die, they do the next logical thing....go on a boat ride! Dumb! Anyhows if you want to subject yourself to a really bad film, I suggest you check this out. If not then save yourself from the true evil, having to watch this film! Rating 1 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Mainly enjoyable piece of trach","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I bought this film, I didn't expect anything like this. It cost me almost nothing, and I thought the person who sold me that, just wanted to get rid of it. Well, maybe I'm right about that one, but It's still worth to watch. Special effects weren't so good, as they were in Amityville 2 possession (which is best film on Amityville-series), but they weren't so bad either. Actors were fairly good too, and only lack in the film was the plot. It seems like makers of that movie had ran out of ideas and ending if the movie isn't so good as it could be. Still, it has its moments. (Did you have noticed, who is acting in part of John Baxter's daughter's friend...?) "},{"Title":"One of Those Unwitting Comic Masterpieces...","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A rare, rare treat a film that really is so bad it's good. We're not talking about your intentionally campy flick (i.e. Sorority Babes in the Slime-Bowl-O-Rama). We're talking about a horror movie that takes itself seriously as it unwittingly unfurls the greatest laugh-fest of the 1980s. It stars Tony Roberts (!?) and the critically acclaimed Tess Harper (!?!!?!). The dialogue merited sampling by My Life With the Thrill Kill Kult (who borrowed such gems as, Looks like some kind of gateway to hell, and reality is the only word in the language that should always be used in quotes). Did I mention that it stars Tess Harper (!?!?!?!). Oh yes, I did. But it deserves mentioning again Tess Harper is in this one. It's dreadful, it's great, it's really worth a rental. And Tess Harper is in it.  "},{"Title":"Better than it is cracked out to be.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" AMITYVILLE 3-D (1983)starring Tony Roberts, Tess Harper, Candy Clark, Robert Joy, Lori Loughlin, Meg Ryan, John Harkins.plot Skeptical and cynical reporter John Baxter (Tony Roberts) decides to buy the Amityville house, despite warnings from his wife Nancy (Tess Harper), co-worker Melanie (Candy Clark) and a pair of psychics. His daughter Susan (Lori Loughlin) and her friend Lisa (Meg Ryan) seem very intrigued by the house's past. Soon, John begins to suspect the supernatural when people around the house begin mysteriously dying one-by-one. He calls on experts to find out if the house is really haunted.the good This is a very under-rated sequel to THE AMITYVILLE HORROR and AMITYVILLE II THE POSSESSION. It is a bit different because instead of an Indian burial ground haunting the house, there is a well that supposedly leads to hell.I loved the cast, Tony Roberts was great as the skeptical and cynical reporter who has trouble in believing the supernatural, Tess Harper is perfect as the ex-wife who cares a lot about her daughter and is in denial about certain incidents, Candy Clark showed her great screen presence as John's ill-fated colleague who meets her terrible fate. Lori Loughlin is great as the sympathetic daughter and Meg Ryan is cute as her friend who is almost sort of turned on by the house. The rest of the cast also does fine.Some of the stuff that went down during this film were also kind of creepy.This is also pretty much cheesy with a cheap demon and obvious 3-D effects.the bad Like the problem the prequel had, this relies too much on special effects which it does not need.**1/2 "},{"Title":"thrice the snores","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Has there ever been a less frightening series of films than Amityville? This entry might be slightly better than the original, but only because it has a semi-interesting opening segment involving some frauds who stage a fake séance. But soon after this sort-of-promising opening, the film descends into the usual clichéd situation; the owner of the house is the only person who's too stupid to realize that, yes, it really is haunted.Part of the problem is that the house itself is not terribly scary - it looks like a perfectly nice home. And, like in the first movie, the most menacing things tend to happen *outside* the house, which doesn't make sense to me. How powerful are the ghosts supposed to be? Can they really attack people miles way? If that's so, then our heroes shouldn't be safe even after they flee.Tedious stuff. "}{"Title":"'Amityville' Snorer","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My Take Bloody awful sequel made worse by ridiculous 3-D effects.This was a second sequel to The Amityville Horror. Anther family buys the house. This time, it's the Baxters, whose father (Tony Roberts), a vulgar reporter, doesn't believe at the house's horrors. But he, and his family soon come to a terrifying revelation when the horrors turn out to be real, and downright deadly.The film was even slower-paced then the original was. The film even borrows elements from the original (the flies) and to other horror films like Poltergeist (the paranormal investigators and the equipment) maybe even The Creature from The Black Lagoon (because the creature on the near end looks like the thing from the said film).It was made in a low-budget. The creature puppets look fake, as are some of the effects. The acting was awful.I was never a fan of the Amityville series, but I don't have to be to say this was awful.Rating 0 out of 5. "},{"Title":"O', GAAAAAWWWWD!!!!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ouch! Ooh! Oh! These sounds are the sounds that filled the air as I tried to force myself to sit through this COMPLETE GARBAGE! There was nothing good about this boring mess, unless you probably saw it in 3-D (but that's not going to make this movie any better). The plot? I really can't remember. And, though I don't think a movie actually has to have some in-depth, knock-yer-socks-off plot in order for it to be an enjoyable cinematic experience, the problem here is that all I can remember is how boring, excruciating, and dumb this movie was. And I'm not talking dumb in a good way! I couldn't even laugh at this! What a stinker, and you should keep a million miles away if you value the idea of being sane (regardless of how much an overrated myth sanity is). Ouch! It just hurts!  "},{"Title":"Horrible 3rd sequel","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a terrible excuse of a sequel. The original Amityville Horror and the new 2005 re-make are excellent horror films. The 1979 original grossed $86 million at the U.S. box office and the 2005 re-make opened at number one last weekend grossing $23 million it's first 3 days!!! The first sequel to the original, Amityville 2 the possession was not very good(a poor $11 million box office gross), and the downward spiral continued with this stinker. Trying to cash in the huge box office gross that Friday the 13th, Part 3 in 3-D brought to Paramount pictures bank account(that film grossed over $35 million on a budget of $3 million), the now defunct Orion pictures released this piece of garbage to the movie going public. The result? This film was one of the long line of flops Orion endured(Tank Girl, anyone?) that contributed to Orion's bankruptcy(This crap costed the studio $7 million and it grossed a paltry $6 million.) The studio did had a few huge hits(Robocop), but the flops they also had put them in the red. But concentrating on the film itself, it really is awful. Bad acting, sloppy direction, and very dull and boring. The only interesting thing this film has going for it is to see a beautiful then unknown actress named, Meg Ryan! And, NO, this DVD version is not being shown in 3-D(oddly, it IS available on DVD for the United Kingdom DVD release). But 3-D or no 3-D, this film sucks. Even if you are a fan of the first film, avoid this 3rd sequel at all costs! Go watch the 1979 original or the 2005 re-make instead. Jody didn't like George, but she probably despised this piece of crap even more! LOL -) A bit of humor for ya there in an otherwise dismal review!! -) "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan in 3D....","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  No, your dream movie isn't here, you sickos.If anything, Amityville 3D is a nightmare, at least in terms of scripting, acting and special effects.  If seeing demons, spirits and burnt corpses jump out at you in three dimensions is your cup of tea, you'll still be bowled over by the two-dimension-ness of it all.If you have to see this movie, just ask if everyone knows this house is possessed, why haven't they plowed it under and built condos over it by now?Franchise rights, dummy.  Amityville The Condos from Hell.  Now THERE'S a franchise.Two stars.   "},{"Title":"Why don't they just leave the Amityville house alone?","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Because, following the typical horror movie tradition, the characters here can't take a hint even if it bashes them over the head. Anyway, this film might have worked in theaters, shown in 3-D (certainly the sharp-object-in-your-face scenes must have looked less silly), but on TV it's a boring waste of time. The one good idea (photographs as premonitions of death) is lifted from The Omen.      (*1/2) "},{"Title":"The 3 D Only Makes It Worse","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It wasn't until the opening credits that I realised that AMITYVILLE 3 was filmed in 3-D , a quite ridiculous gimmick that was reintroduced to selected movies in the early 1980s . There has never ever been a well directed 3-D movie and there never will be . In a normal film in general and a horror film in general much of the background is utilised . With a 3-D movie the opposite is put into force where much of the action takes place in the foreground One good example of the above is the man who goes into a room and is attacked by flies . Let's forgot that a very similar scene happened in the first movie which proves how uninspiring this screenplay is and just look at the problem of filming in 3-D . The camera lingers far too long on a swarm of flies as the audience are overwhelmed by the 3-D gimmick then a bloody great fly zooms out of the screen . There's far too many over long unedited scenes like this when objects fly outwards from the screen . I've no idea what an audience watching this in a cinema with their silly glasses on think of this directing technique but watching this at home on two dimensional television you can't help noticing how artificial and irritating these directorial blunders are . Perhaps the saddest thing is knowing director Richard Fleischer directed such classics as NARROW MARGIN , 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA and FANTASTIC VOYAGE . It's obscene that someone this talented could end up working on something so poor . Will we sometime in the future see Peter Jackson direct a sequel to THE AMITYVILLE HORROR remake ? I sincerely hope not , but that's how far Fleischer has sadly fallen The script too suffers from being written around 3-D set pieces rather than being written in a logical and natural manner . There is one aspect at the start that has great potential and that is that the hero John Baxter is an investigative journalist who doesn't believe in the supernatural . One can't help thinking the story should have taken a turning where Baxter should have proved beyond any doubt that the events of the original movie were nothing more than an elaborate hoax where the Lutz family made a lot of money out of a media driven scam . But I guess such a film with so much temerity and integrity wouldn't have come close to making a cent at the box office so we have to endure yet another clichéd tale about a haunted house "},{"Title":"Awful haunted house thriller/horror.","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's a dark, cold and windy night in Amityville. A car pulls up along side the now notorious 'Amityville House'. Two journalists named John Baxter (Tony Roberts) and Melanie (Candy Clarke) who work for 'Reveal Magazine' get out and enter the house. They are there to expose a psychic scam run by Harold Caswell (John Beal) and his wife Emma (Leora Dana) and write about them in the magazine. John and Melanie's plan of entrapment works and they get their story. The next day John and Melanie go back to the house to take some more photographs for the story. The house's current owner Clifford Sanders (John Harkins) turns up and denies any knowledge of what the Caswell's, the previous tenants were doing. Sanders tells John that he cannot sell the property because of the rumours and stigma attached to it. As John is currently going through a messy divorce with his wife Nancy (Tess Harper) he becomes interested in the property and agrees to buy it when he learns Sanders is, and I quote practically giving it away. Despite Sanders suddenly dropping dead for no real reason John moves in. At first everything seems fine, both he and daughter, Susan (Lori Loughlin) are pleased with the purchase. Things don't stay that way for long, however. Strange things start to happen, doors shut and lock by themselves, lights suddenly switch off for no apparent reason and two tragic 'accidents' happen that take the life of two people who recently had been in the house. John decides to enlist the help of his friend Dr. Elliot West (Robert Joy) who works for the institute of psychic research at the State University, Long Island. West and his team of assistants set lots of scientific equipment up in the house and wait. Eventually they find what they've been searching for, potentially with tragic and explosive consequences!Directed by Richard Fleischer I don't really have anything good to say about this film. The script by David Ambrose and William Wales is about as slow and dull as you could possibly imagine, and every single haunted house cliché is in here somewhere, I mean lights switching themselves on and off? Doors closing on their own? A tap running on it's own? Various 'spooky' noises that turn out to be nothing more than people walking around on creaking floorboards? One character having a very bad feeling about the place but no one else believing them? A innocent séance that turns nasty? Got the general idea yet? The film plods along at a extremely sedate pace until I was almost woken up by a car crash and someone being burned alive inside the wreck, but this sequence only lasts for a couple of minutes and in no way compensates for what has gone before or indeed after. There is a silly rubber monster at the end which is on screen for about half a minute, thanks a lot Fleischer. There is no blood or gore in it, again thanks for nothing Fleischer. There are a couple of unintentionally funny scenes though. At one point Baxter is in a lift that goes out of control. The G-Force on the way up pins him to the floor and on the way back down it pins him to the roof! A very stupid looking scene. As is the one where Sanders is attacked by flies, flies are just not scary or dangerous and all they do is just sort of land on him as Harkins tries to act like he's terrified and that's it, funny stuff. This film was originally shot in 3-D, there are a few scenes here and there which are obviously meant to incorporate this process and stick out like a sore thumb like the pipe through the car window, various things being supernaturally thrown towards the camera and the opening credits which look awful when played flat on an ordinary T.V. screen. It's certainly well made and the acting is OK, look out for Meg Ryan who has a small role as Lisa, one of Susan's friends. Boring, far too long, dull and there isn't a single original idea in the whole thing. I suggest you look elsewhere for some haunted house thrills and chills! "},{"Title":"Textbook Haunted Mansion stuff...But that doesn't make it terrible","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This third entry was my first acquaintance with the Amityville horror series that exists of 7 installments. And although I can't really say I was so impressed with it that I instantly wish to watch all the other ones, I thought it was a reasonably well-made thriller with okay effects, good acting and a solid directing job by Richard Fleischer. This was one of the last films by the famous filmmaker who previously brought us modest classics like Soylent Green ,2000 Leagues under the Sea and 10 Rillington Place. The story of Amityville 3-D begins with a surprisingly ingenious sequence in which 2 undercover journalists unmask a couple of frauds that abused the supernatural past of the Amityville house for profitable goals. The skeptic reporter John Baxter then buys the house for a ridiculously cheap price, ignoring all the warnings of his superstitious friends and colleagues. Only after a long series of unfortunate events, he acknowledges that the house has a will of its own and that the well in his basement might just be a gateway to hell itself. The screenplay is nowhere near spectacular and most of the horrific events already featured in previous and similar films (a terminal insect-attack, high-speed elevator rides, demonic winds, ouija board games &#133;). But, it has to be said, it's all atmospherically presented, with an eye for flair and even some tension. The 3-D effects look quite silly when watching this film on an ordinary TV screen (and without the funky goggles) but some of the imaginative camera-work remains saved. The script turns into a complete utter mess near the climax and the abrupt ending almost ruins the film completely. This is not what you'd call an absolute must-see, but it's entertaining 80's trash nevertheless.On a lesser important note men who were forced to endure all those dreadful romantic comedies starring Meg Ryan should definitely suggest watching THIS flick for a change. It's probably the only change you'll ever have to see her star in a film alongside other demons. "},{"Title":"Mostly, I just laughed and laughed... and well... laughed... get it? Three times?","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, I'm done with the third installment of the Amityville Horror sequels, and may I ask, what's with the 3-D sequels? Is it supposed to add more scare? Well, I guess it just doesn't work as well when you're at home without the glasses and a 16 inch TV. The third installment isn't a bad one, but it's not my cup of tea right now. Although, it was interesting seeing Meg Ryan's first mistakes.Well, a new idiotic family has bought the house, two journalists and their daughter. But of course, strange things are happening in the house, like horrible deaths, moving objects, you know the standards of the haunted house. The mother goes as far as to move out and forbid her daughter from entering, but due to Meg's hypnotizing lips, her and her friends decide to have some fun turning into a typical tragedy, and you can decide for yourself what you've heard before.Well, it's an OK flick, but it's not that good, believe me. So far, I'd rather stick with the second one when it comes to the sequels, but I'm onto the Dollhouse. I'm not sure what to expect, but I hope I get something good out of this series. But judging by the ratings, frankly, I'm afraid... very afraid.3/10-get it? three? ehhh... "},{"Title":"Poor Film That Doesn't Go Anywhere","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville 3 (1983) * 1/2 (out of 4) Due to a lawsuit between the Lutz family and producer Dino DeLaurentis, this third film in the AMITYVILLE series wasn't allowed to be considered a sequel (WTF??) so there's not much mention of the original events portrayed in the previous two films. This new story has an investigative reporter (Tony Roberts) and his assistant (Candy Clark) busting a couple con artists working inside the Amityville house. After the bust the reporter decides to buy the house since he is separating from his wife (Tess Harper) and sure enough strange events begin to happen. I think the biggest question one must ask when it comes to AMITYVILLE 3 is why on Earth anyone would purchase the house to begin with. Not too long ago I read a pretty good interview with director Fleischer where he went into great detail about the production history of this film and reading his comments made it appear that the film never had a chance. From the pre-filming lawsuits to the various issues while filming, this movie seemed doomed to fail and it pretty much put the nail in the coffin of the franchise before it eventually got started again thanks to TV and DTV movies. The biggest problem with this third movie is that there doesn't seem to be a reason for it being made. I'm also not quite sure who they were making this film for either. The movie was rated PG and it's clear that 1983 was a time for slashers so you pretty much alienated the majority of the horror crowd by going with a clear movie. There are a couple death scenes but they are done without much use of special effects and none of them are overly thrilling. The haunted aspects of the story also come across quite bland and they're certainly never scary. The film was originally shot in 3-D but I could only few the 2-D version and it was rather strange to see that there's really not too much stuff flying straight at the camera. The opening credits obviously do and there are a few other moments but for the most part the film is perfectly viewable flat. In that previously mentioned interview, Fleischer also makes it clear that the majority of the people working on the film had no idea how to properly use 3-D. Roberts is an actor I always enjoy watching and while this material certainly isn't his Woody Allen glory days, I still enjoyed seeing him here. Harper seems incredibly bored with her part and I guess you can't really blame her. Clark has a pretty big role here but her acting leaves a little to be desired. The film is probably best remembered for featuring a young Meg Ryan who gets to show off that memorable laugh. There are certainly much worse movies out there but there are very few where you watch them and ask yourself what the entire point was. I'm sure money was the main goal but the producers didn't get that and the viewer didn't get any sort of entertainment. "}]