[{"Title":"About exploring experience, life, love, even death, from the point of view of others.","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"86 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Everyone knows this was Natalie Wood's last film, and that some of her scenes were filmed after her death with a stand-in you only see from behind. Director Donald Trumball, best known for his special effects work in Blade Runner, Close Enounters, and Star Trek, chose this time to build his story on plot and character development, a good choice given the enormous talent he had to work with. Trumball's battle with studio execs to finish the film after Wood's death, rather than claim the insurance proceeds and call the film off, ended his career in Hollywood, but assured that this gem would not be lost. It is somewhat ironic that Natalie's swan song should be a sci-fi movie, since she was hardly known for work in the genre, but she brings a grace and charm, as well as depth and beauty, to the genre that is usually lacking.Most sci-fi films based on technology don't age well, and there are times where this is no exception. The idea of recording on tape, let alone making tape loops, must seem like wax cylinder recordings to today's MP3 generation. The tapes themselves were props borrowed from a film being shot nearby, and that film was itself a dismal failure. But the concept is timeless, and so well done that, all in all, the film still works as well as it did in 1983.Lesser screenplays would have been content with the main story line; scientists invent a way to record brainwaves and play them back for a real life out of body experience, and for just such a stinker, check out Strange Days. But then along comes the incomparable, utterly fabulous Louise Fletcher, who, as one of the co-inventors of the aforementioned device, records her death when she suffers a heart attack while working late one night. For the rest of the film, people are either trying to play the tape or prevent others from playing it. Meanwhile, the technology gets hijacked by two-dimensional government lackeys trying to exploit the weapons potential of the invention.One can easily pick out scenes of this movie to vilify or exalt, all these years later, and any object viewed over time eventually has a vanishing point. The almost slapstick scene where the assembly robots go berserk is one example of a scene that, while consistent with its contemporaries, is silly today. The death scene, though much maligned, is equally misunderstood, and provides the metaphysical underpinnings that elevate Brainstorm above mere gadget flicks. Brainstorm is about exploring experience, life, love, even death, from the point of view of others, and Academy Award winner Louise Fletcher allows us to do so through her consummate skill in presenting a death scene of sufficient awe and wonder to warrant exploration.If you want to find out what else happens, watch the film, but when you do, don't ignore the beautiful, delicate interplay between Christopher Walken and Natalie Wood. Their careening relationship seems somehow tied to the invention they helped make, and there are sequences so beautiful that I sometimes take out the DVD just to marvel at them.Despite changing styles in special effects, this is a timeless and beautiful story that transcends the genre and, with Walken, Wood and Fletcher, becomes more than just a story about shiny gold tapes that record brain waves. It's more about immovable objects and irresistible forces and what happens when they collide. Intrigued? Good. Go watch it. "},{"Title":"Repairing a broken marriage","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have read comments about this film and am a little bemused as to how no one has talked about what the film is really about. Christopher Walken's character Mike is given insight (unintentionally)via the technology as to why his marriage has broken up. He pieces together memories in order to enter a new romance with his wife Karen played by Natalie Wood. The key scene is when he asks Karen to put on the headset and clear her mind and they record her thoughts for 30 seconds. Mike then puts on the headset and replays the tape. He is suddenly aware of his dismissive manner to his wife(from her POV) and then taken back to an argument years ago where he shouts at her that she 'can have the house, the car, take it all!'. When he takes off the headset he becomes angry as he is forced to cope with his new feelings and does not know how to deal with them. From that moment on he changes and becomes more aware of his wife's feelings. He also realises that he can actually record his feelings on to tape at this point and goes about recording tender memories from their past together. When he gives Karen the tape and she asks what is on it, Mike replies 'It's me'. They are drawn even closer together through the death of a colleague(Louise Fletcher)who records her death experience on tape . His wife Karen is behind him all the way and supports his decision to play the recording because she knows how much it means to her husband even though it might kill him. Through all this mayhem Mike gets to play the tape with his wife at his side. This is the central story of what I think is a very powerful and uplifting film. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, disturbing","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brainstorm is an amazing and beautifully crafted film, worth watching more than once.  From the opening credits and the music that never quite resolves, it is one of those experiences that leaves one unsettled, but not untouched. The images, the stories, and the issues keep this film from succumbing to the temptation of being more science than fiction.  The subtle performances and direction, although sometimes underrated, are intriguing and lend a sophisticated air.Watch it as an experience rather than as a scientific treatise and you will surely have a great ride. "},{"Title":"Knock my socks off","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brainstorm had a rocky road to completion. After Natalie Wood died before completion of shooting, the studio wanted to shut it down and cash in the completion bond. Trumbull had fought tooth and nail to get the film made to begin with, and when it looked like it would be snatched from the jaws of victory, he hunkered down and dramatically altered sequences to prove it could indeed be finished without Wood's unshot scenes.The recorded memory sequences were even more vivid for us in Indianapolis who saw it at the Eastwood theatre. The Eastwood had one of the few curved Cinerama roadshow screens outside of New York and Hollywood's Cinerama Dome. Think of it as a smaller version of an Omnimax screen. Sitting in the front row, you were completely enveloped by the film, and the visual and audio effect when the memory sequences lit up were quite attention grabbing. Trumbull was at this time working on his ill-fated Showscan process for amusement park rides, and was very interested in audience perceptions of diffrent lenses and frame rates. Some of this is used in Brainstorm. It's just not the same on a TV set of any size.The central core of the story - the recording of the death of Lillian and Michael's obsession to experience it - is a disturbing one, because it explores the very nature of life and death. It can satisfy or dissappoint, because Trumbull has put his vision of memory, experience, death and afterlife on film for everyone to take pot shots at. And they did. It's a shame, because the film is beautiful, thought provoking, and ingenious. Yeah, I know, it has all of that evil government plot boilerplate. Look past it.(It even revels in the quirks of the researchers, showing the second thing everybody does with new technology is use it for porn.) "},{"Title":"A Piece of My Mind","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first watched Brainstorm when I was barely a teenager and was fairly impressed, an impression that lasted to date. For the first time, I'd seen a movie where someone was presented with amazing options, and the movie actually covered everything I'd have thought of. Unlike in those flicks where someone would get three wishes and never would wish to get as many wishes as they wanted (or happiness ever after, or instant death, or whatever), Brainstorm explores all possible consequences of the introduction of new, ground-breaking optionsA team of scientists comes up with a way to *really* share experience, to let each other in on how they experience the eternal essentials; love, life, sex; even death. And then, it doesn't stop there, taking into consideration the dark side as well -- what happens if you share your pain as well? What happens if The Wrong People(TM) monopolize the Amazing Secret(TM) first?I love this movie. It ties up eternal questions and hopes with fun F/X and combines them into a touching and thrilling plot that makes other movies (mostly of the cyberpunk-era) like Strange Days that exploit a similar theme seem anemic in comparison at best. "},{"Title":"Difficult, but Talented","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First off, let's get a few things out of the wayYes, Brainstorm is marred by uneven acting and the death of its lead actress, Natalie Wood, under circumstances that to this day are still the stuff of speculation.Yes, Louise Fletcher's death scene is overacted to the point of parody.Yes, it's not easy to accept Christoper Walken in a role of a semi-normal person.Yes, Brainstorm was only Douglas Trumbull's second film as a director, and some might argue that it was little better than Silent Running.But, even despite all of that, the story is incredibly engaging, the visuals are striking (what else would you expect from the wizard responsible for 2001 and Blade Runner?), James Horner's music is absolutely divine, and the film is quite enjoyable.Also, in its favor, a great deal of the credit (or blame, as many would say) for the final result lies squarely with MGM/UA. Still dealing with United Artists' financial baggage after their merger, the company all but took the film away from Trumbull after Wood's death--not to mention the studio's lack of support for Trumbull's plan to film the helmet sequences in his ultra-realistic Showscan process.So, in point, I highly recommend this movie, but just be aware of what you're getting into... "},{"Title":"Deeply thought-provoking....","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a subtle, deeply engaging film which deals with a brilliant and thought-provoking concept. The ability to live and think and feel as someone else... Something everyone has wanted to do at some time or other. And more than that, to be able to have a peek at what happens after death, the scariest thing a human being will ever have to face. Complex and convincing performances from all the leads are complemented by sfx that do not overpower the drama.  "},{"Title":"I've been wanting to watch  it again since 1983","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first and last time I saw this movie was back in 1983 and I've wanted to watch it again  many  times since then.  I just couldnt remember the title , until someone here on IMDB reminded me.I used to explain the plot to the guys at video rental places, and they would just stare at me as though I had gone nuts......I then recently saw Flatliners and felt the urge to watch Brainstorm again.....so I did..... and I found it just as good as when I first saw it.Of course there are a few bad points, but it is the idea behind the movie and  the way it is projected  that leaves you .......feeling......and thats rare for a movie these days.If you're tired of the usual  stuff being churned out by Hollywood, watch Brainstorm.........you wont see anything like it. "},{"Title":"Excellent science fiction","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What are the boundaries of science fiction?  This film explores them. Like the thirteenth floor, dark city or the matrix the film leaves a lingering uncertainty as to what out ultimate destiny or origin is.  Good science fiction probes us and questions our limitations. "},{"Title":"Uh, no, not really","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've been wanting to see this movie for years, but it hasn't been available on DVD. I was interested in the movie because of Douglas Trumbull's involvement in directing the film and supervising the effects; I'm a fan of Silent Running and his technical work in films like Blade Runner and 2001. Fortunately, the opportunity arose for me to see it in the theater at the Castro in SF, projected in 70mm (although without a proper 70mm curved screen). One interesting thing about this method of presentation for the film is that only the brainstorm sequences, when they're using the machine developed by the scientists to share experiences and memories, is the 70mm wider presentation used. If you had a proper curved screen, it would produce motion effects during the scenes with the roller-coaster, helicopter flights, etc. just like an IMAX movie of today.The unfortunate thing is that in my opinion it's far from a great film. It's a very confused film, in some ways very ambitious and in other ways underdeveloped. Christopher Walken and Natalie Wood are interesting actors, so their performances should be a lot more interesting than they really are. I was definitely more interested in Louise Fletcher's character than in either of them. The scene where Fletcher's character records her own death on the brainstorm device is without a doubt the film's highlight. Although Trumbull's effects are very impressive to this day on the big screen on a beautiful print like the one we saw, nothing in them can really top the force of her acting in that scene. James Horner's music was so intense that it made me really nervous. But little else in the movie can stand up to that one scene, which it seems like the whole movie was built around.The main problem is with having Walken and Wood's domestic estrangement form the emotional core of the movie. Now it's an interesting combination -- Walken basically does not emote, in this or any role. I'm no expert on acting, but it seems like Wood is way more old-school and emotes a lot more. This is actually good casting, since part of the problem with their relationship which the brainstorm gadget reveals is that he had trouble showing her his emotions all along and she was the overcompensating type. All of that is well and good, but I just got left behind by the movie at the point where they used the device to bring their romance back. I mean it's very silly, like what is the movie ultimately saying thereby? Divorce would be avoidable if only we had modern technology to give us the minimal ability at empathizing with our spouse? Walken feels her emotions when she records them on the machine, and then he records his own and shares them with her. That's all it takes for this couple who were about to get divorced to get all happy and jump back in the sack. Shoot, it's way better than old fashioned lotions and sex toys I guess. I could easily forgive the movie this notion since it's so amusing, if the film itself didn't seem to take it so darn seriously. The movie ends with them still together, thanks to their electronic therapy. They went to a lot of trouble to destroy the lab where the device was made, so I guess they didn't much care about sharing such a wonderful marital aid with the rest of society. Huh? Yeah, I don't buy it either. It's a movie where the intentions and behavior of the characters are dictated by the logic of basic sci-fi ideas and particular keynote scenes. A rewrite was in order. Walken, Wood and Fletcher do their best to make it feel mature, but that makes it even more of a let-down when the whole thing turns very sentimental and convenient. The one thing I will say is that it's well worthwhile in terms of the effects -- Trumbull did some wonderful things here just in terms of pure images on the screen. It's roughly in the vein of the stargate sequence he designed for 2001. Unfortunately even that descends into a somewhat laughable depiction of heaven completely equipped with digital looking angels with little laser wings. It's a case of overkill and poor planning, like so much of this film. I hate to say that because a lot of things are good about the film. What it needed was more irony, more life to the characters in general. "}{"Title":"Cleans out the cobwebs in the corner of your mind.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Absolute wonderful science fiction. This story is about two scientists(Christopher Walken and Louise Fletcher) that create a mind-boggling invention that rushes forward the research on capabilities and practices of virtual reality. A lot of word of mouth publicity on this being Natalie Wood's last motion picture and her rumored personal relationship with Walken. Somewhat disturbing story line, but very intriguing and fascinating. To be exact a second viewing makes the experience even better. Strap this one on and enjoy.Walken is mysterious and sullen as ever, that's what we like. Miss Wood seems more like decoration and that is really sad considering her outstanding career. Fletcher as a chain smoking scientist is pretty clever. Others in the cast are Cliff Robertson, Joe Dorsey and Jordan Christopher. "},{"Title":"all-time Sci Fi Classic","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is what began my like of Christopher Walken, and sadly a realization that I should have already been watching more of Natalie Wood. There was no dramatic wardrobe (can you say lab coats?), no love scenes, but a dedicated plot involving work-aholic PhDs (one chain-smoked - something you probably couldn't put in a movie today) who were chasing the aged old plot (but with a fresh twist) of the Project Management being told don't turn my G__D__ project over (to the military) - cloak/dagger and fairly intense exploration into cataloging the afterlife. In the midst, some docs get a grip and find out what's important after all...If you like pondering the Here-After, this is no documentary, but it is definitely something to think about... "},{"Title":"The reason of  Why","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ** Warning - contains spoilers **This review designated to the people that already saw the movie, and want to know what other people think.This is perfect example how bad ending can spoil the whole movie. Douglas Trumbull directed only two full motion pictures, this one and previous Silent Running, a classic sci-fi about human desperation in space. Both films indicates an exceptional cinematic vision of unique filmmaker, and you can see this in every frame and shot from the beginning. Bleak and dead colours, alienated long shots, grotesque buildings, that looks like some huge spaceships, fantastic fusion between human and mechanical and, of course, incredible technological achievements of human mind.Silent Running manages to end on his peak and to leave some powerful feeling, making the viewer to think about the film long after. It is one of the best movie endings, along with funny Dark Star by Carpenter, and Gilliams masterpiece Brazil. But Brainstorms peak is lost somewhere in the middle, when Dr. Lillian Reynolds dies, so the rest of the movie, that suddenly changes to confused family drama, is totally pointless and needless. The movie starts wonderful. Interesting story, great acting, especially Louise Fletcher with her unique cinematic presence, nice plot development and talented camera working, that gives real sensation of recorded feelings. And they are all of movement, extreme motion and adrenalin pumping.Naturally, and somehow predictable, but still very pleasant, the records became about sexual experience and later about death.Till that point, movie exploring limits of human desire for knowledge and for excitement, telling something important about psychic conception of human nature and seriously moral issues. But then, movie turns and falls down. Why? I know the reason of why.Because of the answer. Brainstorm dares to give an answer to the most important question - what happens after death?But rude and unfair writers of this film, are forgetting something. The question is important only when there is no answer. It's the unsolved enigma, the certainly knowledge of absence, nonexistence of conclusion. Thats what important, and thats, paradoxically, the real power of religion. There is no Answer. But an artist can say whatever he wants, an author can make every statements he think is appropriate for him. It's the freedom of the Art and it's very clear to me, so I forgive them.But let me suggest better ending  Dr Michael Brace dying in his attempt to know, while the tape machine destroying that recording tape, without showing the hell and the angels, just because it's stupid.On the other hand, it may be worse. Anyway, robots behaving like humans in there rebellion, is brilliant. In Silent Running droids are more human than humans. Special effects are visually beautiful so the movie is good but maybe over sophisticated. Hope you understood my point of view, whether you accept it or not. "},{"Title":"A great idea, a good start, an even knot and a bad ending","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yes, this movie is a continuous way down. When it starts, you meet a group of scientists in their moment of greatest success. After years of hard work., they come out with a revolutionary device that can record what people see, hear, smell, taste... and apparently their feelings and emotions, too But this atmosphere of excitement and discovery soon fades when the plot turns into the usual bad-military-guys-who-want-to-steal-the-idea-for-dirty-plans. The main problem with this is that those evil plans are hardly scary they investigate extreme situations of the mind, such as severe mental diseases, and this makes the scientist to rebel, when the medical use of this is clear. And then it all comes to absurd when the leader of the group dies and records her own death. When the record is played, we see that the good lady has been flying into space, watching our galaxy from outer space, and finally joining a parade of butterfly-like spirits who are flying -of course- to THE light. Overall, quite a great disappointment. I usually like Christopher Walken, but not here. I rated it a 3 "},{"Title":"Karen, look at the stars!","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There's something magical about Brainstorm. If it's the plot, the music, Christoper Walken, i don't know. But this one changed my digital lifestyle. Brainstorm feels like a farsighted dot.com commercial to me, way before the web was won. OK, merchandised mind reading technology. Well, that was a doubtlessly stunning plot. But gee, this guy hooked a mobile (!) PC to some company's intra-net via phone line (!), just like operating a fax machine! Far out, THAT was cool and sensational! I was completely struck, and the next day i got me an acoustic coupling device, communication software and online i went, visiting mailboxes with my 1MHz IBM compatible. On 300 baud/sec. Or 0,003 MBit in contemporary terminology. The digits dropped in, one by one, and i felt sooo hip. Some months later i was the first person i knew doing online banking, and my friends considered me not hip but eccentric. However, it took me 20 years to actually purchase a mobile PC, because i needed slots slots slots *lol*...By the time Brainstorm was made, being online was for nerds. The technological atmosphere held not the faintest haze of what we know now as the world-wide-web, turning the most remote and separate corners of the world into one global village. The idea of sharing sensual impressions by technical means is not necessarily new, as plenty of sci-fi authors (especially of east-European origin) dealt with that before. Brainstorm was just too cool in depicting the consequences of such-alike machinery elder men going nuts with looped orgasms, children haphazardly checking out tapes with psychotic episodes, deliberately tracked death experiences locked away by military, a black market of ethically questionable contents etc. We're working on it, i guess. In fact, we're working on everything that mother nature won't supply voluntarily. Weird we are. The only question is helmets or implants? "},{"Title":"Hokey sections, but good depiction of a startup firm","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Having worked in small software firms during my entire 18-year career, I laugh at the caricatures seen in Dilburt. This movie goes deeper, capturing the feel, dynamics, and personalities in a tech startup company.Ahead of its time, it also included the cyberpunk concept of direct access to the brain, though via simple recording & playback, rather then connection to a computer.Finally, the movie speculates that shallowness in love relationships occurs solely because of shallow communication.Lillian is particularly likable as the Engineer. Obsessed with her job, we find her working late Friday night, chain smoking, listening to music, with the tools of her trade messily scattered about. Or hacking with other engineers, probably making intuitive leaps and guesses. Most would find her emotional investment in the project abnormal, but we can easily ignore this, given the fantastic product she and Michael are working toward.Never having had time to polish her social skills, she attacks the investors on two different occasions. Which we can also forgive, as they are foreshadowed to be the bad guys.Lillian's statement about good projects getting canceled or shelved is all too true. Small & medium-sized companies are susceptible to changes in funding, takeovers / relocations, bad management, warring departments, and warring individuals.Michael is also likable as the Architect. As in the real world, he is so interested in getting on to the interesting part of the project, he is incapable of writing good documentation. (And probably leaves lots of bugs in his work, though that isn't depicted.) He also feels personal ownership of the project, as everything around him was once only a design in his head.The investors (think venture capitalist) make moves to protect their investment, replacing the middle management that won't play along, and locking down the assets. Having lost his friends and the free environment that he is used to, we see Michael put up with it for awhile, but eventually his strong personality (think Steve Jobs) leads to a clash.Alex is recognizable at the Chief Technical Officer, who needs funding to remove roadblocks for his team. So badly, it turns out, that he can't be choosy about where the money comes from.Hal is the Project Manager, memorably seated next to his Gantt chart, and later on the golf course. While his corporate role isn't fully developed, we see his people skills, which he would use to evenly distribute pressure from upper management, making deadlines appear reasonable, and cajoling when necessary. (Non-coincidentally, my last two project managers have spent a lot of time on the golf course.)Summary. If you can ignore (or fast-wind) the silly evil-military portion of the film, the characters can be believable and engaging, and the love story is at times touching.Extra. Not in all cuts of the movie, the scene where Karen is singing softly (and poorly) to Michael gives the character a vulnerability that is identifiable as true love. "},{"Title":"Well-produced venture jinxed by real-life tragedy","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A device that records human senses and experiences naturally falls into the hands of people hoping to use it for nefarious purposes. B-movie idea given high-tech presentation, with the underlying theme of life after death ultimately sullied by co-star Natalie Wood's untimely death during the filming (it may still resonate with movie-buffs old enough to recall her demise). Wood's passing left the film's release in limbo; when it finally arrived, the narrative was a squashy mess, particularly in the crucial opening scenes which have a half-finished feel. Wood only gets the chance to shine in a marriage flashback, although Christopher Walken is very fine as her estranged husband and Louise Fletcher has her best role since Cuckoo's Nest as a tough, brilliant scientist with a bad ticker. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Nothing here will knock your socks off","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sadly, Brainstorm is best remembered as Natalie Wood's last film, and unfortunately there is little to recommend the film itself. Despite an interesting premise, the film's focus is scattered and the film never follows through on many plot points. Brainstorm was a box office disappointment and Douglas Trumball's last feature film. The special effects, direction, dialog and acting are never more than mediocre and the result is a film that is both disappointing and forgettable. Brainstorm is derailed by trite domestic drama involving a miscast Christopher Walken and Wood while a clash between science and government intervention is played out by a pointless Cliff Robertson and Louise Fletcher who's no Bette Davis when it comes to smoking. Fletcher's smoking is so constant, and unconvincing, that one wonders whether the tobacco industry financed the film. "},{"Title":"Early virtual reality film with an unfortunate history","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Christopher Walken plays a scientist who has been developing a brain reading machine. This device is capable of recording sensory experience and allowing others to play it back and re-live it themselves afresh. As is the way in most of these types of movies, the government steps in and tries to hijack this good-intentioned project for their own less humanitarian ends.Brainstorm is an early sci-fi film to deal with the concept of virtual reality. In this respect it is quite forward-looking, as this idea was to become a staple of the genre - and to a certain extent in real life - in years to come. The virtual reality idea is looked at from a number of different angles in a fairly well-considered way. The film is overall a decent enough sci-fi film, if ultimately pretty forgettable. By some considerable distance, the most significant thing about it was the fact that one of it's stars - the great Natalie Wood - died before the end of shooting, so the film-makers had to utilise already shot footage of her to finish the movie. Brainstorm was finally released a full two years after Natalie died. While not a great film, it equally isn't a bad one to commemorate the unfortunate late actress. "},{"Title":"Braindead","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An interesting premise disappointingly derailed by trite domestic drama and a murky subplot involving military intervention. The film seems to change direction every fifteen minutes and the final third of the film goes off in several directions. The film ultimately fizzles out. Without one single interesting or believable character to play, the actors look stranded and their line readings are flat. Neither Cliff Robertson nor Natalie Wood in her final film have anything to do while Louise Fletcher is constantly and awkwardly smoking a cigarette, and Christopher Walken is miscast and charmless. I saw the film upon release in a theater and was unimpressed with the special effects. The scenes of virtual reality filmed using a fish-eye lens will not knock your socks off. There's no reality here virtual or otherwise. The dialog and script seem computer generated and after Walken and Wood's son is hospitalized with a psychotic break, they leave him behind and take a vacation where they have a spat and repeatedly tell one another to go to hell. The son is never seen again and only mentioned briefly in passing. The producers should have shut the production down and taken the insurance money following Wood's untimely death. "}{"Title":"Brainstorm was an interesting, if uneven, sci-fi drama that became Natalie Wood's final film","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Having just watched Douglas Trumbull's first directorial feature, Silent Running, I finally decided to see the other full-length feature he made a decade later, Brainstorm. I'm well aware this was Natalie Wood's final film and that she died, during production, drowning under mysterious circumstances since I was a teen when it happened and that it occurred on the day after (or maybe on since she was found that way) my fourteenth birthday. Michael Brace (Christopher Walken) and his associate, Lillian Reynolds (Louise Fletcher), have discovered a method that gets one to experience someone else's thoughts, feelings, and visions. When Alex Terson (Cliff Robertson) gets a demonstration, he's on board in sponsoring it. Michael's estranged wife, Karen (Ms. Wood) is also in. I'll stop there and say while there were some amazing visual effects and Ms. Reynolds' ultimate fate was hauntingly touching (as well as Michael's senses when he experiences it), there seemed to be an uneven tone almost throughout though I did like it when one associate used the thing for porn and seeing Michael and Karen's reconciliation after experiencing each other's feelings on the scan. I also thought James Horner's score was at times overwrought especially during the final Lillian fate scene. And that climatic chaotic slapstick scene seemed so out of place. Still, this was a pretty thought-provoking sci-fi drama and it's a shame Trumbull would no longer make another feature film because of his conflicts with the M-G-M studio executives over whether to scrap the film or continue on due to Ms. Wood's tragic accident... "},{"Title":"So that's where Strange Days got the idea","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Anybody notice certain similarities 'twixt this film and the movie Strange Days? In that movie they have perfected a memory-recording device that can be played back on small tapes. Is Brainstorm so forgotten that nobody else has made the connection?Strange Days was heralded for its originality, but some of us know better. People who are addicted to the tapes in Strange Days are called tapeheads. I'd like to ask John Cusack and Tim Robbins if they think *that's* original. "},{"Title":"Unbearable. Painful.","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bad luck for me! Two stinkers in a row - last week it was The Terminal Man and this week Braindead, I mean Brainstorm. So boring!I originally thought, Oh cool! An 80s movie about computers and stuff and Christopher Walken. Sign me up. Bad call. An hour and forty five minutes of What would happen if you could feel things through a computer? I tried 4 times - no kidding - to finish this movie, and I could only stumble a few minutes more through it before turning it off again and again. Horrible, paint-dry boring. It's the same thing as The Terminal Man - nothing happens! Not in an existential way like Camus, not in a Chekhov way either, it's just boring. It goes on and on and on and on, almost like the same scene is being rewritten over and over. What are people thinking writing scripts like this, directing pictures like this? Unbearable movie, I couldn't manage more than an hour and fifteen minutes of it. There is no reason to watch this movie. Don't bother. Nothing interesting happens, there's no cool 80s music or soundtrack, and Christopher Walken isn't much. Don't watch The Terminal Man either. Well, actually, if you watched those two movies back to back it might either kill you or transport you into some boring movie dimension or something. "},{"Title":"Walk A Mile In His Shoes.","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's a nifty idea. Christopher Walken, Louise Fletcher, and Natalie Wood, under the direction of manager Cliff Robertson, invent a device that represents a breakthrough in communications. It's a big machine. If you plug in a pair of headphones, you can see, smell, and taste, the experience of whoever wore the headphones before you and had pressed the record button. At least I think that's the set up. It's never exactly made clear. As the experiments progress, the scientists, relying on a method of data collection called self report, keep playing around with it. They record and later experience the sensations of a chimpanzee eating a banana. So far, so good.But then the device begins delivering not only the perceptions and sensations that have been recorded but the emotions and memories as well. The military becomes interested and bugs the laboratory. We may be talking brainwashing.But this adumbration takes a good forty-five minutes. And then it becomes ludicrous. One of the scientists, Louise Fletcher, we know pretty much from the beginning is going to check out and give up the ghost because we see her smoking constantly. It's shoved in our faces. So she has a heart attack while alone in the lab. She's in agony and may be dying. So what does she do? Call for help? No. She staggers to her feet, tumbles down a flight of stairs, reels over to the device, plugs it in, taps record and makes a tape of her death. Knowing what they do, the others should definitely not put on the earphones and press play, but of course they do.That's the central incident, and the writers had no idea how to build a story around it. Marital conflict is dragged into it. We get a courtship between estranged spouses. Arguments over who controls the device. The devious military types. And no truly clear explanation of how the machine works or why it seems to change character over time. The performances are professional enough. Some scenes are memorable, as when Fletcher insults some military men at a meeting and storms out. Walken's face glows with befuddlement. Robertson gives an acting lesson on looking uncomfortable and trying to change the subject. Natalie Wood, though, is no more than Natalie Wood ever was, except for one good turn in Inside Daisy Clover. And Louise Fletcher illustrates the limits of her range as an actress. Yet, for all the decent performances, the special effects, the occasional respectable scene, and the electronic junk, it fails as a story because it feels so padded out. The writers began with a good concept -- the thought-transference machine. Then they blew it. The machine becomes an incomprehensible series of oscillators, EKG readouts, spinning balls, blinking lights, and queer broop-de-broop noises that seem to play duct tape. Of course, no one can blame the writers for failing to envision DVDs. They certainly caught ME by surprise. "},{"Title":"A Film That Suffers From Being Overly Ambitious","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When this film was released in 1983, it felt secondary to the larger story and the mysteries surrounding Natalie Wood's death. It may be easier now to evaluate the work on its own merits.The film has some major flaws. There are sequences that are confusing to the viewer. Partly because of this, the various story lines feel slapped together, not fused in a cohesive way.It would be nice if the film felt like a fusion of sci-fi, romance, suspense, and spiritual revelation, but instead it feels like each of those elements roughly abuts the others, making if difficult to feel emotionally attached to the whole.Still, there are some worthwhile performances, notably by Louise Fletcher and Natalie Wood. And the visual representations of brain activity are interesting. Best of all, the high-tech feel of the film is impressive.In the end, the film tries to do too much. Its various themes compete with each other and each is cheated. "},{"Title":"Nobody locks me out!","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cutting edge sci-fi film is interesting and absorbing enough to make it good entertainment. It's not so much about story. There really isn't much of one, and we don't ever get to know the characters *that* well. This is more a film about concepts - and imagery, of course. Marking a directorial effort for visual effects specialist Douglas Trumbull (2001 A Space Odyssey, Silent Running), it definitely has the right look to it. Trumbull uses multiple aspect ratios in order to maximize the experience. Fortunately, he does give the proceedings a level of humanity, particularly as they pertain to a shaky marriage, and there are moments of poignancy during the narrative.Christopher Walken and Louise Fletcher star as Michael Brace and Lillian Reynolds, two old- fashioned mad scientists working to perfect a virtual reality device that records human experiences. It can allow you to taste what somebody else is eating, for example, or feel what it was like for them as they rode a roller coaster. The people funding and backing Brace & Reynolds ultimately don't like the way they do things, and try to alter the course of the research. Michael becomes obsessed with checking out a tape made by Lillian, and figures out a way to sneak past the defenses of the computer program running the show.Overall, this is an amusing show, with solid acting by all concerned. Fletcher is indeed a standout. Brainstorm is notable for being the last credit for co-star Natalie Wood (who isn't given very much to do), whose untimely death occurred during production. Supporting cast members include Cliff Robertson, a likable Joe Dorsey (Grizzly), and a young Jason Lively (Night of the Creeps) as Walken and Woods' son. (Walkens' real-life spouse Georgianne, who usually works as a casting director, appears on screen here as Dorseys' wife.) The technical work on the film is of course first rate, with eye popping visual effects, effective production design, and a thunderous music score by James Horner.Worth a look for fans of this genre.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"'80's sci-fi done '70's style","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really love these old fashioned, deliberately slower, type of sci-fi movies, that puts its emphasis on the science and takes a realistic approach with its story, no matter how ridicules it all often can get. These type of movies mostly got done successfully in the '70's and this movie actually also has '70's style written all over it. Yet it is as if this movie is holding back, which really prevents this movie from being a classic within its genre, even though all of the right ingredients and potential seemed to be there.So you could call Brainstorm a bit of a disappointment but by doing so you are not doing the movie enough justice and you are not giving it the credit it still deserves. I really still liked it, despite all of its flaws, though some of those flaws can also be brought back to the difficulties of production at the time.Biggest 'inconvinience' for this movie of course was the sudden and tragic death of key actress Natalie Wood. It almost caused this movie to be stopped down completely but with some changes and rewrites the movie still got finished and released, just not in the way it originally got intended. It must be the reason why the movie ends so abruptly and the story leaves far more questions than answers.The movie does really have a great concept of the invention of a device that can recored people's experiences and feelings and that can be played back by a different person that will feel the exact same feelings, smells and tastes. A sort of virtual reality, with the exception of that there is actually nothing virtual about the reality. The possibilities with this device are endless and sort of a shame that now almost 30 years later we don't have anything remotely close yet. I said that the possibilities are endless, yet the movie is doing far too little with it. It deliberately restrains itself it seems.The movie just never reaches full potential, though it is obvious that somewhere deep down everything there is still a great movie to be found. But it remains a fact that the movie never reaches its full potential with its story. The story fails to intrigue and also fails with other things, such as its tension. Quite frankly I had no idea what was all happening toward the end and what the big 'conflict' that needed to be resolved was and how it got done exactly. There is a 'villainoush' plot in the movie that just never seemed that evil- or got explained good enough.The movie got directed by special effect expert Douglas Trumbull. So visually this movie really doesn't disappoint and to be frank I think that it are still mostly the visuals and its effects that safe this movie and still make it a more than good watch.But you also have to give credit to Christopher Walken of course, who basically never fails to put down a great performance and character. I really liked most of the acting in this movie and it seemed to be a very well cast one, with some truly great characters in it, that all interact really great and convincingly together.The movie also features an early James Horner musical score. Funny thing about Horner musical scores is that basically it doesn't matter if it's anything from the '80's, 90's, 2000's or this decade, the all have the same sound and feature the same motifs. It's not big secret Horner often recycles his most early scores and the score of this movie also got heavily recycled by himself in many later movies. Still I'm sure his fans can appreciate his score for this movie and I'm also really not hateful toward it.Really not as great as this movie potentially could and perhaps also should had been but nevertheless it remains still a good 'realistic' science-fiction movie to watch.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Good film with a great concept, but it falls a little short in the end.","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie when I was a kid, and remember how fascinated I was by it. Seeing it again just days ago, I am surprised how well it has stood the test of time.It starts off well enough, has a slow build up (something few movies seem to have anymore), ratchets up the tension and intrigue (what exactly is on the tape that holds the recording of a death?), and then kinda falls apart somewhat in the final act.My problem with the ending is Walken's trip beyond the tape is never put into any kind of context. He simply laughs and looks at the stars and tells his wife that it's all up there. But what does it all mean? Did Walken see heaven? An alternate universe? His visions take him to the Sombrero galaxy. Does that mean his colleague ended up in heaven in another galaxy? I don't get it.Two more issues I had with the film was the lame out-of-place slapstick humor with the security guards in the factory, and the glaring (but highly reasonable) 'the government steps in and militarizes the whole project' bit. Yeah, I know it happens, but films from the 80's were filled with sinister federal agents intent on doing the dastardly and unethical, all in the name of national defense. It's cliché, even if it is believable.I loved the technology. I liked watching it develop (although Walken and Fletcher never seem to be doing any real work beyond field testing&#x97;they could very well be low-level assistants rather then the brilliant scientists they are portrayed as). I thought Wood phoned in her performance, showing almost no emotional depth (except when she's screaming at a dying Walken) or interest in her role. Seriously. Her kid is a mental wreck in a hospital and she's smiling? Come on!Someone wrote in here that this film is really about fixing a broken marriage. It's that, but that is not all it is. There are several themes at work here What happens to us after we die? The value of empathy (seeing something through someone else's eyes). And how technology gets abused (both on a personal and governmental level). One theme that they really dropped the ball on was how such a technology would change the world. It was hinted at, but mostly ignored.This is a good movie that is really worth watching, as long as you can overlook a thing or two. "},{"Title":"Ill-fated and very dated but not awful","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Douglas Trumbull's ill-fated second film as director, Brainstorm, is a classic example of a film that doesn't really work that well on TV but needs to be seen on a giant screen. Originally intended to showcase his high-definition 60 frames-per-second ShowScan system, it eventually was shot in a mixture of 1.851 widescreen that would open up onto 70mm Super Panavision for the Brainstorm sequences in a throwback to the days of This is Cinerama. On a giant screen in 70mm it's quite breathtaking &#150; the opening shot alone had people falling out of their seats &#150; but on TV it's underwhelming. Even if the DVD transfer, like the previous laserdisc, weren't so poor, rather than expand the image actually shrinks for the Brainstorm sequences. Which leaves the film dependent on its story and script, which on the small screen show their weaknesses much more clearly.Christopher Walken (bad wig in one flashback notwithstanding still in his brief 80s nice-guy leading man mode) and Louise Fletcher are the scientists who invent a device that allows users to share sensory experiences and even emotions only to find themselves locked out of their own project when it turns out their industrialist boss Cliff Robertson is really funded by the military, who have their own ideas for its applications. The first half has dated badly, partially because the supposedly revolutionary 'demo tape' is largely unimpressive &#150; rollercoasters, race cars, waterslides, helicopters, all shot through a fisheye lens - though it is prescient that the first thing people think of with a revolutionary new form of communication is the porn applications. But things pick up dramatically when someone records their own death on the machine and Walken naturally (well, for him anyway) decides to break in to the system to play the snuff tape, purely in the interests of science of course&#133; It's another of Bruce Joel Rubin's Death The Final Frontier stories (Ghost, Jacob's Ladder, My Life) and as usual, death's ultimately not a bad thing here even if that does translate on film as a lightshow straight out of Fantasia. Unfortunately, a real fatality proved to be a very real bad thing for the film when Natalie Wood's death shortly before finishing her scenes gave embattled MGM head and convicted embezzler David Begelman the idea of scrapping the film and collecting the insurance &#150; with the no doubt added bonus of scuttling the comeback of Cliff Robertson, the man who exposed his embezzling, in the process &#150; until the insurers refused to pay out for anything more than reshoots. Emerging nearly two years later to pretty disastrous business, it all but killed off Trumbull's career in the process. The film certainly doesn't ever look unfinished (Wood had no important scenes left to film and her role as Walken's initially estranged wife only really impacts on the plot in the last third) and, despite some sporadically terrible dialogue or the odd cringe-inducing moment like Wood's cute song, there's a lot that does work, from Fletcher's strong supporting turn to a fine score from James Horner before he took the easy way out of plagiarism, while many of the special effects are genuinely impressive. It never gets close to the emotional power of Trumbull's earlier Silent Running, but it's still just entertaining enough to pass muster. "},{"Title":"Strong ideas turn visual as scientists play dangerously with mind","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Douglas Trumbull should make more movies.The depiction of working scientists is quite realistic, with their obsessions, fears and friendships, and specially their effort to do research in spite of corporate rivalries.Plus an almost Jacques Tati-esquire sequence of machines gone crazy.Plus stunning visual effects of extreme motions and flight.Plus a device that can record the soul in a golden tape and send it by phone no doubt in that near future (we see a few very nice futuristic buildings) phone lines have very broad bands, but then... why do phone boxes seem to belong to 1983? Are they retro style? Plus concepts for a mature audience the absurdities of sexual obsession, the danger of psychological damage in kids, a couple regaining mutual love, and interesting (in fact very classical) depictions of hell and heaven.Plus Christopher Walken as the good guy (for once) and enigmatic Natalie Wood as distinguished scientist.8 out of 10 A feast for the eyes that makes you think, too. "}{"Title":"One Great Movie","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a great movie. It has a great story line, and it has a scientific what if that is as compelling today, as it was then. This is a movie to see. It may be a bit dated in its social themes, as well as its imagery. That can be said of many of the great movies, if you think about it. This is also a great movie on the basis in that it is the last movie Natalie Wood was in. I believe she is one of the most beautiful actresses of all time. She was also a great actress. I may have my order of statements backwards there. The movie also contains a great wealth of moral statement. I believe a viewer will come away with a better perspective of life. "},{"Title":"It's Him !","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, it has been 20 years since I first saw Brainstorm, and it remains one of the heart-felt favorites.  Yes, I love a good sci-fi just as much as the next person, and this one does qualify.  Yet, there's a good love story included where Walken gives Wood's character the same line as he gave Streep's character in The Deer Hunter ... It's Me..  I've been a Walken maniac since that line... he delivers it so well ! "},{"Title":"Unavoidably affected thriller with mixed results.","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A trouble-plagued production that, sadly, wound up making little impact at the box office and isn't terribly well known today (an awkward change-up in screen ratio within the film complicates home-viewing to a point as well!), this was the final motion picture of Wood's career. Walken plays a scientist who, along with fellow computer wizard Fletcher, has developed a virtual reality device, which allows the wearer to see, hear, smell, taste and feel the experiences of another person whose sensations have been recorded onto special tape that can be played back. The excitement over the breakthrough isn't allowed to last long before shifty owner and backer Robertson is letting the government take an interest in it for military purposes and also before certain individuals abuse the pleasurable aspects of it, causing detriment to themselves. Walken's estranged wife Wood is hired on to reduce the mammoth helmet to a more workable, sellable size. Walken uses the device to impart his feelings of love towards Wood into a tape that demonstrates his feelings and gives it to her as a reminder. They have barely begun to reconnect when the trouble surrounding the device starts to hit home and create havoc. Eventually, they have to take measures to prevent it from proceeding further, though there is danger to their own selves in taking that stance. Walken, never one to come off as completely normal or balanced in any film, is afforded the rare opportunity to play a somewhat traditional leading man. There's a cerebral quality to him that makes him well suited to this material. Interestingly, he is noticeably younger than both Wood and Fletcher (who he is also romantically involved with in the film.) Wood is often radiant in this movie (which she died before completing in a very controversial drowning accident) and establishes considerable chemistry with Walken. There are a few off-kilter costumes and overly fussy hairdos (she looks best, believe it or not, when her hair is all pulled back off her face in one scene), but she generally looks good and tries to invest her flimsy character with real emotion. Some degree of her appearance in the film was affected by her death, though it's not obscenely obvious to an uninformed viewer. At any rate, it's a far more flattering swan song than, say, Meteor would have been! Robertson had found a niche in portraying potentially immoral corporate men like he does here and he does so well, but kind of evaporates with little fanfare after a while. Fletcher has been lauded for her portrayal of a driven, chain-smoking inventor, but it's really quite a mannered, over-the-top and at times, quite embarrassing performance. She's overemphatic and frequently unintentionally funny and her final scene is hellaciously bad. She isn't helped at all by a director whose forte was special effects and not human conditions and traits. Most of the remainder of the cast doesn't register significantly. The film features an array of point-of-view shots meant to represent the scope of the virtual reality device from riding a roller-coaster, to flying over canyons to crashing a car off a cliff to even having a nubile blonde sitting astride the wearer, ready to engage in sexual intercourse! (Kudos to the writers for not ignoring the fact that with technological advances, sex is rarely forgotten as part of the equation!) These scenes are presented in an aspect ratio roughly twice as wide as the rest of the film in order to broaden their effect in the theater. This means that on home video, the majority of the film is letterboxed on all four sides, which is akin to watching the film through a large keyhole. It's a situation that will likely put some viewers off, though perhaps it will come off better on the newer (and larger) widescreen televisions. Director Trumbull, who developed a lot of eye-popping effects for the cinema, provides some interesting imagery for this film, though there is, of course, by now a dated quality to it. Though he managed (or the stars themselves managed!) to give Walken and Wood's story a certain degree of feeling, the film tends to flounder when it comes to focus and story flow. How much of this is due to the necessary retooling is unclear. It does come off as complete, just, perhaps, not perfectly so. Another side effect of the era is product placement, including Budweiser and other items, most notably a scene in which Walken is inexplicably and unnecessarily chawing on Ruffles potato chips! The climax is also unbelievable in a number of ways. It has to count as a wounded, but interesting, film. Depending on one's affection for the stars and interest in the subject matter, it may supply more entertainment for some than for others. Fans of James Horner will be drawn to the score, which features choral sounds associated with much of his work. "},{"Title":"Still rocks","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was a college student at DeVRY studying electronics when this film came out. At that time, in Phoenix, where I was going to school, this film was shown in one of those cinema-scope theaters with the curved, extra-wide screen. The scenes where you were 'seeing' the experience as if wearing 'the hat' would display full width, while the normal scenes displayed about 2/3rds width. This is why, on the laser-disc version and some of the DVD and Tape versions, there are scenes which are wide, and others that are not. But let me tell you, in cinema-scope, with what at the time was very cutting-edge sound equipment... this film changed my world.Imagine being an engineering student, and seeing a movie like this. I so saw things I wanted to do, companies I wanted to work for. I actually ended up working for Gould Biomation in my first job out of college, and one of their ECG scanners is in the movie (in the scene where Hal is in the pressure chamber, jogging, and has one of his attacks).Great, great movie, still after 25 years is in my top 10 all time list. One of Christopher Walken's best roles, Louise Fletcher is brilliant, and has many of my favorite 'character' actors like Joe Dorsey who was also in films like Wargames. And it not only shows what dreams can drive you to, and explores the darker side of what people can twist technology into, but the characters also have great story-interaction, like the broken marriage with Natalie Woods character... and whoever played their son... he was a perfect obnoxious brat. I just cannot say enough good stuff about this movie.If you've never seen it, please rent it, buy it, whatever. "},{"Title":"My very favourite movie of all time","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a fascinating movie. A wonderful ride, and brings up some intriguing ethical issues in the development of some technologies. Obviously not meant as an educational experience. Walken is a wonderful actor and you as the viewer share his desperation, right up until the amazing climax. Some of the technology is very dated (tapes for data storage!), but hey, this was the early 80's. I think they did a cool job despite challenges. The acting as a whole was very well done, especially Natalie Wood.An interesting commentary on the basis of human consciousness and existence. "},{"Title":"Goodbye Natalie, goodbye.","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Brainstorm has sort of a mediocre plot and is best known as the movie on whose set Natalie Wood died. It's not a bad movie by any stretch. It portrays a device that lets a person get inside another person's mind, but what if the device gets used for unethical purposes? Christopher Walken and Louise Fletcher play the people designing the device, and do good jobs with their roles. Natalie Wood plays Walken's estranged wife.Of course, watching this movie, it's hard - for me at least - to think about anything except the fact that Natalie Wood drowned right before they finished filming. Too bad that she couldn't have finished her career with something slightly more than this. She was such a beautiful woman. "},{"Title":"GREAT CHEMISTRY","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing this movie can be very addictive. Christopher Walken and the late Natalie Wood really put on a show playing this scifi thriller. Having to go back in time on knowing what the latter did in his/her lifetime. The chemistry between Walken and Wood was excellent, the choreography was outstanding. Using the machine to read the thoughts of others was ingenius. I like it when the side effects had set in when the person be on it for too long. It goes to show you don't need drugs to have a flashback. This movie gave the idea for 1995's Strange Days. Another recommendable choice. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Flawed but fascinating SF from special effects wiz Douglas Trumbull. Christopher Walken is terrific (as usual).","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Special effects wiz Douglas Trumbull ('2001', 'Blade Runner',etc.) directed the underrated ecological SF movie 'Silent Running' in the early 70s, and after a long gap he came up with the fascinating but flawed 'Brainstorm'. Both movies deserve a much larger audience. 'Brainstorm' co-star Natalie Wood died during the filming so Trumbull had to rework and re-edit the material to salvage the project. A tricky job which probably explains why it isn't 100% successful, especially the slightly unsatisfying climax. BUT there is more than enough good things about 'Brainstorm' to recommend it, especially a great performance from Christopher Walken, and the chance to see Louise Fletcher ('One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest' Nurse Ratched) in a different kind of role. It's curious that both of Trumbull's SF movies are more concerned with the characters than the special effects. This is what makes them particularly interesting to me, but is also what might turn off the current Star Wars/LOTR crowd, who don't seem to grasp that science fiction is about IDEAS not action. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw it in the theatre when it came out, and the filming is fantastic! It's ironic that the plot is so thick with the subject of death, and that this is Natalie Wood's last movie before her death.The idea of being able to record and playback an event in someone's life is intriguing, and this movie explorers it very well.  "},{"Title":"It's a very great movie...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  because this idea is simply great. This idea to protect the Afterlife on tape and the consequences from it. The actors, everything Louise Fletcher, translated the topic in front marvelously. I see this film again and again gladly, and I am again and again moved by this film. "}{"Title":"Into The Depths Of The Mind","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now unfortunately better known as the final starring role for Natalie Wood, who died during the film's production in late 1981, this 1983 science fiction/suspense thriller deals with a very ambitious concept, one that may very well be coming to pass now in reality.Christopher Walken and Louise Fletcher play a pair of scientists building a machine that can transfer the thoughts, sights, senses, and smells of one person to the mind of another.  They are greatly aided in their quest by an ambitious and supportive sponsor (Cliff Robertson).  The test of this new machine on a group of backers is hugely successful...maybe a bit TOO successful.Fletcher becomes incredibly alarmed when federal agents are thinking about taking over the project; and when she dies, the feds think that this is their way in to using this invention to brainwash people.  But there are two things they don't count on--that she would leave a tape of her final death throes; and that Walken would want to get a glimpse of what it's like to die.  Death, as he says, is the scariest thing a person ever has to face; and he quickly becomes obsessed by it.Despite some clunky dialogue, BRAINSTORM is a visually spectacular film, coming as it does from special effects wizard Douglas Trumbull, whose 1972 film SILENT RUNNING is a minor sci-fi cult classic.  Wood is far better than average in her final role, and Walken, Robertson, and Fletcher don't do too badly either.  The story, by future GHOST screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin, is extremely metaphysical, helped out immensely by the fine visual effects, which remain innovative to this very day.  The excellent orchestral/choral music score is by the very talented James Horner, who conducts the London Symphony Orchestra on the soundtrack.Though slightly flawed, BRAINSTORM remains a must-see sci-fi film with an idea whose time is quickly coming "},{"Title":"I Love Louise Fletcher","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brainstorm is now 20 years old, and in many ways it was prophetic of things to come.  The premise - that an entire sensory experience can be recorded, and then played back for someone else to experience, is not yet a reality but some of the virtual reality simulators show that technology is progressing in that direction.  There is also a creepy sub-plot dealing with the subject of addiction, more than a decade before there was an internet - or internet pornography - and the only form of electronic addiction in our vocabulary was tennis elbow from playing Pac-Man.Christopher Walken and Natalie Wood do a decent enough job, but the standout performance in this film is by Louise Fletcher, one of the finest and most under-utilized actresses of our time.  She plays a crotchety, chain-smoking scientist with a bad heart, a character you can't help liking in spite of her behavior.  She plays one of the finest death scenes ever put on film, and she does it alone - there are no farewells to loved ones here, no heroic blaze of glory - just agony and her final, fateful decision that sets up the rest of the film.  As one who screamed Yeah!!! when Jack Nicholson's hands were around Nurse Ratched's throat in the climax of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, the fact that she could bring me to tears in her death scene in Brainstorm is testament to her gifts as an actress.  Suffice it to say, Fletcher's work in this film is what made it memorable to me, and not just another 80s sci-fi trip.There are a couple of glaring implausibilities that bug me - assuming you already buy the premise that the sensory experience _can_ be recorded in the first place.  The gaudy chrome ribbon of tape that they use as a recording medium is exotic enough to be believable, but there's never enough of it on the spool to record much of anything - experiences lasting many minutes are recorded, but clearly the spool would empty out in about 10 seconds.  And the idea that this much information - 3-dimensional visual imagery, sound, feelings, touch, could be transmitted over a portable terminal with an acoustic modem (in a public telephone booth!) is really, really a bit out there.  Anyone who remembers using those devices knows they'd have trouble just transmitting the text of this review accurately, and at speeds you wouldn't need Evelyn Wood to keep up with.  In fact I'd balk at the same thing today with T3 internet bandwidth.  But I accept the limitations of the film's budget for futuristic props and can forgive it's producers for using computer stuff that was already old at the time.Movie overall 7 out of 10, Fletcher gets a 12 for one of the top 5 death scenes of all time.  "},{"Title":"This is a totally awesome movie!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The only other person who has reviewed Brainstorm just didn't get it. The point behind viewing the tape was to see what happens after death. I mean, think about it, could there really be a much more important scientific discovery? Only if he found out how to stop death. As far as the comment, And how does the tape record Lillian's feelings after she dies? Her out-of-body experience? The machine isn't connected to her 'spirit', but her dead brain, if you watch it again you see the tape run out but he is still continuing the journey. The idea is that the machine can physically change the body because the images/sounds/smells/feelings/etc are the exact recording from another person. The other things that happened like Hal's Orgasm Splice, the Braces son's torture, etc, where the set up for the ending. You should watch this movie again because it is extremely great! The ideas in this movie are very well thought out!For those that haven't seen it, you should at least check out Christopher Walken. This is one of the few movies where he doesn't play a psycho (not that he isn't great at that). He plays a sort of nerdy character and does a great job. Everyone else does a great job as well.  "},{"Title":"interesting well-done science fiction","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The basic idea of the film is way ahead of its time and interesting and the whole visualization is well crafted. This is one of the films that doesn't at all spoon-feed its viewers with explanations, why's-this and why's-that. One should think for himself and try and figure out what really happens.The explanations are usually there and there is a logical sense in the whole film. Despite some flaws that definately exist, the films flows really good and it's very realistic, maybe because its pace isn't at all Hollywoodish - instead of that, facts, feelings and memories are depicted without any commentary but as they would really look like, or at least the way one would film it so that the viewers would perceive the story with the minimum information given.All in all this is a must-see for technology/science-fiction film fans, even if the technology this film is about is not so fictional or distant nor the situations are exaggerated like normal sci-fi. Definately worthy! "},{"Title":"Bruce Joel Rubin at his very best","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Every time I'm asked to list my top ten favourite movies, I always include 'Brainstorm'. Despite - or maybe because - of its flaws, it still remains one of the most beautiful and thought- provoking ideas I've ever seen committed to the screen, for which we have writer Bruce Joel Rubin to thank. Chris Walken is perfectly cast as the fiercely intelligent and angelically beautiful Michael, with his close friend the lovely Natalie Wood in this her final role. The chemistry between Walken and Wood is near perfect, and their struggles to understand each other in the wake of their break-up make for some of the most poignant and touching moments of the movie. I won't spoil the plot, or pretend that the film hasn't dated somewhat, but it really is an incredible story that will leave you thinking for days afterwards about the possibilities created by a machine that can record human memories and emotions. "},{"Title":"The craving to experience","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Indeed, as others reviewers said, the fact of thinking, feeling, and ultimately experimenting as someone else does, it is a suggestive and provocative idea.I think it could have been developed much more, as it has great potential, especially from a psychological point of view. In Strange Days, the basic idea is the same, and it just happens to be a simple entertainment film.Yet, the movie is quite watchable, thanks to an excellent cinematography ahead of it's time. James Horner's soundtrack is remarkable too.it's a shame that the outcome of the movie is not credible, as well as there was no chemistry between Natalie Wood and Christopher Walken.7/10 "},{"Title":"Concept = 10/10; Acting = 5/10","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I loved this movie when it came out in 1983. It was original, cutting-edge, provocative. Imagine the unlimited possibilities of not only seeing but FEELING the same emotions and thoughts of someone for all to see for all-time... Not only watching a Bon Jovi concert, but actually BEING Jon Bon Jovi at that concert! What about the rush of adrenaline and terror of an astronaut at the moment of liftoff - and their first spacewalk? How about standing at the plate with bases loaded, full count in the ninth inning of the seventh game of the World Series??... Makes your mouth water, doesn't it?The concept of this story was excellent. The genesis of recording personal thoughts and impulses onto transferable media for download at your leisure was fresh. Christopher Walken cast as Michael and Louise Fletcher as Lillian were excellent together. The special effects are dazzling and thought-provoking. On BluRay, the screen switches between full-frame for the story and widescreen for the virtual reality sections. It's really marvelous to watch actually. But that's where the awesomeness ends...It was the rest of the cast that absolutely killed whatever positive momentum this story had going for it. The wooden acting, cut-and-pasted story lines and timelines, the military ALWAYS getting into the act and becoming the bad guys... It lost all it's charm after the first 30 minutes.Natalie Wood, although a fine actress from another era, was completely wasted in her last role. I know this movie was threatened to not be completed when she died suddenly in the middle of production. While sad, the movie was bigger than her small but pivotal role. She just sat there and watched Walken and Fletcher do all the heavy lifting. She smiled pretty and cried pretty and made the halo pretty and... That's it. She just... existed in the movie. I have to believe had she survived, this movie would have been soooo much better.How Cliff Robertson kept getting the same roles where he played the rich, good-looking good guy-who-becomes-the-bad guy over and over again is beyond me. His character's arc could be seen the moment he said trust me. Sure. He's done the same slick and sinister character since 3 Days of the Condor and it never got any better. It just got old. Using ANYBODY else would have at least given us a sense of suspense. In this case, it was more like here we go again.... And when the military showed up halfway through and basically created a covert Brainstorm project while locking out the original creators of the project in the first place... Maybe those things happen in real-life but they're clichéd to death in sooooo many movies. This one just looked inept by the end. Hint to future military takeover bad guys in movies Make sure to remove all the backdoors of the good guys BEFORE you take over the world. They can come back to bite you.And whomever cast the slimy Andy Warhol-lookalike as the sneaky traitor to the project should be positively fired on the spot. If the character is unbelievable the moment he shows up on screen, there's no way another SMART (i.e. Louise Fletcher) character would ever trust the guy. Someone with no talent should never, ever translate into MORE screen time. He was supposed to be some kind of genius that robbed people of their creations? The guy couldn't even quote his lines properly let alone be crafty enough to steal someone's life's work. The moment that guy showed up, the movie ended being interesting and became just another screw 'em so they can fight back movie. And the son was literally not needed at all. He was talentless AND took away from the story. How do people get roles in Hollywood anyway? Sorry, I'm not normally THIS harsh on actors since I can't act either but when I CAN act better than they do then they literally killed a great story.Christopher Walken was great in his role, although he was left to stare at the camera while in his halo for far too many minutes of the film. And Louise Fletcher was positively excellent as the most interesting character - and then she dies to further the storyline. It was perfect for the story. But it was still a shame to kill off your best character.So besides those two leads being good, and an EXCELLENT concept, this movie drags everywhere. Don't let the polyester suits fool you. This movie, although dated, was cutting edge in it's time. Unfortunately, it has aged badly - just like the polyester. And the acting positively killed what could have been a truly enjoyable tale of what could have been. Instead, we're left with wasted opportunity.For the concept, this is easily a 10. I truly, genuinely wish they would remake this story today with a capable cast of actors. But because of the horrible acting - with the exception of Walken and Fletcher - this is a 5. I'd rate this a 6 overall compared to other movies. Sad. This could have been one of the great ones. "},{"Title":"Ambitious, Controversial, Prescient","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" On September 5, 1921, Roscoe Fatty Arbuckle; a well liked comedic actor attended a San Francisco party at which a starlet who crashed the affair died five days later of a ruptured bladder. This served as ample time, however, to allow her to accuse Mr. Arbuckle of rape. She had done this before, but William Randolph Hearts' publishing empire, looking for a scandal picked up the story, resulting in three murder trials and the ultimate acquittal of Mr. Arbuckle. He never appeared on film again. So too is the backstory of the film Brainstorm, Douglas Trumbull's accidental magnum opus. It is impossible to tell the story of, or review this film without mentioning the drowning death of it's star vehicle Natalie Wood, near the end of its filming. I will leave you to your own research if you wish to learn more about those tragic events. At the beginning of an albeit shortened career, Christopher Walken heavily uses cues from Ms. Wood, and the fantastic character actor Louise Fletcher, who turns in her best performance in this film. And while the creepy editing which allowed for the completion of a film whose star died part way through filming, the scandal made it hard to watch in theaters, especially as much of the audience suspected Mr. Walken of knowing more than he was saying publicly regarding the death of his co-star. One wonders, as great as this film is, how great it might have been without the scandal. One also wonders if the audience knew how remarkably accurate Trumbull predicts future technology, if that would have made a difference. But now, 32 years later, with Christopher Walken again on everybody's top actor list thanks to his Quentin Tarantino sponsored revival, and the scandal just a spec in history's rearview mirror, this film stands on it's own, and it is remarkable. The story is about the development and use of a technology that allows people to record their thoughts an feelings on a device using a 300 baud modem and optical tape library. So we suspend disbelief a little for that. Walken is the junior partner to Fletcher who leads the project, Cliff Robertson directs the project from a corporate and funding level. Robertson is so good at this role, that having worked in a similar environment makes my skin crawl. The two scientists live in the newly developed Research Triangle Park, which serves as the perfect setting for this strange and wonderful research. Natalie Wood also works for the same company, and at the beginning of the film is in the process of divorcing Walken whose creationis obsession with the project has resulted in their separation. While planning their divorce, they also work together in the development of the device that will bring it out of the lab to the consumer. Wood, in an empowering role for a woman at the time, plays a major role in breathing life into this product. As the film continues to focus on how the characters react to the existence of the new technology, Robert Trumbull puts his unique stamp on the evolution of the product, taking us through the production, data storage and even cyber security issues surrounding the technology. With the photography, lighting, and soundtrack all spot on, we are whisked away into this world of technology that in 1983 was just a fantasy, but seems very real today, almost as though we are actually viewing a true account. Sadly it is hard say what Robert Trumbull may have gone on to do had this film been met more favorably. But just as Altman had his Shortcuts, Paul Thomas Anderson has his Magnolia, Robert Trumbull has Brainstorm, clearly a very personal and special film. "},{"Title":"Brainstorm","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dazzling visual effects (no surprise considering the director) and a superb Louise Fletcher performance (it is hard to believe with this kind of performance, she'd be little more than a surrogate grandma to Drew Barrymore just a year later in Firestarter) really lift Douglas Trumbull's Brainstorm into an A-picture. Too bad Natalie Wood's death undermines what could have been perhaps a highly recognized science fiction film. Wood plays the wife of star, Christopher Walken. Fletcher has dedicated her life and career to a project which allows others to sense, feel, and experience what another does, through the use of a head device. Wood is the one responsible for finding a cosmetic means to make the head device acceptable and efficient. Walken has developed a type of love affair with Fletcher while working closely with her on the mental and sensory device, and this has estranged him from Wood. While a great deal of what has bonded Walken and Fletcher is intellectual and built respect for the work they have accomplished, their project could be kidnapped from them by the military that helped their financial backer, Alex (Cliff Robertson), continue to fund it in the hopes of using the device as a possible brain-washing and torture weapon against those who threaten the country (or use it to further the benefits of high ranking officials in the government). The potential for something extraordinary is all there, but the military involvement ruins the satisfaction and gratification for how the project has proved to be successful. An obsessive smoker and a series of health setbacks due to her heart, Fletcher's Lillian Reynolds eventually succumbs to the weight of the stress overwhelming her thanks to the seizure of the sensory project. What happens that makes their project even more extraordinary is how what they see, feel, and experience can be recorded on tape for others to visualize and relive. Lillian's death and journey to the afterlife is recorded and Walken wants to experience not just that but thoughts and memories stored away and ready for access, all available on tape. An excitable member of the project, kind of a human guinea pig, named Gordy (Jordan Christopher), who was in the other helmet, his experiences visualized and felt by Walken's Michael Brace at the beginning of the film, perishes when the military insist on seeing what he was during a playing of Lillian's final moments (although, Michael is able to make modifications that removed literally feeling the heart attack that killed her, while Gordy wasn't so lucky to have such upgrades. When another member of the project, Hal (Joe Dorsey), experiences orgasm thanks to a tape recorded when Gordy had sex with a woman, this ultimate experience is the trigger the military needed (they were keeping tabs (spying) on Lillian's project to see how far they were advancing) to pursue the helmet device for their soldiers and officers in a type of factory assembly.The plot of the device is quite a gem, considering the idea that I could possibly experience what it feels like to surf on the open wave or ride high above the Golden Gate Bridge or experience sex with a super model. Wood, although I have read so many say this, isn't just wasted in her role. It serves its purpose. No, this isn't Splendor in the Grass; its science fiction based on a married couple finding themselves reunited once the head device has them realizing what they did to each other from their own perspectives. One great moment has Mike understanding how it feels to be ignored, the anger his wife feels and what she sees when he's an asshole. Fletcher's heart attack is quite hard to watch, but the hell and approach to heaven sequences are quite eyepopping, as is the way her memories are seen as bubbles to open and view by Walken. The systematic, schizophrenic meltdown of the factory and technological breakdown that results from the work of Walken and Wood so that he can access Fletcher's last-of-life and death tape is hilarious (particularly when the foam expands as water hits the boxes containing the material.) A motley group (which includes Hal, and a character played by Walken's wife, both of whom worked on the project and were against the military's seizure of their work against their wishes) of scientists being able to cause ruination to a heavily operated government takeover is always rather entertaining, none the more so than seeing a faux marital spat and attempted recovery across the telephone being spied on by members of the military coup that took over the project as a means to gain access to Fletcher's tape. The seeing through the eyes technique and overall letterbox format / ratio presented by Turner Classics Movies and directed this way purposely by Trumbull for optimal effect might not be for all tastes, but I thought it was an aesthetically pleasing presentation that (to coin the phrase used to describe the head device and its abilities) knocked my socks off. Robertson is basically the middle man that sees that finances go to the project, that it is successful, and then those who benefit from it profit him (he's the bureaucrat with benefactors waiting patiently for Lillian's team to be successful). Fletcher's fight for her project, and how it eventually kills her is essential to film's dramatic power, and the device itself (how it rewards, kills, and can be used for good and evil) is as good a plot tool as anything sci-fi could produce. Quite an adventure, but at its best when the device develops its characters and their motivations. "},{"Title":"Ambitious, Audacious and Awkward&#x85;Stretching the Limits of the Medium","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" High Concept Filmmaking from SFX Wizard Turned Director Douglas Trumbull. Imaginative and Always Visually Interesting, This is Nevertheless a Film that is Not as Good as Some of the Parts.It's Inconsistent Tone Wavers All Over the Place and as Coherent Cinema it Fails to Piece Together a Finished Film that is as Intriguing as its Initial Premise. Scientists Christopher Walken and Louise Fletcher Discover a Way to Transfer Thought and Senses to Illuminous Video Tape and When Played Back the Recipient Experiences the Recorders Thoughts and Through All Five Senses Just as it Was From the Sender.That is a Clunky Way of Explaining the Set-Up and as One Would Guess, Putting it in a Movie and Making it Believable was Not an Easy Task. You've Got to Respect Trumbull's Audacity to Pull it Off. He Almost Succeeds but Not Quite, Because Ultimately it Proved Troublesome.The Juxtaposition of Real Life Situations, Like a Struggling Marriage Don't Quite Fit Neatly With the Scientific Razz-Ma-Tazz and In the End the Movie Becomes a Thing that the Medium of Film Can't Quite Compel or Flesh Out the Conceit of the Scientific Experiment.It is an Awkward Film Despite Some Stunning Camera and SFX Work, Set-Design, Process Shots, and Some Pretty Good Acting and a Suitable Bombastic Music Score. The Movie is Ambitious and the Filmmakers Involved Have Enough Talent to Make it Worth a Watch Despite its Pitfalls, Prattfalls, and Attempt to Play Around with Afterlife Questions and Expectations.Note...Natalie Wood died in a drowning accident before the Film was completed. Her appearance here would be Her Last. Her Role and Acting are nothing special but Professional. "}{"Title":"different","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" the last role of Natalie Wood. the splendid performance of Christopher Walken. a seductive idea. and the brutal intervention as seed of evil. a different film for images and for its challenge/warning. a wise manner to drive the action and to explore each nuance of story. A S.F. who becomes slice from reality, mixture of its period anxiety and everyday realities of our time. it is not a great movie. only instrument of a message who, using the tradition of another films of same genre, desires be more than skin for common fears. after years after first view, it seems be one of admirable serious and thorough work products. that is its basic virtue. and source of strong emotions of its viewers. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and original","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Very original, if different movie, about a group of scientists who invent an amazing communications device. Perhaps film director Douglas Trumbull could have used the material from writer Bruce Joel Rubin to better effect, but he elects to use Brainstorm to show off his particular f/x genius.Christopher Walken is his usual obsessive self, always entertaining though, while the gorgeous Natalie Wood is as stunning and incredibly beautiful as ever. The supporting cast, which includes Louise Fletcher, are quite good. This was Natalie Wood's last film before her tragic and mysterious death.Sunday, August 4, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Interesting 80s sci-fi","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting science fiction film with Walken & Fletcher playing scientists who create a virtual reality head device that gives its user powerful sensations and abilities.  The film is very intriguing, brilliant in some aspects, but also has the usual 80s corn in other parts.  Natalie Wood died near the end of the film's completion in 1981 and out-takes had to be used to complete the finale, that is why its so odd; film was released in 1983.  3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first seen this movie in 1984. I really did not pay much attention to it then. I for some reason bought the movie in 1998 & was really entertained! It was from 1983, but I have read that most of it was filmed in 1981. I can really relate to this movie now though. I would say that it gets a solid 8 out of ten. Most younger persons really do not remember the real cold war. 1983 was at it's height.  "},{"Title":"Good story","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This weekend I rented two films- Brainstorm and Altered States. Brainstorm was the better of the 2. While Altered States was a lot more like a bad trip, Brainstorm provided the audience with an original and interesting story line. The key element in Altered States are drugs, graphic gore, sex and evolution ( with some spectacular effects thrown in ). While the key elements in Brainstorm are love, the mind, science, and death  with some great effects thrown in too. Rent it for a special science fiction experiance. A great scientific adventure! Highly recomended!!! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Original, thought-provoking, but less than a sum of its parts....","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brainstorm has many things to recommend it. It is original, thought-provoking and refreshingly off-kilter in its concerns but somehow it ends up being less than a sum of its parts. It is worth bearing in mind that the version that exists was 'rescued' after the death of Natalie Wood and so is not exactly the film that its makers set out to make. It has a feeling of being unfinished, its climax seems hurried and inconclusive. The parts however are fairly impressive....It's curious that Louise Fletcher's performance didn't win her at least a nomination as Best Supporting Actress; she is hair-raisingly good. The music and design are both spot-on and the opening titles especially is aesthetically one of the most amazing special effects sequences I've ever seen. It's a shame the film to follow doesn't quite live up to its promise. "},{"Title":"Confusing, but it's kinda cool!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brainstorm is more of a roller coaster ride of visual effects, than a film.  I watched this a few years ago, and it really frightened me.  But now, I'm desperately trying to figure out what happened.  They develop this headset, which can record your thoughts on tape.  But one of the developers records her own death.  And meanwhile, the government takes over the project, and makes tapes to kill people (or just make them go nuts).  It's a neat idea, but Brainstorm has too many confusing distractions to keep our mind on the subject.  I still don't know what I was looking at, but hey, it was something.  The end of the film obviously showed a director's interpretation of death, using state of the art special effects.  It's scary the first time you see it, because the suspense builds up throughout the movie.  The developer's death tape keeps implying what were going to see. At this point, we feel trapped in a nightmare.  But the ending is kind of sad, because we see the angels going into heaven.  We don't want our loved ones to die, and go away from us.  Everyone has to die someday, but this film reminds us of that, and, lets us know that we should not be afraid of dying.  The worst thing about seeing this movie, is seeing it on TV!  It's messed up on TV!  The ONLY way to watch this film is in letterbox form, because all of the dream sequences are in widescreen, letting you know whether or not you're looking at real life, or if you're looking into a dream. I guess Trumbull was trying to emphasize that the human mind is a much wider world than the real world (the real world was seen in only a less-wide widescreen.  This is the kind of film that would be good for IMAX theaters, because IMAX makes you feel like you're really there.  And therefore, it's more exhilarating.  There are still a few points I missed in this movie, but with the cool special effects and the multi-screen effects, it hardly matters. "},{"Title":"absolutely fascinating concept","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A team of scientists led by Michael Brace (Christopher Walken) and hard-smoking Lillian Reynolds (Louise Fletcher) have developed a recorder for the brain. Michael's estranged wife Karen (Natalie Wood) is tasked to miniaturize the apparatus. CEO Alex Terson (Cliff Robertson) is pushing the work. There is a push for the tapes to be used for military purposes. Technician Gordy is recording various experiences and in one of them, he records having sex. Team scientist Hal Abramson (Joe Dorsey) gets addicted to the sex tape. Meanwhile the machine helps the Braces to reconcile. Lillian suffers a heart attack and records her death on tape. Michael almost dies replaying the tape. Michael is shut out of the experiment which is turned into a military operation called Brainstorm that includes torture. The group hacks in so that Michael could finish Lillian's tape.I remember watching this back then on cable TV and being fascinated by the ideas of a brain recorder. The playback has this other worldly quality. Christopher Walken has his creepy intensity and Louise Fletcher is terrific. I didn't know Natalie Wood died during the filming and quite frankly, I didn't know who she was at the time. The whole concept is so fascinating that it carries the whole movie for me. It's like a 2001 for life after death. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie!","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The critics and audiences of the early 1980s dismissed this film as banal and tripe. They certainly didn't see what I saw in the many viewings at the theater, on TV and video and now DVD. Sadly, the great actress Natalie Wood died during the filming of Brainstorm and maybe that affected their views and opinions. The story is very involving. It's about the invention/creation of a mind recorder. It records the sensations, feelings and thoughts of individuals on a type of tape recorder. The user experiences these sensations while wearing headphones that replay the recorded thoughts. The film is moving and fascinating during the creation and demonstrations of this fabulous device but it bogs down when the government becomes involved in the usual clichés of military takeover. Christopher Walken and Natalie Wood are terrific as a divorced couple who utilize the device to rekindle their romantic past through their feelings and thoughts. The film is very thought provoking on how and why such a device can or might be used. Louise Fletcher also shines as the co-creator of the Brainstorm device, who fights to keep the rights of the device in the right hands. Cliff Robertson also stars as a supporter of the Brainstorm device. What really works best is the device itself as it presents so many functional possibilities. One wonders, is such a thing possible? Watch this film and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Walken at his best","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The idea that you can record emotions, and play them back, is a brilliant one. The plot moves naturally/logically forward with the army moving in.This film shows Walken at his best. This one, and The Dead Zone is, in my view, his best roles. And Ms Wood lightens up every film..... "}{"Title":"Researcher builds device to record brain experiences","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent production of a solid sci-fi story. Chris Walken and Natalie Wood give strong performances. To me, one of the most convincing aspects was that the setting is the very near future.Note that the plot changed slightly before the film's release due to sensitivities to Natalie Wood's accidental drowning. "},{"Title":"Brainstorm almost was never completed","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember back in 1981 when Natalie Woods died it was on all the news and they were mentioning the film she was working on Brainstorm,They were showing clips of her in the movie on the news and other programs on TV, The movie looked like it would have been great.Other shows that was covering her death was saying that the studios wasn't going to finish the film, then about a year later there was talk of finishing the film because Natalie Woods had done most of her shoots for the Movie and the ones that weren't finished they would work around it to complete the movie, also I believe there was talk about all the money already invested in the movie and that was one of the major reason they decided to finish the film.Then finally when Brainstorm was released in 1983 It was a Hugh hit because of all the publicity surrounding it with Natalie Woods Untimely death, News coverage and taking 2 years to get finish movie.Brainstorm was a great movie! "},{"Title":"90 % of a nearly Great film","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film had me hooked lined and sinkered right until the end when it just crapped out and turned into a real mish-mash. Half metaphysical orgy of light and effects shots and half cheap, not very comic, sight gags.The whole development of the tapes was the kind of good literate, hard-core SF which is sadly missing in most Sci-Fi movies. real ideas were played with and explored. The lab and the equipment looked real. The sets were great. The locations were good and, if you ignored the horrible late-70 jackets and the clunky modems, it has aged well from a design point of view.It looked good.The characters did very real things, acted like real people would (I'm thinking particularly of the whole porn loop-tape thing here - and I'll lay good money William Gibson saw this movie more than once). But somewhere towards the end it all fell apart a bit. For me the turning point was the moment when, as the assembly line was running amok, the guard ran through the double doors only to reappear a moment later riding an automated forklift truck in a shot that, I guess, was supposed to be funny but was so lame that it would have hit the cutting room floor of Police Academy 27 (shudder!). If it wasn't supposed to be funny it was just awful film making; if it was supposed to be funny then I can't for the life of me imagine the thought processes behind putting it in must have been. We have a tense, edgy, dramatic science fiction movie with a good romantic subplot here and the protagonist is about to reveal the Mysteries of the Universe* to the audience. What we need at this moment is a couple of slapstick belly-laughs! - actually, knowing Hollywood, I can see that happening...As I said that was the turning point. After that the questions started in my mind. For example Why, if no one was ever to play it, was the tape of the death stored on the shelves and its location programmed into the computerised loading aparatus? (Hitchcock's famous line Because we don't have a f*cking movie if you don't. springs to mind.) After those bits of sloppiness I didn't buy the whole near-death, flapping angels, God, He made it bit at the end at all. It just looked like a total cop out to me. Can't think how to end your film? Then get Mystical and Significant and defy the audience to admit they don't understand - but then again I'm a middle-aged cynical atheist and not the right audience for cinematic representations of revelation.All of which is a pity, because up until the end it's a cracking good film.*Motu(c) "},{"Title":"Simply great.","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A movie on the destiny of the mankind without seeming it.A story about where will the technology bring us, without a careful comprehension about what deserves to be done and what doesn't. It is a real pity that so few people seem to have understood how precious this movie is. I think that my generation's children must see this film and meditate about the themes that it proposes. They will be probably involved in the research that will bring the human beings mind in touch to each other. Few special effects, great actors, a robust story. A great movie. Great Christopher Walken and one adorable Natalie Wood. A great love story too. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"a gem","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i've never understood the critical disdain for this film... am so glad to see others who like it despite the critics. i love good sci-fi, and think good sci-fi is hard to find....i agree with the viewer who said the folks who made 'strange days' think they invented the concept of a 'tapehead'....in brainstorm we have something very similar...but both are preceeded by another oddball walken movie of the early seventies.....the mind snatchers.....where a doctor plants a 'feelgood' electrode in a patients brain who is then given a button to activate the electrode...whaddaya think? buttonhead! "},{"Title":"For those of you who don't know","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Besides the film brainstorm, Douglas Trumbull was also the special effects supervisor for some of the most elaborate movies ever made. Films like 2001 A Space Odyssey, Silent Running, New Magic, and of course the multi-Oscar winning film - Close Encounters Of The Third Kind. Since this was his first directing debut I have to say he did a remarkable job.Later on his career, he went on to do more special effects for other films, but soon fell off the grid. In Brainstorm a scientist Micheal Brace (Christopher Walken) invents a machine to record the complete feelings of another human being. This included emotions, taste, smell, memories, and shocking revelations most people would like to hide away in dark closets.Although the project was going through like a well oiled machine, covert agents wanted to use it for more nefarious purposes, such as the military, or senseless psychological motives for deeper government operations. With the death of his partner in crime Lillian Reynolds (Louise Fletcher) most of the company was now under control by the same people who wanted to use the machine other than communication or education.All in all, I found this to be a very good film. Using actors of very known quality, including Cliff Robertson. The music was top notch, which gives the viewer a more broad scope in vision as well as medium action as well as the expanse into space and beyond. It is too bad the movie did not do so well at the box office. The eighties were in fact a rather tumultuous time where various movies hit the screens. Brainstorm came out at the wrong time.If it waited a few more months I am sure the film would have peaked the interests of the audience with more acceptability. I felt it was a winter film rather than a fall film. It had more ingredients for the cold months. Yet as for Douglas Trumbull, he retired from the scene and went on to create roller coasters for the large amusement parks well into his seventies.It would be nice if he could work on another film project to show us his relentless magic that has wowed the crowds for over five decades, and with films like those Oscar winners, only he could do it without computers. Remarkable man for an undeniably tough business. Highly Recommended for those over 14. "},{"Title":"Dead Zone of the Uncanny","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is not so much a review as it is an observation of some co-incidences relating to this film and Bertrand Tavernier's 'La Mort en Direct' (1980). I would be surprised if Trumbull had not seen Tavernier's effort as both films do seem to share a common fixation on death and the brain. Anyway, to get to the point, both lead actresses, Wood in Brainstorm and Romy Schneider in La Mort en Direct died in the year they made their last films, at the same age of 43, rather unexpectedly it has to be said. I find all this goes quite beyond 'coincidence' and delves into the realm of what Freud called the 'uncanny'. The fact that both films are about the nature of consciousness (in some small way) and death further provokes the mystery. It could be said that there was something of a self-fulfilling prophesy going on.... maybe. At any rate, the mere thought is capable perhaps of shiver-deliverance..... "},{"Title":"Brainstorm indeed!","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Brainstorm is an indecently beautiful and deliciously scary slice of 80s aspirational cinema. Chris Walken and Natalie Wood co-star as married scientists Michael and Karen Brace, who are part of a team that invent a device that records and can re-transmit experiences. The film is maybe an American example of the 80s cinema du look, every shot is framed, for every shot an effort is made. When Michael is in hospital, he has bright red jello on his lunch tray, there's a Vasarely serigraph and some great abstract sculpture in the corporate environment. Everything is controlled. I would love to know how they got some of the shots they did.Even though it's such a beautiful movie, there's some nice messages there. One of which is about seeing yourself through the eyes of others, and rekindling lost love. I actually felt lucky to be alive watching the movie - it's been a long time since I felt any such thing.It's quite a reflexive movie in that the initial corporate use of the technology is to get someone to do a grand prix, and then peddle the sensorium of that, but the movie is also in many ways about experiencing something beautiful yourself, what it's like to live the life of a genius and feel true love.Brainstorm is one of those rare movies which mention a force that could be used for good or bad, without seeming trite. The story could be tighter, and isn't helped by Nathalie Woods dying in mysterious circumstances before the film was totally wrapped. I just absolutely love it though, the movie came on me as a revelation. I had suspected when watching Silent Running, particularly the opening glide over a quite artificial forest, that Trumbull loved fetishised imagery, but I still wasn't prepared for Brainstorm. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Mind Boggling! A Must See for Film Buffs.","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Without a doubt, Brainstorm is one of the best science fiction films of the 80s, together with spectacular imagery and a wonderful story, make this film as unforgettable as Blade Runner, Close Encounters and Star Trek with which the director, Douglas Trumbull, of this film helped master with his experience in jaw-dropping special effects. Although this film never returned it's investment at the box office, we have to remember that, because of the dedication to his film, Douglas Trumbull didn't give up and give in to the insurance companies, who were trying to kill the film, due to the untimely death of Natalie Wood during the shooting of this film. Supposedly Natalie met her untimely demise in a boating accident at sea, which makes the film even more mysterious, since we soon discover that the whole plot begins to revolve around the recorded heart attack, death, and passing of the main researcher Lillian Reynolds played by Louise Fletcher.Long before you may have thought the story might go nowhere, we are slowly pulled into a story of broken dreams due to a failed relationship between the Christopher Walken's and Natalie Wood's characters who play a divorced couple still working on amicable terms for a high tech company on the verge of a major breakthrough.The story begins in the lab as two brilliant researchers Lillian Reynolds (Louise Fletcher) and Michael Brace (Christopher Walken) develop a system of recording and playing back actual experiences of people. Once the capability of tapping into higher brain functions such as thought is added in, one can literally jump into someone else's head and play back recordings of what he/she was thinking, feeling, seeing, in a Memorex fashion. Of course the impractical and practical applications are limitless. We soon find out the company owner Alex Terson (Cliff Robertson) has greater aspirations for his inventions and tries to convince Lillian to work with the FEDs in order to make the invention part of a defensive weapon for later use perhaps during war and espionage. As we follow this story, the applications for the project quickly spiral out of control. Without spoiling the film's final moments, we must give full attention to the detail of the ideals of this extraordinary technology as it changes the character's lives as they once knew, due to misunderstand and mis-communication. Each element of this film makes the previous seem important, sustainable, and impossible, however, when all the elements are finally presented, we feel complete in our understanding of our characters motives and unattainable humanity put into perspective with phenomenal beauty and eloquence.In closing, this film still holds its own after 30 years! "},{"Title":"Natalie Wood's last film is a bit uneven","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The first half of this film, made when Natalie Wood was still alive, is quite good. The story comes together quite well as the tale of a couple that is in the midst of divorce. The husband, Dr. Anthony Brace, (Christopher Walken) is an employee at a company that does cutting edge research, and he has been mentored his entire career by Dr. Lillian Reynolds (Louise Fletcher). Brace and his wife (Natalie Wood) have a son together, but their relationship has come apart, and whenever they are together there is nothing but arguing and bitterness. Reynolds and Brace are currently working on a device that allows you to actually feel what someone else is experiencing. One night, while working all alone in the lab, Dr. Reynolds has a massive coronary. Realizing this is the end, she puts on the device, starts the recording session of her experiences, and dies. The rest of the film is a battle for Dr. Reynolds' death tapes and the use of the recording device. It is after the point of Reynolds' death that the film gets very splintered. It is hard to see just where the film is going because the decision to go on to the end with the film that contained Wood and not start over with another lead actress severely limited the editors in what they had to work with since reshoots of most scenes were now out of the question. Natalie Wood died in the autumn of 1981, and it was almost two years later before the finished product of this film arrived.Some sci-fi type films that are this old are either irrelevant or so laughably outdated that they are pure camp. Because this film focuses on the idea of the possibilities of healing relationships and even getting a new lease on life by experiencing life through the eyes of others rather than the technology, this film has held up pretty well over time. It just makes me wonder how truly great the film could have been if Natalie Wood had lived. "}{"Title":"Like a good wine","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie was made in 1983&#x85; and if all you look for is in the shallow waters, you will find a flick that is over 25 years old. The technology, the cars, the dress&#x85; it is indeed a throwback to the days when Bill Gates and his kind were young and cutting trails through the unknown. But deeper still are all those timeless questions of right and wrong, our humanity and of course, love.I remember watching this when it was new and then a little later on VHS. I was drawn to it then not for the special effects, but because it dared to suggest that we could survive not only our mortality, but also our stupidity.This one is ageless for anyone who isn't limited by superficial boundaries and has the personal depth to look deeper than is our momentary, superficial existence.RIP Natalie Wood &#x85; "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Brilliant researchers Lillian Reynolds and Michael Brace have developed a system of recording and playing back actual experiences of people. Once the capability of tapping into higher brain functions is added in, and you can literally jump into someone else's head and play back recordings of what he or she was thinking, feeling, seeing, etc., at the time of the recording, the applications for the project quickly spiral out of control. While Michael Brace uses the system to become close again to Karen Brace, his estranged wife who also works on the project, others start abusing it for intense sexual experiences and other logical but morally questionable purposes. The government tries to kick Michael and Lillian off the project once the vast military potential of the technology is discovered. It soon becomes obvious that the government is interested in more than just missile guidance systems. The lab starts producing mind torture recordings and other psychosis inducing material. When one of the researchers dies and tapes the experience of death, Michael is convinced that he must playback this tape to honor the memory of the researcher and to become enlightened. When another researcher dies during playback the tape is locked away and Michael has to fight against his former colleagues and the government lackeys that now run his lab in order to play back and confront the scariest thing any of us will ever face - death itself.Good premise, but lack of story. But still, this movie is a classic itself. It's a sad thing that one of the actors died during the making of this film.Rated R. "},{"Title":"good little sci-fi film","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really thought the premise was unique and performances were good in this little sci-fi feature from the special effects guru of 2001 A Space Oddyssey.Sadly the film suffers from being entrapped in the myth of Natalie Wood's death. The film has showstopping special effects at the end.This film also benefits from a solid performance from Louise Fletcher as the chainsmoking scientist/partner of Chris Walken. "},{"Title":"A Great Landmark Movie","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Personally, I think what makes a good sci-fi movie is when it introduces a concept I haven't seen before. The technology to record and play back experiences was truly original for me. I'm not sure if any other film had explored this idea before, but this was the first one I've seen that did. Another thing about this film is that, for me at least, it is a great landmark in time movie. By that I mean that it was made right at the time that VCRs were just beginning to become available to the average consumer. They were still a bit bulky and expensive in 1983 but it was the very first time people could record shows and play them back whenever they wanted. Tape was the main media for recording sound and video, so naturally the recording media in the movie is also tape. I think it's possible the ushering in of the VCR on the market may have had some kind of influence on the success of this movie at the time it was released. For me, it marks that quantum jump in technology in a really cool way. It's also a great concept movie that has a similarity with the Matrix in the way it explores the concept of virtual reality. "},{"Title":"Classic Computer Flick","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Director Douglas Turnball who was visual effects supervisor on other classic flicks, 2001 A Space Odyssey 1968, The Adromeda Strain 1971, Close Encounters of the Third Kind 1977, Blade Runner 1982 and also directed and was visual effects supervisor on the classic flick, Silent Running has created another gem in Brainstorm.Starring Christopher Walken who has also been in other classic flicks, Sleepy Hollow 1999, Last Man Standing 1996, Pulp Fiction 1994, True Romance 1993 and The Deer Hunter 1978.Also starring Natalie Wood.Also starring Louise Fletcher.I enjoyed the playback scenes.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic computer flicks, Colossus The Forbin Project 1970, Demon Seed 1977, Eagle Eye 2008, EXistenZ 1999, Gamer 2009, The Matrix 1999, The Matrix Reloaded 2003, The Matrix Revolutions 2003, Nirvana 1997, Strange Days 1995, Hologram Man 1995, Pi 1998, Demonlover 2002 and Total Recall 1990. "},{"Title":"Wonderful 'Sci-Fi' !!","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This Brainstorm truly is a very good/+ film experience, done w/ unique style of a visionary! Great chemistry between the talented and lovely Natalie Wood and Christopher Walken, who's always interesting; this is one of his best films. Louise Fletcher was excellent. Others have already written well re the integrated stories and non-CGI F/X, so a few comments re dissenters quibbles.Of course the tech looks clunky/outdated; it was made 25 years ago! So, how have 'we' humans progressed along w/ the tech? Well, that's pretty obvious -- and the results are remarkably similar to the Q&A presentation made by Cliff Robertson as Charly to the scientists in the auditorium in the film Charly, another split-screen film.Re the military intrigue subplot being unreal and/or clichéd That *is* what they do -- and have done -- for many decades! You are uninformed re history! There are hundreds of documented examples. Here are three 1. 1943 -- the F.B.I. steals numerous trunks-full of research notes and papers, very shortly after Nikola Tesla's death is discovered! 2. Early '60s, precocious teen Patrick Flanagan invents a gadget w/ great medical potential, the Neurophone. It was very soon seized by the gov't! Later, he's hired by the C.I.A./whichever. NOW, 45~50 years later, you and 'we' can finally actually buy one/them -- downgraded perhaps; certainly other more-powerful versions exist!. 3. Read below -- No joke; authors are world-class medical researchers! From project day lily.com -- close the spaces!PROJECT DAY LILY An American Biological Warfare TragedyThe Project Day Lily story chronicles the events surrounding what the public knows as The Gulf War Syndrome or Gulf War Illnesses. To this day, the public perception of that tragedy is very limited, and no one seems to remember or knows what really happened. Many veterans went to the Gulf War as healthy individuals and returned with chronic ailments and an unusual infection that they inadvertently transmitted to their spouses and children. Now, there are over 150,000 veterans of that conflict who suffer from chronic illnesses, and tens of thousands have died without acknowledgment or proper assistance to keep secret the origin of their illnesses.The exposures in Kuwait and Iraq and the chronic infections picked up by our troops just didn't happen like a flu infection. These men and women were actually bombed and sprayed with a chemical and biological soup from missiles and sprayers unleashed by Saddam Hussein's forces. They were also inoculated during their deployment with questionable vaccines. What makes this even more horrific &#133;in the soup of vaccines and environmental exposures were biological agents not created by some mad Iraqi scientist or some rogue ex-Soviet scientist hired by Saddam as part of his Weapons of Mass Destruction arsenal.No. This deadly soup was actually created in the United States by our own scientists; some of whom were trained by the Operation Paperclip scientists brought back from Nazi Germany after World War II. And it was tested in our own prisons using unsuspecting prisoners long before the first Gulf War.Not only did our own scientists create new deadly biological agents, but our own Federal government approved sending these materials directly to Saddam during the Iran-Iraq war. We must have known that Saddam would use these weapons against the Iranians. So we created our own Frankenstein monster when we supplied Iraq with the germs almost a decade before the first Gulf War.The biggest drawback to man's existence is the proclivity for a monumentally stupid mindset that allows sheer brilliance and compassion to co-exist with a darker side that kills, starts wars, and inflicts unspeakable acts.Project Day Lily is based on the true story of two scientists in Texas that discovered the presence of one of the most insidious incapacitating biological agents ever developed in Gulf War veterans' blood. This microbe hides inside cells and causes all sorts of chronic signs and symptoms, similar to what one would see with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Fibromyalgia Syndrome, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Multiple Sclerosis, and many other chronic illnesses. It also tells the story of the two scientists being thrust into a world of danger and intrigue as they unravel the mystery of how sinister university and government administrators plotted to keep what these scientists had discovered hidden from the American public, even attempting to murder the two whistle blowers to prevent the exposure of their hideous experiments from public scrutiny. The final irony is that the inheritance of one of these scientists was likely used to finance the development and testing of biological weapons of mass destruction by a rogue faction of government scientists, bureaucrats and intelligence operatives, and these same funds likely financed the diabolical campaign of sabotage against the two Texas scientists.Project Day Lily explains to the general public what happened to the veterans and their family members after the first Gulf War and what is happening to our Armed Forces to this day. ... Project Day Lily is a wake-up call to America. The book explains why America's involvement in biological agent development and testing made us less safe and resulted in extremist's justification for terrorist attacks like September 11, 2001.______________________________________ About the authorsGarth L. Nicolson, Ph.D. Professor Garth L. Nicolson ... currently Professor of Integrative Medicine at Capitol University of Integrative Medicine and a Conjoint Professor at the University of Newcastle (Australia). He was formally ... also Professor of Comparative Pathology at Texas A&M University. Among the most cited scientists in the world, Professor Nicolson has published over 550 medical and scientific papers - including 3 Current Contents Citation Classics, edited 14 books, served on the Editorial Boards of 20 medical and scientific journals, and is currently serving as Editor of two -- Clinical & Experimental Metastasis and the Journal of Cellular Biochemistry. ... (Truncated!!)Nancy L. Nicolson, Ph.D. - (Truncated per IMDb!!) "},{"Title":"nifty little piece","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Except for that weirded out ending, which was what? a glimpse into heaven? this was actually pretty involving. Christopher Walken is great, as usual, the visual effects are hypnotic and Louise Fletcher is a gas. She must puff on a cig every 3 minutes in this thing. (It's one of her better supporting roles.) Natalie Wood is merely window dressing in her last film but she does come on strong toward the climax, when her and Walken turn the tables on the nasty government heavies who want to use the virtual reality machine for evil purposes. (Don't they always in movies of this nature?) "},{"Title":"A fantasy, a science-fiction, a movie filled with mixed spectrum of all the valuable human emotions - just like the life itself.","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" *** Over-all One of the best movies in this mixture of genres (let alone science-fiction) I have ever seen. Most recommendable for viewing.A fantasy, a science-fiction, a movie filled with mixed spectrum of all the valuable human emotions and some of their most extremes, just like the life itself - the very theme it's actually trying to explore.*** About the movie itself There's something special about '80's, and the way technology and educated people looked and acted back then - this movie is the real way to see what I mean - you'll breath the air of the '80s, and it will smell so good. The movie explores human values, and tries to propose (and scientifically approve?!?) a philosophy of life as something that is beautiful and full of meaning. Personally I find it more than obvious that things are not like that in reality (if you value the truth above belief) - go figure (...); but, life is what we think of it, and the fantasy this movie gives to you is BEAUTIFUL. Also you can find some typically strange humor here and there (like the machines with an attitude for example), then - the Walken's joke to worry a bit his colleague etc... The movie recalls some good times. The concepts it brings out in a realm of inter-human relationships (I especially have two main characters in mind), and situations it depicts are truly wonderful. I love it.*** About my experience regarding this movie I was 1 year old when this movie was made, so I didn't have a chance to experience it the way it should be (instead - I've seen it just two years ago). Needless to say I had no idea about Natalie Woods... That was a shock. She is ONE OF THE most beautiful, and talented (I must add) actresses ever - by my opinion. If I didn't know better, I'd say that it is possible that I've physically seen this movie when I was still unaware of myself, and that it subconsciously affected the shaping of every single point of my own personality, all my likes and dislikes etc. This is the first movie here I'm commenting.*** Some very important points Idea about the technology to transfer experiences is magnificent (whole scenario is about that... what else to say). I like the angel choir in flashbacks, it really hits the spot. Majestic. Superb (this is why art exists, we've find it in our very 'souls', and we feel it). Cristopher Walken is without any doubt one of the best actors on the planet Earth - you just need to assign a correct story/character (from the spectrum of his potentials) and you'll see (this movie does just that). Natalie Woods is presented in the most beautiful light in this motion picture - it made her stay alive for centuries to come (something regular people never achieve). Having in mind all of the circumstances around this movie, I still cannot imagine why those people tried to put it away!*** Conclusion You must be psychologically mature to feel this movie the right way. Technology there is truly in just to serve to a Human (nothing more (By-the-way that's all it should do isn't it...)). Great. But it seems that the peak of the movie is quite a bit higher at that flashback part between the two main characters... instead where it should be. Some more descriptive sights, situations and representations of concepts, (fascinating - in the spirit of the ones seen in the movie) here and there wouldn't be a bad thing. The movie should have lasted longer - most definitely, but either way the message is clearLife CAN really BE meaningful and beautiful. "},{"Title":"Too Painful to Think About","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From a production stand point, the so to speak total lack of lighting is completely unbearable... oh scenes were lit, but rendered so flat as to remove all shadows.As for Continuity, there is none. We go from first person to third person during intimate 'mind scans' that should ahve been seen from the first person perspective. Motrin is required. At least Overdrawn at the Memory Bank had continuity. There is a saying, A thousand monkeys with typewriters, given sufficient time could randomly produce all the works of Shakespear.This movie 1 monkey, 1 day, 1 spotlight the size of the sun.I really feel for Christopher Walken and Natalie Wood for being in this... thing.How many Douglas Trumbulls does it take to screw in a lightbulb? "},{"Title":"huh?","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie and i just red the so called plot summary here but i still dont understand the story. Sorry. I could watch it again and again and im sure i wont understand the story. its like they cut lots of movies in to pieces and latery brought them somehow together. Dont get me wrong, the story is not absurd. Its just too weird. I liked the camera perspectives and somehow everything looked so brillant.Although i was watching it on TV it was just as i was watching it on cinema. Again, i would be glad if you can explain me what in the movie happens. you know my email. If you want to see a movie which is really REAL then watch it. "}{"Title":"there's something about Christopher Walken and being baked.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I heard of this movie from baked potatoes a pot smokers guide to film and video. And the first time I watched it, i was quite baked, almost well done. It didn't disappoint. Between a jumpy plot, crazy effects, Christopher Walken, and all sorts of oddball shenanigans it was an wesome movie. Not even the disturbing presense of Louise Fletcher aka  nurse ratched as a chain smoking sci-damsel could offset the pure loonyness of this movie.    Two years later I rented it again, but this time had a Christopher Walken marathon/ brew and view with a couple of friends. After Suicide Kings, and the priceless Dogs Of War, we we're pretty inebriated. I pop in Brainstorm. The movie itself is laugh inducing enough, but with four of us donig a Mystery Science Theater 3000 job on it, and making cross refrence jokes to other Walken movie it was riot. I was laughing so hard half way through that i had tears in my eyes. I couldn't even drink my beer I was laughing so hard.    There's just something about Christopher Walken movies and being drunk or baked. That alternate universe you visit when not sober must be the birthplace of one of the strangest men ever born. I give this puppy a nine out of ten, and to this day i've still never seen it in a completely sober state of mind. "},{"Title":"Mostly boring","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good ending but taking a very, very long time to get there. "},{"Title":"The Last and The Best","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The only person that I base my rating of this movie is that without her, it would be less than 0 in rank. Natalie Wood played her heart out in every movie she was in. Her heart was in every movie from Happy Land to BrainStorm. It is her style and genius that will edify, personalize and beautify any actor or actress that will see her as their model for acting along side James Dean. There was a chemistry with Jimmy that she had with no other actor after him. But I rate this movie specifically as a 10 with her being primarily involved in the making, was not because she passed away before it was completed, but because even if Natalie was in a movie for 30 seconds to it's full length, she was The True Star, which will always be the heart and soul of it. Her acting ability came from her heart and soul alone, not just being another character in a movie. And the only other actor, which will will be known to have shared her heart and soul in acting, happened to be on only 3 movies, and that was James Byron Dean-----a great friend----as she often recalled later only to a few. "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recently rented this video as I had always wanted to see this film since it was  shot on location in North Carolina and was the last movie Natalie Wood madebefore she died. I didn't realize it was directed by Douglas Trumbull, and Ishuddered after seeing the opening credits.As bad as Silent Running is, this movie is ten times worse. Somehow Trumbull thinks that filming great-looking locations and inserting special effects into a movie is what movie-making is all about. He doesn't have a clue otherwise, and Hollywood seems to agree as I see that these two movies are the only ones he's ever directed. "}]