[{"Title":"Don't worry about the critics, it's a classic now!!!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"120 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This lovely film was universally trashed and smashed by all the critics. FF Coppola directed it, but they still smashed it. I don't get that.The then unknown cast was Patrick Swayze, Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell, Rob Lowe, Ralph Macchio, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane, and Leif Garrett. All these actors went on to fame, but the whole movie, the performances, the writing, were trashed.I thought the cinematography was exceptionally lovely. The Nothing Gold Can Stay sunrise scene was gorgeous. The camera angles during the hair cutting scenes were creative and intimate. The music was epic sounding, yeah, but this film had a huge tie in with Gone With The Wind, remember. I thought the soft lighting and the creamy edging made the film look very much like IT was filmed in 1939!!!I don't know. I thought the chracters were very engaging and the performances excellent. Lots of people loved this film, regular people like myself, that is. "},{"Title":"When trouble finds you, don't back down.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"103 out of 137 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A gem from Francis Ford Coppola based on S.E. Hinton's novel. Teenage gang members in a mid 60's Oklahoma town become involved in murder, leading to tragic consequences for all concerned. Filmed mostly in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with a very impressive list of young actors on their way to stardom.The cast includes Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze, Rob Lowe and Tom Cruise. Also featured are Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane, C. Thomas Howell, Gailard Sartain and Ralph Macchio.A coming of age movie that packs a punch. Very much worth your time. "},{"Title":"Great Movie and Accurate Adaptation","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"92 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I had to read the book in seventh grade and we also watched the movie. I though both of them were fabulous. Francis Ford Coppola has adapted almost every detail of the book into this movie. I thought the acting was great and the plot was good for teenagers, which is the movie's, as well as the book's, target audience. I was surprised on how many stars were in this movie (seven) and it was much better than I thought it would be. It didn't seem cheesy and small but you felt like you were watching a real film. Even though the Greasers seem to be born into undesirable lives, watching this movie makes you want to go back to 1967 in the Southwest and be a Greaser, too. Fabulous movie and perfect for teenagers. "},{"Title":"Teen tensions mount on both sides of the tracks","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"47 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders was one of my favorite novels I read in high school, and the film version is just as powerful. -- Set in a small town in 1963 Oklahoma, two groups of teenagers from opposite sides of the tracks defend their turf and rival for girls. The Greasers are tired of being shown-up by the Soashes, who drive around in fancy cars and wear expensive clothes, and when someone calls for a rumble, both sides are in for the fight.The main plot line centers around two of the younger Greasers who are on the run after one of them kills a Soash, even though it was clearly self defense. Later the boys are celebrated as heroes when they rescue children from a burning building. The dying words of the alleged killer sum up the entire story The fighting must stop; there are better ways to communicate other than kill one another. The Stevie Wonder song Stay Gold is a nice finishing touch. I especially recommend this film for teenagers or young adults; the message is a powerful one and it hasn't aged over the decades. "},{"Title":"The Outsiders","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"82 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is one of the best movies and books ever written! It was manatory for me to read it and I got right in with the characters. The movie is......... I can't describe it, it's that awesome! I personally, fell in love with it so much that I've read it 5 times and have seen it 45 times. This movie really brings out the book and if you have not seen it, but you've read it go to your local movie store and rent it! Or, if you have not even read it go read it! This is a movie that you will talk about with your friends and will always remember. Both Coppola and Hinton did a great job with this. This movie included excellent acting to, Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio, Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, and Tom Cruise. This movie will surly be popular with those who love Drama. "},{"Title":"I admire both the book and movie","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"47 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think that both the movie and the book were outstanding. The book sent off an amazing image in my mind in-order for me to picture the happenings included through the lives of these young kids. In the movie, I thought it sent off a different type of perspective, and yet it was very well done because of the fact that it was changed a bit, though, it was basically a better image of the story where you can see through your eyes, so that you were able to picture and make out with what you originally were thinking. Very well done! The actors were placed in very well positions, and each actor really fit each character the story The Outsiders. =) "},{"Title":"Fairly good adaptation","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"47 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First let me say that this will not be a comment where the author will be gushing about how hot the cast is! Like a lot of people who have commented on this film I, too, read the book first in school and then proceeded to seek out the film to see how the story translated to the screen. I thought esteemed director Francis Ford Coppola (The Godfather, Apocalypse Now) did a fairly competent job of adapting the book (there will always be somerevisions and omissions in such an enterprise). He preserved the essence of the class struggle the eternal conflict between those who were better favored by birth and station (Socs) with those less favored (Greasers). Coppola elicited more than competent performances from the young up-and-coming cast he assembled. All in all, a very good coming of age film. "},{"Title":"An all time classic!","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"45 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is a great film, well done and well acted, I read the novel by S.E. Hinton, great book. I am glad they made this movie back in 1983.The Outsiders touched on a lot of issues when it came to having money and not having money, the greasers where the poor kids from the north side of town and the socs are the rich kids from the south side of town. Matt Dillon(Over The Edge, The Flamingo Kid) as Dallas Winston, Tom Cruise(Top Gun, Vanilla Sky, and Minority Report)as Steve, Ralph Macchio(The Karate Kid Parts I,II,and III) as Johnny Cade, C. Thomas Howell(The Hitcher, Red Dawn,and Soul Man) as Ponyboy Curtis, Rob Lowe(About Last Night, St. Elmo's Fire and Wayne's World)as Sodapop Curtis, Patrick Swayze(Red Dawn, Grandview U.S.A. and Point Break) as Darrell Curtis. Emilio Estevez(The Breakfast Club, Repo Man, St. Elmo's Fire and Nightmares) as Two Bit Matthews, Diane Lane(My Dog Skip, Streets of Fire, and Unfaithful) as Cherry Valance, Darren Dalton(Red Dawn) as Randy, and former teen heart throb Leif Garrett as Bob Sheldon, William Smith(Any Which Way You Can, Red Dawn and Conan The Barbarian) as the stork clerk, Michelle Meyrink(Valley Girl, Real Genius, and Revenge of the Nerds) as Marcia, make up the great cast for this awesome film.The movie really touched me in lots of ways, the story of kids being on the wrong side of the tracks, like Ponyboy and Johnny, who have a lot of heart and goodness inside. The movie does show what the true meaning of friendship and spirituality, especially Ponyboy loving sunsets. The poem by Robert Frost, Nothing Gold Can Stay, does have a lot of meaning about youth and the moments of enjoying things you find wonderful when you are young, you should always embrace them.I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 10/10 stars. Francis Ford Coppola did an excellent job directing the movie.The song, Stay Gold, is such a great song, sung really well by Stevie Wonder. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"28 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is a great adaptation of S.E Hinton's wonderful (and heart-breaking) novel. The film is a piece of art. It's got a good, solid story, beautiful photography, convincing acting by the leading actors and a nice score.It's a star-packed film with appearances by Tom Cruise, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze among others. (Not to mention it was directed by Francis Ford Coppola!)    But I was most amazed by C. Thomas Howell's portrayal of Ponyboy Curtis, the central character of the novel and film, who did a great job carrying the story. There are many scenes in the film that are exactly like the book, even following the same dialogue. Usually I don't think that's a good thing since I like to see someone else's interpretation, another one's point of view instead of a copy of the book.  But Coppola masters everything beautifully anyway so it never gets boring and C. Thomas Howell's interpretation of his role is what makes the film stand on its own.Thanks to Howell there are many memorable Ponyboy moments. One of those is Ponyboy's recital of Robert Frost's 'Nothing Gold can stay', which is a scene that stays with you forever. Another actor who caught my attention in this film was Emilio Estevez who plays Two-Bit Mathews, friend of the Curtis brothers and a greaser. Estevez lights up every scene he's in and the film wouldn't be as great without him. There are only two things I don't like about the film The greasers are too well-groomed and clean and the socs are a too one-dimensional.  "},{"Title":"I loved the Book and Movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"38 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first read the book, I thought it was excellent. Then after reading the book, I decided to watch the movie. The first time I watched it I thought it was horrible, but then I watched it a second time and started realizing what the director was trying to point out. I thought that Coppola left out ALOT of VERY important details, like the first chapter, which wasn't really important but more then some scenes he put in. I also think he could have picked the actors better, not by how they acted (they acted great, but by how they looked, in the book it said Dally was towheaded (blonde) and he had dark brown hair in the movie, and it also said he was ugly and frightening, but I found him pretty good looking, BUT it was played by Matt Dillon.Now I have the movie and have watched it a hundred times, and liking it more every time I see it. I have also read the book over and over, and find it better then the movie. If you are to watch the movie, read the book first because then the film will be easier to understand. I would recommend, both the movie and book to young adults. It was done wonderfully and the actors were great, especially Matt Dillon and Rob Lowe, even though he only had a few lines.  "}{"Title":"stay gold","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A terrific tweener for kids of any era. Serious but sweet, and refreshingly free of cynicism.Godfather Coppola has a real way with family, go figure. But here he keeps the themes and emotions simple. One of the reasons for this story's lasting power is that it was written by a teenager, and so accurately reflects kids' perspective. It would have been very tempting to try and infuse an adaptation with layers, to comment on the action and show yourself superior, but Coppola exercises great restraint and appropriate respect for the material. He knows it isn't profound stuff, but he understands that it *feels* profound to kids who identify with it. In walking this tightrope, he creates a rare thing a movie that's for kids but neither talks down to or indulges them.Lowe, Dillon, Estevez, Howell, Macchio, Garrett, Swayze. Only Cruise and Lane (and Sofia!) seem bigger now than they are here. That, and the 20-some years since, makes The Outsiders all the more poignant. "},{"Title":"A and Not A NON SEQUITUR","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe header is from formal symbolic logic A and ~A is a logical contradiction. The movie depicts a hellish world where two economic groups fight incessantly. First, this is wrong sociologically for after WW2, the rich moved far away from downtown way out into the suburbs. Hence, the term suburbia was born. By the 50s, the putative setting for the movie, these groups where not mixed together. They had their own respective drive ins and restaurants. The other problem is the invisibility of parents. Soda Pop's died in a crash, Johnny's are spoken of in absentia but all the others are invisible. This is necessary by Hinton for one can hardly idealize childhood without removing the most odious aspect slavery. Yes, those halcyon, golden days featured the absence of one small word freedom. Like, ROAD HOUSE, where apparently Jasper has no law enforcement of any kind, here children live alone in some childhood, twilight zone fantasy. The movie is ugly, depressing, slow like molasses and logically contradictory. My header refers to in the midst of this Stygian world of eternal internecine warfare and hatred, with murder, flight, tragedy, cop execution and resignation we are treated to Robert Frost's poem about NOTHING GOLD CAN STAY. Even without parents, with this fantasy level of freedom, is this a world you would like to stay in forever? Then we get treated to moral relativism Johnny is both murderer and rescuer good and evil are predicated on situational tricks of fate. Dallas feels that because Johnny dies that entitles him to go on a rampage and we are supposed to pity him. Hinton is a relic of the Progressive Era at the turn of the 20th century that blamed slums for producing criminals. Watch the old movie DEAD END, the same identical silliness. Look, I grew up in a rotten neighborhood and have taken care of my family for twenty years. Being in a slum no more makes you a criminal than moving into a space shuttle makes you an astronaut. As a film, it is unrelentingly dark, depressing and nihilistic. In the middle of this hellish reality, get ready for an absolutely moving, life affirming poem about how we wish we could live forever in this heavenly paradise? WHAT? The acting is very poor with the exception of Matt Dillon who does a good job. Johnny and Pony Boy's delivery of their lines will make you wince. I always have preferred the more boring but much philosophically deeper RUMBLE FISH. If you enjoy murder, running away, tragedy, a police execution of a young boy, with the addition of two groups of people at each other's throats forever; hey, this is the movie for you. It moves like rocks eroding; I recommend drinking a pot of coffee first, or several energy drinks. Their world is not gold; it is another color, dark brown. "},{"Title":"Waste of talent and a waste of time..","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Unlike many other commenters, I have not read the book. Perhaps the movie is better appreciated after one reads the book, but I can't understand what so many people see in this film.I'd always heard about the all-star cast in this film, but never got a chance to see it. Was it all Coppolla's fault that so many great actor's didn't shine in this film? Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez and Rob Lowe are all underused. Thankfully, Patrick Swayze's terrible performance is kept to a minimum.The major problem I had with the performances is that most of them just didn't ring true as 50's era outsiders. These kids seemed to be what they were - 1980's kids acting out 1950's caricatures, while paradoxically trying to portray a human side to these characters.The Soc's are shown as being almost completely one-dimensional, except for a heart-to-heart talk with PonyBoy, where PonyBoy recognizes that the Soc is just another guy (although he doesn't have many qualms about getting into a brawl with them later).Were we supposed to sympathize with Johnny for murder after he became a hero, saving those kids from the fire (Even though it was apparent that the kids could've saved themselves had the building not been *completely* boarded up)? One moral of the movie seems to be that murder is okay, as long as you kill a bully and later save some school kids.And the whole Greaser tough guy thing was laughable, especially when followed by readings of Gone With The Wind, and watching the sunset. I know that was supposed to be touching, but I couldn't tell if I should cringe or laugh.I realize that all this criticism of the storyline will probably fall flat with those who have read the book. Still, I believe that if the book is that good, Coppolla could have been more selective with the story, and made a more believable film out of it.If this is a movie that you have never gotten a chance to see, and wondered what all the hoopla was about, then watch it, and you may still wonder. "},{"Title":"Poor acting drags down a solid story","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I read S.E Hintons The Outsiders in school and I loved it, and then we were told we were going to watch the movie adaptation of the book. I found out it was directed by Francis Ford Coppola, so obviously my expectations couldn't of been higher. Sadly, the film turned out to be a huge disappointment.The films biggest problem is the acting, the acting problem is almost universal throughout the cast, and although some aren't as bad as others, the ones that count are the ones that are the worst. The only lead actor that has some good moments is Matt Dillon, who plays Dallas, not to say that he doesn't have some bad parts too. The actors drag down scenes that are supposed to have an impact, and I often found myself bursting out in laughter at how cringe worthy it gets in some scenes. Also, when a character isn't well portrayed, it isn't as easy to resonate with them or want to root for them, when they are either being so wooden about everything or being completely over the top.The main reason why I had high expectations for this film was because of Francis Coppola, who directed some of the best films ever made. Disappointingly, he doesn't bring much to the film. What should be standout scenes just feel mundane, and when something is added to a scene for impact,(for example, an overlay of a characters face on top of a scene whilst their narrating a letter they wrote), just feel silly and out of place, like they belong in a cheesy romance movie.In terms of comparison to the book, I thought that the film also never really captured the themes presented in the book as well as it could of, and the film is also lacking something that the made the book so captivating, and that's Ponyboys thoughts throughout the story, I felt that was a really important thing in the book, without it you never really get to know the character as much. I'm aware that most voice over in films is incredibly cheesy and something as cheesy as that is the last thing this film needs, it's just something that only adds to how inferior the film is to the book. I will say that the film is definitely faithful to the book, and it still has the same story that the book has, the problem is that the story is presented so poorly.Overall, I wouldn't recommend this film at all. Perhaps if Copolla put more effort into the film, or if the acting wasn't so mediocre, the film would be fine. This isn't the case, though. Key scenes that are supposed to be emotional are nearly impossible to take seriously, the characters are so poorly portrayed that they're hard to sympathize with, and the direction just lacks style and personality. "},{"Title":"The Insiders","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is what you get when a high-octane Hollywood director tries to make a movie about outsiders, from an insider point of view. The story is set in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Yet, Hollywood-Coppola hires Michigan-born Stevie Wonder to sing a nondescript song that in no way relates either to the Oklahoma setting or even to the story's time period of the 1950s. Several times Coppola inserts a pop song called Gloria (G-L-O-R-I-A), recorded in 1964, years after the word greasers was in style. Coppola further hires a cast of actors, no fewer than five of which are from the state of New York ... so much for authenticity.Maybe the novel by Hinton, on which the script was based, is good. But this Hollywood-insider film is not. The story plots the conflict between the high school age so-ches (short for the wealthy, high society crowd) from the good side of town, vs. the greasers from across the tracks. But the too-talky, us-vs-them script fails to develop the characters, hardly surprising, given how many of them there are. Quite aside from poor casting, neither the Emilio Estevez character nor the Tom Cruise character is needed.Though the characters' ages generally are late teens to early twenties, their dialogue suggests people thirty years older. There's still lots of good in the world. Tell (that) to ... I don't think he knows, says one overly mature teen to another.The plot is highly contrived, as evidenced by the big rumble sequence, clearly staged and choreographed as if it were a cowboys and Indians shoot-out from some John Ford western.Much of the plot and acting are overly melodramatic and hokey, with some characters practically begging for sympathy from teary-eyed young female viewers who are expected to fawn over the youthful, photogenic male cast.The only saving element to this film is the cinematography. Though the film is in color, the hues are highly subdued, and thus convey a romanticized and nostalgic tone. And some of the camera framing is quite artistic. I think the visuals work well from the POV of the lead character. On the other hand, a lot of scenes take place at night, and the corresponding use of camera filters is obvious.Francis Ford Coppola is a talented and well-respected director. But his Hollywood-insider POV proves counter-productive when trying to make a film about 1950s youthful social outcasts in Tulsa, Oklahoma. "},{"Title":"You will never see a cast like this again","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Now that one of the cast members of this highly memorable, but also kind of tedious and slow teen film, is no longer with us, let me remind everybody that this movie was made before anyone had ever heard of much of the cast.The reason to see it is mainly the cast, not if you are a fan of the book because although it is more faithful to the source than the dismal That Was Then, This Is Now, you will find many omissions.The casting is spot on and I can't think of anyone who could do better with the characters they were given. Especially Emilio Estevez as Two Bit and the aforementioned Patrick Swayze as Darrel.So if you want to reminisce about those years gone by where things looked a little more innocent, enjoy seeing a one in a lifetime cast. Just don't expect a fun filled romp. The movie is virtually moving back in time. "},{"Title":"Great book made into a LOUSY film","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I like so many of you out there read this book back when i was 12 or 13 years old, got it from the school library and absolutely loved this book. And then news came out that this book was going to be made into a movie, and i was really excited to see it. It had some great stars in it, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise, C Thomas Howe, Emillio Estevez and Matt DillionThis movie, i don't know how else to say it, SUCKED!!!! The acting was terrible, especially Diane Lane who played Cherry Valance, she was by far the worst actor in this movie.I cant see how anyone who read and liked the book could even begin to like this movie, it was obviously put together in a hurry, the actors, all of them didn't have a clue on how to portray these characters, i blame the director and the actors, poor job all the way around in my opinion.The Church was supposed to be on top of a huge hill, and there was no mention as to why Johnny and Ponyboy went into the church to save the kids in the first place, they just went in to save the kids in the movie, but the book says they went in because they felt responsible because they were the ones who were smoking in there.If you enjoyed the book, i recommend watching this movie just so you will appreciate the book even more.Terrible Terrible adaption of one of my favorite books growing up, SE Hinton you should be ashamed to allow this piece of crap to be put on the big screen "},{"Title":"Not half the book","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a literature assignment, I read the Outsiders, by SE Hinton. Right away I fell in love with the story. Hinton's writing was wonderful! Then I was recommended the movie, and was told it was great as well. After hearing who was in it (all wonderful and well-known actors), I guess I expected more The movie disgusted me. It was terrible!!!!! Not half the book. Heck, not a tenth of the book. The scenes were sketchy, the storyline didn't flow right at all, and the acting was terrible-- especially for such great actors as those that were in this movie. If you want to learn about the story, go read the book. And if you have already read the book, don't ruin it by watching this awful production. "},{"Title":"This film was left outside in the cold...","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Francis... What were you thinking?I have seen some of the greatest films ever made....  Some of them were made by Francis Ford Coppola...  This thing  doesn't come anywhere near it...  I have no idea what some of the other posters were watching... Maybe they were watching Stand By Me and mixed the films up...  "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Infamous not only for the stunning amount of future (then unknown) movie stars as for it's uneven direction, The Outsiders, by no means a poor movie, starts fantastically and a third of the way through descends into a mire of corniness and choppy staging from which it is never really able to recover from. It leaves such a bitter taste ( especially for fans of the acclaimed YA novel) I believe because it starts so well, with Francis Ford Coppola's masterful staging of ensemble scenes and a seemingly unstoppable fast pace. It's unfortunately fitting that the film starts with bouncy rock and roll ( with the song Gloria used to fantastic effect) and then once the plot takes a turn for the dark it seems like Coppola has entrusted his direction with Carmine Coppola's unwieldy and manipulative music score. It's not all bad once you reach the third way point, the scenes with the boys just talking in Ponyboys house really flow, but Coppola rely's a lot on uncharacteristic framing devices like poorly placed jump cuts, shifting aspect ratios, fade ins, and a whole lot of corn. While the dialog is corny during the whole movie it sticks out like a sore thumb for most of the movie while in the opening it kind of fades away with Coppola's playful direction. As far as the acting goes curiosity value makes some of it more bearable then it must have been when the movie was originally released. I shall go one by one.C.Thomas Howell- Ponyboy Curtis- Has a very limited range of expressions and actions, though he was hot stuff for a maybe 3 more years, suffice to say, he is no longer hot stuff. Though he never really has to carry the film except during the sequences at the church where the movie falls apart.Matt Dillon- Dallas- While he is occasionally over the top he is an extremely commanding screen presence and the best actor in the film by far.Ralph Macchio- Johnny- Simply annoying, he manages to make most of his dialog irritating.Patrick Swayze- Darry- Look tough, take off shirt, Say three word line, repeat. His character is way cut down from the book and never manages to seem intimidating.Rob Lowe- Sodapop- Look cute, take off shirt, say one word line, repeat. Unfourtunely Lowe, who tries his best, has about 30 seconds of screen time. His part is extremely cut down from the book.Tom Cruise- Steve- Simply insane. Though Coppola's camera does it's best to ignore him. He isn't really a character as much as a unintentionally amusing ball of energy. "}{"Title":"Best left back in 1983","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I hadn't read the book or seen the original film before sitting down to watch this 20th Anniversary Edition with Coppola's intro and comments from Swayze and Laine amongst others about their roles in the production.I'm sorry but that was about as interesting as it got and I'm of the opinion that this film should have been left back in 1983 for it does not stand the test of time.I don't normally agree with the film critics but on this occasion they got it spot on first time. The film said nothing new then or now.The violence was sanitized and the big fight scene badly choreographed. The editing wasn't any better either.I half expected at anytime for someone to break into '... when you're a Jet ...' However the film did have undoubted nostalgia. The Hollywood 'Brat Pack' were coming of age and it was interesting to reflect on the direction their individual careers have taken them since.They were fortunate perhaps that they didn't have to rely on this film to enhance their chances of stardom. In the case of Diane Laine it may even have been detrimental. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest...","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't hate this movie, but I don't think it was great. There was a lot of background music, and sometimes it was just distracting to the movie. To me, the parts when Johnny and Pony got jumped and when they rescued those kids in the church fire had background music that kind of didn't fit the mood and was a little too loud. Some of Dally's lines bothered me, like at the movie theater when Johnny told him to stop harassing Cherry, he said, What'd you say to me, you little sh*t, what'd you say to me? I thought that was untrue to the book, as no one spoke that way to Johnny, because he was so sensitive. And also the line, Fight it for Johnny. It just seemed weak to me.The only other things that really bothered me was the scene when Darry hit Ponyboy and the scene in which they (Darry and Ponyboy) are reunited in the hospital. When Darry hit Ponyboy, Ponyboy got right up and ran away, and immediately afterward, Darry says, I didn't mean to. There was no moment of shock at the action, from both of them, as described in the book. The hospital scene is very similar, in my opinion. I saw very little awkwardness between Darry and Ponyboy, I didn't see any hesitation in Ponyboy as he ran to greet him. Moments like these were pretty vital in the book.Overall, it was a pretty good movie; I just don't find it as great as other people do. "},{"Title":"Not the stunning adaptation it could have been, but not a bad one","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I studied the 1967 novel, The Outsiders, by S.E. Hinton, back in middle school. It has been years since then, but it's a very powerful story, and rather hard to forget! I was shown this movie a couple years later, in my first high school English class. I can't remember exactly what I thought at the time (I guess I thought it was so-so), but I have seen it twice since then, and can't say it reached its full potential, but overall, it's still a reasonable adaptation.Ponyboy Curtis and Johnny Cade are two teenagers who are members of the greaser gang. Their rivals are the socs. One night, Ponyboy and Johnny fall asleep in a vacant lot. When they wake up, it is still dark, and they are clueless as to what time it is. Ponyboy goes home, where his eldest brother, Darry (who has looked after his two younger brothers, Ponyboy and Sodapop, since their parents' tragic death), has been worrying about his absence. Darry ends up hitting Ponyboy, and although he then says he didn't mean it, Ponyboy runs away. Pony wakes up Johnny, who is still in the lot, and they go to the park. Unfortunately, they are attacked by a group of Socs, who nearly drown Ponyboy, but Johnny comes to the rescue by killing one of them, and causing the others to run off! To try and avoid arrest, the two leave town, after getting directions from fellow greaser Dallas Dally Winston, who tells them to go to an abandoned church in Windrixville. What does the future hold for these two?! One problem with this movie is that some scenes seem a bit rushed, such as the scene where Darry hits Ponyboy and he runs away. Also, the acting isn't that great, at least not from C. Thomas Howell (who plays Ponyboy) and Ralph Macchio (who plays Johnny). Mainly for those two reasons, some parts of the film are not as gripping as they should be. Fortunately, this adaptation of The Outsiders also has its merits. It's a faithful adaptation (it probably helped that S.E. Hinton was a consultant), despite not including certain parts of the book, which some would be disappointed by. It also includes at least some of the tension and poignancy from the book, and gets more gripping towards the end.Overall, Francis Ford Coppola and Kathleen Rowell did a good job bringing S.E. Hinton's highly acclaimed story to the motion picture format. Far from a perfect job, but a good one nonetheless. For those who have been blown away by the book, I wouldn't expect this movie to be all you could possibly hope for, or else you could easily end up sorely disappointed. However, if you watch the film with moderate expectations, it will probably have a better chance of pleasing you, at least to a certain extent. "},{"Title":"Good book, bad movie","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Like a lot of other reviewers I love the book, but I cringed all the way through this, it's so melodramatic and badly acted. It gave the impression that for each scene the actors had quickly read the relevant page of the book, put it down and said 'OK, lets have a try at that then' The dialogue doesn't flow at all, there's NO concept of understated cool (they were a 'tuff' gang with hidden depths in the book, they just whinge and whine in this) in fact the motto seems to be 'If in doubt, add more angst....and more!' Plus major actions or character traits are not explained or given ANY context - I watched the film with my husband, who hasn't read the book (and now never will) and he kept asking why certain characters did certain things or behaved in certain ways, because there's just nothing to go on! You'd never get the dynamic of any of the relationships - Ponyboy/Darrel, Johnny/Dallas - from what's shown, they just appear to be behaving erratically. Give it a miss before it puts you off a perfectly good book. "},{"Title":"Awesome Book, Average Film","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Our year-11 English class read the book _The Outsiders_, then watched the film. The amount of detail describing the characters in the book, as well as their realistic dialogue, made them easier to relate to than the daggy acting jobs by a talented yet nervously young cast.We felt that the book's scenes that were not shown in the 1983 version of the movie, such as SodaPop's clowning around at the hospital and Pony's denial of Johnny's death, robbed these characters of a depth that engaged us as readers. Also, the film's ending came across as too tidy, too clichéd, when compared to the book's.In terms of music and choreography, we felt the score was simply too orchestrally melodramatic, especially by today's standards. Gloria by Van Morrison was a good choice to represent the Greasers, but Stevie Wonder's Stay Gold ballad as a theme was overly sensitive for these tough yet emotionally raw kids. The rumble scene, which was the climax of the film, needed some improved acting to carry the emotional impact of its significance to the plot.Also, in Johnny and Pony's pivotal scene by the church, the golden sunrise backdrop was distractingly fake. Sure, it may have been reminiscent of the film version of _Gone with the Wind_, but a teen audience, both now and in 1983, would hardly appreciate the reference.Overall, the book was easier for us to relate to, even here in Perth, Australia, in 2007. We could visualise it happening in our neighbourhoods, to our friends. We'd definitely recommend that people read the book first before watching the film, as the film's ending is premature and too neat compared with the book, and readers may lose interest in the rest of the book's story, which is more important for characterization than plot development.Mr Klein's Year 11 English Class -- Prendiville Catholic College "},{"Title":"The worst.  It makes The Godfather, Part 3 look good.","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was a huge fan of the book when I first read it in 1982. I was excited later to learn that a motion picture adaptation was being made and that Coppola was directing it. Later that spring, I saw the movie and was thoroughly disgusted! The movie was cramped and hacked and was a mess. Even though a major part of the junior high school population has read this book, it would have been nice that some care was taken into consideration in making this movie. There was no character development, no explanations of action, no real action! It was suppose to be this art film for kids and it was a celluloid failure. No knew why Johnny hated his parents; no one knew how the Curtis' became orphans; Soda had a girlfriend who mysteriously left town(she was pregnant with his child);and no one knew why Dallas was the way he was.This movie was terrible and it's all Coppola's fault. "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie. One of the best ever!","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's amazing that this movie has become my all-time favorite. I first read the book in grade 9 and we watched the movie soon after. I immediately became obsessed with it, as all of my friends can tell you. I love the whole story of it. The friendships, like Pony and Johnny, and the relationship between Sodapop and Ponyboy as brothers. There were many touching scenes, and the new version has many new and improved ones. My favorites include the scene when Soda runs away. I thought it was brilliantly acted and I'm very glad they put it back in the movie. Dally's death scene was also improved and is more dramatic now, and the last scene when Pony is reading Johnny's letter always gets to me. The all star cast was a great asset to this film and I would recommend it to anyone in a heart beat.Jess "},{"Title":"Good piece of writing","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is a very powerful book with so many deep meanings behind it. I went through many emotions during reading this, and most of the chapters I enjoyed reading. Although it is very well written piece, it is sort of monotonous at times. As well as this, the characters, settings and plot were sometimes hard to follow. Out of 10 stars, I would give it a 7 because I did thoroughly enjoy it. It moves at a good pace, and it is very well revised. 8th graders is a good audience for this piece, and they can get many valuable lessons while reading it. The movie barely differed from the book. However, the movie is at a very very slow pacing and it was very boring to me. "},{"Title":"Movie Undemined the Book","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The story is so intriguing with such captivating drama, that no representation could have been unentertaining. Despite overdramatized acting and a rough flow between scenes, the story was enough to carry this movie. The story was well portrayed and the effects matched the content of the story, but some highly relevant sequences were left out of the movie that made it difficult to follow at some points, The first time watching this movie, I was disappointed and felt it undermined what was a very elegant story. After watching it multiple times, the movie and it's actors have grown on me and I have begun to enjoy it more. This movie is a must see if you have read the book, but will most likely not make sense without prior knowledge of the novel. "},{"Title":"Difficult to Describe","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It really is. Because, let's be honest, this is not a quality film. And when I say quality, I'm looking most at acting. Performances, line delivery, oh, and plus, the music. Cringeworthy music. But, other than that, I'll actually go ahead and label this as a must-see for literary readers around middle school age. The film is surprisingly close to the book it is adapting, so for all those who have a problem with The Hobbit and The Hunger Games sagas, this is for you. I think, however, one of the great charms of this film is seeing all those soon-to-be stars of teen films long before they were. Howell, Macchio, Swayze, Dillon, Lowe, Estevez, and even Cruise?! It's like the Expendables for the 80s teen genre before we knew they were! However, once again, the degrading thing is they had yet to give the performances of their lifetimes, and their acting was a long way away from great. But, focusing on what the film is telling itself is a real urge inside you, telling you to think. It gives a view of not just what it was like to be a teen in the 50s, but what it was like to be a low-class teen. A greaser. Those leather-jacketed hoodlums that everybody thought were scum until the Fonz hit the small screen. That being said, the movie does what the book does and takes it to an extreme, basically telling us what the greasers go through everyday, and then going the extra mile by asking, Now, what if there was a death that looked like the greasers' fault? The results? So in other words, it accurately shows what it was like, then shows us the craziest thing that could happen and what would result because of that and how it was like in the days that that crazy thing occurred in. Overall, I recommend reading the novel by S.E. Hinton before you watch the film, because in this case the book is certainly better. The drama in the film is overdone as it tended to be back then, but if you read the book and know all the subtext that would be going on during the film, you can understand it's a meaningful piece of work. "}{"Title":"Curiously Unmoving!","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Curiously unmoving, despite convincingly realistic performances and a great deal of money rolling around &#x96; though notice that the schoolhouse they burn down also doubles as the empty church. The problem is that what the movie has to say is not only familiar but pretentious. Greasers spouting Robert Frost are not my idea of realism. All the buddy-buddy stuff also moves the film into the same fantasy land that some of the more far-fetched incidents contrive. Beyond some special effect camera tricks, Coppola's direction seems mundane and ordinary. He tends to use close-ups that do nothing but reinforce the banality of much of the dialogue . Scissoring would probably not help. The music score and the photography are better than the movie deserves. "},{"Title":"Critics were a bit too hard on this one","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, I know it's not exactly the BEST film ever made, but it seems to be let down a lot by critics. There are things that must be acknowledged that critics seem to put aside. As you probably all know, this was an adaptation of the S.E. Hinton novel. For a movie that tries to connect to the actual story as much as possible, it does the job well and, as a matter of fact, it's probably the closest adaptation to a novel that I've seen. With adaptations like the Divergent series, which I have read, it doesn't get as close to the book as The Outsiders does, and I know that it's a lot shorter, but it does better than most adaptations I've seen. Critics seem to disregard the fact that it's based off a novel, and it usually sounds like they find it as an original idea that flopped. I won't lie, it IS mediocre if you don't know where it started, and mediocre in general, but Francis Ford Coppola made this movie as a favor for a bunch of middle school students that wanted him to. I'm not saying that critics SHOULD think it should have a chance because of that, I'm just saying, What do you expect? I'll be honest, like most adaptations go, the book was much better, but I still found the book very simple and it kind of had me disinterested at moments, much like the film. I'm not saying this movie is bad, because it's not, and critics seem to beat it HARD. I just felt like as a film, it came out as mediocre. But as an adaptation of a novel, it works pretty well. "},{"Title":"so earnest and so artificial","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell), Dallas Winston (Matt Dillon) and Johnny Cade (Ralph Macchio) are three of the Greasers from the poor north side of town. Dal harasses Cherry Valance (Diane Lane) at the drive-in. Ponyboy, Johnny and Two-Bit Matthews (Emilio Estevez) befriend the girls. Ponyboy's brother Sodapop (Rob Lowe) works at the gas station. He doesn't get along with his oldest brother Darrel (Patrick Swayze) since their parents died. The Socs are the rich kids from the south side. Cherry's boyfriend Bob Sheldon (Leif Garrett) is a drunk. Later that night, Ponyboy runs away from home with Johnny. Bob and a car full of Socs track them down to fight. Ponyboy is almost drowned but Johnny stabs and kills Bob. Dallas helps them hide out in an abandoned church. Later, they decide to return. On the way, they rescue a group of children trapped in a burning church. Johnny is severely burnt and hospitalized. The Socs and The Greasers prepare to fight.Director Francis Ford Coppola has created something unreal and nostalgic. It's a beautiful piece of cinematic art. It's almost a throwback to another era. The dialog is clunky but the mannered speech creates its own atmosphere. It has an interesting artificial quality which Coppola's beautiful look can only enhance. There is something beautiful about this and the great young cast doesn't hurt. "},{"Title":"Nice and to the point","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Normally in reviews of movies, the writer will give a bare skeleton of the plot in order to address specific gripes and issues without spoiling the story; I will make this short. The movie is a wondrous tale of 1950's angst due to the socio-economic and cultural problems of the era. It is not only the tale of young rebellious youths but of class warfare; Rich V. Poor, Privileged vs The Forgotten. It is a story of young men rejecting their situation physically as well as mentally; a revolution of the spirit. With a terrific cast of young actors that would rightfully take their place as established pillars of the industry- even an uncredited cameo of Nic Cage- this movie in many ways is legendary. And so is the talent which sprang forth. After I finish it for the umpteenth time, I think I'll follow the bread crumbs of these fine actors within their travels and go check out Cage's new thriller Trespass. I just saw the trailer and it looks unforgettable. http//bitly.com/qN22Cm "},{"Title":"Not a bad adaptation of an outstanding novel","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is my all-time favorite book and I had been waiting for months to rent the movie. When I finally saw it, I have to admit that I was a little disappointed. Although the novel is a very fast-moving story, I thought that some of the scenes in the movie went by just a little too fast, and sometimes the music seemed out of place. I also really disliked the trail scene. It was not at all what I was expecting. Some of the acting was poor in some points as well, but overall, I thought the cast did a good job. I thought that Matt Dillon did an outstanding job as Dallas Winston, though.If you loved S. E. Hinton's book, then I would definitely recommend seeing this, just don't get your hopes up too high. Even if you didn't like the book, although I'm not sure if that is even possible =), I would recommend this movie because of the cast. Even though most of the acting wasn't absolutely incredible, it's fun to see how a lot of big actors (such as Tom Cruise, Matt Dillon, and Patrick Swazye) started off their careers. "},{"Title":"Beginning of the end for Coppola","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everything that would go so wrong in his career is fully on display in this movie. Coppola shoots for a mood that almost works, but falters among too many long philosophical scenes, bad action shots, sloppy direction that allows his young cast to chew scenery, and a surprisingly weak score. Come on, this is 1966--a high point in the history of rock and you know these greaser kids would be into music. Instead we get a lousy, soppy, 1930s-sounding score written by Carmine Coppola that ruins sections of the flick. And two dreadful opening and closing songs that sound like they belong in a completely different movie.The only reason the movie works at all is the strength of the source material. Hinton's The Outsiders was a brilliant book, one of the best American novels of the 60s, and even if it was a young adult book, it still resonates. Coppola tries to capture that feeling, the mixture of youthful hopefulness and poverty-ruined dreams, but just doesn't manage it. Instead we get Matt Dillon sneering his way through the flick, Ponyboy depicted way too young, and a total loss of focus on an important character his oldest brother Derry. And why was Cherry Valance reduced to almost a bit part? Argh. That whole angle was a really important part of Hinton's work.Oh well, at least it isn't the overly-stylized mess that Rumble Fish turned out to be, nor the completely ludicrous nonsense that Coppola would put out with numbing regularity for the rest of his career (like Godfather III and Dracula). But you can see all the signs of what was coming.  "},{"Title":"The Laziest Darn Thing I've Ever Seen","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  May contain Spoilers When you think about it, it's perfect.  A modern classic book, an acclaimed director, a promising cast.  But Francis Ford Coppola dropped the ball in a should-be Oscar winner.  The film looks like Coppola picked the first six guys he saw, and didn't give them the script.  Dally stumbles over all his lines, too much to be natural. Coppola doesn't even look like he read the book.  He doesn't even seem to try with Matt Dillon.  In the book, Dally has white-blonde shaggy hair, apart from the movies, sleek, short, black hair.  I mean Frankie, didn't you even try? Ralph Macchio and C. Thomas Howell are incredibly irritating, and I could not even feel bad for either of them, at least Dillon made me flinch when he died, though if they didn't make him try and get up five times. Emilio Estevez acts Two-Bit well, but he's not really the tough sort of build Two-bit should have. Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze and Tom Cruise are surprisingly underused considering they walk away from this the biggest stars. Frankie Coppola should have retired well before this mess, 2 Stars. "},{"Title":"What a shame...","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this book as a kid, and I work with troubled kids who still love the book. I've seen this film a number of times over the years, and am still disappointed that, with such a FABULOUS cast, that it misses the grit and passion of the story.Ya know what did it? The score. I understand that FFCoppola wants to make his films a family affair, but did he actually LISTEN to what his dad wrote? Sappy strings and a STEVIE WONDER BALLAD???? (ok, that part isn't her fault - what was FFC thinking???). What about some of the early rock songs of the time? I know that's been done a lot, and maybe they didn't want to date the film, but the fashion and language and cars and dress date it already; honestly, I've never heard a musical score that was so badly matched to a story. Heh, might as well get Danny Elfman (great score composer, btw) to write the scores for Star Wars.Now, if you want to hear a terrific score that actually becomes a character of a story, see The Shawshank Redemption... the music in that amazing film, to me, is Andy's voice... listen for it, it expresses what's going on inside of Andy, and occasionally the other characters. THAT is what a film score is supposed to do. "},{"Title":"A very hard hitting and moving story","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A very hard hitting and moving story about rival gangs and the effect it has on the lives of the people in and around the gangs. The story follows two of the younger greasers after one of them accidentally kills a rival gang member in self defence. They leave town and believe they will have to remain on the run forever.With a cast to die for, The Outsiders is an incredible, hard hitting film. Portrayed in a believable and moving way, the cast includes Matt Dillon, Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise, C. Thomas Howell and Rob Lowe. But Ralph Macchio stands out in this film as Johnny Cade.The direction of Francis Ford Coppola along with stunning performances from the cast bring this film to life. You feel for the characters as they take you on an emotional roller-coaster. You laugh along with them and share in the anguish and feel the pain they all go through just to survive. It is hard not to watch the film now without comparing other films the cast have made since this film. But for many of the cast, it is up there with the finest performances of their career.The film is an adaption of a classic novel by S.E. Hinton who was just 16 when the novel was first published in 1967. It was also her first novel. The book has become part of school English curriculum "},{"Title":"Wtf happened here....","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" OK I'm in grade 8 about to graduate into high school. Our class was forced to read the novel WHICH WAS REALLY GOOD, I loved it. My teacher said we were going to watch the movie and I jumped at that idea. All that changed when I saw the first 15 minutes of the movie I was going to throw up. The acting was SOOOOOO freaking bad I was like, wtf who hired these actors... I can act better than them and I swear I'm Not kidding about that. The beginning cut out probably 3 chapters at least, all the parts that were suppose to be sad were REALLY FUNNY because when Johnny stabbed Bob (the most retarded thing I've ever seen because the blood looked REALLY FAKE) he and Pony boy said this, (uhh you really killed him didn't you Johnny Yea I did and they said that with absolutely no expression at all. And when Johnny started to cry and starting to say I wish there were no Socs or Greasers, NOTHING BAD EVEN HAPPENED, I was not even convinced it was even bad, it looked like he started crying for no reason.The only decent part of the movie was the Big Rumble which was bad anyway. The church o my sweat Jesus the church, the director decided that he should cut out all the thrilling sensation that the church had in the book and turned it into the biggest bullshit I've seen.In short this movie sucks, and to all those people that think even for a second that the acting is good all I have to say is WTF IS WRONG WITH YOU. "}{"Title":"Well worth adaption of the classic novel by S.E Hinton","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola is widely known as the mastermind behind some of the most influential films in the history of cinema including 'Apocalypse Now', 'The Godfather', and its sequel. With such significantly outstanding works like these on his resume, it can be difficult to believe he stepped into the coming-of-age drama. But his attempts at working with the genre were proved with positivity when he came to directed this coming-of-age drama based on the classic novel by S.E Hinton. Set in 1966 Tulsa, Oklahoma, this film tells the story of two rivaling social groups The Socs, the rich people who live in nice houses and drive fancy cars, and the greasers, the poor ones with greasy hair, growing up in lower class families. Ponyboy Curtis (played by C. Thomas Howell), a greaser living with his older brother Sodapop (played by Rob Lowe) and his uptight older brother Daryl (played by Patrick Swayze). Along his side is his best friend Johnny (played by Ralph Macchio), and his two friends Steve (played by Tom Cruise), Two-Bit (played by Emilio Estevez), and the toughest guy in the gang Dallas (played by Matt Dillon). These teenagers have been at odds against the Socs, and have engaged in violent confrontations between each other, particularly Johnny was once jumped by a group of Socs. However, one night when Johnny murders a Soc who tries to kill Ponyboy, the tensions between the two groups reach a boiling point.This film based on the novel of the same name provides plenty of commentary to the 50s and 60s social subculture through the story of two rivaling groups in a crime-ridden town. With a moody blues rock soundtrack including the song 'Gloria' by Them and the old classic custom-built cars, the film captures a nostalgic resemblance of the 1960s southern environment. But most importantly, director Francis Ford Coppola manages to capture the powerful portrayal of teen angst and the feeling of not being able to fit in. With the brilliantly written story and characters, the film transcends through an emotional powerhouse that both touches the hearts of audiences and provides a sense of hope. The characters come on screen so beautifully and the audience can engage with just about every one, they are so difficult not to care, especially Johnny and Ponyboy who are pummeled many challenges including domestic disputes and tragedy. The film remains mostly faithful to S.E Hinton's novel while taking just a minimal amount of liberties, but the biggest flaw comes from the exclusion of some the novel's key scenes and the results is some scenes that feel somewhat short of significance. Fortunately, this fault is made up in the Complete Novel Edition on DVD which includes the rest of the important scenes left out from the original. The cast is pretty solid, the performances are great; especially Matt Dillon who plays Dallas with sheer conviction. The Outsiders is well worth achievement by Francis Ford Coppola and the great adaption to S.E Hinton's novel. Definitely one of the best coming-of-age films Hollywood has to offer. Although the original version is good, I strongly recommend watching the Complete Novel Edition set with additional scenes and alternate soundtrack as it stays more true to the novel. "},{"Title":"I did not like this movie","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I found this movie was very boring. The acting was not the greatest and it did not follow the book very well. I did not enjoy the book either so the movie was just not exciting for me to watch. The characters were very well chosen and did a good job of portraying their characters. Personally I was not fond of the characters even though it was based off of a book. I found the gang fights really the only exciting part which is quite sad. When pony boy and Johnny ran away to the church, I found that part not too terrible but over all I disliked the movie a lot. I just found that it was a waste of time to sit and watch the whole movie. So many people say it is a very good movie but as someone from a younger generation I do not find it very good. "},{"Title":"A very rough movie but a good one too!","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is really part of the Jocks Vs Greasers franchise. It clearly states us on what it was like during the 1960s when poverty and rich didn't get on with each other. It reminds me of how Catholics and protestants didn't come to agreement with each other during the troubles in Northern Ireland. All of this fighting was just completely nonsense and pointless.I think it wasn't Johnny's fault for killing one of the socs because they really were crazy for trying to drown him. Jesus, all they cared about was the looks and not the personality! I would worry more of the personality then the looks.It was too bad Johnny died from burns trying to save the children in the old church building which was himself and ponies hideout. Why the hell were people there especially children? That gave me goosebumps and confusion! It didn't give us a chance to know what really happened! It was also too bad Dallas had to die from the police as he was going mental! It was pretty much the loss of Johnny that triggered him to become angry. I really thought Matt Dillon looked gorgeous during his youth, he looks so much like James Franco! Cherry probably should've taken him regardless if he was acting like a dope. However, he still was a cutie back then regardless hahaha! Good film but some scenes are tear jerking! "},{"Title":"An Interesting Adaptation of a Great Book","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The rivalry between two gangs, the poor Greasers and the rich Socs, only heats up when one gang member kills a member of the other.What makes this movie so great is the cast so many young actors on the verge of making it big. Tom Cruise before he became a megastar, Rob Lowe in his first picture. Interestingly, the lead actor -- C. Thomas Howell -- may have gone on to be the least well-known of them all (though still kind of a big deal).Some of this translates well from the book, and some not as much. The dialogue is a bit silly at times, and often drowned out by the music. The camera shots and fade outs are strange, and a bit artistic for this story. And then there is the whole, deeply homoerotic undertone of much of the movie (especially with Johnny)... clearly not intended, but still there. "},{"Title":"Clash of two of the same","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The goal to war is almost as aimless as its outcome. Those who fight rarely even know what they're going into combat for, and those that do rarely want to participate. It's easy to fight your neighbour when you see them as your enemy, but spending even a moment with them will help you realize how unnecessary all the anger and combat truly is.Ponyboy is introduced to a world of pain. Whether it's the constant battles with the Socs, the struggle to fight stereotypes, or simply trying to survive, being a poor teenager in a rough neighbourhood is never easy. Especially when life and death are as swift as a blink, time is a valued commodity that is often not captured. The purpose of fighting is focused on in-depth in this movie, and it displays its futility. The Outsiders tells the tale of a courageous teenager and the circumstances he deals with along with his family. Although the overall story is touching, the plot delivery is rather weak and simply not very stimulating except for a few scenes. The respective actors fit their roles well, but their acting was mediocre for the most part. Above all, The Outsiders is a great story yet the film fails to enrapture me which is my main disappointment.Nonetheless, with the strong message it sends, it is certainly worth the watch. The Outsiders is a tale for the ages, just one that can be told better. "},{"Title":"Good Drama!","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, Ralph Macchio, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez and Diane Lane star in Francis Ford Coppola's 1983 drama based on S.E. Hinton's novel. Howell (Red Dawn) plays American, grease-haired teen, Ponyboy Curtis who grows up in the 1960's where greasers didn't get along with another group, the socials, rich snobby kids. Macchio (The Karate Kid) plays his pal, Johnny Cade and the 2 of them not only get bullied, but have family problems. One night, things get out of hand when Johnny kills a social in self-defense because he tries drowning Ponyboy and the 2 of them go into hiding. Soon, they rescue a group of young kids in a burning school becoming heroes and Johnny becomes badly burned. Dillon (Wild Things) plays their friend, Dallas Winston who is used to getting in trouble and helps them, but comes to an unfortunate end after Johnny dies. Ponyboy learns that family and friendship are most important. Lowe (St. Elmo's Fire) plays Ponyboy's brother, Sodapop, the late, Swayze (Road House) plays their older brother, Darryl, Cruise (Top Gun) plays their friend, Steve Randle, Estevez (The Breakfast Club) plays other friend, Two-Bit Matthews, Lane (Unfaithful) plays Cherry Valence who befriends Ponyboy and Hinton makes a cameo as a nurse. This is a good film with a great cast I recommend. "},{"Title":"A Movie With Up-Coming Stars And Future Superstars","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is an American drama film directed by Francis Ford Coppola.It is an adaptation of the 1967 novel written by S. E. Hinton. The movie is noted for its cast of future stars namely C.Thomas Howell,Rob Lowe,Emilio Estevez,Matt Dillon,Tom Cruise,Patrick Swayze,Ralph Macchio,and Diane Lane.The movie was set during the 1960s. The Greasers are a gang of tough, low-income youths in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Their members include Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell) and his two older brothers, Soda (Rob Lowe) and Darry (Patrick Swayze), together with Johnny Cade (Ralph Macchio), Dally Winston (Matt Dillon), Two-Bit Matthews (Emilio Estevez), and Steve Randle (Tom Cruise). Their fateful rivalry is with the Socs,short for Socials,a gang of preppier kids. There are a series of confrontations including when five of the Socs jump Ponyboy and cut his neck with a switchblade;when Johnny had been attacked; Bob Sheldon (Leif Garrett) and Randy Adderson (Darren Dalton), two of the Socs, confront Johnny, Ponyboy, and Two-Bit, who have befriended their girlfriends, Cherry (Diane Lane) and Marcia (Michelle Meyrink), at a drive-in;Ponyboy and Johnny are attacked later in a park by Bob, Randy and two other Socs; and when the Socs begin dunking Ponyboy in a fountain fortunately Johnny comes to his rescue by pulling out his own switchblade and stabbing Bob and killing him.The movie was a good one as up-coming stars and future superstars headed the cast of the film. The story was good as it centered on gangs and their confrontations.So was the direction of Francis Ford Coppola who excels in about gangsters and violence.Overall,I give this film an 8/10. Highly recommended for fans of the cast in their early roles. "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Parts of this movie rang true to me while other parts seemed out of place. Based on the book by S.E. Hinton, the story treads on the familiar territory of group conflicts among teens. There are the Greasers versus the Socs (pronounced sohshes--the social elite) in 1960s Tulsa. Of course we are encouraged to identify with the Greasers as the underdogs, and indeed their lives are hard with parents who are not there, or who are there and don't care about their kids. Among the cast of budding young stars it is C. Thomas Howell (as Ponyboy), Ralph Macchio (as Johnny) and Matt Dillon (as Dallas) who get the most screen time. The setup of the conflict between the two gangs is done well enough with Ponyboy falling for one of the Socs' girls, provoking a jealously-fueled retaliation. This comes while Johnny and Ponyboy are talking in the park one night when a group of Socs shows up and attacks them, resulting in a killing that has Johnny and Ponyboy going on the lam. They wind up at an abandoned church upon the advice of Dallas who is the go-to guy among the Greasers. It is some of the scenes at the church that I found hardest to digest, such as the one that has Ponyboy reciting Robert Frost's Nothing Gold Can Stay to Johnny while bathed in the amber light of a sunset. Also, Ponyboy reads Gone with the Wind out loud to Johnny during their stay. Who thought that Greasers could be so sensitive. To disguise themselves Ponyboy and Johnny decide to cut off their hair and this amounts to clipping a few strands--I suppose the director did not want to lose the attractiveness of the two handsome young actors. Another hokey scene has Johnny and Ponyboy rescuing some children from a burning building. Just in case self defense would not get them off, best to make them heroes.No surprise that the climactic scene is a rumble between the two gangs. One scene that struck me as truthful was between one of the Socs and Ponyboy that had the Soc saying that no matter if the Greasers won the rumble, they would still be on the bottom of the heap, still losers in society.This movie has some personal significance to me since I graduated from the same Tulsa high school a few years before Hinton wrote her book while in school there. It was good to see some of the old Tulsa landmarks in the film like the Bowen Lounge and the Admiral Twin drive-in that had back-to-back screens. When I was at the school it was pretty much all kids from middle-class families. I don't recall there being even a hint of the type of thing that was portrayed in the movie. Either I was moving in different circles, things changed, or Hinton has a good imagination.Interesting cast in an over-scripted film. "},{"Title":"Pony Boy's Tough Hair","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I grew up watching this film as a young teenager. As a boy, it was a very influential movie for me. watching these kids growing up on the wrong side of the tracks - mostly with no parents or parents that don't care about them - was a wake up call from my quite safe and easy suburban life.The story follows the life of Pony Boy Curtis. A young high school kid who struggles to stay alive in a rough and tough town.Eventually an event leads to Pony Boy and best friend Johnny having to leave town. The fear of being alone and trying to survive with no money - clothes - or most other things is thrilling to watch and sad at the same time.The Outsiders is a very dramatic film with very touching moments. It also is full of stars that went on to become huge stars in the future. "},{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I won't lie and say I wasn't disappointed when I saw The Outsiders. I was a bit, considering it is from Francis Ford Coppola. It is well made, with great photography and great shots and camera angles. I also liked the story, it was nicely constructed and quite conventional, and the film moved briskly. The direction from Coppola is great, and the film further benefits from a great cast(Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Diane Lane, Patrick Swayze, Emilio Estevez among others).However, Ralph Macchio and C Thomas Howell are rather wooden and unconvincing in their roles. Plus there is some stilted dialogue, and I wasn't taken with the music score which was too over-the-top for my taste. Overall, it had flaws but it was good enough. 6/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Teens Run the Area","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When knowing the book and hearing all about it for the matter of three years I finally got the chance to read it. Not a chance, more like a had no choice opportunity to read the book in school. I was surprised about how much I liked the book. I loved the constant conflict between the upper/lower class. It depicts as closely as possible to identify and show how things were like in 1966. Not to mention the plethora of stars in the film that weren't even to well known in the movie.Time for the cast roll call; C. Thomas Howell, fresh off E.T. and before The Hitcher in 1986. Patrick Swayze, the teen-dream who would later become an icon of film before passing away in late 2009. Matt Dillon and Rob Lowe, two teens that many girls don't know in great context, but love anyways. Move out of the way, Pattinson and Lautner. Then we get in the characters people overlook, like Ralph Macchio. Not the best looking, but does a great performance for such a young age. We have pre-Scientologist Tom Cruise in this picture as well. I wonder if he was introduced to Oprah's couch in 1983? Then we have the show stealer, in my humble world, pre-Brat Pack Emilio here delivering some grade A film-making.Many focus too much on the bodies of Rob Lowe and Matt Dillon, and less on the overall plot. The guys are very handsome and provide lots to offer, but stay realistic even in 1983 dreams rarely became reality. The book is about a lower class gang of underprivileged minors nicknamed The Greasers and an upper class band of jocks nicknamed The Socs. Both gangs are notorious for their constant fighting and threatening of each side. Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell) is telling the story of his life with his two brothers Sodapop and Darry (Rob Lowe and Patrick Swayze). The names of the cast sound more like energy drinks than the names of regular people.The gang of Greasers is made up by the cast stated above. Emilio, Cruise, Dillon, Lowe, Macchio, Howell, and Swayze make up the lower class. Not many pre-big named actors portrayed The Socs, so the uneven development to each side is a disappointment. I'd at least expect Johnny Depp to show up as a Soc. At least we see Leif Garrett.The film's main focus is watching The Greasers cope with the frustration of family life and gang life. Nearly every Greaser has a trouble with them. Since Ponyboy's parents died, Darry and Sodapop take care of him. Dally and Johnny have rough home lifes as well and aren't afraid to get emotional when driving through the topic. The film really gets you thinking about how gang life really was. This shows growing up on the wrong side of the tracks, and how life was before technology walked into the picture.Instead of listening to their iPods and playing games on the Xbox 360, The Greasers hang out around the neighborhood or at the park, more often than not leading to trouble with the gangs once more. If it's one thing we learned from this movie, it's that curfew matters.The book/film relationship is a little dull. Book fans will be disappointed that key scenes in the book are absent in the film. One female character doesn't even get so much as a mention. Though overall, it underrated and should deserve way more recognition than had since 1983. The ensemble cast is great, plus with the depiction of realistic characters and plot points, The Outsiders is a great read, a fabulous watch, and a touching story.Starring C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, Ralph Macchio, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, Emilio Estevez, Tom Cruise, Leif Garrett, and Diane Lane. Directed by Francis Ford Coppola. "},{"Title":"Romanticized Greasers","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Younger people may not know the term greasers unless they watch this movie (I'm not so young anymore; I knew the term long before the movie came out in 1983). Briefly, it refers to socioeconomically challenged or rebellious boys who wore their hair slightly longer and loaded with pomade or grease. as well as leather jackets and blue jeans, as opposed to the socs (pronounced soshes)- the high society boys who wore short hair, no grease and, as Ponyboy says, madras pants. It's a 50s and 60s take on the age-old conflict of rich vs. poor. Briefly, this movie tells of the clashes between the aforementioned greasers and socs who live in Oklahoma in the early 1960s. Johnny Cade (played so well by Ralph Macchio) and his friend Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell) are in a lot one night when a car full of soc boys come after them. Johnny kills the soc who, weeks before, had beaten him seriously. Johnny and Ponyboy, scared and not knowing what to do, seek help from a slightly older mentor and friend named Dally (Dallas) Winston (Matt Dillon), a hardened, incorrigible boy who seems hell-bent on living a life of crime but who genuinely cares about Johnny. Dally tells them to hide out at an abandoned church and for 5 days, the boys do just that, subsisting on bologna sandwiches, peanut butter and water. They spend the days playing cards, smoking, trying to catch small game and reading Gone With the Wind. More dramatic things follow after Dally comes to rescue them from their hide-out.I've seen this move dozens of times and I've always enjoyed it but it is to the greaser genre what the Godfather movies are to organized crime - a romanticized look at a somewhat serious subject - the lives of greasers vs. socs. Is this a criticism? Not necessarily - this is a good movie and I always enjoy watching it. And it features several future stars such as the aforementioned Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell and Ralph Macchio. It also features Tom Cruise, Leif Garrett, Rob Lowe, Diane Lane and Patrick Swayze. The performances of such (then) young stars are excellent and the story flows. The lead music and main theme can be a bit mawkish at times - too sickeningly sweet for a movie about greasers and socs - The Cross and the Switchblade or even West Side Story this isn't. I loved the Robert Frost poem Ponyboy quotes while he and Johnny are on the run. And I love the song Stevey Wonder sings, using the Frost poem for the lyrics. But, again, it's too sweet for a movie about the greasers and the socs. These are minor criticisms but these may be the reason the movie was roundly panned when it first came out. Television tried to make a series out of it and it would have been a good idea but the series did not feature the same actors so it never took. Too bad - stories like this will always find an audience if the storytelling is well done and if the actors are convincing enough. I recommend this movie highly - in addition to the good acting, music and story, there seemed to be a real chemistry among the actors. Seeing the film also makes you want to read the book on which it was based - which is exactly what I did. I even read other S.E. Hinton books but this is my favorite story. Matt Dillon went on to act in Rumble Fish and Tex, films also based on Ms. Hinton's stories, but he was perfect as Dally. "},{"Title":"Battle of Novel vs Movie.","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola's The Outsiders is a good adaptation of a very effective novel. What bothers me is that with the story and cast it could have been great. Here, the source material is SC Hinton's book about teen angst and class differences in rural Oklahoma. The 'Greasers' and the 'Socs' are from opposite sides of the track. Neither likes the other and will come rushing to the aid of anyone that is part of their clique.One of the problems I saw was that the story is only told from the Greasers's point of view. The Socs are always viewed as vicious and despicable spoiled kids who misunderstand the heart of gold of some of the Greasers, particularly Ponyboy (C. Thomas Howell) and Johnny (Ralph Macchio). It's unfortunate for this because it could have been a much more complex and meaningful story had we understood both sides of the tension. To make matters worse, this cast, which consists of some of the biggest names of the 1980s, have very little to do. The story centers around Howell and Macchio but they don't seem to be able to carry the story too well. I like Matt Dillon as the juvenile delinquent Dallas Winston, but he is underused. The same can be said for Patrick Swayze, Rob Lowe, Emilio Estevez and Tom Cruise. All are great actors but are forced to stay in the shadows and waste their talent simply by looking tough and dirty.Coppola is a great director, but I think he is limited by the screenplay here. He apparently is so faithful to the book that the translation to the cinema lacks the emotional tug necessary for this type of story. The film has a great look and the climactic scenes are well-shot and effective, but the ending is unlikely to stay with you after it is done and leaves you wanting more. At a brief 91 minutes, there is so much more to be said. Too bad it is left undeveloped. "},{"Title":"Complete Novel much better the the original cut **spoiler spoiler spoiler**","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I read the book when I was about 15 years old and loved it. I watched the original cut of the movie not long after and was extremely disappointed. So much was cut out that it made very little sense, and the music added doom and gloom to the already dramatic story making it like a Soap. I was amazed even at that young age that a great director like Francis Ford Coppola could have made something that seemed like a bad made for TV movie!The Complete Novel is what I expected when I watched it years ago. All the scenes that I loved were put back and the story flowed like it should have, the oldies rock and roll fit the feel of the movie perfectly. It's amazing that a train wreck could be turned into a great movie by just adding a half an hour worth of footage and trading orchestras for Elvis.The only complaint that I have now is a small part of Matt Dillon's performance. He was fantastic, don't get me wrong, he did Dallas justice for the most part. Let's be honest, you say The Outsiders seven times out of ten someone will say Let's do it for Johnny! The only problem (and if you haven't seen the movie or read the book stop reading now) His death scene drives me nuts, I'm not a stickler for true to every detail in the book kind of person, but Matt Dillon crawling on the ground gaging, just made me think of an old Bugs Bunny cartoon and really took me out of a moment that is so important. Other then that it's such a great re-telling of a story that is so loved by so many! "},{"Title":"I can't stop watching it","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" So, I had to read the book for class, and I fell in love with it. Then, we watched the movie and all of my questions about the book were answered, and I loved it even more! Before I saw the film, I took a peek on here, and was I very interested. But my teacher had the crappy 90 min. version. I wanted the extended version! So my mom, being a fan of it as well, ordered the 120 min. version! Anyway, I love it and I know it word for word. I can't pick any favorite actor in this movie, because they all did a super job! I also own the book and I read it time to time.I strongly suggest you read the book,and get the extended version. Trust me. You won't be disappointed.Stay gold! "},{"Title":"River City Rumblers","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders was the Big Novel in my eighth-grade reading class, and it's easy to see why S.E. Hinton's heavy-handed melodrama of lower-class delinquents (dubbed 'Greasers') and over-privileged rich kids ('Socs') was clearly intended to speak to the class diversity found in the typical high-school classroom; moreover, it emphasized the obvious point that looks can be deceiving. Francis Ford Coppola's 1983 film adaptation carries much the same effect as the novel itself, with a nostalgic appearance that makes every scene a postcard-pretty love letter to the early 1960s. And even if the characterizations are a bit choppy, this is an excellent collection of young actors who went on to careers of widely varied success. C. Thomas Howell (3 years away from his best role, in The Hitcher) stands out as Ponyboy Curtis, the literary-minded Greaser who's a romantic at heart; Diane Lane also shines as Ponyboy's potential love interest, a Soc named Cherry Valence. Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze, Emilio Estevez, and Rob Lowe lend budding star power to their admittedly sporadic supporting roles. As with the novel, Coppola's film is a rather contrived soapbox that is kept from being a harder-hitting nostalgia piece because the story remains planted in that simplistic, high-school-reading-class world. But it's well worth a look, just for the talent involved. "},{"Title":"Greasers fight against the Socs to win victory after something tragic happens...","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. What started out as a school assignment for me became my favorite book ever! I gave this movie an 8 out of 1-10 because the book was better, just like the book is always better than the movies.I especially liked the bonding between the greasers. If you haven't read any of S.E HInton's books you wouldn't understand that something dangerous and frightening could be filled with so much love.The actors in this movie are also guys that came up to be some of the most famous in the world. Such as Tom Cruise, Patrick Swaze, and Matt Dillon.I Definitely suggest this movie to anyone 12 and up. But I also think you should read the book first.Overall it is SO good!! "},{"Title":"Fairly Overrated And Not As Good As The Book.","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rated PG-13 for violence,teen drinking and smoking and some sexual references.I used to actually like the Outsiders movie.This was before I read the excellent book then afterwords saw the film in class.The book was great.Great storyline and a very good book overall.One of S.E Hinton's best books.The movie however was not as good.The film had potential.This film was directed by Francis Ford Coppola who directed The Godfather Trilogy and Rumble Fish(another S.E Hinton book).I have two main problems with this movie.First of all the acting is horrible!I don't usually notice bad acting and when I do the acting must be really bad.Some quotes are really corny.Another problem I have with this movie is that the movie is not faithful to the book.The movie is rushed and is missing lots of key scenes.I have not seen the extended version though this is for the original version.The film is about two poor kids who kill a rich kid in self-defense.They hide for a while until they accidentally set fire to a church where a couple of kids are playing.They try to rescue them and become heroes but their friend Johnyy gets brutally burned in the process.The poor kids are the Greasers and the rich kids are called the Socs.The gang decides to have one big battle to settle this rival gang mess.The outsiders was a great book but a not so great movie.Wait for it on TV.Runtime91min 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Outsiders as Coppola's Anti American Graffiti film","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't read the book although I should for comparison as many suggest, but none the less, the movie had a great impact on me, and I enjoyed it greatly. I even identified with its contrived small town caste system which in a way, was similar to my own experience growing up just a little further west in New Mexico. The Brat Pack aside (Cruise, Estevez, Swayze, et. al. in their studly youth), the acting conveyed a rustic simplicity; but it was effective, and hopefully faithful to at least the spirit of the book. Please understand that in the mind of the then 15 year old S.E. Hinton, this was as realistic as she could conjure up in her young life; a reflection of her world that was Tulsa, Oklahoma of that time. I found the movie was even charming and heartwarming, stressing brotherly love and support among these young men, reflecting a certain uniquely American form of midwestern chivalry, and thank God it wasn't politically correct. I read a comment here on this movie review that remarked this was obviously a homosexual movie. Well that is a bunch of CRAP. It takes a 21st Century revisionist rip-off merchant with a political agenda to cram down peoples' throats, to come up with an analysis like that. The book then the movie came along at the right time before all this presumptive, shallow, muck was created in our modern social consciousness. The characters were true to form in what remained of post-war American innocence of the time, a scant 3-4 years after President Kennedy was shot. I thought however, that some of the characters' nicknames were a little cornball. You can only get away with names like that in certain seriously redneck parts of Oklahoma and Texas, and not be laughed out of town. But it provided the cinematic device necessary to nail down the different personas among these young anti-hero oilfield white trash greasers. Regarding the title for this comment, referring to The Outsiders as Coppola's anti-American Graffiti film I say this not only because of the brilliant use of vintage rock and roll tunes in the movie at the right times, but also because of the subtle visual queues. The opening scene with the rumble at the dirt-lot Drive-in with the BLACK '58 Impala in the background was spot-on for detail, setting the look and the feel for the rivalry between the Socs and the Greasers; and the selection of Van Morrison and Thems' version of Gloria for the opening tune was perfect. This however, seemed to be the antithesis of a similar beginning scene in American Graffitti, where Ron Howard pulls up to the Drive-in in the WHITE '58 Impala. Joe College gets handed the scholarship check at the perfect West Coast Drive-in, while the true Greasers in The Outsiders, rumble on in futility, trying to claw their way to respectability at some greasy spoon Okie Drive-in. Did anybody else catch that, realizing that Coppola produced both movies?It's Not pretty but it's accurate. I passed through many a South/Mid-Western town like that in my youth. Oh and the other thing I thought was a good detail was the notion that the Swayze character (I think it was him) was looking for his DX shirt to go to work in at that particular gas station; giving a dual meaning to the concept of Greaser in the movie. And where else but in the southwestern Great Plains and Panhandles of the U.S. are you going to find a DX Station, or for that matter a Skelly Station? Both chains I believe are long gone now, but the reference added a certain air of nostalgia for those who lived through that era and traveled those summertime Two-Lane Black Tops as I did (the only thing lacking was a '55 Chevy). For me this made the movie and its characters all the more believable... "},{"Title":"A good movie, but it leaves parts out that should really be included.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The outsiders is a great movie, but it leaves much to be desired. Some of the characters were wrong, physically, and the movie left out several important parts. That thing on Ponyboy's chin, for intense, unless you read the book and knew that he had been cut when he was jumped, you would have thought he had nicked himself shaving or something. The end of the book was completely cut off. At the end of the book the whole sub-plot is revealed. Well, in the movie, I have yet to discover how the sub-plot is revealed. In the positive, though, it was well cast with some very good young actors. It was also fairly true to the book and S.E. Hinton plays cameo role. I think if you are looking for a good teen-drama, this movie is it. You can understand it without reading the book. "}{"Title":"Good, but book was better.","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is about a group of teenage boys born on the wrong side of town. It shows you that no matter what things aren't exactly as what they seem. It is a battle between the socs and the greasers. Pony is a boy who thinks that this way of life is wrong and wants to do something about it but doesn't know what. i think so anyway. The movie was alright but they cut so much out of it. I read the book before i saw the movie and they cut out more than half of the book. I liked the actors that were chosen to play the parts, they were great but i still think that they cut too much out. The director had a great vision when he did this movie. he chose a great cast and location. "},{"Title":"Okish","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well its quite a long time since i saw this film, but I can remember thinking that its an ok film.  It does little justice to the book, which I read when I was about twelve.  I re-read that book loads of times, and each time it moved me to tears.  It is a heartrending story of marginalisation and having to live with your older brothers, and what happens when it all goes horribly wrong, and I loved it.  I would read it again.All of that does not come across on the film, but then again I thought most of the actors were chosen for their pretty faces.  I would recommend the book strongly if you are a disaffected teen or pre-teen, while the film is ok up to a point. "},{"Title":"Nice to see current stars when they were just starting out.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I got The Outsiders on DVD from my public library, looking for old Diane Lane movies. She doesn't have a large part here, but an important one, when she was still a teenager. Set in Oklahoma in the 1950s, the 'socs' (for socialites??) and the 'greasers' (greasing their hair, but also the poor side of town) seem to be constantly picking on each other. They schedule 'rumbles' just for the fun of it, to see who wins, like some sort of crude football game without rules or uniforms, and without a ball. I grew up in a small town in the south, we didn't even 'rumble' with the guys from the next town, Kinder. I wonder if 'rumbles' like in this movie ever happened back in the 50s, or is this just something created for movies??   Anyway, it was nice to see so many actors before they were famous -- C. Thomas Howell as Ponyboy Curtis , Matt Dillon as Dallas 'Dally' Winston, Ralph Macchio as Johnny Cade, Patrick Swayze as Darrel 'Darry' Curtis, Rob Lowe as Sodapop Curtis, Emilio Estevez as  Keith 'Two-Bit' Mathews, Tom Cruise as Steve Randle, and Diane Lane as Sherri 'Cherry' Valance.SPOILERS ahead, stop reading please...The socs came upon two greasers at night and hassled them, holding Ponyboy's head under water, Johnny came up with a knife, the soc died, the two greasers went to Dally for help, he sent them by freight train to an abandoned church in the country, they stayed there a week, Dally went to find them, went to town for burgers, on way back a stray cig had started a fire, little kids in bus had stopped to look, were trapped as old church burned, the three greasers went in and saved them, Johnny burned bad, hospitalized, they were heros, Cherry was going to testify the stabbing was self-defense, but Johnny dies, has a great  impact on the others, socs and greasers start to make attempts to be more friendly.    "},{"Title":"could have been more","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really good to watch.  I personally thought it was overrated because there wasn't all that much to it. Yeah, it's about growing up and choosing sides, but there could have been more to this movie.  Performances are excellent and everything else.  However, there are a lot better movies out there. This movie is just a slice of the pie. "},{"Title":"Not GoodWill Hunting","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'd have to disagree with the previous reviewers comments. I will agree with the whole 'brat pack' starting up. When you view this film you have to be open to the story's targeted audience. First off, it is a novel written for the teenager. A great book by S.E. Hinton. You need to harken back to the day when you were a 14, 15 year old yourself. The world is so much smaller to you at that point; the only thing that is relevant is your group of friends, your hometown and your home life. This movie pulls you into that world of the teenager. There are no big heartfelt romances, no career decisions. These are kids and they are tired of getting beat up and picked on and one of them lashes out and they deal with the consequences. No, it's not a comedy, it is a drama, and it's about kids. I know it was my favorite movie when it came out and I own it on DVD. I recommend the viewer to spare two hours, and go back to those times as a teen when you still had so much to learn. Enjoy it for what it is.  "},{"Title":"Stevie's Stay Gold is a hit","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie gets me crying every time. Even when I saw it for the first time as a kid, I had to walk out of the room (did'nt want my mom to see her son crying like a baby.) It always happens when Stay Gold starts playing. Go figure. Well, anyway the movie is a great one. After reading the other comments I am sort of eager to read the book.  "},{"Title":"Be sure to read the book before watching this movie!!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As with many movies if you have already read the book you have your own opinion inside your head of what the characters are like and have a deeper understanding of the characters thoughts etc... that are hard to be portrayed on the 'big screen' even by the best actors and again this movie even though many big time actors and a great movie director were involved in my opoinion it could not be compared to the book and I also thought that there were a few major scenes in the book that were important to the story that were not included that should have been.So basically if you want to watch this movie be sure to read the book first to understand more about the characters etc... and also not to build your hopes up about the movie being as good as the book because that just isn't so.  "},{"Title":"Good, but not great.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Saw this in school as part of reading class last fall, as we were reading the book and watching the movie as a tie-in. The acting & design is okay, and the plot, set in 1964 Middle America, is fine. It is similar to The Yards, in which a man who tries to stay straight get on the wrong side of the tracks, with a group of friends who take a fall for him. Both films are crime-noirs with some flavor. Both are about a person who tries to stay straight, but get caught up in various stuff with the law.The Yards is cheaply made and mediocre, I do not recommend renting it.For The Outsiders, good, it might worth checking out on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Great young star cast","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I was expecting an average film with today's stars before they became box office hits. I actually enjoyed it much more than I thought I would.The plot is good. It's a good storyline which made me end in tears, so if you're anything like me, get the tissues ready.C. Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio, Matt Dillon, Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise, and Rob Lowe are all really really great. Watch out for Dillon and Lane in the cinema scene - it's pretty funny!Stars out of 10 7 "},{"Title":"Confusing if you haven't read the book","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read the book in 7th grade literature and thought it was great. I didn't get to see this movie in class, but I saw it on my own. At the time I thought it was great, and I understood what was going on because I had read the book. But if you haven't read it, you might lose a lot of the inner meaning of this storyline. Coppola left out quite a bit of the story. Well, actually, I guess they cut it out. I think the acting was good, though the characters could've matched their descriptions better. The script wasn't the best thing I've ever heard, and Coppola didn't really direct it in a way that makes it real to the viewer. But all in all, if you've read the book first then you will understand this movie a lot better. If you haven't read it, you'll be lost about half of the time and you won't catch onto the message. If you understand the movie though, it's still pretty good. So, a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"What a cast","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was, and still is, notable for having a fine collection of the sexiest actors around at the time. best of all, they're all looking their most arousing in tight jeans and denim jackets. Most enticing are Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez and Patrick Swayze. the climax, where they all fight in the rain and get their jeans soaked, is great. "},{"Title":"Nice glimpse of what was to come","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The raw emotion of the book totally spilled over onto the silver screen. In '83, I think audiences were treated to a glimpse of the future, because the film's stars were living up to everything superstars are supposed to.  How could you not feel for Johnny and Pony Boy?  The way Macchio and Howell showed the innocence and anger of their characters was profound and the supporting cast made it even better.  Coppola's cinematic genius shined through on this one. "},{"Title":"An interesting transformation...","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think the movie was quite interesting. Though, I think the movie doesn't explain the whole story behind Ponyboy and his family. It misses quite a few important stories, which leaves some of it hard to understand. The acting was average, though in a few scenes, it doesn't seem quite real. I recommend reading S.E. Hinton's novel before renting this movie to understand throughly.   "},{"Title":"Good but not great...much better book","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie the day after I read the book, and although I found the movie to be interesting and touching, it was largely because of the charismatic cast, particularly Ralph Macchio and Matt Dillon.  I think the movie could have been better if it was about a half hour longer and if the plot was developed more completely.  If I hadn't read the book this movie would have probably left me confused because of the lack of plot development.  Nonetheless, it was entertaining, but the book was much better.  I give the movie a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good. But, I think the book is Great!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't get me wrong. I love Coppola! I love this film also! But,  since the book is one of the only books I had to read in school and I loved. I really really love this film!  I really really love the book too. The only other book I liked and I had to read in school was Shadow of the Dragon. I think it's a little too much faster than the book, but I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Magic","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is such a wonderful film!!! I first saw it in my 7th grade Reading class (thanx Mrs. Bacon!)and I fell in love with it. Not only does it have lots of big stars before they were famouse, it's a really good story. I would recommend this gem to anybody! "},{"Title":"the movie","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having grown up in Brooklyn in the fifties I could identify with the greasers and their plight .Overall I found the acting to be excellent,easily explained by the subsequent success of the actors.The drive in movies the fights the chicks those were the days. "},{"Title":"A good transfer from novel to big screen","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has all the qualities of S.E. Hinton's novel. Throw in a slightly changed plot and a couple of actors who will make it to the big time and you have the basis for quite a relatively successful film. The plot is a bit thin at times and the rumble at the end of the film seems rather impossible, but I enjoy this film as it is a film with a difference. "},{"Title":"Another of the movies that everyone should see...","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having never read the book, I have to say that I think this movie is incredible. (I know the book is usually better than the movie though). It's a feel good movie with tearjerking scenes as we watch the group of poor, underdog boys stick it out for themselves against the rich kids. In another director's hands, this story could have been trite and simplistic, but Coppola did such a great job with the film that anyone who watches it cannot help but cheer for the poor boys and feel each injustice done to them with anger as though it had been done to them. I highly recommend this film to everyone. "},{"Title":"Informative","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'The Outsiders' is a good look at the way the higher class folks look at others, it's an eye opener. The cast was good, but not as good as they are today. Young actors, well . . . Good plot, it followed the book closely. "}{"Title":"Superb literary adaptation","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The curiously striking thing about this film is that though it was filmed in the early eighties it seems to belong, in both tone and look, to another era of cinema. Some may critisize it for its trite morality but that I feel is to miss the point. The Outsiders is a fascinating blend of its literary sources,  the directors own obvious debt to the films of the period and  autobiography. Indeed if to some people the dialogue and the performances seemed a bit stilted I would argue that on the  contrary both aspects are being much more faithful, nostalgically, to a bygone era of teenage chivalry and honour. There is never the impression that the film-maker has set out to lift the lid on social injustices but rather that he is wistfully recollecting, with extraordinarily evocative results, a period of American cultural history that shaped his own generation's musical and aesthetic views. Another area in which this film excels is its sumptuous and intelligent cinematographic instinct. Some of the more overtly sentimental parts of the film are knowingly and wittily underscored by wonderful scenic shots and a score that owes more than a little to the tear-jerkers of the period. To put this in context this film does for the fifties what Jackie Brown does for the seventies. This, unfortunately, works to to the contemporary viewer's disadvantage given that the now not-so-fashionable-as-they-used-to-be seventies are perhaps more appealing than the fifties which now appear completely removed from our present cultural baggage. "},{"Title":"The Golden Beauty of Friendship","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is my all-time favorite movie----------I LOVE IT!!!!  I saw it for the first time this past Christmas and can't get enough of it.  The story is charmingly simple yet moving, and its underlying themes are loyalty, trust, and friendship.  C.Thomas Howell is adorable as Ponyboy, the narrator of the story, and the other actors do a fine job as well.  I loved the beautiful scenes in the movie of the sunrise and sunset.  My favorite part is when Ponyboy recites Nothing Gold Can Stay.  A must see!!  Stay Gold!!!  A truly beautiful and enjoyable film.  Five stars!! "},{"Title":"Great when I was 13, kind of boring now","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this movie was released in '83, I was enthralled with both it and the book. I must say that it does follow the book very closely, which is always a good point. However, after watching it again as an adult, I found it to be rather simplistic, and the acting was somewhat lame, with the exception of Matt Dillon, who stole every scene he was in. C Thomas Howell and Ralph Macchio, whom I adored as a young teen, seem really phony in retrospect. It is amusing to see Tom Cruise and others when they were just starting out, though. Sadly, I find it hard to sit through this movie now...it's just too much of a bore, although I'm sure it might be appealing to younger teenagers. "},{"Title":"Disappointing film, read the book instead","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The book was excellent, even by the seventh time I read it. The movie... well, once is definitely enough. Much sappier than the book, some of the best parts were left out, it didn't follow character descriptions, and it was just CHEEZY. I can agree with the plot of the movie being unrealistic, this is because it didn't pay enough attention to the book. I've said it before and I shall say it againNO MORE BAD MOVIES BASED ON GOOD BOOKS.I'm going to write a petition on this, it's *really* getting out of hand.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful, moving cult classic","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot is really simple, but it so beautifully filmed. The colours and lighting are unbelievable, it's stunning. I love this film because it is one of the only films I have seen with such basic themes that I or anybody else can really relate to or at least appreciate, The main thrust of the film is about friendship and sticking together, forgiveness, loss and rebellion, things all kids have experienced at one time or another. The outsiders is a beautiful, gorgeous, classic film. But to me personally, it's much more than that - it's a timeless masterpiece "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie, Great Book","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The book is one of the best books I have ever read. So when our class was going to watch the movie, my expectations were very, very high.This was a great movie. C. Thomas Howell and Ralph Macchio are great as the two kids of the group. Patrick Swayze plays his I wanna be a Soc, but I can't role great and Matt Dillon is real good as Dallas Winston.It's funny to see some of today's big stars as little people. I think this a real good movie and everyone should see it.***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"A simple movie of friendship and family.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very simple plot, which followed the S. E. Hinton book almost to the letter.  I have loved this movie for years, recently watching it for the first time with my daughter.  This movie, for me, shows that friendship can overcome all and family will be forever, no matter what the circumstances are.I highly recommend that you read the book, then watch the movie.Nothing Gold Can Stay. "},{"Title":"GOOD BOOK AND A GOOD MOVIE","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are some parts in the book that aren't in the movie, but it does stay true the rest of the time to the book.  I think it would be impossible to count the number of movies that the main 7 guys and 1 girl have done, but it's funny to see them all when they first started out.  Great performances by all the actors, with Matt Dillon and C. Thomas Howell, really shining the brightest in this movie.  I think Howell is the most underrated actor of all time.  It's a good movie and everyone who hasn't seen the movie yet should watch it. "},{"Title":"Good and Solid","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie gives you a whole bunch of stars in a simple but solid story about a group of friends on the wrong side of town.  It stars some amazing people like Tom Cruise, Rob Lowe who is making a wonderful comeback, Emilio Estevez, Ralph Macchio, Patrick Swazye, and C. Thomas Howell, who is one of the most underrated actors out there.  The story is good and solid. The outsiders is also one movie that is made from a book where Hollywood didn't kill the essence of the original story, and that, to me is a very good quality. "},{"Title":"He wasn't Coppola yet","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The baseball pitcher, Warren Spahn, who played for Casey Stengel before and after the latter's famous Yankee tenure, commented that he was the only person who worked for Casey before and after he became a genius.Tom Waits, the whiskey-voiced singer/actor, could say the same about Francis Ford Coppola. Waits worked on The Outsiders, and then many years later on Coppola's Dracula. Inbetween, Coppola directed some pretty good flicks you might have heard of.The Outsiders was a talked-about movie and novel in its heyday. All the girls and women I knew really liked this story. (S.E. Hinton, the author of the novel, is also female). Looking at it now, it's difficult to see why. If you get a chance, though, you should rent it because it seems like every single member of the cast later became a big star, and you can see them when they were still toiling in obscurity. "}{"Title":"Simple plot but star studded","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is interesting because it's an early work by several big time  actors today Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze and Matt  Dillon.  The plot itself is rather simple and the idea of well to do guys  engaging in a rumble isn't realistic. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders was mandatory for me to read when i was in seventh grade, and I immediately fell in love with it. I was completely attached to the characters and their struggles as if i was there with them. I was excited to see the movie adaption and it sure did not disappoint. Already seeing that it was directed by the legend, Francis Ford Coppola, i knew it was going to be a good one. The movie was a completely perfect adaption from the book, almost word for word. I have never seen a movie that is that closely similar to the book. Ever.The movie centers around a group of troubled teens and the daily struggles they have to go through. It's a coming of age movie that really leaves an impact on you.The directors type of cinematography really completes the movie, from the lighting during the sunrise scene or the angles from the murder scene, it all comes together and works beautifully.The cast includes Patrick Swayze, Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell, Rob Lowe, Ralph Macchio, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane. All who ended up right into fame. Their individual performances were engaging and the all around casting was great and they all worked well together.I've read the book about 8 times and seen the movie so many times I've lost count. I do not have one bad thing to say about either. It's a classic and i recommend the movie to everyone of all ages. "},{"Title":"How?","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was incredibly skeptical about this movie until the opening credits. Matt Dillion, Ralph Mucchio, and Patrick Swayze? This is a movie I can get behind. The star of my favorite TV show, Rob Lowe?! This movie gets better and better. Tom Cruise?!! This cast is amazing! Then I learned that this movie was directed by the same man who directed one of my favorite movies of all time, Francis Ford Coppola. Yes, the same man who directed the Godfather trilogy (or duo-logy depending on who you ask) and Apocalypse Now is the director The Outsiders. I was so on board with this movie. The movie starts, and for the next 91 minutes the only question that is running through my head is How? How did this happen? How could talent this great be so underutilized? How could Francis Ford Coppola, the film-god who has 6 Oscars, take such a beloved story and butcher it like this? How? The movie is an almost word-for-word retelling of the book by S.E. Hilton. And hey, if it ain't broke don't fix it. But the tone of this movie makes me sick. This movie will go from look how much fun this story is to this is the part where you should be sad in a matter of seconds. An example of this film's bipolar-ness is when (this isn't a spoiler) Darry, played by Patrick Swayze, hits Ponyboy I started to laugh. In the book, this is one of the most serious parts. But the bad acting, odd camera placement, and the obnoxiously loud trumpet, immediately after the hit made me laugh. In the book, the three characters in the scene are speechless when Darry hits Pony. Speechless! And in the movie, it was comedic. Ralph Mucchio is so poorly directed that I honestly think that he didn't know what he was saying. His emotional scenes are so unbelievable that it's humorous. Tom Cruise is so unseen that until I looked it up, I had no idea which character he was playing. Not only did this movie bomb, but it brought down my opinion of the book too. I'm giving The Outsiders a generous 4/10. "},{"Title":"Perhaps great then, but currently timeworn","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Since James Dean and Marlon Brando, youngsters with cool look, tough childhood/surroundings and gang affiliation have attracted millions of viewers all around the globe. Generations change, new idols appear, but depicting a similar character has a been spring-board or boost for many young actors; this stands for The Outsiders as well Rob Lowe, Emilio Estevez, Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Patrick Swayze, Ralph Macchio, Diane Lane have all later become renowned and versatile performers. The only exception is C. Thomas Howell as Ponyboy Curtis (who garnered a Young Artist Award), who has confined himself to smaller roles later on.The amount of future stars is probably the biggest value of the movie; the plot is trivial and predictable, most characters too black-and-white, alternation of scenes is friable, romantic and pondering scenes do not provide additional value to the movie...From the 1980ies, for example, most related movies with the participation of River Phoenix and Matt Dillon are much more catchy. "},{"Title":"The Outsiders","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hey everyone. This is not spam. I love this movie and i think it is a great coming of age movie. If you want to see my full review check out my website, i am trying to get it started. I would love for people to just give it a chance and if you don't like it that is fine. Maybe you could give me a tip on how to make it better. Overall i love this movie. It is one of my favorites and it never seems to get old to me. The only problem is it that the movie is missing part of the story line from the book but you can easily fix that by watching the complete novel version which is also very good. http//members.webs.com/MembersB/editAppPage.jsp? app=blog&pageID=287032503#blog/show/20663094-the-outsiders-1983- "},{"Title":"Juggernaut Jrama of Jaded Juvenile Delinquency","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One particular scene of the classic Outsiders stands out among the rest. A trio of young greaseritos go to a drive-in where they run into a teenage Diane Lane and her friend. Among the greasers is Matt Dillon who flirts with Diane Lane but immediately notices that she has a problem with yelling in his face. Despite this, he slows the charm train down so that he can level with her. He calmly asks her if she would like a 7-up or a coca-cola, but it turns out that Diane is a Pepsi girl and she yells at Dillon again. The Outsiders is a juggernaut jrama of jaded juvenile delinquency! I won't get into the plot, but the final half hour provides a climax as lean, mean and teen as James Dean. The greasers do battle with the Socs &#x96; and yes, they have impeccable foot garments &#x96; in a muddy rumble that doesn't disappoint. Ironically, the only greaser absent from the film's climactic combat is the Karate Kid himself, Ralph Macchio. The other greasers seem aware that they must compensate for this disadvantage as they do handstands on fences and backflips off of cars in an effort to induce each other into a rip-roaring rumble rage. Does it work? You'll have to sit down, slick your hair back and find out. Stay gold! "},{"Title":"Tragic, Touching and Well Acted","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" S.E. Hinton's classic teen novel is brought to the big screen by the director of the successful 'Godfather' films, Francis Ford Coppola. The film centers around the life of Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell)as he grows up in 1950s Oklahoma with his brothers, Darry (Patrick Swayze in a touching and intense performance) and Soda (Rob Lowe before he became Drew Peterson for TV). His best friend, Johnny Cade, is played excellently by a pre-'Karate Kid' Ralph Macchio, the young boy who accidentally lands himself and Ponyboy in trouble one night. Other characters include the tough Dallas Winston (Matt Dillon in an intense performance), Bob Sheldon who is killed by Johnny is played by a young Leif Garrett (before he got into drugs) and Diane Lane as Cherry Valance. This film makes me cry every time I see it. The story is a tragic one, there is no happy ending here. It's a film that talks about teen angst in the 1950s and addresses serious topics. Yet it is a beautiful movie that is worth the watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"What friends are for","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In The Outsiders, we have two gangs who rule the streets the Socs and the Greasers. The Socs are the ones that have it all, while the Greasers are labelled as hoodlums. In the midst of it all is Ponyball, a kid Greaser and our protagonist, who is unlike any of the other Greasers in the movie; instead of fighting, he likes to watch sunsets, read books like Gone With the Wind, and he has good grades in school. This is a really powerful film; I usually never give adaptations of books a perfect score, but this one was so true to the book, that the changes are only minor changes. Thanks Francis Ford Coppola, you did an amazing job! The actors are always what makes the movies shine for me, and here, it is no different. Leif Garrett is great as Bob, the Soc whose fateful end sparks a turn of events in the movie. Diane Lane is wonderful as Cherry, the girl who is cool with both gangs. Tom Cruise is fantastic as Steve, Soda's friend. Emilio Estevez is great as Two-bit, the character of the gang. The late great Patrick Swayze, as always, does a good job as the oldest brother Darry who is just trying to keep his family of brothers together. Rob Lowe is wonderful as Soda, who is my favourite character, because, even though he is a wild character, at heart he is someone who cares and hurts, especially when Darry and Ponyboy are fighting. Matt Dillon is cool as Dallas, the Greaser who has a cold hatred for anything in the world. Ralph Maccio is Johnny, who, like Ponyboy, is tired of all the fighting, and just wants to live life. What happens to him is truly tragic. And, of course, C. Thomas Howell is great as Ponyboy, the boy who wants to live life outside of being a Greaser, but who is stuck in the middle of it, nevertheless.Overall, it's a great film, filled with lots of talent that we would recognize in today's films. This film not only shows us that even people on the wrong side of the law has feelings, but it also shows the bond between friendships, no matter what. A perfect adaptation of the novel, and a 10/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Avoid Theatrical Cut and watch The Complete Novel","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all, The Outsiders is one of my favorite movies growing up in the 80's, but the movie always felt like incomplete (several missing scenes from the book) to me. Then i saw the Complete Novel and hell!yeah, now that's a movie! and my advice to all the fans it's forget the theatrical cut and watch the new version. The beginning is very good at the way the boys are introduced to the audience, and each of them gain a new character development (Tom Cruise's Steve isn't an almost an extra no more like he did in the original, now he's a supporting character into the gang and Soda & Darry got more screen time). The new music added it's pitch perfect to the action, it now feels like a retro 50's juvenile delinquent rockabilly movie like it was pretended. Now about the acting itself (both versions) my favorites are Matt Dillon & Emilio Estevez performances, Emilio's Two-Bit he's an hell of a character funny and friendly but mean and crazy at the same time and Dillon's Dally is a rebellious and tragic character like Bobby Blake in Rumble in the Docks or Jimmy Dean in Rebel without a Cause. Patrick Swayze the older actor of the cast (he was almost 30 during filming) was like the father-figure to his Greaser peers, Lowe and Macchio are effective, and Tom Cruise in his extended scenes is very good also. To me the weakest is Tommy Howell as Ponyboy i've never liked much the way he portrayed Ponyboy, i don't know why, but wasn't Tommy Howell i pictured when i read the book... maybe he played Pony too sissy for my taste. Diane Lane fills the red-hair Cherry Valence with his beauty (and yes! Diane Lane is drop dead gorgeous back then and even now), Glen Withrow is a good Tim Shepperd (even if i prefer Robert Rusler playing Tim in The Outsiders TV Show) and Darren Dalton/Leif Garret are fine as the main Socs so was Tom Waits in his little bit. Overall, The Outsiders it's one of that nostalgic back-to-the-good-old-days movies that always makes me smile and dreaming. My Rate The Outsiders - Theatrical Cut - 8.5/10 The Outsiders - The Complete Novel - 10/10. "},{"Title":"thoughts from a 20-something seeing the movie (the Complete Novel version) for the first time... it's OK","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola always takes chances and risks as a filmmaker, and though it might appear like he's playing it 'safe' in doing The Outsiders (he needed a hit after bombing with One From the Heart), it's still no less a risk than any of his other major works. And it is in fact a major work - just not one of his best, not by a longshot. The thinking here was to take a very popular pubescent-age book (not read by me, I'm probably one of the few who didn't though I had heard of it) and get a bunch of actors who could first play the parts well and then bring in the kids to see it, and then Coppola could tool around with it how he wanted.How he wanted exactly was to make The Outsiders as if Nicholas Ray were doing Rebel Without a Cause again with a bunch of wannabe James Deans (and you have to be a certain kind of dude to want to be James Dean after all) and throw in some rockabilly and music from the period, plus a bit more violence and language not allowed in the late 50's and early 60's. It's a tale of youth gone awry, from either lack of attention (as DJ Jazzy Jeff would say, parents just don't understand), and left to their own devices, which is to get into fights, flirt with girls, and sometimes just mope or drink. When one of the kids, Johnny (Ralph Macchio) kills one of a rival gang, the Socs, by accident, he and Ponyboy (C. Thomas Howell) go on the run to lay low. Things don't quite go as planned when they become sort of heroes saving some kids from a burning church, and they have to go back to town to face what they did.Oh, there's a lot of drama here... make that, melodrama, as it is something of a d*** flick (and I say that in the way some movies are chick flicks), with lots of posturing and tough talk, and sometimes some really corny bits. Make that extremely corny, such a Johnny and Ponyboy looking at the yellow sky and reciting quotes from the Gone With the Wind book they're reading (seriously, no offense to the book, but what Greaser would be reading that?) There's some hammy acting, some sentimental notes, and its bittersweet climax is only marginally satisfying as far as conclusions go. Perhaps there is more in the Hinton text, or maybe less. Not all of Coppola's artistic choices here go awry- one thing that was striking, for example, was Ponyboy's dream about his parents being killed by a train- and his choice in songs, save for the opening Stevie Wonder song, are fantastic.But there is a lot of, shall I say it, corny things going on in a film that purports to be about street gangs and rumbles - a Tulsa, OK version of West Side Story and some of Rebel Without a Cause thrown in. Maybe kids will find it better (or, as some of the reaction on this site has shown, won't), but the film has its moments and merit. For one thing actors like Matt Dillon and C. Thomas Howell show how talented they are Dillon especially chews on the scenery while making it believable (Johnny! lines are the best), and it's fun seeing the Brat Pack assembled, like Estevez, Cruise, Diane Lane, Macchio. Yet there's something missing from The Outsiders, a really strong dramatic thrust to take the story along. We're invested with the characters but only on the surface; the film is a collection of scenes with a vague central arc that does get resolved, but not with the kind of dramatic strength we've seen in other Coppola movies.Bottom line, not a bad film by any stretch, but not as powerful as you might be lead to believe. Out of the two Hinton adaptations Coppola made in 1983, Rumble Fish far and away knocks it out of the park as an artistic achievement (albeit also about street gangs and 50's rocker style). "}{"Title":"Highly stylized homage to 1950s teenage problematics.","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A starstruck cast do what they can to make this teenage drama powerful and relevant, but it's hard to connect as director Francis Coppola goes overload with his highly stylized visuals. The acting chops of youngsters C. Thomas Howell and Ralph Macchio are given the heavy duty to carry the weight of the film as two sadly troubled, teenage boys that's found solace and security in each others company. The film heavily leans on the pompous score by Carmine Coppola when supposed to drive the emotional chord home, combined with shifty editing and strange visual effects, and struggles to be as compelling as it wants to be. But nevertheless, there's more to like than dislike; the cast is good (though Matt Dillon proves himself the weakest around), there's tacky but effective dialogs, and though Coppola makes a mess of it visually sometimes, the story is fairly simple and easy to follow. THE OUTSIDERS ain't no hidden treasure in Coppola's canon of work, but it's got some great moments and tells a fairly good story about friendship, adolescence, family and the many responsibilities of life, and off course, there's some fun in watching the rising stars establish their careers. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a classic and a must seemovie. And the update The Outsiders &#x96; The Complete Novel is really great too &#x85; the new scenes and new rock music are a fantastic addition to a superb movie.The boyhood to manhood evolution of Pony Boy (C. Thomas Howell) and Johnny (Ralph Macchio) is resonates well. In this film, The Greasers live on one side of town. The side where good people, don't go. The Soks (live on the other side of town). Somewhere in the middle these groups fight to contest social boundaries with tragic results. Matt Dillon is perfect in his role as the bad boy. The climax of the film is really thrilling and the ending is perfect.The updated music is pulled off with great results by Ante Up Audio in Cleveland. The Kim Aubry as well as the Ante Up staff (Michael Seifert, Dave Padrutt, and Paul Shaia) deserve high marks for the new and improved soundtrack.This film is highly rated! "},{"Title":"A poor rip off of  A REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is based on a supposed best selling book about teenagers somewhere in the mid-west.Since I never read the book I can comment no further.This movie is a 1983 film that ran only 91 minutes, In 2005, they re-released it with an additional 23 minutes.Franccis Ford Copolla who has directed 3 of the best films ever made, (the 2 GODFATHERS & Apocalypse NOW) comes up here missing BIG time.None of the teen agers in the film come across as real people, They are all disenchanted with life, similar to Rebel Without A Cause, but Rebel had fully developed characters who you cared for,.This film has none,The cast comprises many actors the went on to future stardom & a few are still very active.C.Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayse,Ralph Machio,Robe Lowe, Tom Cruise.Emilio Estevez & Diane Lane.These 8 were just starting there careers in films & it was nice to see them when they were so young.The production was very stylized as if the director thought he was making something great.There were a few scenes that were OK. BUT in too many instances, you had the feeling of complete unbelief.This cast of near all teen agers at least tried, BUT the director & the writer failed to convince me.Rating **1/2 (out of 4) 72 points(out of 100) IMDb 6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie! It was the best and now my favorite movie! And i love most of the actors. Especially Dally and Sodapop!( I hope that the director of the outsiders or maybe even a new one would make a new outsiders for 2007 or 2008 so we can see what it is like now! This movie was so sad and i cried when Johnny and Dally died. The director made the movie look so real and so original. I was wondering one thing, Does S.E. Hinton (the one who wrote the book The Outsiders) really in the movie? And if she could read this I would want her to know that I didn't just love the movie, I loved the book too! I always watch the movie with my friends and we all love it. I first saw it with my school after we read the book. It was actually about 2 or 3 weeks ago! So now i've seen it 3 times and i'm probably going to see it again! I have another question, how can i buy the movie with the deleted scenes? I've always thought that maybe if I bought it in a movie store it would have the deleted scenes in it but it didn't. "},{"Title":"A Film  Version of a Book that Actually Lives up to the Book....","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Regular visitors to this site can go to a board on any movie based on a book and find at least seven or eight threads complaining about how the movie isn't as good as the book. The movie is NEVER as good as the book, but one movie that comes pretty damn close is THE OUTSIDERS, the 1983 film version of a book by S.E. Hunton I first read as a teenager. This teen classic is sort of a non-musical variation of WEST SIDE STORY, where we find a class division in 1950's Oklahoma between two groups of restless teens the Greasers, the poor kids from the wrong side of the tracks and the more socially acceptable Socs...the rich kids with the fancy cars and clothes and wouldn't be seen being friendly with a Greaser. The crux of the story revolves around two Greasers, one named PonyBoy (C. Thomas Howell) and his best friend, Johnny (Ralph Macchio) who are forced on the run after being jumped one night and their escape involves a murder. Howell and Macchio play their roles with sincerity and have a solid cast of up and coming stars behind them here Patrick Swayze and Rob Lowe play Ponyboy's brothers, Darry and Sodapop, who have completely different relationships with Ponyboy. Matt Dillon is charismatic as Dallas Winston, the unofficial leader of the Greasers and Emilio Estevez and Tom Cruise are also featured as fellow greasers Two-Bit and Steve. For those who read the book growing up, be assured this film will not disappoint. It might not be quite as effective if you never read the book, but it's still a moving variation on the teen angst dramas that populated movie screens in the 80's. "},{"Title":"A little over the top but...","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ...still a very satisfying film.Francis Ford Coppola's treatment of S.E.Hinton's novel is something of a revelationa forthright adventure/drama with the main cast consisting almost entirely of actors under the age of twenty-one,the exception being Patrick Swayze,who was a ripe old twenty-nine when filming began! It was also a fairly intimate,un-ironic and sincere treatment of the bonding that occurs between young boys about to become men,which is something that you will RARELY if ever find now.The hero of this film(for the most part)is one Ponyboy Curtis(C.Thomas Howell,asked to put in acting at the tender age of fourteen that some adult actors can't pull off!),a junior-high schooler who belongs with the Greasers,the guys from the wrong side of the tracks named for the grease and goop they put in their hair. (The year or years when this film is taking place isn't specific,but I've deduced it's probably around 1960,and the fifties and all the Eisenhower-era social class vestiges are quite in place here.) His best buds are one Johnny Cade(Ralph Macchio,pre-Karate Kid and not quite fully testosteronal yet),a scared kid whose parents drink and fight,and DallasDallyWinston(Matt Dillon,hyper-conductive as the rebel),a prison-scarred outcast with quite the temper. As per always,the Greasers are in conflict with the Socs(pronounced SOshes),the rich kids in town,and the Socs don't seem to be above picking on the perceived weakest members of the Greasers. When Ponyboy and Johnny are spotted in the company of pretty,soft-spoken Soc Cherry Valence(Diane Lane,as beautiful then as now),a group of them decide they'll pick on Ponyboy and Johnny. When the Socs corner Pony and Johnny on a playground,some tragic consequences arise.From there,Ponyboy and Johnny go on the run and then go on a journey of discovery. No longer able to really be kids,not mature enough to be considered fully adult,they are wrestling with guilt over killing the Soc and their general lots in life. Little do they know it,but soon,fate will have a hand in changing them still.This is quite an ensemble cast. One could almost look at this film as,if nothing else,a snapshot of future Hollywood Swayze(as the parent figure of Ponyboy and his brother Sodapop),Rob Lowe(as Sodapop),Emilio Estevez(hilarious as the screwy Two-bit),Lane,Dillon,Macchio,Sofia Coppola(in a quick cameo) and some guy named Tom Cruise would all go on to much bigger stuff on the big screen. But I feel like it's more than that. With images that are both original and homages(Gone With The Wind,in particular)to past movies,Mr.Coppola is able to create something that is as real as if it happened to you or someone you know,and yet make it into a surreal sense of yesteryear and innocence.Excellent use of both score and pop tunes of the era(predominantly Elvis and Jerry Lee Lewis music). I'd heard about this film for quite a while but never quite got why it touched so many. After finally getting around to really watching it(I'd caught glimpses of it many,many,many moons ago on HBO and wasn't really blown away by it),I can understand why. The lines and the emoting in this film are pretty close to being hammy at times,and the volume of characters crammed in here suggests that there may have been more to this novel than the movie allowed for,but I suppose that may be unavoidable. As is,it's quite the movie for those who are nostalgic for movies about coming-of-age that don't treat adolescence or its near approach as being merely a set-up for shameless hormonalizing or jacked-up violence. Worth a rent,particularly on DVD for the extras. "},{"Title":"The new version is even better","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just recently picked up the new version of this movie. A lot of people didn't like it because they claimed FFC messed with the music score. Well, he did but in a good way. Yes I liked it. His father is probably rolling in his grave about the change but like I said the change was good. It is now my favorite version of the film. It also brings Sodapop more into the story than the original cut did back in 1983. Which I know Rob Lowe is very happy about. It also shows you how Ponyboy gets that mark on his throat. I was always wondering about that when I watched the original. It's closer to the novel by Hinton than the original cut. Two thumbs up Francis. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all, I love the book better than the movie because you get a feel for what the author was trying to prove. I like the fact that S.E. Hinton told a story about the kids who don't get recognition for how smart they are because lately, all movies relate to sports. Seriously. Football teams overcoming obstacles. I'm sorry, but I am sick of watching movies like that. We need more movies like this one to keep people on the edge of their seats while learning something new. It's a movie that'll make you cry, laugh, and start to think about life in a whole new perspective and I think everyone should watch it and even read the book! "},{"Title":"This should be shown in the same art theaters in Greenwich Village as THE WANDERERS and THE WARRIORS","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Really, it would really complete a 'THE' trilogy of gang films that came out in the '80s and late-'70s...and spoke of a time (the '50S & '60S) when gangs were fighting over not drugs and drug turf but over grudges and girls. I mean, I know these were considered 'bad seeds' for the period between 1946-1969, but I'd rather see them fighting amongst themselves (as do the Socs and the Greasers) than creating a whole urban crime scene with heroin and crack as the Crips, Bloods and Latin Kings do today. They're so tame by comparison.Maybe I'm just being a concerned mom, but I feel that there's too much of a drug thing these days - and maybe that's why a film like THE OUTSIDERS (along with the book) can still be a nostalgia thing whether you hung around with kids like these or not. At least those of us who grew up between the Late '40s-Late '60s period knew OF them. Kids like these were as much part of our culture as beats and hippies. "},{"Title":"We're doing it for Johnny!","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched once again I love the 80's Strikes Back and they mentioned in '83 The Outsiders, I've been putting off this movie for quite a while, considering how many stars are in this film, I kept on trying to remind myself to rent it, I finally remembered! This film in a nutshell is West Side Story without the love story, the singing, or the dancing, so in some ways if you got scarred of that, you needn't worry any more.This is an incredible cast that you would never imagine at the time would make it so far in life, like Matt Dillion, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estovez, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swaze, etc. They play The Outsiders, just the rebels of the town, but trouble ensues when the preps attack them and in defense one of them accidentally kills one of the preps and a huge rival happens.Over all, I'd say that it's a decent flick, it's a bit dated, but it's very intense and I'd say actually a good movie to watch. It set a bar for these actors and they might not be where they are today, they had some pretty great performances. I do love that line We're doing it for Johnny!. ) So, go ahead and grab the popcorn for this one! 6/10 "}{"Title":"The Outsider the best movie in the world","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is an AMAZING movie. Everyone in it is a amazingly hot & the are so gorgeous. The storyline is one of the saddest i've ever seen & by far, the deepest. All the characters have quirky outlooks on life, & their own personalities. There are no stereotyped characters ; they all have reasons & meanings for why they act the way they do. A rivalry between 2 groups of people & a rivalry inside a broken family help keep this movie interesting.Even though it is an old movie, it is touching the new hearts of millions. A must see if i do say so myself. it makes you laugh, cry & hit yourself in the face. Ponyboy, the youngest of the Curtis brothers, & johnny, the gang's pet, have an adventurous escapade, losing lives, saving lives, & improving their own. It has one of the most bittersweet endings ever. If you haven't seen this movie, man you haven't lived. It's bringing mickey back from the dead & forgotten. thanks to Pittston Area Middle school, it has been brought into the top 20 movies bought in the past month across the area. so you can write us a letter and thank us because we made your movie ever so popular. Fadedxsmiles2@msn.com and AngelEyezo2@aol.com Thanks Much "},{"Title":"Great book and Movie!","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The book is Great, and the movie is really good. It staid on the book. Great for all young Adults. I have seen the movie many times and read the book many times, they are one of my favorites. The movie does not go off book, it is all on the book. They left a few things out but the stuff that does not make a difference.I really think that anyone that can read will love the book, and if you like the book you will have to see the movie! It is really touching and teaches you something. You might want to read the book for you understand a few things. The actors are great and the director and actors and every one that helped did a great job! "},{"Title":"Inspiration","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie more than 14 times, and every time it makes me laugh, cry, and i just love it. I also love all of the guys in it, they were perfectly casted. The movie perfectly presented life as a greaser and life as a soc. It had a really awesome storyline and whoever hasn't seen the outsiders is majorly missing out on an awesome experience. I will never get tierd of watching the Outsiders. I love how this movie was a book before, and turned out awesome, maybe even better than the book. In the Outsiders special addition 2-disk set, they show scenes from the movie that were cut out from the original tape, but they show you them added to the movie. It makes it more and more exciting and interesting! I love this movie and I will never stop watching it, and it will always be one of my favorite movies! "},{"Title":"from me","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hey everybody. I too have read this book and watched the movie. The outsiders was a touching yet disturbing story of some kids who had major hardships and not very many rules. It was disturbing in the sense that people such as the Socs, actually treated others less fortunate than them in such a manner. The fact that people still treat others that way is disgusting. When Johnny died, it was tear jerking because I truly felt a connection with him.. As I grew my parents too were drunks and they beat me but I got over it. The sad thing is he didn't get a chance to. Dally dying was not a surprise, because Johnny was the only one he really cared about and in a sense johnny was like his little brother. No one in the gang quite felt that way towards each other. This book , you could say kind of changed the way I look at others with more or less money than me. I feel equal with them. So the author should know that they really did a good job with this book. "},{"Title":"appreciate the vivid imagery","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders book and movie are both excellent portrayals of life on the other side of the tracks. I grew up in a much similar situation. Even as a teenager, I appreciated the awesome scenery and vivid imagery shown here. I have become a fan of S. E. Hinton's writing because of this book and movie. I have learned to pay attention to the subtle background effects in movies because of the techniques that Francis Ford Coppola used here. The train whistle blowing is a sound that is heard through out the entire film. That lends an air of realism that most other films just don't have. In today's age of guns and explosives, the rumble in the park is still frightening. It erupts after we learn of the multiple hardships of all of the characters. Of course, everyone in the entire movie has brilliant character moments. To this day, many scenes stick in my mind. Kudos to the acting by the store clerk as Dallas robs the store. This man cringes in sheer terror as Dally puts a handgun to his face, literally shoving it at his cheek as hard as he can. There is a simple scene in the beginning as we learn about Emilio Estevez's character Two-bit. He sits down on the floor intent on eating the entire chocolate cake. It is just really cool moment that adds realism. As a testament to excellent casting, all of the 'outsiders' have had fantastic careers after being cast here. "},{"Title":"very hot","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me just say one thing, SEXY. They were so hot. well i also thought it was a great movie. It was really sad when Johnny died. It made me think that I was very fortunate(or however you spell it)to have what I do and the parents that I have. I think people of all ages can enjoy this movie and I liked it a lot. The first time I watched it I cried and I actually still cry. The movie is not as good as the book but then again what movie is. The guys were really hot(as stated above) and that made it even better to watch. I recommend this movie to everybody that has a heart. I really liked watching this movie and I hope that you will too. "},{"Title":"Awesome story about true friends","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this movie, it is one of my favorite movies. It shows how true friends are and what they really mean. The shows that you can not judge a book by its cover. It is a heartfelt story about about true friends.The theme song is a very pretty song. The acting is also very good.. It has dramatic scenes. There is really no graphic stuff on here. You will love this movie.I rate this movie an overall a 10. It is one of the best movies that is out there.I am so glad they came out with the directors cut! It is fun to see the actors before they becamepopular. "},{"Title":"how i liked the outsiders","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i thought the movie was really good, the only part i didn't like was the part where johnny and dally died. That was the only bad part in the book from my point of view. Also i thought this book actually talked about real life. Like what really happens with people example racism if your white you cant hang out with brown people, thats how it was with the greasers and socs. I also liked how the greasers acted all tough around everyone and even when johnny killed Bob. Only because Bob was a really mean guy and didn't respect the greasers, so when it got to that part i was surprisingly really happy. So thats my comment about the outsiders "},{"Title":"Best Movie I have ever seen","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Definitely one of the best movies I have ever seen. The young cast is amazing. They are very dedicated and very good actors. You instantly feel connected to the characters and their lives. Francis Ford Coppola followed the book very well and directed a fantastic movie. I would suggest watching the 'Complete Novel'(re-released in 2005) because it contains the extended beginning and extra scenes. S.E Hinton was there during the filming and her imprint shows. Watch for her in Dally's hospital room. I would suggest that you read the book before watching the movie. All in all I find this movie to be exceptionally well made and very well- casted. C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon and Ralph Macchio deliver outstanding performances. "},{"Title":"A moving, no holds barred coming of age film","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am ashamed to say as a fan of literature that I have not read the novel. But the cast of this film intrigued me a great deal and I love 80's Brat Pack films so I had to check it out. What a gripping, very real, look at cliques and emotion and young people living on the edge. Veteran film maker Francis Ford Coppola puts together a gritty, emotional ride revolving around two very different groups of young people, Greasers and Socs (pronounced Soashes). The best part of the film is that any one person can relate to at least one of the character from either side of the group. It examines the relations between two different cliques which everyone experiences in life but especially younger people in school and such.The lead is played by C. Thomas Howell back when he could apparently actually act and before his career went completely toilet side. I can say without any hesitation this is his best performance. He does a terrific job as Ponyboy Curtis. His parents have died and his oldest brother is doing the very best he can to raise him and give the opportunities and future that he or their other brother never had. Howell is just the essential, normal, troubled kid that so many could relate to. He suffers through learning to deal with the loss of his parents, his best friend in the whole world and the people he knows around him. Determined to find his place in the world he shows some of his tougher skinned friends that the world is a beautiful place even in the shadow of bad things happening. Ralph Macchio plays his best friend Johnny Cade. Macchio also does an incredible job of playing the troubled teen whose parents are alcoholic abusers who barely notice him. His emotion and tears touch you every time and his death is heart breaking. Macchio who of course is best known as The Karate Kid gives his best performance in The Outsiders as well. Patrick Swayze, in his rather small role, as older brother/father figure to Ponyboy and the other kids in the neighborhood does a good job with what is given to him. You certainly get a feel for his struggle and his tough time dealing with the loss of his parents and you get a hint in the story of what he lost out on to take care of his brothers. He struggled to hold onto them no matter what. Despite these performances being good no one holds a flame to what actor Matt Dillon pulls off in this film as bad ass Dallas Winston (Dally.) An ex-con who is only still young, but is hardened by crime and life on the streets. He still pulls out all the stops to protect his friends when one of them (Johnny Cade) kills a Soc. defending Ponyboy. Dillon's emotions and performance absolutely moves you in such a powerful way. He's a commanding presence and never having been a huge Dillon fan he won me over easily in this performance. Now I understand where his fame was based this being one of his earliest films. The supporting cast is made up of young up and comers who did ended up making themselves into real names....Tom Cruise (one of his first roles), Rob Lowe, Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane, and crooner Leif Garrett as the leader of the Socs. They all have rather small roles not really giving them the opportunity to flex any real acting ability but they certainly add to the cast in a great way. Each one of them create a unique character in the small roles they are given.The Outsiders is a brilliant coming of age movie set in the sixties to the perfect (if not overtly predictable) soundtrack. The film, although geared towards teens is a violent look at hatred and stereotyping that ends up in the loss of dear friends. The climax of the film is the brutal fist fight battle between the Socs and the Greasers which although violent is a victory for the constantly harassed lower classes of the film, the underdogs so to speak. Coppola brilliantly created this world around them and in essence created a classic film that classrooms and people will watch for years to come. If you love eighties films or even just a real powerful drama The Outsiders is worth seeing. If for no other reason than it's fun to see all the big names in their youngest days. 9/10 "}{"Title":"i love this book/movie","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i think the outsiders is the greatest book/movie....i don't know why but this book/movie makes me so sad that the soc' treat the greasers like that and the first time i read it i cried i mean why do the greasers have to have all the bad stuff happen to them?!?....this is the first book/movie i ever really cried to....I just think its the best book/movie ever made and i really think they should redo it so its like newer not like the fact that it happened in the 1950's just newer actors and better music and well just make it better and not add out some parts like when Randy comes to the house and when Ponyboys sick and when Pony gets a ride home from that guy and just make it more like the book....well that all i have to say right now.... <33 Julia <33 "},{"Title":"Greatest film ever","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Every generation should have to watch this movie, It's story that can be related to by all young adults and should be remembered for a life time. C.Thomas Howell's performance as a young greaser named Ponyboy is the best of his career. Matt Dillon is unforgettable in his hole as the slightly older but much wiser greaser. Ralph Macchio plays Jonny, a young greaser who spends most of his time scared out of his skin. This movie was a great journey as you follow the boys through their battle with there existence as social misfits. There are many great performances in this move from the likes of Tom Cruise, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, Emilio Estevez, and Diane Lane. If you are feeling the need to watch an amazing classic this is the one to watch. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I first read the book and saw the movie when I was 12 years old. I love both the book and movie. I thought it was great that they kept the movie completely true to the book and the cast was great. I couldn't believe that S.E. Hinton's The Outsiders was placed on the list of possible banned books. What about that book makes it a candidate to be banned?! Overall, the book, movie, cast, and story is awesome! My favorite character in the book/movie is Cherry (Diane Lane). My favorite part is at the beginning at the Drive-In when Cherry and Dally are bickering. This book and movie are OK for 12 and up audiences, and it teaches some good lessons within its pages. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw that movie for the very first time. I really enjoyed watching it. The book is really good too. When the special edition was released I did get it on that day of the release. All the added scenes are really good. I do think all the actors did great job. They played their characters very good. I do really enjoy watching that movie. It is one of my favorites. One of my favorite parts of the is when ponyboy is reunited with his brothers. It is emotional scene. Lots of other parts of the movie are really good too. It is one of the movies I do watch about everyday. I'm really glad that I got the special edition. I really like it. "},{"Title":"New 2 disk The Complete Novel version","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a huge fan of this movie and like many others out there, reading the novel in high school back in the 70's was required. I own the previously released original theatrical version on DVD which continues to this day to be shown in schools throughout the country. I now own the newly released 2 disk set. My hat is off to Mr. Coppola for finally rounding out the story with added scenes that bring much more depth, meaning and passion to the story which, this time around, truly does the book justice. The added scenes are necessary and vital to the scope of the story and Mr. Coppola explains on this new version why the scenes were deleted, removed, whatever, in the first place. For instance, if one has never read the book and saw the movie, one would never know how Pony Boy Curtis received that nasty little cut on his neck. The Complete Novel version shows Pony Boy getting bladed by Socs in the very beginning. The somewhat dream-like court sequence has also been added toward the end which explains how Pony Boy was cleared of the murder rap. Other scenes, such as the two described which have been added will give the viewer the light-bulb-over-the-head experience as if to say, Ohhhhh now I get it! In addition to the added scenes, a new Rockabilly style soundtrack (including songs by Elvis) have been added in place of the background orchestration. The new soundtrack may leave viewers flat during some places in the movie, especially if they know the original version's beautiful score that have enriched some key emotional scenes. However, the new soundtrack grew on me. Thankfully, Stevie Wonder's beautifully sung theme song, Stay Gold is still in the beginning and end credits. In the new version, the theme song is played lightly in the stylized sunrise scene with Pony Boy and Johnny. Or is it a sunset? I was never sure because Pony Boy states that he woke earlier than usual one morning and next you see him standing at the top of a hill joined by Johnny watching what appears to be a sunrise at which point Pony Boy recites the now famous poem by Robert Frost. In any case, the theme song has been added beautifully to this scene and yet was excluded in the sunset scene in which Cherry gives Two-Bit and Pony Boy a report on the upcoming rumble with the Socs. Minor changes one can live with. Mr. Coppola's new version is a new instant classic. Reborn, better than the theatrical version and it certainly packs all of the emotion penned in the classic novel so many teens have come to love. If you are a fan of the movie, you owe it to yourself to see The Complete Novel version. If you have never seen The Outsiders, you are in for an experience and a chance to see some very young and promising stars such as C. Thomas Howell, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise, Matt Dillon, Rob Lowe, Emilio Estevez, Ralph Macchio, and my favorite actress, Diane Lane in some great meaty roles done to young teen angst perfection. Francis Ford Coppola has said that he wanted to create an epic for kids. What he has accomplished is an epic for the kid in all of us as he rekindles the memories of teen joy, anger, fear, anxiety and trying to fit into our society no matter what generation we are from. Ten stars for this great addition to my DVD library. Mr. Coppola...you did it! You made your well loved classic even better. "},{"Title":"i love this movie/book","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was in second period English and my teacher said that we are going to start a new book no one was very excited because she doesn't really pick out very interesting books, then she told us what book it was she said we will be reading the outsiders. i have never heard of the book before this and when we were don't reading the book i feel in love with it then she said i have a surprise for you we are going to watch the movie the outsiders and everyone got so excited today we finished the movie i loved it and at the end i was close to crying but i didn't when i got home today i asked my mom if she would buy me the move and she said of course and then told me she had read the book as a little girl too and that she had loved it! i got on the internet and was talking to my friend Kristien and her and i were both doing the same thing looking at the outsiders stuff.so i will soon have the movie the outsiders and i want to rate it 100% some people have so much talent that they can do that and be so good at it if there was a outsiders 2 i would buy it as soon at it came out! thank-you for whoever put so much time and hard work into this movie/book it was well worth it! "},{"Title":"BEST MOVIE IN THE 80's","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The outsiders is one of the best movies and was very interesting. For some of the actors it was their first movies but after this movie look at them now.. tom cruise,diane lane,Matt dillon,rob lowe, C.thomas howell(who one an award for the outsiders, Most promising young actor)and ralph macchio who was the KARATE KID. The book was very good and at the same time faithful to the book. Its a very heartwarming movie and also had a all-star cast which helped. I would rate this book a 15 out of 10.hopefully francis ford coppola will come out with the new DVD of the outsiders which has over 30 minutes of deleted scenes that is the only negative thing about the outsiders the cut out scenes when sodapop ran away,parts with the curtis brothers,ponyboys concusion, and a extended part where cherry and ponyboy are talking to each other at the park. other then that best movie hand down of the eighty's.  "},{"Title":"Line up of the biggest stars = great performances","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've never read The Outsiders novel, im not into reading much, but this movie was superb, never have a seen a movie with now such famous stars, Ralph Macchio, Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Patrick Swayze, Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, C. Thomas Howell &  Diane Lane to name a few. This movie is equally as good as Stand By Me, the most outstanding performances in this movie were by Matt Dillon, Ralph Macchio, Diane Lane & C. Thomas Howell, no wonder this movie is a stroke of genius because its directed by Francis Ford Coppola ( The Godfather Trilogy ) No wonder a year after this movie Ralph Macchio was given the role of The Karate Kid his acting was just great, im a little surprised that Matt Dillon isnt a big star now a days as he should've been, by watching this movie you would think that, infact both of these 2 actors aren't that big in hollywood anymore. Anyways this is a great coming of age sorta movie, its highly recommend if you like movies such as  STAND BY ME ,  THE SANDLOT  or even  DANGEROUS MINDS , Should be in the top 250 movies of all time, i give this movie a 10 / 10.  "},{"Title":"The movie and the book are great!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  OH MY GOD! This movie is like...my favorite! I cried when Johnny died! Then I just completely lost it when Dally died! He is the best! The title represents the movie very well. Since it is about a group of seven teenage guys who feel left out in the world! I read the book for a school project a few years ago and I thought it would suck! But to my surprise...it didn't! Then my teacher told me that the movie wasn't that good and to my surprise once again...it was awesome! I told him this and he was so surprised that I thought the book and the movie were good since I am not the type of student that will like stuff like this! What I mean by that is books and movies made a long time ago about something that was happening a long time ago!  "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite pack a punch.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE OUTSIDERS is the tale of different classes growing up in Oklahoma (I think), divided into the Socs and the greasers. The Socs are upper-class, snotty, and arrogant; the greasers are lower-class, humble and typically nice, but more than willing to fight if provoked. One night, Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell) and Johnny Cade (Ralph Macchio) find themselves being chased by some drunken Socs. When they try to drown Ponyboy, Johnny stabs and kills the leader Bob (Leif Garrett) in an attempt to save his friend, causing the rest of the Socs to scatter. When Ponyboy comes to, the friends realize what they've done and run to Dally (Matt Dillon) for a place to hide out. He sends them to an abandoned church in a nearby town, where they stay for a few days until the heat dies down. In the midst of this, the two become close friends.When Dally returns to tell them that the news is quieted down and they have Bob's girlfriend Cherry (Diane Lane) testifying for the greasers, Ponyboy and Johnny decide to return to town. When they recede to the church to collect what few things they had there, they find that it has set fire and several kids are trapped inside! Ponyboy, Johnny, and (reluctantly) Dally step in to help them. They save all of the children successfully, and Ponyboy gets out all right, but Dally has some burns and Johnny's back was broken by a falling beam. The three return to their hometown (though Dally and Johnny are in the hospital) and find themselves rendered heroes. Meanwhile, the two groups are about to have a rumble to settle their differences once and for all, and everything boils up to a tragic conclusion.I used to love THE OUTSIDERS, but re-watching it recently, I wasn't quite sure why. It's a pretty good movie, but it definitely has its fair share of flaws. Though I read the book and loved the story, it's definitely not expressed as well in the movie (though that's to be expected). Many of the moments that could be viewed by many as symbolic and touching, I view as cheesy. And there are a lot of these moments--they're almost cringe-worthy. There's one flashback sequence that is quite unnecessary and very corny--but only one, which is good. It's not nearly as powerful and sad as it could have been, but I'm unsure who to blame this on. The other main flaw is Matt Dillon's acting in this one--he was great at playing an insensitive jerk, but he was terrible whenever he tried to show emotion.However, with the bad comes the good. The story is great (though the deleted scenes of the Curtis brothers' bond would have added a lot to the movie), and executed quite well. Most of the other actors are great in their roles, namely C. Thomas Howell and Ralph Macchio as the two leads. The supporting cast is great too, namely Patrick Swayze and Rob Lowe as Ponyboy's brothers Darry and Sodapop--though their characters were underdeveloped. Diane Lane was great as the greasers' spy Cherry, and Leif Garrett was as well, surprisingly. It's fun to see famous actors of today back then--especially Tom Cruise in a small role.THE OUTSIDERS is a pretty good movie with a great storyline and great acting (for the most part). It has a great display of cheesy moments (far too many), and a great tragic ending, but it doesn't quite pack a punch. 7/10. "}{"Title":"We're gonna' do it for Johnny!","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've never read the book, but from what I gather, this doesn't quite measure up. Still, I can recommend you spend 90 minutes with these greasers, just to see what Cruise & Lowe look like with dirt on 'em. Oh yeah (SPOILER), you also might like to check this out if you ever wanted to stick a 'shiv' into Leif Garrett for all the late 70's schlock he unleashed on us! I'd probably even pick this up if Warners would put it out a special edition DVD with some extras. I read where Coppola trimmed over a half hour of scenes which I'd sure like to see, and wouldn't it be great to get Ralph, Leif, and Pony Boy together for a nostalgic look back? I'm sure they could all use the work (and the paycheck) at this point.It's got just enough When They Were Nobodys appeal to keep you interested.So give it a look the next time your flippin' channels and see the gang hangin' out in that crappy house.  "},{"Title":"People commenting on this seriously are missing the point","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know about Coppola, and of course S.E. Hinton is a woman, but a movie like this is only made for one reason  exploitationally for gay men who would give their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to be surrounded by the likes of this cast.  They're white trash, they smoke, they're handsome, they don't give a s*** about anything, they have no real girl friends; they're perfectly in the mold.  It can't be a coincidence.  It is irrelevant that they did not make a very good movie. "},{"Title":"The Outsiders","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In grade 8, my class had to read the book The Outsiders and then watch the movie. When the teacher said that we were going to be reading the book, I thought, Oh great. We have to read some little kids book and then watch a really cheesy movie on it. Boy was I wrong! The book was so good I couldn't put it down. One thought that I had well Ponyboy was introducing the characters, was that I kept thinking, Hey. My best friends name is Sodapop, and his little brothers name is Ponyboy. And my friend Jason's nickname is Two-Bit and nobody ever calls him Jason anymore. It was so weird to be reading the book, and my friends Sodapop and Ponyboy are almost living, breathing, replicas of the characters described in the book, it was scary! The book was so good, that when both Dally and Johnny died in the end, it made me cry. I guess because it felt like I had known all the characters in the book, and had grown up with them (just like Ponyboy says in the book) and that they were all right beside me, Ponyboy, Sodapop, Darry, Dally, Johnny, Two-Bit, and Steve, while I was reading the book and watching the movie. But all in all, the book is and always will be one of my favorite books and the movie is by far my favorite movie. I loved it, and really was wrong about the cheesy movie and little kid book. "},{"Title":"Ponyboy is on the outside of society, and grows as a person throughout the story.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders has got to be one of the best movies anyone can see. If you don't take things to heart, you won't like it, but if you really think about what things really mean you'll understand and probably love this.The Outsiders is the story of Ponyboy Curtis, a normal greaser boy who endures drastic changes in his life throughout the book. There are three major deaths in the story and several changed attitudes. I don't want to give anything away, but the way this book and movie have changed my life is spectacular. I went from a pretty ordinary kid (I'm 13) to someone who loves writing more than ever, looks forward to a new day and sun rises and stars, and take people's feelings to mind. No movie has changed me like this one. Ask my favorite book or movie, this will be the automatic answer. I'm getting the new extended DVD for Christmas, and I haven't seen it yet, but I've seen the original and love it. I have to say though, I think the book is better.A movie that reminds me of this is Grease. Anyone who loves that should see this, and visa versa. Grease is more of a love story than of family and friendship, but also involves finding yourself. "},{"Title":"Watch this if you were a fan of the book","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you were a fan of the book, you should like this.The movie named The Outsiders is an adaptation of the book by S.E. Hilton, which is about two rival gangs, called The Greasers and The Socs. (pronounced 'Sosh.' Plural version is 'Soshes.' It's short for 'socials,' I think.)The storyline is basically the two gangs keep fighting, while Ponyboy (The main character) becomes friends with some guy whose name I don't recollect. The main flaws were that the acting could of been better, the rock music in the background sometimes doesn't quite match the setting, and the camera angle fails to change at times throughout the film, giving the movie(in my opinion) an uncomfortable feeling.I suppose your liking of it will either depend on how much you liked the book, or if you find it dramatic at all.I was a bit disappointed by the movie, but then again, I failed to 'get' the book. If you were moved by the book by S.E. Hilton, watch this. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, and beautiful tale.","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie so much that I watched it more than 10 times. After reading the novel by S.E. Hinton in school, I watched the movie while at my house. It's amazingly beautiful and compassionate. I told all my friends about it and we enjoyed it so many times. The Outsiders is about finding yourself and fitting in. I can definitely say I enjoyed it a little more than the novel. What caught my eye and was an important reason I liked the movie, was the cast. They included actors like Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise, Rob Lowe, Emilio Estevez, Ralph Macchio, C. Thomas Howell, and Diane Lane. Which was an amazing variety of talent. I wanted so much to be in that story and in those moments. the actors are gorgeous and the tale was enchanting. for those who haven't seen it, I encourage you to. "},{"Title":"i love that movie","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i think that movie is the bomb it is so cool. i think that all of the greasers are hot. i like that movie so much that when my dad finished downloaded it i wanted to watch it over and over again i watched it like 3 times and i thought that that would be OK well i think i am going to watch it another 3 times ha ha i don't no bout that well i think that this is the a good movie and i love it i want to get the DVD of it. i thought that it was sad when johnny died i almost cried.when i watched it in English i think some of the people in there wanted to cry.when i seen the last part of it i thought that it would be a great movie to watch so when i came home i told my dad i wanted to get the movie and we did i am some happy i love that move so much. "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. We read the book at school, then watched the movie. When I first started reading the book I found it hard to get into it but then it started to unfold and I rather enjoyed it. Johnny, of course is my favourite character and it made me said to see him die. The story line is touching and really does capture the lives of two different social scenes during the '50s in America. However, I did find the casting didn't quite fit the descriptions in the book, but it took me until the second time watching it for me to actually realise this and it isn't much of a problem because the movie is brilliant without having to have perfect casting. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Artsy Teen-age Drama","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is an incredible book, one which could have been transmitted to the screen in very different ways. It could have been a low-budget, straightforward version with plenty of rawness and realism, or this artsy adaption by Coppula. The movie is basically true to the book, but so much attention is put into atmosphere that the plot sometimes takes a backseat to the images. Shadows talk into sunsets, and there are many atmospheric shots at night, like the rumble. A teen-aged world of greasers and socs is effectively created, but would have been more realistic without all the glamor. Some teen-agers might have preferred a more realistic approach. That was then, this is now, another bestseller by Hinton, was directed in such a fashion. But for lovers of cinema, the Outsiders is an art house delight. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've loved the novel The Outsiders By S.E. Hinton since it's birth! I must have read it at least twenty times in my younger years. Too often when a book ends up as a movie, the movie rips the book to shreds. However,Francis Ford Coppola did a fairly good job matching the movie to the book. However, the backgrounds of the characters were barely touched upon in the film and that took away from seeing why Ponyboy and Johnny did the things they did and took away from why they chose to reach out for help from who they did vs. who they avoided asking for help. With the addition of more background in the films beginning the feel of the movie would be more complete and the characters actions would be very self explanatory. Casting was excellent and overall it is a great read and a good movie. I'm looking forward to the remake! "}{"Title":"One of Coppola's last effective films","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1982 and 1983 Francis Ford Coppola adapted two films from novels by author S.E. Hinton, both dealing with the rites of passage regarding rough teenagers living on the streets.The Outsiders follows Johnny and Ponyboy (Ralph Macchio and C. Thomas Howell) as they run away from home and are attacked by another gang, The Socs, at a water fountain. Johnny kills some of them, the others run away and the greasers flee to the care of a friend (Matt Dillon) who tells them to run away and that he'll join them later.This sparks a whole chain of events as the rival gangs' violence towards each other escalates.The movie has a flawless cast featuring supporting performances by actors like Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise (in one of his first roles), Diane Lane, Rob Lowe and Emilio Estevez.This forms a nice companion piece to Rumble Fish, which is a superior film in my opinion; of interesting note is that Dillon and Lane both returned to work with Coppola, so presumably their experience the year before was enjoyable.The Outsiders is not a great film but it is effective and one of the last movies Francis Ford Coppola made before he altogether lost his artistic vision and sold out by making poor excuses for films like Jack (1996). The new DVD features a recut of the film, which is supposedly better and more faithful to the book, which has a huge cult following amongst young teens in particular. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL..everyone should see it!","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is my favorite movie..I think they had awesome actors. Matt Dillon played my favorite character, Dallas Winston or otherwise known as Dally. I also read the book. It was amazing. It's one of my favorite books. How I discovered the book was in 9th grade, our whole class had to read the book..and then as a treat or whatever, we got to watch the movie. I loved both, and ever since then it's been my favorite movie/book. Yeah I know like all the actors and when it was made and when it takes place. Also, Matt Dillon is extremely attractive when he plays Dally. I thought that the directer of the movie chose very good actors to play the roles. C. Thomas Howel (Ponyboy), Ralph Macchio (Johnny Cade), Patrick Swayze (Darrel), Emilio Estevez (Two-Bit), Rob Lowe (Sodapop), Tom Cruise (Steve), and of course Matt Dillon (Dally) did wonderful. Yeah so anyone who hasn't seen it or is debating weather to see it..GO..GOOOOO, it's wonderful. =) "},{"Title":"A warning about film versions to the nostalgic","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm afraid it was necessary to quickly secure a copy of the 1983 version for myself. This was for my admiration of Mr. Coppola's work and my personal belief in not altering memories of the early 1980's. Carmine Coppola's score was not a recording I personally had a history with musically, but it served, and will serve, The Outsiders just fine. Dramatic strings colliding with the drab setting of the Tulsa location worked, and was not in need of revision. What Mr. Coppola has accomplished with this new version, is a 60's rock'n'roll movie worthy of his pal's American Graffiti. George had his...Francis needed his...Francis made his. OK. Now when we watch the intense climax of Matt Dillon's performance in The Outsiders - The Complete Novel,we shake and shimmy to a surf instrumental I have not researched the title of yet. I'm selling my 2005 version and keeping my 1983 version for Francis Ford Coppola. "},{"Title":"This movie made me cry....","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie made me cry.Outsiders It is definitely one of the best movies I have ever seen! This movie is a movie I think ever teenager should see at least once in there life time I am only 13 years old and I loved this movie! I don't know how but this movie touched me. it had an equal balance of sadness, happiness, love, fear, and hope i loved this movie what else can i say there are no words strong enough to express the way i feel about this movie! I also liked the book but....i think the movie is a little bit better because every things there for you! I love all the characters in the movie I really liked Ralph Macchio (Johnny) and C. Thomas Howell (ponyboy)! They were both very good in the movie (so were all the other actors/tress) I think this movie is and always will be one of my favorite movies! "},{"Title":"Tear-Jerking","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I had read the book in the beginning of 7th grade. My friend forced me to finish it before the rest of the class did. Even though I had already finished it, I couldn't help reading it over, and over, and over. I had heard of the movie from someone and I watched it. I watched the movie at least 5x more than I had read the book and let me tell you, that is A LOT of times. The story and movie are tear-jerkers. With an amazing beginning, body, and ending. Francis Ford Coppola is an amazing director and he had the greatest insight of which actors would become famous one day. C. Thomas Howell, Rob Lowe, Ralph Macchio, Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez, Diane Lane, and Patick Swayze have all turned out to be amazing actors even with Patrick Swayze and Diane Lane having a head start. It's been so many years, and even when I read the book or watch the movie now, I cry and cry just looking back at when I was in 7th grade crying over the movie and the book so many years ago. S.E.Hinton and Francis Ford Coppola are truly amazing. "},{"Title":"The Outsiders Review","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was banking. It is one of my all time favorite movies. This movie stars many of the top eighties actors and actresses. Like C. Thomas Howell, Tom Cruise, Patrick Swayze, Emilio Estevez, Ralph Macchio, Matt Dillon, Rob Lowe and co-stars Darren Dalton, Leif Garret, Diane Lane and even the author S.E Hinton was in it as a nurse. I recommend you see this movie because it is soooo good. On a scale of one to ten i give it a 10 A+. This movie tells you about how it was to grow up in Tulsa Oklahoma in the sixties. You will love love love it. C. Thomas Howell plays Ponyboy Curtis, Tom Cruise plays Steve Randell, Patrick Swayze plays Darrell Curtis (Darry), Emilio Estevez plays Keith Matthews (Two-Bit), Ralph Macchio plays Johnny Cade, Matt Dillon plays Dallas Winston (Dally), Rob Lowe plays Soda Pop Curtis, Darren Dalton plays Randy, Leif Garrett plays Bob and Diane Lane plays Sherry Vallance (Cherry). Watch and love it. Trust me this movie will not disappoint you and all the guys are sooo fine. Peace Out and watch it like now. "},{"Title":"the movie","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I read this book in school with my class. when we were finished the book we watched the movie. i liked it so much that i got the movie for myself. i watched it so many times now that i can almost remember all the liens that they are about to say. my favorite characters are Sodapop and Dally. because they are so handsome. i like Johnny because he looks so cute. and Ponyboy because he was always loyal to his friend Johnny. i liked this movie because it was really touching in some ways. i really thought that this was a good movie for younger people to see. at the end of the movie where Ponyboy is reading the letter from Johnny really explains the movie and what Johnny had learned and what he wanted Dally to know. "},{"Title":"Great adaption of a great book, with minor flaws","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not good at these reviews.When we first had to read this book in English class, I thoughtOh great, another stupid book to read.But when I read it, I changed my mind quickly. The movie was just as good. It got me hooked. But there were mistakes. Like the fact that the entire first chapter was left out. It wasn't that important, but it gives an intro to the story. There were also the actors. I think that Matt Dillon was perfect for Dally, except for the hair color. Same with Rob Lowe as Soda. But like  I said, it was an excellent movie, and deserves more recognition.All in all, and 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Watch the uncut version first!","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I read the book for the first time in 8th grade English this year. I immediately fell in love with the characters and the story, so I had to watch the movie. Whether you are watching this for the first time or the 100th time I recommend that you watch the newer uncut version! The whole movie is on Youtube.com, if you are renting or buying the movie make sure it says 114 minutes long not 91 minutes long. This version makes A LOT more sense! I watched the movie for the first time on Youtube and it became my favorite movie. I went to the video store and ordered it, but when it arrived I was surprised to see that they had cut out the whole opening scene (not to mention almost all of my other small but favorite parts). This version also has better music - all sung by Elvis Presly =D.Anyone who has not seen this version should not make any comments because you don't know what you're talking about...anyone who has seen this version and doesn't like it, well you're an idiot and I don't care XD "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time...","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I loved it so much that I watched it five other times! The book was obviously amazing, but the movie just really brought out the descriptions and personality of the characters.The Outsiders is a book about a boy Ponyboy Curtis, his friends, and a rumble. Now, this book takes place in the 60's and it's the age of Greasers vs. Soc's and it wasn't pretty. The Greasers are basically the poor people and the Soc's are the rich kids with all the breaks. At the beginning of the book Ponyboy and his friend Johnnycake get in a fight with some Soc's and Johnnycake ends up killing a Soc. They have to hide out in the country until it seemed same to come back to town. They end up being able to go back to the city and there, they plan to have it out with the Soc's for good in a rumble. Greasers vs. Soc's.Many people might have not seem the newer version, so I'd advise you to see it. The first one that cam out in 1983 had a lot of scenes cut out, that i personally thought should have been in it, but since Francis Ford Copala got so many letters saying that were disappointed with the movie that he added the cut scenes. He added in a lot missing scenes that he had took out in the editing process, and released as The Outsiders The Complete Novel. Also, here is some of the cool cast. C. Thomas Howell as Ponyboy Curtis, Matt Dilon as Dallas Winston, Ralph Machio as Johnnycake, Rob Lowe as Sodapop Curtis, Diane Lane as Cherry Valance, Emilo Esteviz as Two-Bit. (Don't mind my spelling errors!!!)In the end, well, you'll just have to go out and get the movie... "}{"Title":"It actually did stay pretty faithful to the book.  And it shows that Tom Cruise was better before he got into cool guy roles.","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" People often debate which was Francis Ford Coppola's best movie ever one of the Godfather movies or Apocalypse Now. While I would argue for the latter, I would also like to say that The Outsiders should be #2. This movie is so great that I can't describe it. Told from the perspective of Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell), it's the story of several destitute teenage boys and young men in 1966 Oklahoma, and their struggle to belong in the world. The movie ranges from sad - when Johnny Cade (Ralph Macchio) dies from burns sustained in a church fire - to funny - when Keith Two-Bit Mathews (Emilio Estevez) drinks beer for breakfast while watching cartoons. With great support from Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise and Diane Lane, this is one movie that you just have to see. "},{"Title":"The Outsiders","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fascinating study of youth by director Coppola that features great performances from Howell, Dillon and Macchio. An underrated film, it is well made and features other up in coming talents named Swayze, Estevez, Lowe and a guy named Cruise. Based on S.E. Hinton's novel and features songs from Van Morrison and Stevie Wonder's hit Stay Gold.  "},{"Title":"it's awesome","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i saw this movie for school... and i also had to read the book but i loved it!!! it was a really good movies..and some of the movies that they make right now aren't as good as the this one that was made in the 80's..... that really says something about it... just the action of the whole movie and the plot of everything that went on..its realistic and it's something that actually does go on around here..with gangs...and people always comparing others according to how rich they are...yet inside it's about how the love of three brothers, and their friends( who are just as much family as the brothers are) all look out for each other...its just an amazing book..and an even greater movie! i strongly urge anyone who hasn't seen it...to do so! "},{"Title":"Watched the New DVD version of The Outsiders","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched the updated version of this movie on DVD(The Outsiders The Complete Novel version released in 2005). I have loved the book and the movie since I was in grade school. It is so true to the book and it hasn't aged over the years. The movie makes you feel like you're right there with the characters going through what they're going through. If you love a story about family/friend relationships and coming of age tales, you'd like this movie. It is also great to see how some stars started their film careers--Ralph Macchio, Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Patrick Swayze, and Rob Lowe are just a few of the stars. READ THE BOOK ALSO!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A 'Rumble' of a Film!!!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Every once in a while along comes one of those 'great films'. A great film, at least to me, is one that turns into a instant classic. 'The Outsiders' is one of those films. And it is an instant classic for many reasons. But I think the top reason being, is some excellent performances by some, then, up and coming yet very talented young actors. It's too bad that only The Young Artist Awards was the only ' entertainment awards organization' to recognize this film with its 1984 'Best Young Motion Picture Actor in a Feature Film' award going to C. Thomas Howell for his portrayal of Ponyboy Curtis. And it's too bad when a film such as this is so totally overlooked by the Academy Awards and other entertainment awards organizations. Also, outstanding performances turned in by Ralph Macchio and Matt Dillon. While the film had a raw hard edge to it, almost all of the 'main' characters at some point or another showed their 'soft underbellies' with tender and highly emotional moods that are a part of teen-aged angst. "},{"Title":"THE OUTSIDERS - THE COMPLETE NOVEL - A must-see for anyone who loved the first film & the novel!","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Man, was I happy when I watched this flick again 20 years after seeing it the theatre and wondering what the H.-E.-double-hockey-sticks happened to much of the novel's content when it came to Coppola's film adaptation.Well, for anyone else who wondered the same thing, or who felt as did I, that the soundtrack was rather wishy-washy and didn't capture the actual early 50's feeling and time setting of the story, this new release is absolutely fantastic!With a bow to Francis Ford Coppala's pops, Carmine, the man who scored the theatrical release of the movie with its intensity, its melodrama and it offering the film that almost Rebel Without A Cause feel, I prefer what Coppala has done for the new DVD release.The new music has everything from Elvis to (I think, though I could be wrong) Link Wray on it, and it sets the mood and the period of the story much more appropriately than the original release's score.With 22 minutes of the movie returned to its proper place, the story unfolds in a much more natural way, allowing characters and their relationships to develop in a less contrived, more organic manner.The 2 DVD set includes all kinds of wee treats, like the video clips shot during rehearsal time (video was new & revolutionary for filmmakers at the time, and Coppola shot the whole picture on video prior to shooting on film), a fun 20 year reunion of many of the cast members commenting on the film, joking with each other, and reminiscing about how young and inexperienced they all were back then. We even get to see the original readings & auditions for the movie's parts, which have some interesting surprise stars who initially read for the film.I was pleased to see focus put on the teacher and the school kids responsible for bringing the book to Coppola's attention by sending him a petition requesting he be the one to direct the movie, as he'd done such a beautiful job directing The Black Stallion, another teenage classic. There is a great NBC news clip with Swayze & C. Thomas Howell powowing with the students after the release of the film, and Swayze thanking the school for truly beginning his career via his having been cast in the film as Darryl.Overall, the movie is now what it was intended to be in my humble opinion.If ya dug it then, you'll dig it even more now! Hope this helps y'all! ~T.Paul "},{"Title":"the outsiders","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" my favorite movie has been the outsiders since i was 4 yrs. old. i used to watch it every single day sometimes even more than once a day. today it is still my favorite move and i have just recently read the book in my class. great book also. i have now read the book 7 times. the actors were chosen so well and put together so well w/ the characters its amazing. the movie/book reminds me of my own life. the way that i have always lived on the poor side of town no matter where i am people always mark me lousy because i don't live in decent conditions. anyways i will aways carry the memory of the outsiders with me throughout my whole life. I LOVE THE OUTSIDERS!!! "},{"Title":"early display of great talent","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most of the cast of The Outsiders went on to bigger and better things, except Leiff Garret. The Outsiders are a group of troublemaking greasers who all have strong bonds with each other. When C. Thomas Howell starts falling for Diane lane, the preppy gang starts messing with him. Soon there is a rumble and Ponyboy and Ralph Macchio are on the run. Has a great cast and a great director. The Outsiders is a good movie. *** "},{"Title":"The Golden Age","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In a town split between the wealthy South Zone gang called The Socials and the poor North Zone gang called The Greasers, Dallas Winston (Matt Dillon), Ponnyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell) and Johnny Cade (Ralph Macchio) from The Greasers befriend the rich Cherry Valance (Diane Lane) and Marcia (Michelle Meyrink) in a drive-in. Late night, a group of The Socials chase and severely beat up on Johnny and drown Ponnyboy in a fountain. However Johnny stabs one Socs and kills him, saving Ponnyboy. The desperate boys seek Dallas and he indicates a hideout for them in a nearby town. One week later, Johnny and Ponnyboy decide to return to their hometown with Dallas to claim self-defense. But in their way back, they see a school on fire and the trio helps the children trapped in the school becoming heroes. However Johnny is badly wounded and interned in the hospital. Meanwhile The Socs and The Greasers schedule a fight with tragic consequences.The Outsiders was a huge success with the teenagers in Brazil in the 80's. The dramatic story of self-destructive teenagers that spend their lives in empty gang fights is engaging and I have watched this movie at least four times. In 2009, it is great to see the cast composed of future stars in the beginning of their careers. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Vidas Sem Rumo (Adrift Lives) "},{"Title":"The Outsiders movie was the best movie!","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time i've read the book The Outsiders I fell in love with the characters. There was Jonny with the scared puppy face, Ponyboy with the comfortness, Dally the tough guy, Two- bit the joke cracking guy, Darry the elder brother and look out watch dog type, Sodapop the handsome dreamy guy, Steve the crazy type, Cherry the dream girl, Bob and Randy the Socs. When i finally got the movie i was thrilled. I knew the nobodies that played the characters from familiar movies, like The Karate Kid, Secret Admirer, and many more movies. I instantly fell in love with the movie and the people who played the male greasers. now i can't stop reading the book and watching the movie. i am so obsessed. i even have pictures on my agenda for school. The Outsiders are the best "}{"Title":"Hard to understand","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I had to watch this movie for an English class. It was hard to follow the story-line and take notes at the same time. The movie differs a lot from the book. It was hard to watch and understand the movie considering it is 2015 and the movie was made in the 80's. They also appear to be older than the book says they are. In the book Pony is 13, but in the movie he's like in his 30's. The movie is also very short and leaves out key points from the book. The movie was much worse than the book, in my opinion. It does have a good life lesson that people can learn and use in life. I suggest age 13 plus for this movie. This movie was a good lesson, but hard to watch and understand. "},{"Title":"Outsiders review and analysis of overall movie and music in film","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film has a very elaborate theme, but is presented in a simplistic way that has a lesson that all ages can learn from. The theme of this film is Stay Gold (The Outsiders). The meaning of this phrase is that people should remain innocent to the harsh realities of life. The phrase Stay Gold was explained in this film through Robert Frost's poem Nothing Gold can Stay (The Poetry of Robert Frost). This poem explains that when something is new it is gold or innocent, as it progresses the gold or innocence fades away. His poem concludes that no one will stay innocent. In addition to this poem, they use the sunset as a simile for staying Gold. Johnny explains the comparison to Ponyboy when Ponyboy recites Robert Frost's poem and admits he does not know what it means. The sunset is a simile to staying Gold because when the sunset rises or it is new the color of it is gold just as when a person is young they are innocent. When the sunset is fading away and is turning into night it loses its gold color, like when someone grows up they lose their innocence. The theme does get complicated in the film. There are points in the film where it is suggested that there is no hope in living or trying to be innocent when one of the innocent characters die. There are also times in this film when it is not certain who contains innocence and if it can be regained. It seems that some characters in this film are reminded of their wrong doings and try to make a difference. It is also questioning when the characters realize that they cannot change the society. Even though the theme seems complicated at times, the music really portrays the main ideas in the film.The music in this film was well thought out and portrayed the theme and the plot of the movie. The music was produced by Carmine Coppola who also produced the music for the Godfather films (Carmine Coppola). The music was presented in a post-romantic style, similar to Gone with the Wind (Hickman, Roger). I believe they chose this style for the movie because Ponyboy and Johnny were reading Gone with the Wind throughout the film. Most of the music in the film was orchestrated with woodwinds and strings with chords long in duration and had a slow tempo. This gave it a very lush and romantic feel to it. They incorporated leitmotifs to portray the theme as well. Gloria by Van Morrison played whenever the people who had lost their innocence were in a scene. This song was very upbeat and the singer had a very raspy sounding voice. It was the only song in the movie that had lyrics to it in the movie. I believe that they made this the only song that had lyrics because it was played in the opening scenes and the rebels of society needed to look cooler and more modern than the rest of society. There is also a leitmotif for the innocent characters. The song is the instrumental version of Stevie Wonder's Stay Gold which was written for this film. This song is played whenever there is a sunset in the background, when Ponyboy and Johnny are discussing Staying Gold, and when Ponyboy is talking to Cherry about how nothing is ever going to change between the Greasers and the Socs. Not only is this song the leitmotif, the lyrical version of the song plays in the opening credits foreshadowing what will happen in the film.The opening credits do a great job in foreshadowing what will happen in the movie. The lyrical version of the song Stay Gold has great meaning to the theme of the film. One verse You thought that all would last forever, but like the weather, nothing can ever and be in time, stay gold clearly talks about the simile of the weather and innocence and how nothing can stay gold (Stevie Wonder). Although that was the main example of how the opening credits portray the film, there are many more. The sunset is in the background while it is also flashing pictures of the different places the scenes take place at such as the railroad and an old abandoned church. The way they show the credits also symbolizes the segregation between the Greasers and the Socs. The Greasers character and the actors who played them were displayed first on the right side of the screen, and the Socs were displayed after on the left side of the screen. I personally, loved this film. The usage of music in this film was excellent and the film really captured the essence of the book. The lighting of the film made the movie look as though it was taking place in the 60's. Not only did they do well on casting the of characters, the costumes really captured the different societal standings. The main thing that I loved about this film is that it stuck to the main points of the book well. It was shot in the spot that the author had it take place at and she had a major input on what happened during the production.Overall I would highly recommend watching this film because it is a film that has a timeless theme and because most people can relate to the plot of the film.Work Cited Carmine Coppola. IMDb. IMDb.com 1990-2014. Article. 4/28/2014. http//www.imdb.com/name/nm0178874/?ref_=nv_sr_3  http//www.imdb.com/name/nm0000338/?ref_=nv_sr_1 Hickman, Roger. Reel Music Exploring 100 Years of Film Music. W.W Norton Company. 8/30/2005. Print. https//www.youtube.com/watch?v=wJnfleLeOZg (2008) 36. Academic Search. Web. 21 Apr. 2014. Stevie Wonder. Stay Gold. Natural Wonder. Len Freedman Music Inc. n.d. CD. The Outsiders. IMDb.IMDb.com 1990-2014. Article. 4/28/2014. http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0086066/?ref_=nv_sr_1 The Poetry of Robert Frost. Henry Holt and Company. 1923. "},{"Title":"Great Movie summarizing the timeless troubles of adolescence","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As I the movie came to an end, an amazing feeling swept over me. Growing up as a youth in Long Beach, California in the twenty-first century, it always seemed that the problems the youth face today were a lot worse than in the past. This movie does an astonishing job illustrating the crazy and dangerous life that teenage boys lived through in the American heartland over four decades ago! As I watched, the similarities between my adolescence and theirs gave me a very grateful feeling to have made it out of that stage of my life. For me, this movie was a very spiritual reminder of the possible dangers, temptations, loyalties, friendships, and overall craziness of teenage life. Plot The movie begins in the 1960's with three Topeka youth meeting up to sneak into a drive-in movie theater. After the movie have a fierce confrontation with the boys from the other side of town. The plot line is full of drama, confrontation with rivals, murder, running away, death, police and violence. It makes for one of the best movies you have ever seen. Acting The acting in this production is definitely up to standards. You can feel the emotions in the actors voices and see them in their eyes. It is so real it almost makes you not want to believe that they are actors. This was a very heartfelt production and I wish they would have made a sequel; before the teenage actors reached their fifties. Music The music in this film was very deep and comforting. They featured the song Stay Gold by Stevie Wonder. It keeps a deep and spiritual vibe in tune with the craziness of the youth. Characters The characters seem very interesting for mid-western youth, with some featuring names such as Sodapop and Ponyboy, and others with less interesting names such as Johnny. The characters are very believable and awe-inspiring.Ending The story has a sad, interesting, spiritual, and above all, unbelievable ending. A character, saddened by the death of a close friend, loses his sense. He is in a comic book store reading, and upon being asked to leave, simply rips up the comic book and points a gun at the cashier. He then runs through the park with police pulling up on all sides of him, before being shot to death. The ending leaves you sad, spiritual, and above all, grateful to have made it out of that stage of life. I recommend this movie to anyone who is experiencing, or has experienced a crazy childhood. "},{"Title":"Better Than I Expected!","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I never thought The Outsiders would be a good film because it just didn't seem good. Apparently the critics thought the same way when originally released. But however, this film is better than I anticipated and joins the ranks of teen films I enjoy. This film kind of produces a social/political commentary, but I liked how Francis Ford Coppola didn't bring the political stuff to the forefront of the film.Coppola's film is essentially about a battle between two rival gangs the greasers and the socs. After two of the young greasers fatally stabbed a soc, tensions amount between the two gangs setting up a wild chain of events.The acting is actually pretty good. This film has plenty of young stars before they became big such as Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez, Ralph Macchio, and C. Thomas Howell. They all acted well with each other and they made emotional connections with their characters hence they made me believe in their characters.Overall, this is a really good teen film that we may or may not be able to connect with. There are some tense scenes as well as a few emotional ones. The story seemed a bit hard to follow at first, but I grew accustomed to it as the movie progressed. This is a rather good, social commentary to watch. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Best movie you should watch it","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It is a great old fashioned movie I wasn't even born during that time and it's my favorite movie of all time. This year I'm in grade 7 and we where reading the outsiders in class we had a test on the book so I just decided to watch the movie. I was so blown away about how good this movie was I love this movie so much I watch it 3 times every day when I get home from school. The characters just have so much passion I'm so sad that they didn't make a movie franchise out of it. It's too late now but they really should have. The movie also has a great story line and the actors really make you just wanna re watch the movie again and again just so you won't miss anything they should make a remake of the movie. The only way a remake would be better if they actually get the characters right and make the story according to the book. Darry is supposed to be strong handsome and mature sodapop is loyal kind a Really good looking ponyboy is smart and committed twobit is funny and like Mickey Mouse Johnny is quiet. If there whiling to republish a book a bunch of times they should make another movie Goodbye have a great day "},{"Title":"Rebels Without a Cause","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 1960s, Tulsa, Oklahoma. Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell) belongs to a group of juvenile greasers from the low-end of the social stratum. As his parents died he is currently being brought up by his elder brothers Darry (Patrick Swayze) and Soda (Rob Lowe). During a brawl against a bunch of well-off Socs his best friend Johnny ('Karate Kid' Ralph Macchio) uses a switchblade to protect Ponyboy killing a teenager in the process. After consulting with the crass and edgy rude boy of the group Dally (Matt Dillon) they decide to hitch a train and lay low in a derelict church...Francis Ford Coppola indulges in some cheesy experimentation, essentially trying to present the story through the lenses of early cinema. His wife Carmine Coppola dabbles with him inputing some bombastic, overemphasised music to bring back the cinematographic feel of the 1930s - 1950s 'Golden Age' of filmmaking, giving The Outsiders an almost surrealist feel, at times dangerously bordering on parody. During their brief respite offered by the run-down church the mood of the movie is directly influenced by Gone With the Wind featuring a background sunrise visibly inspired by some of the most famous scenes from that movie - the dreamlike quality to it unmistakable as the boys find themselves in a state of bliss. Emotions, scenes and music are characterised by naivety, as if to suggest the vision of innocence, 'staying gold' is shown through the mind and eyes of a essential innocence. Albeit the idea was pretty interesting it comes off overly contrived with uneven performances and subsequently underbidding drama.Featuring some minor roles for Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez and Diane Lane it could be stated as being a coming out movie for many actors, unfortunately one that is an artistic misstep by Coppola - probably the first hint to his faltering career and creativity. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't call it a must see...","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The premise was interesting and I was instantly drawn into watching 'The Outsiders'(It also has Matt Dillon). However the execution was not up to scratch; the acting felt contrived and speech felt false and at times unbelievable. Though these did bug me, I really enjoyed the film and the chemistry between the actors and well the idea. The characters were empathy worthy however I wished that the relationships between the brothers were developed further. I do have to admit that I have not read the novel so I don't know if it is an accurate adaptation (etc. etc.) I did enjoy it, I'm sure a lot of people did, but I would not say that you have to see it, that your life would change because of it or that the characters would stay in your heart. Although the names Ponyboy and Sodapop are pretty amazing. I really wished the characters were all developed a little, and that Karate Kid's (Ralph Macchio) acting was better - it was painful at times. All in all, pretty good... not unbearable. It is understandable why many see 'The Outsiders' as an 80's classic, and well, I much prefer it to 'The Breakfast Club'. "},{"Title":"A classic for the ages...","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I read the book when I was around 12 I think in junior high. For awhile I really idolized the whole image of gangs. Then when the movie came out, I was around the same age as the median age of the actors. This group went on to become some of the biggest stars of their generation and Patrick Swayze did great things too. Growing up I was lucky to have grown up in a very nice town, that actually had kind of the same divide between the Preps and the working class blokes. But the people who actually dressed like greasers in my school all mostly came from the right side of the tracks. So it was just an image that was'nt backed by the class and racial divide that the movie hints at. After growing up I realized that the movies about gangs and violence are so far from the real world sometimes. I've talked to people who were involved in gangs and it does'nt seem like there are ever any fair fights out there hardly and honor among a lot of these groups is just an illusion, that is propagated by the whole entertainment business. But besides this little quibble, the movie is and will always be a classic!!! "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this film I Was really bored and so I looked up this one book someone in my class had been reading (I know) and at the site I when on there was a picture of 7 extremely sexy guys standing in a truck. The picture said it was from the movie outsiders, so I decided to watch it. I thought it was going to be stupid but it was absolutely amazing and I fell in love with the greasers (especially Ponyboy) The acting was miraculous.I own 2 different copies of this movie (yeah its that amazing) and I was obsessed with this film for a very long time (still am). My obsession with this movie launched my (Hopefully forever obsession) of the 80s 70s and 60s and 50s just because of sexy hot Elvis and his amazing voice.Stay Gold Ponyboy. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but fundamentally flawed.","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a huge fan of the outsiders book, and was excited to hear that there was a movie. Unfortuanutly, it's riddled with continuity errors, poor acting, horrid music, extreme corniness, and a general feeling of cheap film making. Let's talk about the story, shall we? One of the best parts about the book was the excellent story. It's about a poor greaser named- wait for it- Ponyboy. I'm dead serious. Any way, like I said, Ponys a greaser. He puts grease in his hair, he likes cars, he's poor, wares black leather, you know the story. Him and his greasy friends- named Steve, Johny, Two bit, Dally and his 2 brothers- Darry, and best of all- Soda-pop- are constantly getting jumped by Socs- Rich kids who think there better then every better. But then, things are taken too far. Johny kills one of the Socs. This leads to a whole string of events and things are strung together quite nicely. Now, this is a pretty star studded movie- Tom Cruise, Pactric Swayze. Emilio Estevaz. Unfortuanutly, all this Talent is still developing, there all young and it shows. At one point, Ponyboy is actually laughing directly at the camera. Overall, it's a decent film, but the book is A lot better. "}{"Title":"Stay gold Ponyboy.  The Outsiders (The complete novel) review.","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola's The Outsiders is a melodramatic film based upon the novel written by S. E. Hinton (who also as a small role as a nurse). Like many middle school students I was forced to read the novel (which I thought was sappy and cheesy). Coppola's version is pretty much the same as the novel and he did a very good job of capturing the spirit of the film (perhaps too much). Filmed on location in Oklahoma. The actors in this film were a cast of unknowns. But afterwords many of them would go on to become stars (Tom Cruise, Matt Dillon) others would find success in the later years (Diane Lane, Rob Lowe) and some would score some big roles early int their careers and fade away to straight-to-video obscurity (C. Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio, Emilio Estevez and Patrick Swayze).Ponyboy Curtis is a Greaser a kid from across the tracks. He's always has his head in the clouds and unlike the other Greasers, he seems to have a bright future if he would stick in head in books instead of hanging out with his buddies Johnny (Ralph Macchio), Two-Bit (Emilio Estevez) and Dallas (Matt Dillon). Pony's brothers Sodapop dropped out of school to work at a local DX with fellow Greaser Steve (Tom Cruise) whilst older brother Darrel (Patrick Swayze) has to take care of the family since the tragic deaths of their parents. Darrel is under a lot of stress of having to take care of Darrel and Ponyboy that he takes it out on Pony by riding him like a donkey and always jumping on his case. One night after staying out late, Pony and Darrel get into a scuffle causing Pony to runaway from home with Johnny. The greasers are always in a constant state of war with the rich kids called The Socs. Two members of the group Bob (Leif Garrett) and Randy (Darren Dalton) nearly come to blows with Ponyboy, Two-Bit and Johnny earlier at the drive-in but their girlfriends Cherry (Diane Lane) and Marcia manage to calm down the situation. Hours have passed since the confrontation but their still angry about their tiff with The Greasers and drive around drinking all night looking for trouble. They spot the two runaways and decide to continue the spat with some additional extracurricular activities. Will Johnny and Ponyboy be able to get out of this pickle? Why do the Socs and Greasers hate each other? Is their any way to end this dispute before things get really out of hand?An entertaining film from Coppola. His daughter has a small part (credited as Domino) and his nephew Nicolas (Coppola) Cage has a role as an extra (his Uncle turned him down for the role of Dallas). If you enjoyed the book then you'll want to get a copy of the Complete Novel version. This cut has additional scenes, new music (Most of the sappy and over dramatic music composed by Carmine Coppola has been replaced with 50's and 60's pop music) and an ending that's more faithful to the novel. Is it melodramatic? Yes, Is it sappy? Yes, even though it's laid on real heavy at times but it's still a good movie that will entertain you.Recommended. "},{"Title":"The Outsiders","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola's first cut of The Outsiders was released in 1983 to unenthusiastic reviews and respectable box office results. Adapted from S.E. Hinton's famous novel, it was intended to serve as a sort of Gone with the Wind for teenagers. Coppola directed it at the request of junior high students and their librarian.Allegedly, the executives at Warner Brothers didn't like his original vision for the project. They found it too slowly paced, lacking in the kind of action that would rake in the young target audience. As a result, many of the character-building scenes were removed and the film lost a lot of the sensitivity that makes the source material strong.Coppola received countless letters from young viewers over the years since its release, many of them expressing disappointment with the film. They felt betrayed, as if some of the most important scenes in their beloved novel were discarded for no reason. The complaints eventually inspired him to release a director's cut in 2005, called The Outsiders The Complete Novel.All of the scenes included in the new version of the film are very good, there for the sake of providing more character background and texture. The new rendition also has an unwelcome change in the form of a soundtrack overhaul. In place of Carmine Coppola's enticing original score, there are a handful of rock 'n' roll hits. Although the alteration works well in the violent episodes, the songs are often inconsistent with the tone of the scenes they're in. They never come close to the power of the music that they took the place of.This picture is naturally evocative of an era without the change, so it feels intrusive more than anything. There are certain compositions here that explicitly allude to Gone with the Wind, but it more consistently emulates the widescreen beauty of Nicholas Ray's Rebel without a Cause. This is a visually alluring piece whose stylistic originality makes it evident that it is indeed the work of a master filmmaker.However, for all of its positive traits, this film is not as great as it could have been. Its imperfections are even more prevalent when compared to Coppola's other Hinton adaptation released the same year Rumble Fish. Rumble Fish is a misunderstood masterpiece that has acquired more respect with the passage of time. The Outsiders, on the other hand, is a muddled artistic effort that pleases but doesn't fulfill.Having said that, its shortcomings aren't completely the fault of the filmmakers. Hinton's book, although well-written, is very obviously the work of a teenage girl. The characters sometimes act without motivation, and the tough boys at the core of the story are too effeminate.The cast in this movie is enormous. It is filled to the brim with the hottest young actors of the 1980s; Tom Cruise, Rob Lowe, Diane Lane, Matt Dillon, Ralph Macchio, Emilio Estevez, Patrick Swayze and even Tom Waits have roles. Most of the acting is terrific, with a remarkable standout performance from Matt Dillon; the man feels born to play this type of role. However, the two most important players in the movie don't pull their weight, which is one of its biggest downfalls.The actors in question are Ralph Macchio and C. Thomas Howell, a leading man so wooden that he makes Keanu Reeves look like Jack Nicholson. The young stars perform well in undemanding scenes, but as soon as it comes to emotional moments they are flat-out cringe-worthy. The strange thing is that the rest of the picture seems to follow suit. On a superficial level, it's completely effective. It's wonderful to look at and exciting to watch, but it feels strangely empty and all the emotional impact of the source material is lost. It's a minor work from one of America's greatest directors, but it's still a work from one of America's greatest directors. For that reason alone, both the 1983 and 2005 versions are worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Overdone but has its moments","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Adaptation of S.E. Hinton's classic teenage novel. This takes place in Oklahoma around the early 1960s. There are two gangs in a town--Greasers (kids who come from poor families) and Socs (kids from rich families). These groups are always fighting. At one point a bunch of Socs almost kill greaser Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell) but his friend Johnny (Ralph Macchio) saves him by stabbing a Soc to death. They skip town with the help of Dallas (Matt Dillon) but the two gangs are going to have an all out rumble for revenge.I saw this up a theatre in 1983. I sort of liked it...but it was lacking. I loved the book and heard the film was going to be faithful BUT the released film was cut by 30 minutes leaving it a disjointed mess. Characters appear and disappear at random and main characters in the book are hardly in it (Lowe's part was brutally reduced). I just saw the uncut 2005 restoration last night. In some ways it's better-- the gaps in the storyline are gone and it's not as disjointed as it was earlier and the soundtrack has been totally changed and songs from the period are put in instead that help the atmosphere. However it fails overall. This movie was shot on a BIG scale--far too big for a simple story like this. Coppola seems to think he was directing Gone With the Wind (with some shots taken directly from it!). The period music seems to be put in at random--more often than not the songs don't match the images! Also there's one climax too many. The rumble and aftermath should have ended the film (as it did originally) but this film goes on for about 20 minutes longer than needed. There's also a sequence with Lowe and Howell sleeping in bed together which has a huge gay subtext--intentional or not, it's there.Still, the movie does have its good moments and it's fun to see Lowe (his film debut), Emilio Estevez, Tom Cruise, Diane Lane and Patrick Swayze so young. The acting is all good except for Dillon. He IS a good actor but he's pretty bad here. All in all the film isn't terrible but it's very overdone. Still it's worth a look. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"classic heartfelt film","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" first of all I would just like to say that whoever posted any distasteful comments about this film obviously does,nt know a good film when they see one. this is my favorite movie because it has all of the really good and really cute actors in it. and I also really love the emotion and the action in it. my favorite character is johnny cade played by my favorite actor ralph macchio. I like how he's this sweet shy kid who's been abused by his parents (that I don't like). and the gang really loves him and their always there for him; that's what makes the outsiders a great film they share a special bond and their like family. I remember I watched this when I was in the 7th grade. when I first heard the song stay gold. I fell in love with it already. but I don't really like how they changed some of the original music in some of the scenes; it just took away the mood. "},{"Title":"Just  as good as the book","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I first read the book and seen the movie in 7th or 8th grade. When I read the book I wasn't too excited because as a child in middle school your just not into the whole reading thing (well i wasn't anyway). But then my class watched the movie and it was dead-on to the book. So then i started to compare the two and i started to appreciate the book more because without it i would have been totally lost while watching the movie because it didn't really interest me at first either having a storyline with all the main characters being guys and i was just a 12-13 year old girl. Now i'm 17 almost 18, out of school and i watch the movie every time it comes on TV (on the Spike channel).Also my teacher let my class and i in on a little secret THE AUTHOR OF THE BOOK PLAYED A NURSE IN THE MOVIE, SHE WAS THE 2ND NURSE, THE SKINNY ONE. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie and book of all time","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I read the book, then read it again for school. I loved every bit of it. I thought it was better than the popular, Twilight by a mile. I saw the movie and cried my eyes out like I did while I was reading it. This movie and book is so real and the teenagers act like teenagers. It's not like Hannah Montana or some other kid's T. V. show, where the teenagers act like kids. It's real. There are real problems that really do happen to some people. The only thing that bug me is that I just wish Johnny and Dally didn't die. I love those characters the most. I cried in school, watching the movie for the millionth time. I even clapped at the end. I own the movie now and watch it all the time. Everyone always says, This is my favorite movie right after they see something new at the theaters. I can say that about this movie, knowing 20 years from now, it will be true. "},{"Title":"Amazing story. Extermly well done.","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought that the book was amazing. We had to read it for school. And i feel in love with it. It has an amazing plot line and, i had to rent it so i could see if they could pull it off like S.E.Hinton does in the book. And they did it up to my standards! The cast is one of the great 1980s casts that i have ever seen. Including Matt Dillon, Emilio Estevets, Robe Lowe, Tom Cruise. I thought it was exceptional! The theme of the movie was amazing. And it showed something that not many stories can pull off which is friendship. People sticking together because that's what friends do for each other. I thought it had so many amazing themes that it was trying to tell you. And a lot of heart wrenching parts. That you have to see to be touched by it. If you like films about friendship, love, being who you think you should be and everything else in that category. This is the movie and book for you. I think that everyone should read the book too. Because it was extremely well written and told. Amazing. It will be a timeless story that i will always keep in mind. "},{"Title":"POSSIBLE SPOILERS If you like Francis Ford Coppola.....","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ...(and I do not) you will probably like this film. It offers a number of future stars in small roles -- Matt Dillon and Patrick Swayze have the largest, Diane Lane has a meaty part, Tom Cruise is a distinctly minor character -- but it bears all the hallmarks, good and bad, of Coppola's style. Since this film came after the Godfather movies, what it displays most to me is Coppola's self-indulgence. Already a Great Man in Hollywood, Coppola could get away with anything. It's not that the plot is bad a similar conflict between gangs from different sides of the track became West Side Story. The conflict here between the Greasers and the Socs (pronounced soshes)tracks other tales of high school gang conflict, enhanced by Diane Lane in the well-done but wholly improbable role of a soc girl hanging out with a greaser guy at an outdoor movie. It is that temporary connection that sparks the fight and killing which is at the center of the drama (such as it is). I won't recite the rest of the story, not because I might spoil it for others, but because it bored me in the watching and would bore me again in the telling. "},{"Title":"I fell in love with the book in grade 8 and now its my son's favorite","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember reading this book/saw the movie in grade 8 and now my son who just finished grade read the book and saw the movie.He's already the read the book at least 10 times so far.Im not sure how long this great book has been in the Canadian School systems but Im so glad it is.I cant count how many times I've read the book and seen the movie at least over 1000 times. The poem NOTHING GOLD CAN STAY is a great poem.I also love how this book transcend from generation to generation.ITS I believe this is the movie that made the stars famous despite its rarely mentioned. I remember when it was announced that Patrick Swayze that he was ill it mentioned Dirty Dancing but in all the I've watched the updates I don't think it ever mentioned that he starred in The Outsiders. THE BEST "},{"Title":"I LOVED THE BOOK!!! (WARNING! spoiler)","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am currently in the seventh grade and my reading class is reading the book, i cant stop reading it! I am on the 11th chapter and i have to say this is one of the best books i ever read! I was so sad when... well someone died i cant wait to see the movie! I'd have to say my favorite characters are Johnny, Sodapop, Ponyboy, and Dally. When I first heard we were going to read this book i was like, well OK i guess... i don't really want to the book sounds lame but now my opinion has Definitely changed! this is one of those books i want to go out and buy and read over and over. It is so good! I am a young teenager and it scares my parents when i say i want to stay inside and read this book instead of going out and shooting hoops or something! I love this book!! = ha-ha, its like my favorite! "}{"Title":"um gay","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" My daughter is in 8th grade and her school made her read the book and now they are watching the movie. My daughter went and bought the movie. My daughter begged me to watch the movie so i agreed out of love for her, i really didn't want to watch this movie. Well we sat down put it in and OMG in heaven, this had to be one of the gayest movies i have ever seen in my life. My daughter said a woman wrote the book. It was so fun to watch, i laughed so hard at all the gay innuendos. When my daughter began to catch on why i was laughing, she said a lot of the boys in her class were also laughing. This is one of those movies where you can prove to people that these big stars really cannot act. But i would give it a ten. LOL grab a few beers watch it and laugh your butt off. "},{"Title":"the actors","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" C. Thomas Howell,Rob Lowe,Matt Dillon(all the greasers were great) everyone except tom cruise and Diane lane were horrible in this because she tried to steal Ponyboy from me!!!!!!!!!! they stunk and Diane lane is so unreal she is so fake! she said, My name is cherry, but people call me cherry because my hair.I love C. Thomas Howell, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze,Emilio Estevez and Ralph Macchio! ... ... ... ... random, but it was an awesome movie and the guys were so hot(it burns) i would give it a 1234567899009887655432211 out of ten i liked it so much seriously i do i own it! "},{"Title":"A teen in 1960's Oklahoma tells the story of a week where many things changed for him.","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I first came to know this movie through Ralph Macchio. Thanks Ralph Macchio! I had seen the Karate Kid and I thought he was cute(hey I am currently 13. I know that he's way older than me.)and I got on here, INDB, to see what else Ralph had been in. And I discovered the Outsiders. I asked my mom about it and she told me to find the book and read it. So I looked at my school library, found it and read it. Over the weekend, I read it to my friend, and we immedietly became obsessed. We still are. A bunch of high-school kids had to read the book in our town and felt like renting the movie, so we couldn't get it ANYWHERE. One day after another attempt we were at her house while her family was gone. It was a surprise to have my dad knock on the door and I said why are you here, and he held up my grandmother's copy of the Outsiders. We started screaming and popped the movie in. When Ponyboy's face came on and said When I stepped out...we began to scream. We watched it, and the only thing we were disappointed in was they showed no true introduction to show how the Socs treated the greasers, and they didn't show the reason Johnny hated his parents, and the relationship between Darry, Soda, and Ponyboy. But other than that, we LOVED it! Very good movie if you've seen the book. I hope to buy the Director's cut. "},{"Title":"The Complete Novel","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders has been my favorite movie since I read the book in the seventh grade,though I strongly recommend the Complete Novel edition. The original seems like it is missing something and doesn't explain enough, and the complete novel has every great scene added, especially the opening scene of Ponyboy getting chased by the Socs. This scene gives the movie such an energetic kick start rather than going right into Stevie Wonder's  Stay Gold. The acting is amazing and realistic to the core. The soundtrack of more rock and roll songs is a great accompaniment. It just has so much more substance, more emotion, and is overall a great film. Many people do not remember the Outsiders very well and I just wish they could see the new film. "},{"Title":"American Classic","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The book was required reading in school. I remember thinking that the guy that wrote The Outsiders was amazing. How could he capture the era so perfectly I wondered. Then I drew the conclusion that the Author must be one the characters in the book. I was very wrong. When I found out that S.E. Hinton was a young teenage girl, I was more than shocked. Amazing insight to the world of teenage poverty stricken boys. I feel that the movie did as much justice to a book that could be done. The flavor of the era was still present in the film. There were a few things that were left out but, all in all, I highly recommend this movie even if you have read the book. "},{"Title":"Great performances by an incredible teen cast!","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie in the 80s when it was first released and I was a teenage girl. The movie and the book became instant classics and it's easy to see why. Some people have criticised Coppola for making a bland and over sentimental adaptation of the book, but what this people don't understand is that this movie is made for teenagers and appeals directly to them and their problems. Nonetheless the author S E Hiton wrote to book when she was 17 which is actually amazing. The movie tries to stay true to the book and it accomplishes it perfectly, more so with this new completed version. I've always liked Coppola's cinematographic style and his directing and the amazing cast made an impact on me as a teenager. Still today I can watch it and cry. Of course the cast will be always the most memorable aspect of the film, even to the point that it overshadowed any other value the movie had. From that period only Matt Dillon and Ralph Machio were well-known actors, the rest were discovered through this movie and went on to greater success (most memorable Tom Cruise who at the time was the less promising and his role was the smallest too). For me the best performance is given by the dangerously handsome devil Matt Dillon who plays Dallas Winston to perfection, even adding another dimension to the character in the book. Actually in the book Dallas is tough as nails and twice as hard but Dillon adds a sexy dimension to him and is by far the most dramatic and memorable performance. Many girls have fallen in love with Dallas Winston, the classic angst teen model of JD movies. The rest of the cast were also perfect for their roles, almost obsessively so. Rob Lowe is perfect as the charming and impossibly gorgeous Sodapop, and Patrick Swayze fits the role of the overprotective big brother looking ever so sexy (prior to his success with Dirty Dancing). Emilio Estevez is hysterically funny as Two-Bit and Tom Cruise is just OK as Steve (he would then star in Risky Business which really landed his career, a role that Timothy Hutton had rejected previously and who is by the way my favourite actor... God would I have loved to see him starring in this!). Ralph Machio really shines as the scared puppy-like Johnny Cade and Thomas Howell does a fine job with the main character Ponyboy (the only actor of the cast who didn't quite make it afterwards... a career of wrong decisions? who knows). Also it stars Diane Lane, probably the prettiest girl i've ever seen, and she is truly just like I imagined Cherry Valance to be. The score was dramatic and great, specially the opening song Stay Gold by Steve Wonder. I don't know how the new score will work out though many people don't seem to favour it. All in all I recommend the movie and the book to everyone who is and has been young. It definitely marked an era for most of us. "},{"Title":"Amazing cast in worthwhile film","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Good drama about young boys growing up on the 'tough' side of town in the sixties. A nifty soundtrack and an understanding of the youth of the times have helped Francis Ford Coppolla's film work. There really aren't any stand out performances here, but the cast that includes Ralph Macchio, Tom Cruise, Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze and C. Thomas Howell, is an amazing ensemble of up and coming young stars. How did Coppolla know?The Outsiders falls short of being truly inspirational, which may be what director Coppolla was aspiring to, but the film has its merits. Definitely worth a look.Thursday, November 28, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Coppola Masterful","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The story goes that Coppola did this film and Rumble Fish back to back using same locale and much of the cast. The way that cheapskate Roger Corman used to do with his b c d movies back in the fifties and sixties. The difference is that Coppola can take simple material and spin into gold as in stay gold Ponyboy. His sensibility is very profound and it shows all over this film. When the guys hide out in the church, it reminded me a bit of Charles Laughton's Night of the Hunter, with those kids trying to find sanctuary down the river somewhere. The film becomes allegorical and the extraordinary and young cast is completely believable. "},{"Title":"Great performances throughout","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A film about teen gangs and social divide set in 1950/1960's Oklahoma, US.Virtually all the cast are in their teens yet manage top quality performances, instantly defining their characters & relationships which is in part what makes this film work so well. There's also some really great dialogue and memorable lines with no fillers, which I'm sure was helped by the original book. (by S.E.Hinton).It almost seems like the film was made in the 1950/1960's (which is the era the book covers) not alongside Flashdance in 1983.Great cinematography throughout this movie, with beautiful colours and tones (a must on wide screen). This gives it a slightly theatrical feel and certain scenes have performance overtones. Interestingly there's no real development of the love interest which helps keep the whole focus on the Greasers relationships.A great film that survives repeated viewing. "},{"Title":"Best book and movie ever!","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is an outstanding video ever made! The book is also very exciting. Once I started reading the book, I just couldn't put it down! I cried so hard when Dally and Johnny died, more so Dally because of the way he killed himself. Even though there were some sad moments, Two-Bit (Emilio Estevez) and Steve (Tom Cruise) really made me laugh in the movie, especially the beer for breakfast. The Outsiders is a wonderful book and film with excellent acting and actors. This is one of the few movies that almost follows to book exactly. Most of it is what you imagine it to be, so if you ever want a good book or movie to watch, I'd recommend the Outsiders as it is one of the best books ever written and the best movie ever made! "}{"Title":"The Best Book Ever Written","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" My ALA (Advanced Language Arts) class read this book in the 6th grade. I didn't really want to read it at first because all the other books we had read I thought were pretty boring but I ended up finishing the book in 3 days when we were snowed in and didn't have school at all that week. I was really able to capture what S.E. Hinton was trying to say about life for teenage kids back in the 50's and early 60's and all the violence that was happening. I also learned nothing had changed and that kind of violence is still happening today. I though it was such a wonderful book, I went on and read all of S.E. Hinton's books. I encourage anyone who hasn't read The Outsiders to do so. It is definitely 'life changing'. "},{"Title":"Friends are more than just friends, their family.","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I read this book in school. My class and I really loved. Every chapter we finished, we would all just beg our teacher to let us read the next chapter for homework! After we finished the book, I was going to lie to my teacher that I lost it, just so I can keep my copy! I chicken out at the last moment. Anyway, we saw the movie afterwords. I really liked it! The drama of The Outsiders is brought on screen, showing all the trouble that Ponyboy and his friends went through trying to belong. The action and drama of the greasers and socials will make you understand everything they went through.If you loved the book, you'll love this movie!! "},{"Title":"Never Grows Old","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie and read the book when I was in the eighth grade. I'm now in the eleventh grade. I have the DVD, my own copy of the book and I read and watch it over and over again. The choice of actors for each role was perfect, and every time I watch it I feel like I'm there. This movie really deserves a ten out of ten. It was amazing. No, it was more than amazing. I actually don't think there is a word to describe how wonderfully enjoyable this movie was for me. You know a movie is special when seventeen year olds are spending their free time writing reviews for a movie made 24 years ago. For anyone unsure if they want to watch this or not, I highly recommend watching it. Trust me, before long it will be you writing an amazing review for this movie. "},{"Title":"This was the best movie ever!","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't describe how much the book meant to me when I fist read it in 7th grade, it was inspirational and moving! I must have cried ten times throughout. When I saw the movie a couple of weeks later, the characters and setting was exactly as I had imagined it. This movie is amazing to say the least. I recommend The Outsiders to anyone who wants a good read or a good movie because, man, this story is so real only an alien couldn't relate to it. It's no surprise to me that half the cast went on to be A-list actors. I will say though that if you want the full experience, read the book first. It'll just make more sense. Also, Johnny was PERFECT, a million thumbs up to Ralph Macchio for that amazing performance. IT must have been hard though because he was twenty something playing a sixteen year old. Please please see the movie and read the book not only for you but for S. E. Hinton, this book is terrific as well as the movie. I will say, however, that Sodapop Curtis has a bigger part in the book than in the movie, which is very unfortunate because Rob Lowe plays Soda in the film and he is HOT! "},{"Title":"Grrrrreat!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I haven't seen the movie yet but I have read the book. I LOVE IT. My English teacher said that we had to read at least one book this year so shhe said we were going to read The Outsiders. Naturally I'm the kind of girl that hates to waste my time reading or doin something that takes time when I could be out of school living the wild life.Now I am so glad I am reading it. My teacher said that we'd read it for 3 days then put it down fo a while. GOOD GRIEF!!!!! Once you get started in that book you cant just drop it! NO WAY! not for me. once she said that the next day I went and checked it out of the public library. Now I'm going on chapter 8. I love every bit of it. Now (this might be a bad thing) I want to be a part of a gang like them but now in America you cant be free like they were. If you think of it, ( for those who are still in school )would your friends back you up like Johnny did Ponyboy? Mine sure wouldn't. In all i think I only have 3 friends 2 are good and the other is there for scenery. I wish I had friends like Johnny and Sodapop. Certainly Sodapop. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is my favorite movie ever! It is the best movie of all time! And it's my favorite book too! I cried so much when I read it and watched it! Thank you S.E. Hinton for the greatest book of all time. I own the special edition of The Outsiders on DVD and I watch it all the time! The theme song is so great! I LOVE IT! I love all the actors in The Outsiders because they have excellent talent! They amaze me! It was a perfect cast. Thanks to this movie, their careers were launched to new heights! I love them all and I mean it from the bottom of my heart! And they are all so hot and spicy!!! Especially TOM CRUISE! He is the sexiest man alive!!! "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this movie deserves 10 stars. The actors were well picked and it has a lot to do with my age bracket. It has a great plot, with the boy with family problems, and Johnny with bigger family problems, such as abuse and drinking. There is some comedy along with the seriousness and troubles the characters go through. I loved the way the church was set up and the fire. I read the book, too. While we were watching the movie, we had to come up with 10 differences between the book and the movie after only watching 30 minutes of the beginning. It was nearly impossible! You had to look at the tiny stuff. The Outsiders movie follows along very well with the book. I LOVE this movie! "},{"Title":"The outsiders... Super Super Super","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Omg!! If this book wasn't good enough they decided they would do a wonderful movie!! This is one of the best books I ever read and one of the best movies I ever watched!! You see... I prefer honestly the book... I don't know why... Probably because I'm a book worm =D but hey whom knows?? Anyways I liked the book because I myself am I teenager and still go at high school... I was never accepted in school... And I hanged out with total losers... but now... I am hanging out with popular kids...But I never actually minded being a loser...Like hoods and greasers you know!! Anyways if you haven't read or watched the movie GO DO IT KNOW!!! Cho chow now go!! See ya and go see it now!! Freakazoid "},{"Title":"great classic gang film","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie in school after reading the book by S.E. Hinton. I thought that it was such agreat film for teens to watch because it teaches you lessons of being different and having fun with friends. My favorite part was when Dally and Ponyboy go to the gas station and get into a fight with those guys who pull out their blades. I think that Matt Dillon did a good job even though it was hist first movie. Even the author of the book plays a nurse. This movie is good just like this book. I also thought it was cool when Francis Ford Coppolla made the beginning and the end the same. "},{"Title":"If you love the book you'll love the movie","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The outsiders is a great book and movie! I love it. It is a timeless tale with remerbale characters. This is a fun movie about two rivail groups the socs and greasers told through the eyes of the 14 year old ponyboy. This movie is great not only for middle schoolers but for older adults as well because it teaches the timeless lesson of differences in us and others. I highly suggest this because you want soon forget it and it's not long and complicated. It's plot is down too earth not to mention it's characters. It is a highly creative film and it is true to the story which is another reason I like it. Even though it has sort of an abrupt ending it is efficient and powerful. If you've read the book and loved it watch the movie. "}{"Title":"Like Dirty Dancing Without Girls","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie mainly for the reason that it s a Coppola-Movie. I was confused from the first minute on, because it looked more like a a sentimental journey into adolescence from the first scene (sunset, soft music, it makes me cringe). Youth gangs in the 60ies. OK. Nice. I like the moral values, that are transported , even if they are as shallow as I have seldom seen it before (violence = bad; anyone s the same, if with or without money; even poor people have moral values).So please don t get me wrong, but I thought this movie was somehow gay. I don t have anything against gays, some of my best friends are and they re great persons, that I respect and love, I just didn t think that all that pubertal erotica as its shown in this dirty piece of a movie is cool. It s not cool at all. It s baroque. Maybe other ones don t see it like that but I thought it was greasy (to speak in the language of the film) and kitschy. This is not Marlon Brandon and it s not A Streetcar Named Desire (although it plays in a similar context and settings). Brando was cool. It s also not Lord Of The Flies. Lord Of The Flies was tough, one can think about the movie for a long time. But Outsiders didn t make me think about anything for more than 30 seconds, not even when the movie was running. How cool is Patrick Swayzeeeee in his too tight jeans, jumping around with his greasy mullet like a monkey after an (s)experimental lobotomy with testicles swollen to the size of coconuts? It s like Dirty Dancing without the girls. I wouldn't t have wondered if there were dancing and singing scenes in it. And actually I wouldn t have wondered if there would have appeared The Hoff, too. The film shows sweaty dirty boys hugging and punching all the time, but it s not even homo, it s just plain stupid and shallow is actually a too good adjective for the moral values, that this dirty piece of a movie actually transports. It s just a big gay-ish opera with crying poor dirty kids who d like to have a homo experience but because they are too stupid, they have to punch each other instead of heaving the real thing. Jesus... The movie gets 5 out of 10. It s mediocre. In my opinion the worst thing that can happen to a movie. I like the ones that I gave one point only actually more than this one. Seriously. Unbelievable that Coppola has done that. Shame on you F.F.! Bad bad boy! What a crap... "},{"Title":"Staying gold after all these years.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I guess you might have heard that you have to ba a certain kind of person to like this movie. There is no sex, and nothing blows up, but there is a great message. It was just in May when our teacher had us read this book, and I knew that I would love this movie. My teacher showed us the older version in our class,and I fell in love with it. While most of the students disliked it, but I wanted to buy it. So i was determined to buy the Two Disk DVD. Which I did, and I was not disappointed. C.Thomas Howell portrays Ponyboy Curtis is such a great ways. (Not as hot as Soda, and not as strong as Darry.) He has enough emotion to make you feel what the characters going through. Matt Dillon is nothing short of brilliant delivering the class line. Lets do it for Johnny. Ralph Macchio Holy crud he was 20 when he was in this, but I guess it landed him the role as Johnny cade with his sweet face. Diane Lane as Cherry was great she was so pretty. Rob Lowe must be happy to know that his extra sences were added in the extended version, which showed some good acting that wasn't seen in the original. Patrick Swayze was good as tough Darry, and of course Emilio Estevez, and Tom Cruise cough as Steve, who was good in his youth. The message stay gold is a great one for people of all ages, the cinematography was also excellent. I personally like the new score it gives the movie more of an edge and makes the corny parts not so corny, except for the surfer music. The term boys don't cry is not used in this movie. It teaches us that when worst comes to worse even a tough guys gotta cry. all in all great movie great acting, great message. A forgotten movie of the 80s. "},{"Title":"Outsiders rock!!","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I love the Outsiders. My teacher, Mrs. Johnson, read the book and after we watched the movie. I love the book and movie. I begged my mom to buy it. This movie showed me I'm not alone in life. My life is like the greasers. This movie helps the young of all generations. Parents please show this movie to kids. It will teach them lessons. I should know I'm fourteen years old. And I learn from this movie. I learned not to judge, smoke, run into burning building. I enjoyed watching this movie. The chemistry between the characters are amazing. I love this. The Outsiders is awesome 1980s movie. This movie should be in the top 10 movies. I and my freshman English class enjoy this movie. If grade nines can sit through this movie adult can too. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the best movie I ever saw and I've seen a lot of movies.The book is great also I had to read the book in school and I loved it I loved it so much I read it 8 times.After I read The Outsiders I searched other S.E. Hinton books and read them all and they were all great but not as good as The Outsiders.I'm trying to find the other movies from her books but I can only find one which I got in the mail last week Tex.I think it was a good idea to make the DVD with all the extras because when I first saw the saw the movie I kept asking myself what the scab on Ponyboy's chin was it was annoying me a lot.All I have to say is read the book and see the movie you'll love it.I did "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of my absolute favorites. I loved the book and I think the movie stayed true to it. The cast was great and led to big breaks for all of them. I think that they should've included more about Sandy who was Sodapop's girlfriend who got pregnant and had to move away. But besides that, the movie was almost identical to the book. The soundtrack for The Complete Novel is much better than the original. It includes songs that greasers of that time would've listened to. It's about growing up on the wrong side of the tracks and having to deal with what you got. Fans of the book will enjoy this movie and so will someone who hasn't read the book. "},{"Title":"The movie and the book are so amazing!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think that the book and the movie are amazing! When I read the book I actually felt like I was there with them and everything. I decided to read it again and i still enjoyed it (normally I can't read the same book over and over again). Then I saw the movie and I was like OMG it is so amazing! The actors (Matt Dillon, Tom Cruise, Patrick Swazye, Rob Loew, C. Thomas Howell, Ralph Machio, and Emilio Esteves) were all really talented and great. And when you think about almost all the actors became even more famous after they did the Outsiders movie. I think a lot of people should read the book and see the movie. All the people who made the movie did an excellent job! S.E. Hinton is also a really good author! I read her other books to and they are also good. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!!","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think that this movie is one of the best films of all time! The story of bonding, heartache, and friendship really sends a warming and heartfelt message to all teens. I think that this movie will continue to be a favorite for many generations to come. I know this is my favorite movie!! Most books that become films are often forgotten and are disregarded, but not this movie!! I am also glad that Francis Ford Coppola decided to make a directors cut because I aways felt that the bond that was already apparent but became a million times stronger was a little lost. Great job to everyone!!Thanks to all who participated in this film, Savannah Stevens "},{"Title":"Beautifully done","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" don't get me wrong i loved the movie.. but it seemed a lot of the book wasn't put into it like sandy and Sodapop..>? never talked about her in the movie!....... I love Two-Bitts Charectar ... ANd i do recommend the other movies that were based on S.E.Hinton books she truly did out do her self in rumble fish and Tex!Also Reading them they are swell written .... of course.the Robert frost poem was the most touching i think..... it really hits the spot once you read it over a few times.... and you finally get what PonyBoy and Johnny mean about staying gold!My self got this book in grade 9 to do an class discussion on ... pretty intense stuff i'd say. "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" About last week i just finished reading the book. and yesterday and today i watched the movie in school. The movie was absolutely perfect. The only thing is, that i suggest that you read the book before you watch the movie. The book contains more of Ponyboys ( the main characters ) thoughts and it spends time to let you understand the characters fully unlike the movie. The only thing is is that the movie goes by really fast and certain parts that were very important were only briefly talked about in the movie. The movie really related to the book and sometimes had word for word duologue. This is my all time favorite movie i have ever seen. Very touching and very emotional. i suggest you watch it... =! -elise "},{"Title":"Very dramatic","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was an awesome movie. It is also my all time favorite book. It basically tells the story of Ponyboy Curtis and Johnny Cade, 2 greasers in the middle of a murder.It all started at the movies, where Ponyboy, Johnny, and Dallas were watching the movie. When Dally hits on on of them, Cherry, and after he leaves. They are joined by Two-Bit Matthews who befriends Cherry's friend Marcia. After Cherry's boyfriend Bob finds them. Him and his friends, find Ponyboy and Johnny in the greaser territory, or the park. While the Socs are having fun drowning pony, Johnny pulls out his switch(short for switchblade) and murders Bob. So they then seek the help from Dally. He tells them to hide in Windrixville. "}{"Title":"Didn't think Francois Coppola would make a sh*tty movie","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I never read the book. But this movie is full of B.S.Outsiders, a movie taken place in the 60s. Crime is everywhere from cities to small towns. Greasers and gangs roam the streets.2 Greasers find themselves in a pickle and go through some hard times with friends, family, and arch rivals.The story didn't interested me at all. I don't have the heart to give it a review.It could use some better and more interesting characters.I never knew Francois Coppola directed this flick. and I heard his movies were Oscar nominees.This however ain't worthy of getting an award in my option.I rather watch American Graffitti than this crap.Rent it first before buying it. I don't know if the book is any better.If I were give a choice of seeing this or Godfather, I'd pick Godfather. "},{"Title":"I love Sodapop","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is the best movie ever. If you read the book you have to see the movie. I have seen it a billion times and it gets better every time.The outsiders are the hottest guys. You will fall in love with them the first time you lay your eyes on them. The best movie years ago and still today. You totally need to see it. Sodapop was super hot and so was Ponyboy and so was Johnny Cade. Wait a minute they were all hot. Please see it you will love it and thank me later. You gotta see it. Do it for Johnny man. Do it for Johnny! Also Sodapop(Rob Lowe) is super hot!!!!! When you see it please write a review. There is also a new DVD with a new beginning and end. It is so super good. I watched it like 500 times. "},{"Title":"i love ponyboy!","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders is my all-time favorite movie. The book is excellent, but nothing compared to the movie! I adore the plot and setting. The director is a genius, I must say. The characters are very, very well selected, not to mention all so handsome! My favorite thing is the whole stay gold theme. I'm only 15, and I'd give anything to be able to go back in time to the early 80's, so I could track down C.Thomas Howell and meet him when he was SO incredibly good looking. Matt Dillon is a total stud, but Thomas had this really unique and sweet, gorgeous face thats completely irresistible. Johnny was hot too, but I will forever and always be in love with Ponyboy Curtis. "},{"Title":"Original Soundtrack was better than the pop songs","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched the new version of the OUTSIDERS and loved all the new scenes. But really missed Carmine Coppola's original score. Without it the film seems flat. I think it was a big mistake to lose the original score!!!!The new scenes with SODA POP added a better understanding to the family's situation.I have the original version of the film on DVD. And I also have the original soundtrack on CD. Does anyone else agree with me about the original movie soundtrack?Thanks "},{"Title":"Another Classic Almost Ruined!!!! (by the Special Edition)","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all, I have to say that I have read and loved the book at least 12 times and have seen and loved this movie at least as many times since Late 1983/Early 1984. This, of course, was long before it was required reading in some schools.But I wrote THAT review back in 1998 on another website.-ANYWAY!- This new version may be okay to those watching the movie for the first time, but ...Once upon a time, there was a silent film called Metropolis, which was quite interesting, last I remember.It was RUINED when it was re-released in the 1980's by having a bunch of 1980's pop music placed over the original score and soundtrack. Although I dig the song Radio Ga-Ga by Queen, IT DOES NOT BELONG IN A 1930's SILENT MOVIE!! (Nor did any other song, for that matter)Once upon another time, there was a movie about the late Hunter S. Thompson (Lord rest his soul) called Where the Buffalo Roam, which you can only find on DVD now with a horrible 80's and/or 90's soundtrack dubbed over the original, even though (last I remember) the whole movie took place in the early to middle 1970's. (Of course, you might find the good version on E-bay)I hardly want to remind anyone about George Lucas' desecration of his own Star Wars Saga with such annoyances as Jar-Jar Binks, the new band in Jabba the Hutt's Palace, the Little Shop of Horrors Plant in the Sarlaac Pit, etcetera, and so on, ad nauseam.-SO ........-Now we have the Special Edition of The Outsiders.The book, of course, hasn't changed and the movie now has all the scenes that were supposed to be in it the first time back in.It also has all sorts of documentaries and commentaries. One of the commentaries is by Francis Ford Coppola and the other is by C. Thomas Howell (Ponyboy), Ralph Macchio (Johnny), Patrick Swayze (Darrel/Darry), and Diane Lane (Sherry/Cherry).However, the special features, extra scenes back in (making it a bit closer to the book), and the commentaries are as far as the goodness goes ...The original movie had only a few old hit songs here and there and a good orchestral score that punctuated the scenes properly ...WHEN MUSIC OF ANY KIND WAS NEEDED.Now, with the Special Edition DVD, very little (if any) of the orchestral score is still in; most of the new movie has been drowned by random Late-50's/Early 60's pop songs even in parts that didn't need music to punctuate it in the first place.Every moment that had feeling (or was at least supposed to have feeling) is suddenly Trivialized by yet another pulp pop-song-of-the-time coming on even when A) the scene wasn't supposed to have music, B) even if the said scene did require music, the original score actually set the scene's mood while the pulp pop-song seems to be just thrown in for the sake of having a pop-song in it.If you're new to watching this movie, or if you saw it long ago and don't remember the original score, then, by all means, GET THIS MOVIE! It's One of the Greatest Stories Ever Told.However, if you know the original version like you know your own face (as I do), then stick with the book, watch the 1983 version (so the book will always be better) and only RENT the New Version.I say this as a warning, even though I spent almost an entire weekend watching this over and over, ...GETTING USED TO THE NEW SCORE!Aaaannnnnnnnd ... CUT!!That's a wrap. "},{"Title":"The Outsiders the Complete Novel","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me get this out of the way. I LOVE The Outsiders. It's been firmly in my top 5 movies for about 20 years. So I was really excited to see this special edition, which I did in New York on the big screen.The added scenes are awesome. I'm not one who likes people go to and tinker with their films but these scenes were nearly perfect inclusions. What wasn't so awesome is the music that's been added to this version, in fact, it's an abomination.Never in a million years would I have expected Elvis to wreak havoc on one of my most beloved movies, especially since I love Elvis. But a bunch of his songs and some surfin' safari tracks are suddenly present as if someone took a Tarantino soundtrack and just stuck it on The Outsiders for the heck of it. At first I tried to put up with it, but in no time I was cringing. Songs were flat out ruining the movie and in some cases overpowering the dialogue. I felt gutted like someone had stabbed me.What these songs did was make the movie peppy. This movie is not supposed to be light, it's drama all the way. But I think this new peppy soundtrack may have convinced a fellow theatergoer that this was a musical comedy, as he continued to laugh at anything that could even be remotely considered funny, odd, or not entirely tragic (including a scene in Johnny's hospital room and after the Let's do it for Johnny line). The music even screwed up the rumble. The only thing that could be worse than this is if 20 years from now Peter Jackson re-scores the Battle at Helm's Deep with the theme from Benny Hill.That's what this new soundtrack did. It made everything SILLY. Seeing this almost makes me want to forgive Darth Vader's hot pink lightsaber from the OT DVDs. I just wish these directors would realize that the magic of their films has everything to do with the time they were released. If, back in the day, you couldn't get the songs you wanted, or the special effects you needed didn't exist, maybe it was because the film gods didn't want you to have them. Once you go back and cram this stuff in, whether you originally intended it to be there or not, the spell is broken. The magic is gone.The Outsiders(1983) is a 10/10 from me. The version I grew up loving, I had actually taped off TV. And it had scenes that are part of this new version, not the one that's been available on video all this time. These scenes were at the end, including the hearing and Soda running away. I don't know how I'm ever going to see that version again.The Outsiders The Complete Novel(2005) is a 5/10. I know music is important in film but I never knew how important until now. This version didn't just disappoint me, it upset me. If you loved this movie all these years like I did, I can't imagine that you'll be happy with this. And can you believe I waited to buy it on DVD because I hoped for additional scenes? I should have just bought the other one in the first place. I can't even believe that I'm not going to be at the store bright and early Tuesday morning for a special edition of the Outsiders. ( "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the best book that I ever read and the movie is even better.I am 13 years old and discovered the book through my sister.We live in Germany so I read the book in German. She was reading it in school and I took it from her and started to read it. The first sentence was already so great. I read the book so many times that i started to count how many times I read it in 3 months I came to 20 times and then my sister had to give it back.So I bought my own book. I have it in English and German the old versions and the new ones i have the DVD and have posters everywhere on my wall! i have collected pictures from the internet and have 400 pictures of the movie every scene. I am so excited that in September the Complete Novel comes out(September 20th) I would have loved to live back in that time the movie makes you take a different look at the world C Tomas Howell(Ponyboy Curtis),Patrick Swayze(Darrel Curtis), Rob Lowe (Sodapop Curtis), Ralph Macchio(Johnny Cade),Matt Dillon (Dallas Winston), Emilio Estevez (Two-Bit Matthews),Tom Cruise(Steve Randle) I love you all i will be you fan forever wen i get children i will name my girl Sherri and my boy soda Michelle "},{"Title":"omg it is so sad","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders was a very sad movie and book for me. i just got done watching the movie and my 8th grade class read it just before we got out for the summer. I would recommend this movie and book to everyone. It teaches people that life is not split into two different groups and that everyone is = in their own way. It also teaches that you need to stay true to yourself. Everyond and their mother needs to see this film. It will show you that there is more to life than we make of it. Plus the the actors that are in it are really cute and even though they are old now they where very good to have been so young in the movie. It was excellent. SE Hinton did a very good job of writing a book at the age of 16 and it becoming a really popular book and movie. I wish i would have discovered them earlier than i had. It was truly one of the things that I will always remember. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully done","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember about a year ago when I was informed that I would have to read The Outsiders for my English class. It sounded like the type of think I'd like violence, revenge, and something that can be related to the way children (my peers) act these days. We recently watched this movie in the afore mentioned class, and I was astonished but the high caliber. Considering when this movie was filmed (1983) and considering the modern standards we give to almost all movies that we watch, I could not believe the way The Outsiders compared to modern movies. It's a very good movie with a very good plot. This movie/book has already proved that it's able to stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"This movie/book can make even the hardest-hearted man stop and think. One of those movies where you can't resist crying.","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the best movie I have ever seen in my whole life. I'm not really sure why I think that, but the acting was good, the directing was good, everything about it was good. The cast did a great job, especially Ralph Macchio. 1) he had to portray a 16 year old when he was 20-some odd years old and 2)Johnny had big shoes to fill up. He was one of the main characters that needed to have someone special portraying him, and Macchio did an excellent job of that. Not many people could have put the fear and frustration in their voices that Macchio did when he said I killed him. I killed that boy. I killed him. The fear on his face and in his eyes was incredible, and not many people could have pulled that off. For that, kudos to Macchio! "}{"Title":"The outsiders was a very dramatic book and movie","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think that the book the outsiders was great and needless to say, so was the movie. I thought johnny was so cute in the movie (he was hot) but now he is not and that sucks! well i think they all did a great job. If I had the pleasure to talk to pony boy, johnny, and dally I would tell them they were great. I also hope that S. E. Hinton releases another book in the same genre because they're my favorites. I was really amazed to c how the actors from the outsiders have changed from 1983 to now. For example, Ralph Macchio does not look alike in the movie, I hope he would though. Anyways, i wish them the best now and in the future!! "},{"Title":"If you loved the book, you'll probably love the movie too.","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie was a little different from the very excellent book. But this was an excellent movie, as well. My two classes of seventh graders read it, and we watched the movie today. They all enjoyed it, but most preferred the book. The actors did a uniformly fine job of portraying so complex characters. My favorite portrayals were Swayze as Darry, Estevez as Two-Bit, and Rob Lowe as Soda. And, of course, you have to like Diane Lane (then and now).The movie left out at least one important scene, that of the courtroom right at the end. It did seem to be edited a little choppily. I'd like to see the whole cut.So run out and rent it. You might find it already rented, we had to go to three places to find one where it wasn't already rented.John "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie! (My comment only has a tiny spoiler)","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I read the book and I was so into it that it only took me 1 and a half days to read! It was Everything a movie could be Sad happy, It even had me on the edge of my seet at some points. Nothing beats the book but I'll tell you this had the best dialog I've seen in my entire life! In the end when ponyboy is reading the note that Johnny wrote I couldn't take it, I was just so sad, I cried out loud when my sister and my dad were sitting write there. Anyone who doesn't see at least one good thing in this movie doesn't look hard enough. I've seen people calling it lame and other names that don't fit no matter how you put it. Dalley was played by an awesome actor, (I still can't remember that guys name!) Now moving up to number 1 on my favorite movie list. For those who saw absolutely no talent or story, I hope my comment changes some of your minds "},{"Title":"It is a really good story about the separation of the rich and poor.... yet in this the poor seem to be richer in family and love... its a must see","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i love this movie its really good..... i mean Tom Cruise, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, Ralph Macchio, Matt Dillon, Emilio Estevez...etc... o my gosh-how can you not love it? plus its my favorite book so that help and Emilio was just really funny... tom cruise he was a little weird sounding... but maybe that was just before his voice changed.. but they were all SO SO SO SO SO hot ROB LOWE HE WAS Definitely THE HOTTEST of them all..............Diane Lane was really beautiful.... Rob Lowe was hot and awesome, Tom Cruise did a really good job, Patrick Swayze was good too, Emilio Estevez was really funny, Matt Dillion was good. So was Ralph Macchio Thomas Howell did a really good job too "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, I have recently read The Outsiders for a novel study in class. I loved it! It kept me interested throughout. Also, I have recently seen the movie, and I enjoyed it a lot. It took the most important parts, and made it into a visual effect. The killing of Bob, I imagined that exactly while reading the book. And to see that scene turn out exactly how I pictured it to be, wow! I was very impressed with the actors and actresses. They got right into their character. Matt Dillon did an awesome job of being Dally Winston. Ralph Macchio was great at being Johnny Cade. All the rest of the actors and actresses such as Diane Lane, Patrick Swayze, Emilio Esteves, Tom Cruise, Rob Lowe, C. Thomas Howell and The Soc's did a wonderful job of being the character from the book. That's exactly how I pictured them to be. My advice to all of you, is read the book first, then watch the movie. The movie didn't include all 12 chapters in the book, so your best bet is to read the book to understand about how the characters act, because Ponyboy is very descriptive while giving a brief summary for each of The greaser's and soc's at the beginning of the book. Overall, awesome book and movie! "},{"Title":"Timeless Classic","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you haven't seen this movie by now.....what planet are you living on? Seriously. Released in 1983, this movie was a goldmine for the actors that were in it. Just about all of them either became part of the Brat Pack, or busted out solo on very lucrative careers. Based on the novel of the same name, The Outsiders offers a look at a world filled with pain and strife no matter which side of the tracks you come from. Racial tension can come from your own race. Basically, people just don't get along sometimes, and for reasons that they do not always understand. Fighting solves nothing, but what else is there to do in a small town that borders big cities, and plays host to people from cut and dried walks of life?S.E. Hinton wrote this novel when she was 16 years old. The book is sound, and the characters easily identifiable. The movie does well with the adaptation, but because it is geared towards a certain age group, can come off cheesy to adults. It was great to see that Ralph Macchio can do something besides Karate, Tom Cruise does more than dance in his underwear, Patrick Swayze can fight with the best of them when he's not Dirty Dancing, Emilio Estevez can be young, and yet look so old. Rob Lowe had other friends besides the brat pack, C. Thomas Howell can pass off blond hair, and let's not overlook the lovely Diane Lane here! A performance often forgotten about is Leif Garrett before he became a teen heart throb. If you have pre-teenage children, this is a movie that they should cut there soon to be adult teeth on. No matter what walk of life you are from, you will find something in this movie that you identify with.Promise. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must admit I first saw this movie when I was quite young and have been hopelessly in love with it since that time. It did not occur to me that it was anything less than perfect. As an adult I must admit that some of the characters could have been more developed in this film, some key scenes from the book included, and music more fitting to the characters and the time of this movie (set in 1966) included.It is a beautiful film, stunning in some scenes, and the acting is wonderful, especially Macchio as Johnny Cade. The character's fearful edginess is deftly captured and he looks exactly as described in the book.As with all films based on books it is best to see the film first and then read the book.  "},{"Title":"rich kids messin' with the greasers for no reason just to start trouble","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  its my favorite movie. its really sad and it even makes me cry. i think i like it so much cause it relates to me so much cause if i was back then i would be a greaser till i die and i wouldn't care what anybody says cause i think the greasers have more fun and there cuter! but the movie is really good. it shows how real life is and how people can be so judgemental. all the greasers want is to live their life their way and with the socials there they just cause trouble all because there rich kids and its wrong. cause when you think about the greasers are sweet and really nice and there all like brothers. so if you haven't seen the movie go see it. its the best movie ever. (along with dirty dancing and grease and cry baby)  "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect...","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was simply mesmerizing from start to finish. Francis Ford Coppola has once again created a memorable movie for the world to see. This film may not be as striking as the Godfather, but it still holds its own potential. His cast of handsome 'Outsiders', including Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio, Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise, and Emilio Estevez, were beyond fantastic. Their acting was convincing and witty.This film was based on an award-winning novel written by S.E. Hinton, based on youth overcoming adolescence. In the plot, trouble continuously arises between the two primary groups of social classes known as Greasers or Socials (Socs). The Greasers are the 'Outsiders'. Their reputation is lower-class individuals that are looked down upon in society. The Socials are upper-class, wealthy people that enjoy picking on the misfortune of the Greasers. In the movie, the conflicts are portrayed in numerous combinations of fights and disputes between the two.This is one of those 'love it' or 'hate it' movies. The audience that this movie is commonly shown to are young teenagers that are growing up and preparing for the world. This movie clearly consists of its own distinguished mark and has left me to be a 'love it'. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Growing up, this was one of my favorites. The timeless story of the rich vs. poor is explored here in a very down to earth way. Even though the rich kids (the Socs) seem to have it better, the poor kids(the Greasers) show they are just as human as anyone else. It shows that no matter what, friends are for life and stick together through thick and thin. I even choked up in one scene. 'Let's do it for Johnny, man.' I still use that line to this day. (most people look at me weird, some understand and some even tell me 'Stay gold Ponyboy. Stay gold.').A great story supported by a great cast. Highly recommended for the younger crowd or even the older crowd that wants to see some of todays stars in their younger days. "}{"Title":"Good but could be better","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders tells a very inspiring story. It tells about the emotions someone can though in such a short amount of time. At least thats what I got out of it. The actors did a great job portaring their characters,and it was a good movie. Good not great.The portrayed the major plot line of the story and stuck to it. They did a good job with this, its just that there was so much more to the book. Little things that strayed from the major plot but were important to the story. In my opinon these cuts were a mistake.The edited parts gave more depth to some of the roles manly Sodapop.This was a good movie but it could have been better.Even though I think it could have been beter I would recomend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"brillient adaptation of an incredible book.","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was a big fan of The Outsiders growing up, as I was of That was then,this is now. But the movie version of The Outsiders was clearly a better movie then that was then for a few reasons. Number one, it followed the book pretty closely. Two the casting was superb and everyone was suited to their roles and performed brilliently. And third the whole feel to the story was able to make it on screen and create movie magic. Although I liked the movie version of that was then(unlike ALOT of people I realize) the outsiders was a much more credible movie version and I realize that.It is very tough, under the best of circumstances to create and make, a good movie from a great book-This was clearly done in The Outsiders-not just good, great, with brillient acting and a definite must see, particularly for any fans of the book. "},{"Title":"great movie, but the book was better","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is a story about ponyboy curtis, the youngest member of the greaser gang.  He lives with his charming, fun-loving brother sodapop, and his serious, oldest brother, darry, who is trying to make ends meet. There is an endless rivalry between the greasers and socs.  the greasers are the poor kids, who are on the wrong side of the tracks, trying to figure out where they belong.  Ponyboy also hangs out with other members of the greser gang.  The greasers are almost like a group of brothers.  The socs are privelaged rich kids with lots of oppurtunities.  When Johnny (a fellow greaser) and ponyboy get into trouble, a tragic chain of events follows.i love the book, but i wish they wouldn't have left out so much in the movie.  there was a great cast of characters, (matt dillon, tom cruise, patrick swayze, and c. thomas howell as ponyboy curtis.)When the movie starts, you barely see johnny getting jumped (it was emphasized in the book.)  In the movie, dally died so dramatically, but in the book he died instantly.  The movie leaves out a few chapters at the end of the book.  The movie also shortens important conversations between characters.  I give the book 5 out of 5 stars, and the movie 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"one of the best book-movies","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, i love this is movie. One of my fav. movies and I love the book. I love this movie so much because, its just like the book almost word for word.  C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, Ralph Macchio, Emilio Estevez, Patrick Swayze, Rob Lowe, Tom Cruise, Diane Lane, Leif Garrett. Francis Ford Coppola they all played there part great I mean this is worth seeing. Now this is a movie that takes place in the 60's and c.thomas howell and his brothers are left alone when there parents die. Well pony boy and his fellow greasers battle it out with the socs who are kinda like, thugs and preps now days. Anyway so while all thats going on pony boy and jhonny get themselfs in to a bit of trouble.(im not going to give it away u just gotta see it) I love this movie cuz it shows how friends stick together and can over come anything and if not they can fail together. Also, this movie has some comic relif to it lol like two-bit and and mickey mouse loltrust me if u like to read then read the book frist so you can compair. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie, Excellent Book","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although this does not follow the book exactly, it does a great job in portraying the major happenings in the book. This movie includes an all-star cast, and is directed by an amazing director. This film is about Pony Boy Curtis, and his on-going battle with poverty, and with the rival Socs, the rich kids from the other side of the tracks. It also includes some interesting characters. Johnny, the son of two deadbeat parents. Dallas Dally Winston, the crazy, but lovable, gun-toting hood. Cherry Valance, the pretty Soc, who befriends Pony Boy and Johnny. This movie includes many stars, who are now top-list actors and actresses. This movie keeps you captivated. It climaxes with the rumble scene. Like the movie Rumble Fish, this movie is based off of an S.E. Hinton book. I also suggest that you read the book, before seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"Better Than The Book","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie. It was way better than the book. The characters didn't use those gay words like you dig or golly or glory all the time. The performances by the young stars like Matt Dillon, Ralph Macchio, Diane Lane, and Emilio Estevez were great. But I don't understand why Francis Ford Coppola cut out a lot of the scenes that were in the book. The first chapter of the book was cut out and some ending scenes were cut out. Who knows why, but I guess by doing stuff like that makes people say the book is better than the movie. Whoever says that should get their heads examined. I've read the book version of this then I saw this movie. I'd say the movie is better than the book.8/10 "},{"Title":"A golden film","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is a film you look back on and remember the ture masterpice it really was...It had everything a great movie could of had... The story, The cries, The laughs and most of all people in it you could care about...I thought the acting was A+ for these eight raiseing stars...Most of all C. Thomas Howell who played Ponyboy...He made the film his own and I think he's a fine actor even to this day...I mean he was only what fifteen when he did this...I am still shocked to this day he never got an Ocar. I hope these people who stared in this great film will remember that even a small story of growing up on the wrong side of the tracks can be the greatest film ever made. Five stars to whoever thinks about renting it...One of the best movies of the 80's. "},{"Title":"All time Favorite Movie","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was an excellent book, and the movie absolutely put me in awe.The cast is perfect. Most everyone fits the original characters' descriptions to a T. They are all very talented actors and, aside from the gripping plot, made this movie a must-see.Hinton did an awesome job on the book well-rounded characters, interesting plot. Coppola did a magnificent job turning the book into a film. Shots, casting, lighting, everything was perfect.It's too bad they had to cut scenes form the movie. Certain scenes concerning Steve, Sodapop, and Randy were cut so as to keep the movie a decent length. It's to bad we were not able to see more of the Curtis brothers or the trial.I can't express how much I loved this film in a tiny review. It was great, and I give it a DOUBLE thumbs up! "},{"Title":"My favorite C. Thomas Howell film","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love that movie a whole lot.  Because it has a lot of stars that I like before they had their acting careers.  That was my number 3 movie of (1983). I really love it.  That was my favorite Patrick Swayze movie of the 80s and my favorite C. Thomas Howell movie of all of his movies "},{"Title":"A soggy mess.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading the book, my English class watched the movie basedon it. The movie stays true to  the book, which is good, but if youhaven't read the book you'll be totally lost. In the movie, importantcharactars aren't clearly explained, and one of the most importantscenes is wasted among an ugly camera angle and poor lighting.I hope they make a remake of this film soon, so new generationscan appreciate it for what it could be.  "}{"Title":"My all-time favorite movie.","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is my all-time favorite movie.  The cinematography is beautiful, the score gorgeous, the acting excellent, and the writing -- the most important part of any movie that isn't a musical or a travelogue -- first rate.  Put that all together -- with emphasis on the writing -- and it adds up to an extremely entertaining film.  And that is what I want from a movie entertainment, the opposite of boredom.The great thing about The Outsiders is that it not only entertains, but it does so in every area.  I'll start with the cinematography.  That isn't something that I normally think about when I see a movie. Here, however, I couldn't not think about it.  Nowhere else have I seen such rich and vibrant landscapes, such exquisite multi-colored sunsets, and even such effective use of shadow and darkness to portray the grittiness of the city. The individual scenes themselves, combined with the interesting contrast between the city and country shots, keep one's eyes glued to the screen.The score isn't quite so gripping, but it is powerful, nonetheless.  The main song, Stay Gold, sung by Stevie Wonder, is beautifully and painfully sentimental.  And the true score itself is lovely and helps to keep one's emotions at high tension during this emotion-rich film.Regarding the acting, this all-star cast picked from the young Hollywood of the early 1980s is so formidable that even the great, though admittedly not well-known, Tom Cruise is relegated to a minor part. As for the leads, C. Thomas Howell and Ralph Macchio are especially good.  While Howell unfortunately ended up as the king of straight-to-video flops, he is excellent here as the sweet and sensitive Ponyboy Curtis, a smart but poor 14-year-old who is caught between the worlds of the haves and the have-nots. Macchio also turns in a fine performance as Ponyboy's friend Johnny Cade. His southwestern accent is so good you'd think he was actually from Oklahoma.Of course it really all comes down to the writing, and The Outsiders most definitely scores here as well.  The story pulls you in from the beginning and never lets you go.  And the dialogue, even the unimportant small talk, is incredibly natural.  This is especially true in a scene involving a haircut.  The one flaw I find -- and this is really an editing mistake -- is the absence of a scene necessary to conclude a key element of the main storyline.  The scene was filmed, and used to be included when the movie was shown on broadcast television.  I can't understand why it was left out of the theatrical version.The omission of the scene shows that The Outsiders isn't perfect; but a movie doesn't have to be perfect in order to get a ten.  It merely needs to be excellent.  For all the reasons I've given, this movie is precisely that.  "},{"Title":"you are crazy","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  All of you said that The Outsiders was bad are crazy, that movie is the best movie ever maybe if you got out more instead of sitting at home on your ass watching TV you would have  noticed that the world is still somewhat like that and relized that The Outsiders is the best movie that was made in the 80s "},{"Title":"It was an excellent movie, but could have been better.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now, I'm not saying 'It could have been better' because of any other reason but the length. The movie was amazing, great acting!! great wardrobe!! great action scences. The movie was great, but it you read the book, then saw the movie. I think you'd be dissapointed. They left out the whole first chapter and other scences. Now I don't want to look like I'm bashing the movie, because I'm not, it was one of my FAVORITE movies of all time. But even Ralph Macchio (actor in the movie) wasn't  too happy about the whole finished version of the movie. Thank god the new release comes out in Sept. It'll show all the parts they didnt show in the movie released version. All in All. This movie was GREAT,but its deffinitly gonna be worth seeing the whole thing in sept.! "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie just screams empathy.  These young actors had good looks and talent and most of them went on to do great things in show biz.  I really enjoyed this movie and it is a good movie for anyone who has empathy toward others. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"stunning","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have not read the book that the movie is based on, so I can't comment on how the movie and book are alike or not, but I have seen the movie and the part of the TV series. As for the TV series terrible! Don't waste your time on that. But the movie is a different story. It is really nice to see so many talented young actors together, especially because most of them were new to the public and had not (yet) made a name for themselves. Most of the comments on this movie have focused on C. Thomas Howell, Rob Lowe and Matt Dillon, so I will not comment on them. They are great, don't get me wrong, but I feel that everything has been said already. The most beautiful performance (in my opinion) is given by Ralph Macchio, who seems to get a little forgotten in most reviews. It is hard to believe he was really 21 and 22 years old when the movie was made. He is usually one of those actors of whom people would think he can't do anything besides look cute and play some kind of kid, but trust me, he can really act. He plays Johnny Cade, a scared and troubled 16-year-old who is not wanted at home and who is a member of the Greasers, one of the 2 gangs. The other gang are the Socs, the rich boys who are from the other side of town. Some of Macchio's best scenes are actually the ones in which he is not the key figure. For example, the scene in the movie drive-in where his fellow Greaser Dallas is bothering the 2 girls and the scene in which the Socs follow Johnny, Ponyboy, one of their friends and the 2 girls after they leave the drive-in and Ponyboy and the other Greaser prepare to fight the Socs with a knife and a piece of glass. The part of the movie where Ponyboy and Johnny are staying at the abandoned church is really nice too. The most memorable scenes by Macchio are naturally the ones in which Johnny is the main character, like the scene in which Johnny talks about committing suicide and the scenes that deal with the confrontation with the Socs, Johnny killing one of them and Johnny telling Ponyboy that he killed that boy. The fire scene seems a little odd, but that is just because it is unlogical for it to be in the movie and that has more to do with the script than with any of the boys's acting. Macchio clearly shows he can do more than just be cute. I can really recommend this movie, simply because of the performances of all the young actors, so if you like any of them go watch this movie, you won't regret it. 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Great Cast","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading the absolutely amazing novel by S.E.Hinton in Gr.8 English our teacher showed us the movie, one word, great. Although I was impressed with the acting and directing this film did not really include some parts in the book that I found important. Also Tom Cruise supposedly starred in this movie but yet I saw him like, once, and I didn't even know it was him. C.Thomas Howell and Matt Dillon did beyond belief acting in beyond belief roles. But I felt the real shining star was Ralph Macchio, I have always loved Macchio (Karate Kid, etc..) but his part (the role of Johnny Cade) was a hard one to master and he did it perfectly. The movie is great, but the book is greatest! ****/***** "},{"Title":"Good! I honestly recommend the book before the movie, but both are excellent.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now, some of you agree with me that this is a good book and movie. Others will say that they both were bad, or maybe just the movie. My personal opinion is that they were both good. I do recommend reading the book before the movie, because that is what I did, but it's your choice. I'm not surprised that some dislike the movie. Like most movies made from books, the quality isn't as good as other movies. However, I liked the book a lot, and the movie was still excellent. I was surprised at the casting, I mean, some of the actors surprised me- in a good way.Really, I can't say many bad things about this movie. I liked it, and really hope that you can see it. "},{"Title":"one of the all-time greatest","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film as I was growing up.  It's one of the best films to show to a young adolescent, the kind of stuff which frames positive morality. All-star cast, great plot, excellent direction.  It's something which is time-less, you can show it to any kid of any generation.It's abit dark, so don't show it to just any of your children (plot deals with one kid killing another by accident), but it is one of the finest films you can show a 12-15 year old boy if you want him to see what can happen on the streets in a way that will make him not want to go there in the first place.Moral issues aside, this is still a great film.  I loved it, everyone I know who has seen it loved it, and it's one of the classics of cinema, in my opinion.  It's a great story of how life can be tough from all sides, and shows you just how much trouble acouple of kids can get themselves into. I recommend everyone sees this film atleast once.  If you're a teacher with a teenage class, show it to them.  Definately something to get on DVD and pass on to your children's children. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first was introduced to this story through the book,  then saw the movie.  Right away i added it to my all time faviort movies.  One thing that i dislike about it is the plot is a little dry,  but they make up for it in the cast. "},{"Title":"One awesome movie!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen! I enjoyed the book a little more, but this was one good movie! The actors are all great, and it was quite neat to see Tom Cruise before he was a box office hit. There were some scenes in the book that were not put on the movie, but otherwise, it was great! "}{"Title":"Really good","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie. I read the book first, and I thought it was really good, so I was excited about seeing the movie. I reckon they chose the perfect actors to portray the characters. The movie was how I thought it would be and I was happy with the outcome, although there was a huge section they missed from the book.It was really worthwhile seeing. "},{"Title":"A great cast including TOM CRUISE, DIANE LANE, ROB LOWE and MATT DILLON brings The Outsiders to life!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What makes this movie even better than it already is, is that amazing cast. I mean this cast would cost a fortune nowadays. TOM CRUISE (Mission Impossible, Vanilla Sky), DIANE LANE (Unfaithful, The Perfect Storm), MATT DILLON (Wild Things, Drugstore Cowboy) to name a few are amazing in this early outing. The material is standard but the bar is raised thanks to the actors. I'd love to see the longer original version that Coppola made. A cool movie. Recommended!  "},{"Title":"An Interesting Coppola Outing, but not worth the time","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the type of movie that people have sort of love-hate relationships with.  A few people love it, pretty much everyone else hates it.  It is based on the S. E. Hinton novel of the same name and, for the most part, follows it rather closely (especially when compared with more modern book-film adaptations).  Obsessive Hinton fans might be upset at certain nit picky details.  Interestingly enough, I have read some pretty sick reviews including one reviewer who remarked that he/she liked it when the main characters got their pants wet and another reviewer who remarked that it was a very blatantly homosexual and was surprised that Hinton (a woman) wrote the original book. However, have no delusions about the movie.  It is a badly-acted badly-written and (dare I say) badly-directed.  Interesting it is, too, how many now-famous actors were in this movie 'way back' in the 80's.  Even so, a majority of them are very bad in this movie (take the infamous lead in the Karate Kid).  See this movie depending on your feelings about the book (which I found OK; it's not nearly as captivating as everyone else says it is).  To me, however, it is not worth the 91 minutes it takes to watch it. "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is one great movie, especially for youths like me. the story is about 3 brothers whose parents died and is in a gang called 'greasers' fighting for their territory against the socs, rich west-side people. the three curtis brothers, especially ponyboy loose a great friend named johnny because of saving kids from a fire. Dally, who is also a great friend of theirs and is part of the gang greasers dies because of robbing a store. this is a great book and movie. it also includes today's biggest stars like tom cruise, rob lowe, matt dillon, diane lane, emilio estevez and more. i would rate this movie a *****/*****  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film of all time!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders was truly the greatest movie of all time. I thought the actors did an extremely good job. They showed emotions at all the right times and really knew how to act. I felt like I was actually there with them and when characters died I found myself feeling so sad I was bawling. It shows a perfect example of the struggles between rich and poor kids and the struggles they go through in life The book was great too. I recommend both and give the movie 5 stars(*****) "},{"Title":"Not as good as the book, but good for 1983","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I agree that the movie doesn't have the same effect that the book does. I think if you haven't read the book, you probably won't enjoy the movie as much as if you had.  Anyone who says this movie has a simple plot, well I certainly don't agree with that.  If you payed more attention, maybe you would realize that what they are trying to tell you is that suddenly is wasn't a personal thing to me, I could picture hundreds and hundreds of boys living on the wrong sides of cities, boys with black eyes who jumped at their own shadows. Hundreds of boys who maybe watched sunsets and looked at stars and ached for something better.  I could see boys going down under streetlights becuse they were mean and tough and hated the world, and it was too late to tell them there was still good in it and they wouldn't believe you if you did.  It was too vast a problem to be just a personal thing. There should be some help, someone should tell them before it was too late. Someone should tell their side of the story, and maybe people would understand then and wouldn't be so quick to judge a boy by the amount of hair oil he wore.  (copyright S.e hinton 1967) Sure the movie wasn't as good as the book, but considering that it was made in 1983 and movies can only be so long I think it was very good and that maybe you should watch it again or read the book if you don't like it.  Yes, I would recomend this for a first time and a second time (even a third) I'm not much of a criticor a reader but I think this is not only a good (not simple at all) plot but the BEST plot I have seen yet "},{"Title":"a great coming of age flick","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read the book first - when my best friend from high school, a non-reader, told me I should check it out - the movie came out shortly thereafter.  I thought it was a great job by Francis Ford Coppola.  The cinematography was fantastic, the actors were good....mind you, I saw it several times (at least ten) in the theatre and much, much more on video. There is an alternate version, with some additional footage, that was shown on local TV in LA at one point - which I think made the storyline much clearer to the average person.  Despite its flaws, I feel this movie captured what it feels like to be young and from the wrong side of the tracks...I cried at the ending and never cease to watch it whenever it shows up on late-night TV. It also features some great performances by actors that were not as well-known at the time of the movie - Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell, Patrick Swayze, Rob Lowe, etc.  Check it out for yourself and see if the poetry speaks to your heart as well.... "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One of my all-time favourite films - a modern 'Rebel Without A Cause'Great performance by Matt Dillon, rates alongside his performance in 'Drugstore Cowboy'.What few people have commented upon herein is the terrific photography and the fabulous theme song from Stevie Wonder. "},{"Title":"A good movie that gave many stars their Big Break.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is still a really good movie. But it will be more remembered for the movie that gave many stars their Big Break. This movie has many famous people as the Greasers, such as Tom Cruise, Rob Lowe, Ralph Macchio, Emilio Estovez, and Patric Swayze. The Outsiders movie is based on S.E. Hintons classic tale of rival gangs, the Socs (the rich kids with all the breaks) and Greasers (the pour kids who are known as trouble makers). The main character is Ponyboy Curtis, no joke, that's his real name! Ponyboy is a Greaser and proud of it. Ponyboy lives with his two older brothers, Darry and Sodapop. The plot of The Outsiders thickens when Pony and his Greaser friend Johnny get attacked by Socs. I don't want to spoil everything for you people who never saw this movie, so that's all I'm going to say. If your a fan of the book, the movie version won't dissapoint you! "},{"Title":"A New Classic...","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved The Outsiders!  I saw this movie when it first came out in 1983 and loved it then.  I read the book a few years later and couldn't believe how well the movie followed the book.  But let me say, if you love the movie you must read the book--the end adds more detail.This is a very emotional movie about a bunch of tough kids just trying to belong who get caught up in circumstances--sometimes not of their own making.  I loved the way the movie showed the relationship between Ponyboy and his brothers.  It was intense!  It was very well acted and was realistic to the time the movie took place, including the rumbles.  (You gotta think about the 50's!) Watch the movie and read the book--you'll love both!!  "}{"Title":"My all-time favorite movie.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is the most realistic movie I have ever seen. Each time I see this movie tears come to my eyes. The actors are wonderful and because of this movie I followed all of the actors such as Rob Lowe, Tom Cruise, C.Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio, Patrick Swayze, Emilio Estevez, Matt Dillon, and Leif Garrett in their other movies careers. These actors were chosen sooo... well for the characters. Not only were they great actors they are some of America's hottest men. The theme of the movie can touch almost anyone, even with the movie set back in the 60s. The poem Ponyboy recites is so true and remains one of my favorite poems ever since I heard it for the first time. What is even better than the movie is the book it's based on. I am  an avid reader of S.E. Hinton and proud to say I am from the same state she lives in...OKLAHOMA!!! I do suggest all of S.E. Hinton's books and movies based on her books. If I could rate this movie I'd give it 5(*****)STARS!!! Oh and remember to STAY GOLD!!! "},{"Title":"The plot is simplistic, but is a very moving story","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great film that has been my favorite since I was 8.  The plot is simplistic but it is a very moving story which appeals to many.  It is a film which stars many big name actors and they all did well.  A film that is timeless a classic "},{"Title":"A tearjerker.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have personally seen this movie at least 10 times since its debut in 1983 and to this day when I see it I still cry and I can recite half of the dialogue.  It is so well acted by all of these yet to be major stars that you don't even realize who you are looking at.  I recommend this movie to anyone who has ever been on the outside looking in.  I would not allow children to see it for the simple reason, they would not understand it and it may give them ideas that being a greaser is neat.  Please give it a chance if you can. "},{"Title":"I thought the film was awesome and i hope they could maybe do a redo of it with new people cuz it might be just as good!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  i personally LOVED the movie! it was the best movie i have ever seen! i really enjoyed the characters too! they were hott! The hottest ones were Ponyboy, Johnny, and Sodapop! I also liked how the movie was almost directly from the book! well i hope u love my comments cuz all im being is sincere and true! "},{"Title":"This is a spectacular movie by bringing to life the real struggle between the rich and the poor.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It has to be one of my favorites.Not only was there an amazing cast of characters but it was able to follow the book almost word for word considering the limit on time.It was a heart-wrenching story of boys growing up on the wrong side of the tracks.  And I would like to contradict what one person commented.  The image of well to do guys engaging in a rumble IS realistic.  Just because they have money does not mean that they can't or won't fight.  This movie brings to justice all those things that biased men and women are blind to and I would just like to say that I really appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Very Very Tuff","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was an excellent movie. I was disappointed to see that it was only rated a 6.8 out of 10 because for sure I thought it was a 10. This movie not only had hot movie stars (Rob Lowe, Tom Cruise, Matt Dillon, C. Thomas Howell, Patrick Swayze, Ralph Macchio, and Emilio Estevez) but it had a hot plot too. I read the book, and of course the book is always better because they have all the time to add in details, but with the time frame given to the video, the two were similar in comparison. I was reading along in the book as the characters passed lines. This movie had very detailed scenery, and I couldn't help but to cry when one of the gang's boys (who shall remain un-named to keep the suspense) got shot by the police. The angry cries of one of the boys who got caught in that fire made my teeth chatter.This has to be one of my all time favorite movie/book stories of all time. It teaches a story of young boys looking to belong. I totally recommend this movie to anyone of any age. Great movie! "},{"Title":"ALL STAR CAST RAISES 'THE OUTSIDERS'","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film may not be as good as the book, but bearing in mind the films shortened runtime, it is still a                      compelling watch. The film may have dated slightly but it was styled that way. The all star cast is                      what really makes 'The Outsiders'. Seeing all those famous names and then 'star spotting' as they                      appear. Actors like TOM CRUISE (Mission Impossible, MI2, Top Gun), MATT DILLON (Something                      About Mary, To Die For, RumbleFish) and DIANE LANE (Perfect Storm, Murder at 1600, Streets of                      Fire) have all become big stars, and PATRICK SWAYZE, ROB LOWE, EMILIO ESTEVEZ, C                      THOMAS HOWELL, and RALPH MACCHIO didn't do badly either for a while. How much would                      a movie with this cast cost to make today do you think? Million$$$$$$!! Good flick - check it out for                      several reasons. "},{"Title":"*********","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good movie, I think. I know most of the actors. The real character is DALLY (Matt dillon). I watched this movie on TMC (the movie channel) I wish I could of seen it in the Theaters. I didnt expect this movie to be made in 1983. Oh well. Its a very good movie. If they had a sequel, it should be about Darry, Sodapop, ponyboy, Two-bit, steve are fathers and they have kids who ended up greasers like their fathers. It should also be directed by Steven speilberg.   "},{"Title":"One of my very favorites!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. I was amazed at some of the comments that said it didn't do the book justice. It did a good job for the length of the movie. Yes some things were left out but you can hardly fit all the detail of a book (a GREAT book) into a 2 hour movie. I saw the movie then I read the book. Some commented that if they hadn't read the book they would be lost during the movie. Well, I saw it without reading the book and I think it was easy enough to understand. Naturally the book is better. I have never seen a movie that has been better then the book. The plot was good and stuck pretty close to the book. Some things were different and some things were left out but it still flowed and made sense. The only thing was that the characters weren't as developed as they could have been. In the book you really get to feel for the them. It's still like that in the movie but not as much.The acting was wonderful. C. Thomas Howell is one of me favorite actors and it is because of The Outsiders that I have seen most of his other movies. He is great as Ponyboy and an all around good actor. Everyone else gave terrific performances too. If you saw this movie without reading the book you MUST read the book. It just makes you understand how they felt and it gives you a better comprehension of how powerful the meaning actually is. There is good in the world.  "},{"Title":"One of the best ever translations from novel to the big screen...","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are few movies that can hope to be as good as the great literature they are based on, but _The Outsiders_ comes close.The cast is star-studded, to be sure, but the most impressive thing about the casting is how the stars match the characters from S.E. Hinton's novel. Matt Dillon plays the elfish-looking and dangerous Dallas Winston to perfection in what is probably the best performance of the movie.  Patrick Swayze is a perfect fit for the brawny Darry Curtis; Ralph Macchio plays Johnny Cade, the beaten puppy dog of the Greasers very well; C. Thomas Howell has the toughest job, playing Ponyboy, the coming-of-age narrator of the story, and he comes through with a memorable performance.  The list goes on and on... Emilio Estevez as Two-Bit; Rob Lowe as the handsome Sodapop Curtis... and so on.Not only does the movie stay true to the book as far as characterization goes, but the movie's plot is also fairly close to the novel.  It's nice to see Hollywood realizing that they can't outdo a great author's work, at least in this case.Although the movie is not quite as good as the book, as is usually the case, _The Outsiders_ certainly does the book justice, and if you liked the book when you read it in school and you never got to see the movie, you should definitely check it out. "}{"Title":"Excellent insight on the tough but not-so-tough world","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders was a brilliantly made movie. The actors couldnt have fit the characters any better. The only the that got to me was the cheesy music. I'll let it go, though. Everyone should give this movie a chance and most likely you'll end up with a new appreciation for life. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was 13, and at that time it had a big impact on me.  I thought it was great.  There are a few cheesy parts, but it also had a great cast.  The actors are excellent!  I also read the book, and the movie was an excellent portrayal of it.  Rarely does that happen.  The movie theater version was different, however.  The ending in the VHS version was different, better and made the movie about 10 - 15 minutes longer. "},{"Title":"It was great!","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought C. Thomas Howell did a fine job as Ponyboy.  It was a very emotional movie.  It did leave out parts that were more explanatory in the book, but if they hadn't the movie would be about 3 hours long.  It was nice to see the characters come to life and the actors did a good job!  The rumble scene was exciting and all the sad parts were actually sad. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie,but unfaithful to the book.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This star-studded version of the classic young adult's book is not without it's flaws.The cast,while filled with later-to-become stars (Matt Dillion,Patrick Swayze,Rob Lowe,Tom Cruise,Ralph Macchio,Emilio Estevez) lacks in some places.The accents are forced from some characters,and sound just unnatural.C. Thomas Howell,who plays the main character,lacks the talent to play the lead.Sometimes,he just stares blankly into space and ends up looking like a doofus.While the movie keeps a nice pace throughout,the ending is abrupt and leaves a lot to be desired.The book explains much more.Not boring,but less than perfect. "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie! Everyone was great! Almost as good as the book!","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was a great movie! I watched it cause i love the book and I was very pleased with how the movie was right on with the book! It skipped a few parts but, it was very good! The cast was fabulous and Emilio Estevez was hilarious! A must see movie for any teenager! "},{"Title":"This movie had a great cast. The cast and the plot made the movie pretty good.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was a little confusing at first, but overall it was good. Francis Ford Coppola is a great director and got a great cast together. Rob Lowe, Matt Dillon, and C. Thomas Howell did a great job portraying their characters. "},{"Title":"Poorly written, but has a good cast","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Along with 'War Games', 'The Outsiders' was likely one of the movies that actually started the whole brat pack craze. The cast is excellent all around, with some of today's biggest stars prominently featured.	But sadly, that's about all that's good in this boring rehash of the standard 'wrong side of the tracks' plot. The writing is of a much lower grade than what we've come to expect from most Hollywood blockbusters, as is the direction and nearly everything else. The movie can never decide whether it wants to be a comedy or a drama, and because of this it succeeds at neither.	Save a couple bucks, and a few hours of your life by passing on this one, it's not worth an afternoon of boredom to see the good cast. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie with soon to be famous stars","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was a freshman in high school in English class. It is about two gangs of Oklahoma teens in the year 1966.  It also contains young actors who were not yet famous like Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt (maybe).  Although some of the people die in the fight, this movie is wonderful.    "},{"Title":"One of Coppola's best.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is one of Coppola's best films. The cast is full of talent and everyone is perfectly cast. This movie is gripping the same way the novel gripped me as a teenager. What a great film.   "},{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this film. It is my all-time favorite movie. I remember seeing it 3 times while it was being shown in theaters back in '83. A great cast,and just all around,a great and beautiful picture. "}{"Title":"Star studded and awesome","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was pretty dang good.  This movie has the best youth talents from the past decade such as C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze, Rob Lowe, and Ralph Macchio.  The simple plot with its twists gave the movie a sort of edge that keeps people interested. "},{"Title":"Stars In Training","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" S.E. Hinton's classic novel for young people has become a classic motion picture as well. The Outsiders with its all star cast of budding young Brat Packers reminds me a lot of the studio system films from days of yore. Francis Ford Coppola could never have afforded to pay all the players when they entered their prime earnings years which would be not to long in the future. Ironic that the biggest name in this film, Tom Cruise, has the smallest role in The Outsiders.The main character of the film is C. Thomas Howell who is the youngest of three brothers who are orphaned with oldest Patrick Swayze raising his siblings as best he can. The middle brother is Rob Lowe. All of them are from the wrong side of the tracks of their small Oklahoma town and are just referred to as 'greasers' or 'hoods'.In the pecking order above them are the upper middle class kids, preppies or jocks who are referred to as 'Sosh'. We never do find out exactly what the origin of the name was, probably it's in the novel. But the Soshs look down on the greasers and the greasers resent the soft life of privilege they see the other group apparently has. It's a dividing line they don't cross.When Howell's best friend Ralph Macchio kills Leif Garrett trying to save Howell from Garrett and his friends trying to drown him, the two boys have to run away. The film follows them on their journey which contains both tragedy, but also a realization that life isn't just made up of greasers and Soshs.Besides those already mentioned Matt Dillon and Emilio Estevez are also greasers in good standing. Dillon has a key role in the film as kind of a mentor greaser to the younger kids like Macchio and Howell. Watching The Outsiders takes me back to my youth when I was doing basic training for the Army Reserve. I saw so many kids like the greasers in basic training for a hitch in the real army. This is exactly where the military gets a lot of its recruits, kids like the greasers who have no real life and look to get away from kind of situation all the greaser kids are in.Francis Ford Coppola got perfect performances from his cast of budding stars. My favorite has to be Ralph Macchio as Johnny Cade. He's a kid from an abusive home who seeks acceptance and identity with the gang, he envies C. Thomas Howell for at least having the two older brothers. His scene with Howell where he sobs and wishes for a world without greasers or Soshs is a poignant heartbreaker. If Macchio didn't later become the Karate Kid, The Outsiders would have given him a career role.The Outsiders, book and film, is destined to be a classic centuries from now. It's one of the best films from the Reagan Eighties. "},{"Title":"heart warmingly poo-tastic","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  i originally thought the outsiders was a great movie. that was also in jr. high, now in college, i must say that this movie does not compete with other movies. it follows the book to an extreme and the lines and scenes feel forced. catchphrases flourish in this movie but the lines, Stay Gold and This one's for Johnny! are the most remembered. Matt Dillon was a very cheesy actor in his earlier career, and though this movie hosts a whole lot of popular names it isn't worth seeing... unless you are very hard up for some barely pg-13 young rob Lowe cleavage. the movie has a good heart but shouldn't be taken seriously by anyone above the age of 16. it was made in the early eighties, takes place in the early sixties, and was written in the mid-sixties. the movie ages well for its heavy load of cheese, but that shouldn't convince anyone to buy it, rent it only if hard pressed between porky's and James and the giant peach. also, though most was filmed in California the Oklahoma scenes are present. the white trash remarks are good but the white trash twang is over done, even if you are like me and come from a family like johnny and pony-boy's... yeah, this movie also leaves the very inspirational name of pony-boy for us to gawk, cherish, and ridicule at the same time. 4/10 rating  "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fabulous cast, wasted. This film is a terrible adaptation of the novel. I have noticed comments saying Think back to when you were 14 or 15 I am 14 and read the novel and watched the film in school. I loved the novel, and was tremendously disappointed with this film, in particular the character of Cherry. I sure hope the actor has matured because in this-yuck! My year old brother could do a better job! I pity those who call this entertainment, 1 star out of ten-and only because of the namesake. "},{"Title":"HEY","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie it is one of the best movies I have ever seen! Matt Dillion did an outstanding job in this movie! I think this is one of the best movies Tom Cruise has been in!I think Rob Lowe did an awesome performance! I loved how Patrick Swazye played the big brother type!I read the book before I saw the movie and I loved both of them!I am glad S.E Hinton wrote the book! I think it shows you how not to judge people just by there clothes,hair or the way they live!Take Ponyboy for instance he looked like white trash but he was really smart and looked at the world in a different point of view!It also shows you that not all things in the world are bad! "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Classic With An Amazing Cast. Francis Coppola At His Best.","Date":"8 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Francis Coppola's The Outsiders is classic,one of the best Teen Films,Coming Of Age films and Gang films ever made. Filled with great direction,one of the best casts in film history and a excellent score, this is one of my favorite movies and is one of Coppola's best films.Based on S.E Hinton's novel of the same name and set in Tulsa,Oklahoma in 1965,The Outsiders tells the story about a group of Greasers,poor,working class kids who are fighting to protect their turf from The Socs,a bunch of rich kids who beat up and terrorize Greasers. Among The Greasers is a young man named Ponyboy Curtis(C.Thomas Howell)who while hanging with his best friend Johnny Cade(Ralph Macchio)are attacked by The Socs. When Johnny kills one of The Socs,Ponyboy and Johnny confide with their friend and fellow Greaser Dallas Winston(Matt Dillon). After the murder,a set of tragic events happen building up to a big rumble between The Greasers and The Socs.One of The reasons The Outsiders is a great film is because of the way Francis Coppola approaches the material. Adapting a beloved,classic book is never easy,but Coppola adapts S.E Hinton's classic so easily and does it without a hitch. Coppola has always said that this was an epic for teens or a Gone With The Wind for teenagers and while Coppola doesn't match the epic quality of Gone With The Wind in terms of length or story,it's like GWTW in terms of scope and style. The film takes the civil war concept of GWTW and instead of North vs South,it's Greasers vs Socs,giving viewers a harsh reality where Greasers are constantly being attacked by Socs and always have to defend themselves. It's a civil war in the mid-1960's with switchblades instead of guns. The film is also epic in terms of it's beautiful widescreen cinematography by Stephen H.Burum. Burum's cinematography is stylish and unforgettable and reminds viewers of classic Hollywood films like Rebel Without A Cause,East Of Eden and West Side Story using colors like orange,gold and blue giving the film a great atmosphere. Some shots are also similar to Gone With The Wind with shots of the sunrise and sunset with beautiful gold and orange scenery. The Outsiders is gorgeous to look at. The Greasers in the film like Ponyboy and his friends are just regular teens and young adults trying to find their way in the world and while they're in gangs and into rumbles they're likable people. I think what Coppola's film and Hinton's novel was trying to say was that there was a world outside of gangs,Greasers,Socs and rumbles,where Ponyboy and his friends can rise above being a greaser and labels,because while Ponyboy and his friends are into gang activity they're not criminals thugs or troublemakers. The Outsiders is one of the most faithful book to movie translations I have ever seen,pretty much most of the scenes and dialog are lifted right from the book with a few alterations. You can read the book or watch the film at the same time and see for yourself. The ending of the film is sad,but at the same time hopeful and will stay with you and makes the film and book a timeless classic. While I love the theatrical version of the film,I also liked the complete novel extended director's cut of the film with some scenes that were deleted from the final film. We get more scenes with Ponyboy and his older brothers and also other scenes that were from the book that enhance the plot in the film. But if there is one problem I have with the director's cut of the film it's exclusion of Carmine Coppola's score which has been taken out completely. I love Carmine Coppola's score for the film and for me the score is one of the things I love about The Outsiders and watch the film without the score is eating one of your favorite foods with a missing ingredient. A film score is something that can make or break a film and Carmine's score is one of the things that makes the film. Francis Coppola should not have had the original score taken out. Other than that I liked the Complete novel version.The whole cast does an amazing job in their roles. C.Thomas Howell is excellent in his career defining role as Ponyboy Curtis,with Howell bringing depth,sadness and intensity to the role. Matt Dillon is brilliant as Dallas Winston,a greaser who is tough,but cares about his fellow Greasers. Ralph Macchio is terrific as Johnny Cade,an abused kid who is Ponyboy's best friend. Patrick Swayze and Rob Lowe give great performances as Darrell and Sodapop Curtis,Ponyboy's older brothers. Emilio Estevez is wonderful as Two-Bit Matthews,with Estevez bringing humor to the role. Tom Cruise gives a fine performance as Steve Randle,Sodapop's best friend. Who would have known Cruise would be a big star. Diane Lane gives a great performance and is beautiful as Cherry Valance,a Soc that befriends Ponyboy. Leif Garrett is good as Bob,a Soc who's Cherry's boyfriend. Glenn Withrow(Tim Shepard),Darren Dalton(Randy),Michelle Meyrink(Marcia),Tom Waits(Buck),Gailard Sartain(Jerry) and William Smith(Store Clerk)give good performances as well. This film had one best casts in movie history.The direction Francis Coppola is excellent,with Coppola bringing a beautiful visual style and great camera angles giving the film a great atmosphere. Great direction by Coppola.The score by Carmine Coppola is excellent,epic and beautiful and fits in with the film's visuals and tone. It's a great score that Francis should not have taken out. I also loved the classic Stevie Wonder song Stay Gold which is beautiful and memorable. There's also a great use of the Van Morrison classic Gloria.In final word,if you love Teen films,Coming Of Age films,Gang films,films in general,Francis Coppola and S.E Hinton I suggest you see The Outsiders,an absolute classic that will stay with you forever. Highly Recommended. Theatrical Version10/10. Complete Novel Version8.5/10. "},{"Title":"good book. bad movie","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i first read the novel for my English class exam in yr 9. i really enjoyed it and loved the emotional and physical side of all the characters described. when we found out we were watching the movie i had really high expectations and thought it would definitely be as good as the novel. i was actually really disappointed when it finished and was so shocked that it had missed out so much of the book and the acting was so terribly done. probably half of the whole book was taken out and the movie was really hard to understand. the whole movie seemed really unrealistic and confusing because its missing so much. i rate this movie 4/10 because, even though the book was so good, the movie is very disappointing and hard to understand. if you've read the book or not, i wouldn't bother watching the movie. its a complete waste of time and is nothing compared to the novel. "},{"Title":"A Mass of Talent Brought Into The Spolight","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Outsiders (1983) is another film based off a book. This book being The Outsiders by S.E. Hinton and Coppolla did a fine job adapting her book. Ponyboy Curtis (C. Thomas Howell) is a local teen and part of the Greaser gang who are constantly at war with the Soc's or upper class citizens.Ponyboy is a good kid, gets good marks, but after hitting on a local Soc's girlfriend he finds himself the lead suspect in a murder of the Soc. Ponyboy, along with his buddy Johnny Cade, flee to the county as war erupts between the Soc's and Greaser's. As the rumble is scheduled we learn that the hated Greaser's aren't really so bad and that all they're looking for is to belong to a hating society. This film is one of the first for C. Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio, Tom Cruise, Matt Dillion Rob Lowe, Patrick Swayze, and Emelio Estevez. Each actor makes up a tough guy and it seems throughout the whole group is one whole family. C. Thomas Howell seemed a little miss-casted when put in the sensitive teenager gang member lead. the movie is well adapted but some parts aren't explained well-enough or emotions being present.The Outsiders. Starring C. Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio, Patrick Swayze, Tom Cruise, Matt Dillion, Emelio Estevez, and Rob Lowe. 3 out of 5 Stars "},{"Title":"Well this is certainly a movie to win awards - Razzie awards, that is!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders is a terrible adaptation of a mediocre book.  It stars C. Thomas Howell as Ponyboy Curtis, a member of a small-time gang known as the Greasers.  The Greasers are in the middle of an ongoing battle between the Socs - a much richer gang - and one night Ponyboy's friend Johnny kills one of the Socs.  With the help of Dallas (Matt Dillon) Ponyboy and Johnny set out on a journey in hiding, and, tragedy ensues.The worst part about The Outsiders is that Patrick Swayze, Emilio Estevez, Tom Cruise and Rob Lowe all have small roles.  Now, I enjoy seeing biggies like Cruise and Swayze in small parts, but when the four of them are all together on screen, they look like they're competing for screen time.  You know, like when eight year olds stand and wave in front of their Uncle's video camera for the thrill of being on TV?  The Outsiders reminds me of this.Not an entertaining movie, but instead boring and unrealistic, 4/10. "},{"Title":"Don't see this terrible movie. Read the book if you can, which was good.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The novel The Outsiders was excellent and I was expecting the movie to be excellent as well. But it was not. It had an emotionless, pointless feel to it and the acting was extremely bad. It is true a lot of the time that movies based on books turn up very bad, and this is a clear example of that. Read the book if you haven't read it, for it was excellent. This movie was a cold turkey. Even if you have a friend rent it so you can avoid paying for it, I would avoid this movie. It is not worth the time that you waste watching it. "}{"Title":"The book was WAY better","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know this'll sound like a lot of other comments, but it is totally true that this movie was really bad. Key parts to the storyline were just cut out and other wierd stuff was added in. The opening song for one thing, plus all the other music in the movie was really stupid, and at the end when Pony is reading the letter from Johnny and all of a sudden the camera zooms in on Johnny's eyeball, what the heck is up with that?! Lots of little quirky things like this were stuck in there and made the movie all the less enjoyable. Don't get me wrong, I LOVED the book, it's still my favorite to this day, but I just think they should have left it at that and not bothered with a movie at all. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can not stress this enough Read THE BOOK!I know they tried hard to make this a good movie but it wasn't.I read the book and loved it.It is my favorite book ever.The movie is not like the book trust me!   5/10 "},{"Title":"Not what I was hoping for...","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved the book of THE OUTSIDERS and I've read it at least seven times, but I am not quite sure what to think of this movie version of it. I mean it does follow the book closely, yet the characters are not portrayed as well as they are in the book. In the book, we get a great description of each and every character. We get to understand what they are like. Here, the characters seem to have no personality at all. Perhaps the script was rushed or perhaps the production values were a little low, either way this movie comes off as one of the worst flicks of 1983. "},{"Title":"A disappointment.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had high expectations for this film before I saw it on tv, and during the opening credits, when I saw the all-star cast, they grew even higher. But, of course I was disappointed. It's underwritten and overacted, and the rumble scene is the biggest disappointment of the film. The only thing that showed me that these kids were troubled was the fact that they were always dirty. Maybe if they took a bath every once in a while they might actully be accepted. "},{"Title":"Stay Golden, Pony Boy!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE OUTSIDERS (1983) **1/2 C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, Ralph Macchio, Emilio Estevez, Patrick Swayze, Rob Lowe, Tom Cruise, Diane Lane, Leif Garrett.  Francis Ford Coppola's adaptation of S.E. Hinton's novel about 1950s Greasers and Socs is enlivened by a yet-to-be-great/famous and rich cast of talent headed by Howell and Dillon as polar opposite friends who both rebel in their own ways.   Entertaining to watch such raw at times clumsy acting.  Look sharp for Sofia Coppola as a young girl bugging Dillon.  Stay Gold Pony Boy! "},{"Title":"KAAAARAAAPPPP","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My wife and I recently watched this movie for the first time. I have heard how great The Outsiders was supposed to be and could not believe how awful it really is. I have read many of the comments from other and these people seem to be stuck in their childhood because it was their favorite movie then. Everything was quite predictable, bad acting, and the music score was the worst. (note the credits - a bit of nepotism here) The big heroic scene where Ralphie rescues all the kids from the burning church... what the heck were they doing taking a tour of the abandoned church in the first place, how did every entrance get boarded up when our two lovable bad guys came and go as they pleased?  Keep this movie rated where it belongs, in the kiddie section, remove some bad words and presto, good kiddie movie but not too good. I give it a 3 of 10.   "},{"Title":"Are you kidding?","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe all of the glowing reviews on this site of this film. I found it overly sentimental, not at all compelling, not well acted, and (sorry about this, I know he's an icon) not well directed. My suggestion -- don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"If I ever hear that Stevie Wonder song again, I'll wretch","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is a word for this kind of catastrophe, but I don't think it is publishable on a family site such as this.*SPOILER (I guess) WARNING If you don't want to know how integral some of the Oooo, they went on to be REAL actors roles were in this film, then stop reading now.* Somewhere between detached cardboard-ism and trite sentimentality lies the cold, unintelligible, badly-edited, terribly-written, atrosciously-acted world of THE OUTSIDERS. Poor Ralph Macchio -- I think he went on to make THE KARATE KID so he could defend himself against the awful acting karma this film cursed him with for the rest of his career. Emilio Estevez made ONE good film in twenty years, and this WAS NOT it. And all this hoopla about Tom Cruise and Rob Lowe before they were stars -- oh, give me a break! I think they uttered a grand total of ten lines between them throughout the whole film. Ironically enough, the only moments in this entire 91-minute apocalyptic offense against filmmaking WERE those ten lines uttered by Tom and Rob. Their *mesmerizing* arm-wrestling scene was the only spark of creative chemistry in the entirety of this abomination. For those posters who seem to think this was some grand, cinematic masterpiece reflectant of ALL Francis Ford Coppola's work You may be harshly depressed to discover that this film is A PIECE OF CRAP. Please -- get thee to a video store and rent THE GODFATHER (Parts I & II), APOCALYPSE NOW, and DRACULA (watch Gary Oldman -- a REAL actor). These films will reveal to you what a Coppola film REALLY is. And after you finish those, rent STAND BY ME (sentimentalism done RIGHT), EYES WIDE SHUT (watch Tom Cruise actually say something intelligent), and THE MIGHTY (you want a story about outsider angst, try a QUALITY one).In the meantime, PLEASE stop showering THE OUTSIDERS with gooey lauds. It is quite nauseating. "},{"Title":"Forget the movie, read the book!","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After reading other comments that said the movie was true to the book I was excited to finally see it. What a waste of time! So much of the book was left out of the story, there was no character development, and the actors delivered their lines as though they were reading them for the first time. I firmly believe those reviewers who claim this is a faithful adaptation have never seen, let alone read, the book.The story (is supposed) to start with Ponyboy Curtis coming out of a movie theater and thinking, When I stepped out into the bright sunlight from the darkness of the movie house, I had only two things on my mind Paul Newman and a ride home. Even the simplicity of this beginning was ruined in the movie when the first scene shows Ponyboy sitting at a desk writing these words . . . except he didn't even finish the thought! He didn't even mention Paul Newman or a ride. Basically, the beginning of the movie gave away the end. As you're watching the movie you already know it's a story written by Ponyboy. However, we never find out WHY he's writing it! If you read the book, you don't find this out until the very end. Oh, and in the book you DO find out why he's writing the story and how he got to that point in his life. After this pathetic beginning the story goes down from there and has little quality to redeem it.The Outsiders is my all-time favorite book. I've probably read it a couple of dozen times in the last 30 years. Do yourself a favor and skip this mess of a movie and enjoy the real thing. "},{"Title":"Somewhat enjoyable, but still destroyed the book.","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Although the movie was likable in some ways, I found it a bit too vague and boring. However, I guess I feel this way because I had read the book previous to it. The book was truly amazing and no movie would ever be able to compete with it.The movie is the basic review of the novel and has the same themes and contents, yet I found it very hard to love. I felt it was too uninteresting, and didn't show enough of the characters personalities. Where was the sweet Ponyboy, I found in the book, in the movie? The Ponyboy in the motion picture didn't show the intelligent and sensitive side. What I saw instead was a chain-smoker with no life.Johnny wasn't horribly portrayed, but I still felt more emotion could have been added to show the lost puppy within him.Something else that had bothered me was how fast-paced the movie was. It didn't give enough time for the viewers to consume what was happening or for the characters to actually act out the natural paces of real life.For example, when Darry hit Ponyboy. Ponyboy didn't seem to consume what was happening, as he did in the book, and just ran out of the house. I mean, wouldn't your brain stop if your older brother had hit you? I know mine would have.Also, the script bothered me greatly. The words coming out of the characters mouths didn't seem to fit in. The actors looked almost awkward saying them, as if they themselves knew how corny and odd the script sounded.And if that weren't enough, I felt there wasn't enough of the other characters such as Sodapop, Steve, Two-Bit, or Darry in the movie. There wasn't much to show each characters relationship with the other. I mean, Sodapop was the only person Ponyboy felt loved by, yet you only see them in the beginning for a very short time and little bits, such as the hospital and rumble scene, afterward. I probably wouldn't have understood their relationship if it weren't for the book.So overall, I felt that this movie was not best fit to represent the book, but good fun if you hadn't read the book.** out of ***** "}{"Title":"I hated this movie.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Outsiders doesn't come close to the S.E Hinton novel.  A lot of stuff was left out, and the performances were just terrible.  Yes, the cast is nice to look at, but star power does not make a movie.  Some scenes were boring, others were completely melodramatic.  This had a lot of potential, but failed miserably in the execution.  2/10 "},{"Title":"Ugh. Just Ugh =P","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie just made me mad. I know, movies have to cut out parts of the story to make a movie but They cut out over half the book, mostly major parts that were important to the story, and that made me mad. Also, the book's message was mostly portrayed by the characters feelings and thoughts which can't be really be shown in a movie. They cast people that are really irritating for the main roles and they got the descriptions all messed up. I guess I might have liked it better if I hadn't read the book, but it was still annoying. I think Francis Ford Coppola is a great director, but this is not a just example of his talent. "},{"Title":"Father knows best !","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The heart of a movie is the music, the fuel that gets the motor running which drives our passions and makes us speed along that long highway of life, without it, we are empty, neutral and in the end get nowhere! That is what Mr. Coppola did to this once masterpiece work of art. I mean when I saw that a new edition was due out, sometime back in July 05', I thought to myself, WOW! Now there's something interesting, I mean hey, I too was of that crowd, having read The Outsiders novel back in my teens in the late seventies in English composition class.But what a total disappointment ! O.K. I grant that Mr. Coppola did bring more depth and insight into the characters, setting the stage, to how the story would develop. Trying to stay faithful to the novel, I liked the premise of somehow altering the story line.But why, Mr. Coppola did you have to sever the heart of this classic movie, the original musical score written by your father, the late Carmine Coppola, that was in my honest opinion superior, which helped us develop a bond that gave us empathy for the characters.I mean, hey, they were from the Eastside, the place where the underprivileged, needy people live amidst poverty, desolation, confusion and despair.Wasn't it hard enough on the characters to live that way, without having you come along and sever the soul of this movie and replace it with edgy and reckless tunes, with little or no passion left for them in the end ? When I saw the catchy phrase New Soundtrack, I cringed for a moment, but then thought that maybe with the technology of today, he could've refined the music.An example would be Halloween H20, I must tip my hat off to the cat that remastered the original soundtrack by the great John Carpenter. Especially with the intro piece, it had depth and heart and that kept me glued to the screen. But, on another note, Coppola quoting that Rob Lowe was androgynous, was far fetched, and it is not his person who makes the film look the way it is, but the newer scenes added, I felt uncomfortable with most of them and found that it showed some very subtle and eerie overtones of homosexuality.In the era which we live, where this is no longer hidden, and has now become accepted by society, and an alternative to some you'll understand what I mean and most assuredly be left with that impression.I felt that maybe Coppola pulled out those scenes for a reason, so that the movie could relate to the crowds of that era, and not lose a bigger following that in the end would fail at the box office.So to please the censors of the times, I guess he probably got hasty when it came to final editing and in the end he left us with a masterpiece that would keep us endeared for many years to come !But it makes me feel sad for the actors, who with hard work are where they are today. Don't you remember that infamous lie that circulated a few years back on Tom Cruise's sexual orientation ? So, why, then did Coppola bring up this subject? To jeopardize the career of others and stir old demons back to life ? And after having seen the 2005 version, sometimes I wonder why the rest of the cast wasn't at the screening ? Previous engagements, occupations of life ? Or did they already know, the rumors had leaked out over the net about the 2005 version ?Cause as I watched the extras on the second DVD, I found it quite evident, somehow you could see it on the faces of the actors, that utter disappointment! Maybe Mr. Coppola lured them into this screening by jet flying them from L.A. to Oklahoma and reminiscing them with objects of the past that made the movie and then topping it off with a good old home styled meal to back this horrible rendition !Whatever the reason, I sure am happy to have kept the Original 1983 version which is, in my honest opinion superior to that of the 2005 one which lacks that very essence, the passion and soul of the movie The Original Soundtrack that the late Carmine Coppola composed with love and which will always be remembered for many years to come the core and heart of The Outsiders of.......1983. "},{"Title":"good i guess","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" IN year 9 i read the novel with my English class and we did some drama on it. that was good and was enjoyable. then we saw the movie and not many of us didn't laugh. some of the adapted lines are corny and even some of the original plot is not great. the film misses out the important chapter one and never tells us who Tim Shepherd is. s.e. Hinton herself hardly says a word and we never see Johnny's mum like in the book. the hill is abysmal for the church and why does domino bite pony. mistakes are made in the fight scene and the end is very short. good pointsthe plot is fairly loyal during the middle. the script is pretty much the same. many of the films actors went on to be stars.the characters are as imagined "},{"Title":"A Bad Book. An Even Worse Movie.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ﻿Many times, a good book's name is soiled because it is turned into a bad movie. With The Outsiders, a bad book's name was soiled even further because it was turned into an even worse movie.The Outsiders is about Ponyboy Curtis (Howell). He is a member of the Greasers, a gang that often fights with another gang called the Socials (Socs). Both gangs often get into some trouble, but one night a Greaser named Johnny Cade (Macchio) does something really bad and ends up on the run with Ponyboy.I'm sorry if I'm making this movie sound interesting, because it's not. It consists of 91 minutes, each one of them a snore. It tells you about the grievances of each of the characters, but since each character is a complete idiot for keeping up this feud, you really can't sympathize for them.Perhaps the worst aspect of this movie is the 'acting.' Not a single actor is any good. The worst of them is Matt Dillon (Dallas 'Dally' Winston). Normally he's a respectable actor (he was good in Crash, for instant), Whenever Dally begins to cry because he is sad, I begin to cry because I am doubling over with laughter. There's another part of the movie where his inept acting skills begin to shine, but I'm not going to tell you what it is because it would give away the movie's ending. Future big-name actors Tom Cruise (Steve Randall) and Emilion Estivez (Two-Bit Matthews) have small rolls and little chance to show off their talents.A male-dominated movie, the only female with a part that has any significance at all is Diane Lane (Sherri 'Cherry' Valance). Because of this, and the fact that she is a talented actress, it's disappointing to realize that her acting, too, is inept.For someone who's a great director, Coppola sure did a lousy job. The fist-fight scenes are amusingly phoney, and he has Dally put an open pocket knife to his forehead,not because he's suicidal, but because he's deep in thought. "},{"Title":"Good Book, BAD Movie!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" We read the book The Outsiders in my 8th grade reading class and I liked it.Then the teacher said that we'd be able to watch the movie and I figured it'd live up to my expectations (which were good) but it didn't.This movie was so bad and far from the book...I fell asleep during part of the end of it.It was terrible...the acting sucked and it was far from what I imagined it to be and parts that were in the book weren't in the movie.I thought that you pronounced the Socs like socks but they pronounced it in the movie like soaks and when Johnny and Pony Boy got to that church (was it them? I forget) but I imagined the church being..well a church but in the movie it looked like a hut out in Africa or something (did anybody else think that?) At least I'm not the only one to think that this movie was a terrible adaption to a good book (just look at the other comments!) That's all I have to say...I gave it a 1/10 (I'm really surprised that it has that somewhat high rating here at IMDb...) "},{"Title":"One of the most overrated movies of all time","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  How could Coppola mess up so bad?The Outsiders is a bad movie in every way possible.  The directing is unevenly paced, and sometimes gets so confusing it's hard to know what's going on.  The acting is some of the worst I've seen, right next to the remake of Psycho.  The characters are unbelievable one dimensional, and one can't feel for them at all.  Some may argue this point, claiming the actors were young.  True, they were (and, on a lighter note, most of them haven't starred in recent quality movies in a long time), yet the acting is so inexcusable, they may as well just cast a few second graders.  The script, like the directing, is also confusing, and is so fake and hollywood-esque that they probably just pulled out a few lines from a Looney Tunes sketch, threw in a few swears and some blood, and called it The Outsiders.Anyone want to know a good story?  Three words READ  THE BOOK! "}]