[{"Title":"Disney noir? A wonderful adaptation.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It was almost too much to hope that someone would make a movie version of Ray Bradbury's outstanding fantasy novel 'Something Wicked This Way Comes' that did justice to it, but director Jack Clayton did. He and his cohorts managed to capture all the dark, ominous portents and mysterious, mystical happenings that fill Bradbury's book.Set earlier in this century, a carnival comes to a small town at a strange time of year, October. But then it's a mighty strange carnival, one that fulfills the fantasies--and fears--of the town's residents. Two young boys, Will Halloway and Jim Nightshade (Vidal Peterson and Shawn Carson) find out the foreboding and forbidden secrets of the carnival, as does the tired, prematurely old man (Jason Robards) who is Will's father.As has been noted, there probably isn't another film with the Walt Disney name on it that is as dark as this one. It may be too frightening in parts for very young children and too disturbing at times for slightly older ones. A person's enjoyment of the film would be helped considerably by reading the book beforehand, much like Kubrick's '2001...' Besides those already mentioned, some of the good performances in the movie come from Royal Dano, James Stacy, and Jonathan Pryce as Mr. Dark.  "},{"Title":"Mature and intriguing thriller for adults and kids alike","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is well made in all regards; the cast is top-notch, the cinematography and direction drive the tone of the movie, the effects inventive and wonderful (even by late-90's standards) and best of all, the storyline superb.That said, this is arguably the best film made from any of Ray Bradbury's works. I first read the book years ago as a 13-year-old and remember the images the tale concocted, and the questions about myself that the storyline propose ring as true today from the film as they did then from the page.Owing much to the casting of the film, the director marvelously weaves the story around the principal leads by allowing a score of tertiary characters to guide the plot's tone, mood and motion. Each person, whether major or minor, is an intriguing part of the tale with their own tale to tell. With great efficiency we understand what drives each of the townspeople, and grow more curious and suspicious as to the background of the carnival folk.Sympathy -- or contempt -- for each of the characters is developed throughout, and best the film's two supporting actors, Jason Robards and Jonathan Pryce. While neither is exactly cast against type here, both provide a driving stability for the film. The two boys that serve as the film's protagonists do an admirable job in portraying both the fear and delight that is part of youth, and inherent to coming of age.This movie is a fine example of how an effective thriller can be made without resorting to language, blood, sex, or violence. While I am not all opposed to films that use any or all of those conventions, it is a refreshing change from what is otherwise the norm.One of the greatest benefits is that the resulting film is one that you can watch with your children, a film that will provide them a healthy scare and stimulate their mind as well. As the film does contain some dark and frightening imagery, it could certainly serve as a source of nightmares for younger children.  "},{"Title":"It's What's Inside That Counts....","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ray Bradbury and the makers of this film ventured into foreign territory for the Disney Studios, they went to explore the dark side of humanity and came back with the honest truth that much of humanity is plagued and there are shiny bright spots within.  This film explores the petty desires of everyday people, their eagerness to give what is really important in life up for things like vanity, lust, money, etc...  The story centers around two small boys, Will and Jim, and how their lives change and the townfolk around them when a carnival comes to town.  The atmosphere is chilling to say the least.  It is easily the darkest of any Disney film(even considering the outstanding The Hunchback of Notre Dame).  It uses dark landscapes, eerie haunting music, and bleak characterizations to perfection.  The acting is good all around with two standouts.  Jason Robards plays Will's father, and is the epitome of flawed goodness.  He suffers for his goodness but has strength of heart.  Robards is wonderful, and I felt myself wishing this man had been my father(or my father more like him).  For an actor to be able to create that appeal is a true feat of integrity of performance.  On the other side, in a simply sinister portrayal of evil incarnate is the performance of Jonathan Pryce, an overlooked and underappreciated English actor.  His performance is scary, and he chews up every and each scene he is in.  The script by Bradbury himself, based on his novel, is full of rich texture and subtlety.  As with just about every film adaptation, the film is not the book...but then if you wanted that you only have to sit down and read...one page at a time.  "},{"Title":"You May Disagree, But I Love This Movie","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After reading some of the previous comments made about this film, I feel compelled to add my own.I've never read the Ray Bradbury novel, though this movie did make me want to read more of his work. So what if it's not entirely true to the book? How many supernatural-themed stories adapted for film actually were true to the story in pre-CGI days? At any rate, I love this movie because it was spooky without being scary, and for a kid's movie, that was perfect for me. I'll never forget how creepy Jonathan Price was in this film. I loved the effects and the moody art direction.It's dark without being too dark for kids, which I'm pretty sure is what Disney and most parents would want. "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Two young boys (Vidal Peterson & Shawn Carson) notice the arrival of a carnival. Its owner (Jonathan Pryce) makes wishes for the town's citizens come true, but with horrifying results. Pryce knowing that the two boys know what is going on unbeknowest to the town sets about trying to hunt them down with the assistance of a dust witch (Pam Grier). However, if he is going to get the children he is going to have to go through the boy's father (Jason Robards).Sure, it is predictable. However, it has excellent production design, original and creative special effects, and a thoughtful screenplay. Pryce turns in a scary performance. Robards captures that right balance of being brave, yet terrified. And Grier turns in a seductive, very mysterious performance that has a very commanding presence in the film even though she has very little screen time. Rather intense and scary film. The scene with Pryce ripping pages out of a book and Grier placing a spell on Robards are quite memorable. Rated PG; Violence. "},{"Title":"Boys discover the dark side of life","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Frequently billed as kids fare, since it is a Disney Production, this movie is a beautifully crafted adaptation of the Ray Bradbury science fiction story. It is perhaps one of Disney's finest productions, a real movie with a real plot, excellent characterizations, and well acted. This from a company more known for mindless mush. This movie has something for everyone. For the kids there is a simple horror story, not too scary, one they can handle. Yet for the mature viewer there is lots of symbolism and allegory, deep imagery and lots to analyse.The cast is first rate. Jason Robards plays Dad, the town librarian. Arthur Hill is the narrator, or the voice of young Will Halloway, son of the librarian. Royal Dano has a role as the one legged, one armed town barkeep. And Johnathan Pryce plays the evil Mr. Dark. Diane Ladd plays his sidekick, the evil Mrs. Nightshade.The story is about young Will, acted by Vidal Peterson, and his best friend Jim, acted by Shawn Carson. Both are 12 years old, and the movie is really their coming of age. For a boy to become a man, he must realize the consequences of his choices in life.Everyone in this little town needs something, has a dream or wish. Will needs a dad who's healthy and can play with him. Poor dad needs a better heart. Jim's dad ran away, and his mom is loopy. The barkeep needs new limbs. The barber needs a girlfriend. The teacher needs her beauty returned.The evil Mr. Dark and his circus arrive in town. And promise to make everyone's dream come true. But only at a great price, of giving up their souls. A deal with the devil.This is temptation with a capital T. Greed overcomes prudence, and everyone will take on Mr. Dark's offer. Only Will can save his best pal Jim, and also the rest of the town. Love will conquer evil, good will triumph after a long fight. Temptation does go away if it is fought long enough.The boys act with great talent. Pity they did not go on to similar quality appearances. One is reminded of the twin boys Chris and Martin Udvanorsky in the movie The Other, which is also a horror thriller. Or the horror movie The Good Son with Mac Culkin and Elijah Wood. "},{"Title":"Just a single scene makes it all worthwhile....","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this was a big disappointment to many Bradbury fans, but it still has enough charm to make it a satisfactory cinematic experience.  It is debatable whether or not one should read the book before seeing the movie.  You will certainly have a better understanding of what is happening, but the terror conveyed in the book is not present in the movie. EXCEPT...There is the scene with Pryce and Robards in the town library.  Even with the outdated FX, this scene is pure Bradbury...I could feel the tugging on my heart as Pryce's character ripped each page from the book.  Truly a classic moment and not to be missed.*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A movie that has something to say, and not just for the kids.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is always touted as a movie for children but not much is mentioned of the way it is also aimed at adults. The narration is skillfully done by Arthur Hill. In the beginning he speaks of his first look into the fearful needs of the human heart. Maybe it's just me, but that sounds fairly mature. And the theme of the movie, selling ones' soul to the devil is both scary and grown up. And the final theme, the one of love overcoming regret is very adult. Ray Bradbury (Fahrenheit 451 and Martian Chronicle fame) adapted his own story for the screen and did a wonderful job. This movie has a lot of mood and atmosphere too. This is a movie both children and adults can enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Admirably executed dark fantasy.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There seems to be something about small Midwestern towns that sticks with the writers who have grown up in them, a sense of childhood idealism now lost. Ray Bradbury had it. So did Rod Serling and Harper Lee. (Okay, I'm defining the Midwest in such a way as to include New York state and the South. If there's poetic license and artistic license, we can have geographic license too.) I don't know how Hemingway didn't get it. This movie does a much better job of translating Bradbuy's often lyrical but still commercial prose into a visual medium. The village atmosphere is effectively evoked. The script tells us that everyone knows everyone else. And two you boys are the kind of close friends you can only have when you're a twelve-year-old kid, secretly crawling across tree branches and roofs into each others' bedrooms and worrying that one is trying to ditch the other. These boys aren't interested in girls -- yet. Freud called this developmental phase latent homosexuality but he probably had it wrong. What we see is not inversion but a budding social solidarity, a loyalty to a still-small group. If these kids are gay then so is the U. S. Marine Corps.Anyway, the acting by everyone concerned is splendid, with the possible exception of Jonathan Price. It isn't his performance at fault. It's just that I couldn't buy him as the demonic carnival owner. Maybe it was his hair do, which was like unto that of a Beverly Hills doctor specializing in diseases of the rich.The photography, lighting, and art direction couldn't be improved upon. There are a couple of shots of Vermont but most of the scenes are indoors or on a Small Town, USA, set on the back lot. That's okay. Sets can be stylized to a degree that real small towns can't, and that's what's required in a spooky fantasy like this. The smallest details seem apt. Note, for instance, the exceedingly drab wallpaper in Miss Farley's house. Ugh. It's the kind that Oscar Wilde must have had to cope with when he cracked from his deathbed, Either this wallpaper has to go or I do. And -- whew -- is Pamela Grier a knockout. And Jason Robards has one of his best roles. What a magnificent smoke-and-vodka cured voice he has. In profile his features seem so flat as to have been painted on the front of his face, but when we get a good look at them they're extremely expressive. He looks and acts like a guilt-ridden father, frightened of death.I don't know why it doesn't all quite come together. The story seems less focused than it might be. Oh, we know the carnival is evil, right from the beginning, that spectacular shot of the locomotive from hell pounding camerawards. But then what? Episodes that are hard to fit into the main plot. A big guy gets on a merry-go-round which spins him backwards and turns him into a child who then pretends to be Miss Farley's nephew, Robert, and she goes along with it. Why? Miss Farley doesn't seem especially fond of him. Is this her secret dream which the carnival is bringing to realization? Maybe, but later while looking in the mirror, Miss Farley turns into a lovely young woman and then promptly goes blind. How many secret dreams does this babe have? And why is she (and the others) punished for the dissatisfaction she feels? What do the evildoers at the carnival GET out of it?I've used Miss Farley as an example but there are others. Too many. The plot seems loose limbed and gangles a little. What does Jonathan Price care whether he catches the two boys or not? Nobody's going to believe their story. And the multitude of tarantulas is a kind of cheap scare for a movie full of wistful memories like this. Especially when the kids wake up from the dream and thrust their screaming faces into the lens. It's still a good movie for the reasons I've given, and the characterizations are good too. I wound up feeling very sorry for Jason Robards who is facing the prospect of being cured of life, which Kierkegaard called the disease of eternity. At the same time I do wish they hadn't impaled Pam Grier on that shard of glass or whatever it was. I wonder how Val Lewton would have handled all this. "},{"Title":"Underrated coming of age tale","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Bradburys book was a disappointing to me. I don't found it more adult a terrifying than the movie. Really the movie is much more polished (style, narrative, characters development, etc) suspenseful and less sappiness.I think that the movie was lucky to have a subtle, elegant and intelligent distant of ridiculous over-dramatic excess British director Jack Clayton (other claustrophobic dramas -with horror touches- involving (but non exactly for) kids from him The masterpiece The Innocents and Our Mother's House). His mise-en-scene ideas are wonderful an early happy camera movement around the square; a beautiful shot of fire reflecting in Wills glasses; the father-son conversations with (careful) culminating close-ups of their faces; the disquieting,sensitive captation of nightly, lonely streets; the filming and editing of Charles Halloway/Mr. Dark confrontation (genious Jason Robards & Jonathan Pryce) while the kids are hidden down the street; the famous library scene and a lot of other little moments (superb Stephen Burum cinematography). Clayton refuses much of the teletubbie metaphysics of the book in favour to lives up the symbolic cardboard characters with real more complex emotions the river incident gives sense (inexistant in book) to father-son emotional paralysis and the weariness, downfall and fear to old age and death of the first one. Clayton also tighten much more the Jim's wishes to be a mature man with his father absence. And in the movie we has more folk characters with emotional faults Crosetti desires women, Tetley wants money, Ed dreams with his missing arm & leg and Miss Foley dreams with her missing attractiveness. In book only appears Miss Foley (to cry and receive a more condescending treatment that in the film) and, during a moment, Crosetti (to cry, too &#133;).SPOILER! Moreover the director repulse the pedestrian didactism of the novels climax ending changing (with the help of his friend screenwritter John -The Innocents- Mortimer) the Bad Guys deaths and reducing the Good characters fool dances & singings (Oh, Susanna!. Oh, don't you cry for me!. Come on Ray, please &#133;) to a few Jason Robards movements. Being implicitly didactic can be a good thing (why not?) but trivializing a story with over-the-head messages so that the less intelligent kid reader understand the whole thing, is a very different (bad) one. END SPOILER!My only problems with the movie are the unnecessary fx imposed by the dumb Disney execs in post-production, above all the green mist. Those fx are a bit excessive but they don't attain to break the intimist tone of the movie. At least the train-carnival transformation was eliminated in last minute &#133;Movie 9/10 Novel 4/10 "}{"Title":"Dark Disney","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First off As usual, the book is better than the film.That aside, the film is quite good on its own.When Walt Disney developed the first Disneyland, he had a section called Hometown, USA. It was the main street of a 1930s era small town, with shops, etc., common of the era. The film is set in the same time period, in a home town of the sort found in that first theme park.From the evocative opening scene with the film titles, a dark shadow is cast upon that innocent town. With the coming of Cooger and Dark's Pandemonium Carnival and Circus, some of the town's citizens undergo changes. Maleficent ones.The two protagonists, Will and Jim, are perfect ages to enjoy the glittering lure of a carnival, and they explore it. In the process, they come to a realization that there is more to the carnival than one sees on the surface, and that Mr. Dark is dark indeed.Will's father, a librarian, pieces it out further, and as an older adult, sees even more clearly what Mr. Dark is up to. Yet he has a weakness that Mr. Dark tries to exploit. The confrontation between the two, in the library is a high point in the film.But the film is a Disney film, limiting its imagery. The book has some clearly more disturbing scenes that couldn't go into the film. However, within those constraints, the film works well.A good Hallowe'en film, if you're in the mood. "},{"Title":"The Autumn Carnival","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In Green Town, Illinois, the twelve year-old boys Will Halloway (Vidal Peterson) and Jim Nightshade (Shawn Carson) are neighbors and best friends. Will's father Charles Halloway (Jason Robards) is an old man and the local librarian while Jim and his mother wait for the return of their father and husband that will never occur. The boys know everyone in town, including their school teacher Miss Foley (Mary Grace Canfield) that misses her beauty and youth; the lonely barber Mr. Crosetti (Richard Davalos) that has no girlfriend or wife; the greedy owner of a cigar store Mr. Tetley (Jake Dengel) that is obsessed with money; and the bartender Ed (James Stacy) that has severed arm and leg and dreams on being a football hero. One day of Autumn, Jim buys a lightning rod from the salesman Tom Fury (Royal Dano) that tels that a storm is coming. During the night, the boys overhear a mysterious train and they run through the woods to see the arrival but they do not see a living soul. However, they find the Mr. Dark's Pandemonium Carnival ready to be enjoyed and they snoop around. Soon they realize that frustrated and greedy people are vanishing in town and the evil Mr. Dark (Jonathan Pryce) and the Dust Witch (Pam Grier) from the carnival make their dreams come true. In return, Mr. Dark seizes their souls. Now Mr. Dark is seeking the boys out but Charles Halloway has a journal from his father about the autumn carnival that might be their last chance to defeat the evil.Something Wicked This Way Comes is an impressive movie with many layers with a story by Ray Bradbury. It is amazing how a story about greedy, vanity and shattered dreams can be seen and understood in different levels, depending on your age and life experience. The dialogs and lines are mature, but children will have a different understanding. Unfortunately this little gem is underrated and not well- known. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Not available on VHS, DVD or Blu-Ray "},{"Title":"Disney does darkness","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ray Bradbury's 'Something Wicked This Way Comes' is a classic novel about the transition from childhood to being an adult. It deals with becoming independent from our parents, the dread of loosing a loved one and the very real possibility of being alone in the world. There is also the classic morality story of there being no such thing as a free gift - there is always some price to be paid.This is a very dark story set in the classic mid-Twentieth century America of a Rockwell painting. The most innocent of places with the very best people you could imagine. But underneath the pristine surface, there is something dark gnawing at their souls. When a carnival comes to town, blown in with the autumn winds, it begins to feed on the evil in the town.As a piece of cinema this is truly gorgeous, best seen through a good film print or the laserdisk transfer. The opening scenes of the autumnal countryside are superlative and are almost too pretty to be true, which only serve to contrast the darkness of the later scenes. The central performances are all absolutely excellent. Jason Robards is almost typecast as Mr Halloway, the decent American father, but manages to pull some subtleties out of what could have been a by-the-numbers performance. You are never in doubt that he really does love his son and the exchanges between them ring true. Halloway is a man with a lifetime of regrets; missed opportunities and poor decisions who realises that he is the only person standing in the way of evil. Robard's performance is magical; you can't help but empathise with him.Particularly when evil is played by a young and rarely bettered Jonathan Pryce. As the sleek and lupine Mr. Dark he comes across as the ultimate Victorian villain - one moment charming, the next terrifying beyond belief. Wonderful delivery of fabulous lines raise this bad guy above almost others in recent movies. The conflict between Dark and Halloway in the library is an all-time classic, both spitting their lines in a scene that will have you on the edge of your seat.The movie is aided by some top-notch effects that still look good in the CGI age. Once again the library scene is perfection, with effects being used to enhance the acting - not overwhelm it. As Dark tears pages from a book, they flare up, illuminating the scene briefly before returning it to gloom. It may not sound much, but compared to the modern orgies of graphics, it is a blessed relief.'Something Wicked...' is one of the last horror movies that allowed the audience's own fears to do most of the work. It didn't play gross just to get a quick scream and a guilty laugh, it builds on the very real fears we have inside our heads and lets them do the hard work.Bradbury adopted his own book into the movie and fortunately kept almost all of the material. A pre-Eisner Disney then made a neglected classic without worrying if the Sand Witch would look good in a burger chain promotion.Oh and then there are the spiders, but that would be telling... "},{"Title":"A pg rated horror movie that actually works very well.","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie as a child, it was very interesting and it was nice to watch a horror movie that was rated PG as it would actually come on in the day rather than having to try to stay up late to watch it. Granted, it is not a pure horror movie, it has some other genres mixed in as well, but at its core I say horror is its main ingredient. The movie also features good characters in the form of Mr. Dark and Jason Robards character. The kid who is featured is also quite good here. The story has a carnival coming to town, however this carnival contains a dark secret and it is not just the fact the owner of this particular carnival is named Dark. No it seems he likes to offer those that are a bit weak the thing they desire most and then twist it in a way that makes it not so good. However, that is the price you must pay when dealing with this gentleman. The story moves at a good clip and while it never really gets gory or anything the story more than makes up for this and provides plenty of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is like the ultimate validation of the intense energy I have always experienced when a storm is on the horizon. Mother Nature is amazing . . .But onto the movie . . . I felt that the meat and potatoes of this film really stood the test of time, though the special effects certainly did not. This one definitely smacks of morals when you get right down to it. Several lessons to be learned here kiddies - not the least of which is to be careful what you wish for - especially when the wish is being granted by one Mr. Dark (Jonathan Pryce), proprietor of a seriously evil, ages-old, traveling carnival.And isn't there always something a little sinister and mysterious about a traveling carnival? Who are these people that travel from town to town cajoling the locals to ride their rides, taste their foods and play their games. Certainly in the case of Mr. Dark and his Pandemonium carnival all was not as it seemed.Two young boys, Will Halloway (Vidal Peterson) and Jim Nightshade (Shawn Carson) get themselves into a bit of hot water when they, along with Will's father, Charles (Jason Robards), discover what it is that this traveling carnival is really all about. They then have to battle Mr. Dark and the Dust Witch (Pam Grier) as well as some of their own personal demons in order to save themselves and the others in their sleepy little town from the dark side.The film adaptation of the classic Ray Bradbury book, Something Wicked This Way Comes, will certainly entertain you. If you can get past the cheesy special effects and focus more on the crux of the story, it may even frighten you a bit. Either way, it is certainly worthy of your time to watch it and heed the warning to be careful what you wish because there are often consequences to being given something you desire . . . nothing is free in this world or in any other for that matter. "},{"Title":"Be careful what you wish for","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While this movie is different than the novel (which I highly recommend)in development of characters, Bradbury was true to his theme. This is a simple movie with a simple message- it's not what you've done in life that you regret, but what you DIDN'T do. Each one of the affected characters wanted what was, not what could be. They chose to live in the past, not take advantage of the life they were given. Mr. Dark and the Carnival offered them a second chance, but at a horrible price. How easy would it be for any of us to take Mr. Dark's offer? By today's standards, the special effects are lame, but that spider scene will still send kids up the wall in terror!! The Dust Witch is still very scary. Watch this movie, read the novel, then read more Bradbury-especially The Halloween Tree stories. He is truly an American master. "},{"Title":"Be good or Mr. Dark will come and get you","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very eerie and dark film for one made by Disney.  It contains all sort of dark and bright side of the human nature such as greed, envy, temptation, and at the same time it also embraces  joy, hope, courage, and friendship.  Although, the core of the movie is a fight between good and evil, it is not preaching at all.  Yet it does have a conviction of fear.It's like one of campfire folk tales that comes at you very slowly from your behind and some unexpected moment it grubs your neck.  Something Wicked This Way Comes is a that kind of movie.I don't consider this film as a horror film because it reminds of me something from my childhood memory and it is beyond horror.  Do you remember the line your mom used to say when you were bad? Be good or ..... will come and get youTo me, Mr.Dark fits into the blank much better than any other  monsters. "},{"Title":"a Disney movie for adults","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I try not to watch Disney movies as they invariably are very schmaltzy, preachy and basic for my taste. This film as others have noted is about as dark as Disney has ever got. But most importantly, its entertaining, this is an old-fashioned good versus evil tale set in pre-war small town America. Carnivals were always big deals in the pre-TV era and Disney spent some good money on production to bring it all to life. Johnathon Pryce has always played the part of the villain well and he doesn't disappoint here. The special effects by 80's standards were good enough, veteran director jack clayton made this very watchable, keeping up a level of suspense throughout and while not terrifying, there were some very creepy scenes that made this a bona fide horror movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is an old fashioned horror story in every sense of the word. Based on Ray Bradbury's classic story of the same name, Something Wicked This Way Comes is the story of Jim and Will and the small town in the Midwest which is their home in the early half of the 20th century. Will is a quiet, thoughtful boy, son of the town librarian, an obedient child who is very uncomfortable with the subject of his fathers failing health and the limitations it brings. Jim, on the other hand, is a bit of a wild child; his father ran off some time ago and his mother, a sweet but not terribly bright woman, has become something of a town tramp. Into this quiet and rather stereotypical small town comes a carnival, arriving at midnight on an abandoned train with a whistle like tortured souls screaming. This is Dark's Pandemonium Carnival, owned and operated by Mr. Dark (Jonathan Price, recently of Pirates of the Caribbean fame) and his odd assortment of eerie employees. From the beginning, Will senses that something is terribly wrong with this carnival; a carnival which erects itself within seconds. So too Will's father has a sense of foreboding. But stubborn Jim is determined to explore every shadowy corner no matter what the cost. By the time they all realize how truly ancient and evil the carnival is, it is almost too late. Can Will and his father save Jim? More importantly, can any of them save themselves?Modern horror fans may find this boring and talky, which is a shame as most of the action is within the words spoken here; revelations of guilt and unspoken desires that will come back to haunt each and every character weighed down by both. The atmosphere of the film is a character all its own; a cold, pumpkin- colored autumn filled with wind and dead leaves and frost which seems almost to aid and abet the carnival as Mr. Dark scatters flyers in the town square at twilight, or leads his mournful parade through the streets, the band playing a funeral dirge. The visual effects are quite nice considering that this was made before the days of CGI; there's a nasty horde of tarantulas, a bright white mirror maze, an evil green fog chasing the boys through the woods, creepy tattoos of the boys' faces imprinted upon the hands of Mr. Dark, which bleed when he clenches his fists...and lets not forget the cursed carousel, which can turn you into a child or into a shriveled corpse depending upon if you ride it backwards or forwards. Everyone in the cast does a flawless job with their given roles; Jonathan Price is indeed wicked as Mr. Dark and Jason Robards is strong and sympathetic as Will's father. Pam Grier, in a role quite unlike any other she has played, is smoky and seductive and very dangerous in her role as the Dust Witch, who wears the mask of the Most Beautiful Woman in the World. Royal Dano is here too as the strange Cassandra-like seller of lightening rods, who seems always to be one step ahead of the carnival, warning everyone in it's path of its arrival. The boys too are quite convincing and likable and their mothers very believable as kind and caring mothers. This is a classic story come to life, both innocent and horrifying all at once. Watching it is like watching a fairy tale come to life. They just don't make 'em like this anymore, which is truly a shame. 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Lets see the original cut","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Iremember reading an article on this movie in the NME in the 80s. It told how some execs at Disney did not like the movie because it went against what the studio stood for. good family entertainment. I have heard that they didn't like Watcher In The Woods either for the same reasons.Soon after they formed Touchstone Pictures and made Splash which must have been in script development at the time and thats family entertainment?. This movie really deserves a reissue as it remains one of the best live action pieces that Disney have ever done. Jonathan Pryce was perfectly cast as Mr Dark and the two child actors are refreshingly mature for a Disney movie. it seems funny that a movie that is this scary should have been made by Disney and as the house of mouse never throws anything away there must be enough for a real good DVD release of it. i notice on the comment boards that there is demand for a remake. good idea but it would have to be Jonathan Pryce as Mr dark once again and Cauron or del Toro as directors as they are the only ones with a vision dark enough for it. "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember watching this when I was a kid and have since watched in again. I found that it was an very enjoyable movie overall. It definitely creates a dark theme and mystique about many of the main characters.It definitely has a Ray Bradbury feel to it, and can be enjoyed by a variety of audiences.I need not go into extreme detail since some of the other comments were so well written but needless to say, can affirm the quality of this movie. It scared me as a young child based on some of the imagery and thus discretion should be advised despite its rating. "},{"Title":"A handsomely realized autumnal film.","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While this production is strictly fantasy, it lacks all of the bells and whistles of modern day films of this genre. Ray Bradbury, like Spielberg, has an affinity for telling stories from a child's point of view. Without CGI technology, this movie still is compelling in its own right. Pam Grier puts in a good performance as the truly menacing temptress, a little creepy but alluring at the same time. The film is about regrets and unreliazed dreams. It also manages to work in several of the Seven Deadly Sins-greed, vanity, lust, and anger. The character most burdened by events from his past is the Jason Robards part. He regrets being held back by his upbringing from acting during a crisis, something not learned during childhood that most normnal children take for granted. This film would be a nice change of pace during Halloween, a little dated, but still worth a couple hours. "},{"Title":"A fantastic tale of what lies at the heart of humanity.","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In the 1980s, two major villains stood out among a list of thousands, in the fantasy/action genres.  The character of Hans Gruber in Die Hard was one, and Jonathan Pryce in Something Wiched This Way Comes is the other.  As the leader of a traveling carnival, Pryce is fiendishly adept at preying upon people's darkest, most self-serving desires, and only the power of integrity and humanity can win out.  This film deserves every ounce of respect it has ever been given.  The finest Disney film ever made (not that this is saying all that much).  Check it out.   "},{"Title":"Boys discover the dark side of life","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Frequently billed as kids fare, since it is a Disney Production, this movie is a beautifully crafted adaptation of the Ray Bradbury science fiction story. It is perhaps one of Disney's finest productions, a real movie with a real plot, excellent characterizations, and well-acted. This from a company more known for mindless mush. This movie has something for everyone. For the kids there is a simple horror story, not too scary, one they can handle. Yet for the mature viewer there is lots of symbolism and allegory, deep imagery and lots to analyse.The cast is first rate. Jason Robards plays Dad, the town librarian. Arthur Hill is the narrator, or the voice of young Will Halloway, son of the librarian. Royal Dano has a role as the one legged, one armed town barkeep. And Johnathan Pryce plays the evil Mr. Dark. Diane Ladd plays his sidekick, the evil Mrs. Nightshade.The story is about young Will, acted by Vidal Peterson, and his best friend Jim, acted by Shawn Carson. Both are 12 years old, and the movie is really their coming of age. For a boy to become a man, he must realize the consequences of his choices in life.Everyone in this little town needs something, has a dream or wish. Will needs a dad who's healthy and can play with him. Poor dad needs a better heart. Jim's dad ran away, and his mom is loopy. The barkeep needs new limbs. The barber needs a girlfriend. The teacher needs her beauty returned.The evil Mr. Dark and his circus arrive in town. And promise to make everyone's dream come true. But only at a great price, of giving up their souls. A deal with the devil.This is temptation with a capital T. Greed overcomes prudence, and everyone will take on Mr. Dark's offer. Only Will can save his best pal Jim, and also the rest of the town. Love will conquer evil, good will triumph after a long fight. Temptation does go away if it is fought long enough.The boys act with great talent. Pity they did not go on to similar quality appearances. One is reminded of the twin boys Chris and Martin Udvanorsky in the movie The Other, which is also a horror thriller. Or the horror movie The Good Son with Mac Culkin and Elijah Wood. "},{"Title":"A yearly Autumn ritual","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this movie is a yearly Autumn ritual with me. The beginning scene of the autumn leaves and the line First of all it was October, a rare month for boys, catches the very essence of fall. After watching just the beginning scene I feel that fall, my favorite time of year, is here at last and I can begin to watch for the seller of lightning rods to walk by bringing with him the brisk breezes and lengthening shadows of the coming season.  "},{"Title":"Maybe they should have used the screenplay that Stephen King wrote instead&#133;","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's so tiring to hear people say you should just read the book, so I'll try not to, although I've done that for more movies than I can remember. In this case, Disney took many of Ray Bradbury's intentions for the movie and destroyed them in post-production. This is, of course, all in the IMDb's trivia page for the movie (which also mentions that Stephen King wrote a screen adaptation of the novel which was rejected), so I don't feel bad about telling how insignificant this movie is compared to Bradbury's novel, which is nothing less than magnificent. It's amazing to me how this movie turned out, given that not only did Bradbury write the novel, but I'm pretty sure he was involved in the screen writing as well. As I read the book I was curious as to how they would put a lot of the scenes on the screen, and then I watched the movie and was disappointed to learn that the way they would put them on screen was to gloss over them like they were never there. The ending of the film, for example, completely leaves out what could have been a brilliant climax, and not very hard to film, where Charles Halloway has the showdown with the witch onstage in front of a crowd of apprehensive fans. The movie is shot on a series of cheap and unconvincing sets, cleverly made but clearly artificial, and is miscast almost from top to bottom and completely devoid of a single performance that deserves to be in an adaptation of Bradbury's work. I can tell that both of the boys who played Jim Nightshade and Will Halloway were competent actors, but they were never asked to really capture the emotion and fear that their characters displayed in the novel. They can't have been asked very often to put more into their performances, otherwise something better would have shown up on screen, although it's interesting that Vidal Peterson, who played Will, took three more roles after this film, the last one a full 15 years ago, and Shawn Carson, who played Jim Nightshade, never acted again after this movie. But I digress.Of more importance involving the casting, 61 year old Jason Robards was signed on to play 54 year old Charles Halloway, the aging father of 12 year old Jim Halloway, and no effort at all was made to make him look younger than his 61 years in order to more closely resemble his 54 year old character, which I only mention because a 54 year old father of a 12 year old boy is already a stretch. Of more importance to the story, however, are the characters of Mr. Dark and the Dust Witch. Mr. Dark (also known as The Illustrated Man), the sinister proprietor of the sinister carnival, is played by the startlingly non-threatening Jonathan Pryce, who doesn't display a single tattoo in the film, except for one shot in the film where he lifts his shirt sleeve for the boys to show a moving tattoo which is projected on his clear skin. If you knew how many brilliant ways this man's tattoos were described in the novel (something like a civilization of souls trapped in Dark's flesh, Mr. Dark himself is described as a crowd of frightening people because of all of the people tattooed onto himself). Then, of course, we have the Dust Witch, who is transformed from a brittle, blind, decrepit and extremely dangerous old hag in the novel and into Pam Grier in the movie. PLEASE. I hate going on and on about stupid things that are wrong with movies, especially ones that are based on books that I've read because I could go on for pages and pages, but there is so much here that needs to be said that I can hardly help myself. I guess the most important thing that I need to say is that there is a massive chasm between the novel and the movie, not only in subject matter that was left out, but in overall quality. The novel is so brilliantly written and such an experience to read that it deserves a better movie than this. There were some interesting parts of the film, but for the most part, my thoughts can be summarized as follows &#150; Something Wicked This Way Comes is a film that absolutely itches to be remade. "},{"Title":"Something Wicked &#x85; Haunted my dreams for years!","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ten years old I was when I first saw Something Wicked This Way Comes&#x85; It was a movie that I loved and got fascinated with from the very first moment and long afterwards. Today I re-watched it for the first time in more than twenty years and, although I still definitely loved it a lot, it also brought me to draw another additional conclusion this film is far too disturbing for 10-year-olds! Okay it's a Disney production and the story qualifies as a fantasy, but there are a few petrifying characters as well as a handful of sequences that are downright nightmare-inducing, like the giant spider invasion in the bedroom or the climax on the merry-go-round. Scenes like these, as well as several others, apparently got unconsciously burned on my retina because I immediately experienced flashbacks to childhood nightmares when I saw them again. I've always been intrigued by the darker kids' movies (other favorites include Dark Crystal, Island at the Top of the World, Return to Oz and Escape from Witch Mountain), but Something Wicked etc&#x85; is inarguably the darkest of them all.The story sprung from the versatile mind of the widely acclaimed and immensely popular author Ray Bradbury. He loved this story so much (or maybe didn't trust anyone else?) that he himself adapted his own novel into a movie script and, for the direction, opted for the reliable and highly professional Jack Clayton. The result became a, as mentioned already, pitch-black fantasy movie that is perhaps flawed and definitely comes across as dated in the year 2012, but it still ranks as the creepiest and less sentimental Disney movie ever released. The arrival of the ominous Dark's Pandemonium Carnival is an all but joyous event in a sleepy little town during autumn. The eerie Mr. Dark and his crew particularly target the nostalgic and phantasmagoric adults in town, who are all too willing to sacrifice whatever it takes make their dreams come true, whether it's richness, lust or eternal youth. The most rational person in town is actually a young boy, Will Halloway, and he has more than his hands full with helping his friend Jim and even his own father Charles to resist the carnival's Temple of Temptation. Something Wicked This Way Comes is a masterfully narrated story, with a terrific gloomy atmosphere and wonderfully imaginative decors & set pieces. The merry-go-round, the mirror palace, the exotic show &#x85; They're all very uncanny! My main complaint is actually that, after a rather slow-paced and patient introduction of the film, the middle-section and especially the finale, seem overly rushed and incomplete. I think I would have much rather seen SWTWC as a mini-series, perhaps in three or four episodes of one hour running time each, but further elaborating on all the hinted sub plots like Jim Nightshade's father, Tom Fury the lightening expert and the background of the townspeople. Stellar performances all around, most notably Jason Robards as the wise father and Jonathan Pryce as the wayward Mr. Dark, but also from the young actors and B-movie queen Pam Grier as the seductive but dangerous circus wench. I'm not sure if I'll let my own kids watch it when they're still too young and easily petrified, but it forever remains an all-time favorite childhood classic. "},{"Title":"Excellent film, one of the best of its type ever","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First off, I have to confess a lack of objectivity where this film is concerned. I saw this film when I was young, about the age of the protagonists in the film, and it really scared and thrilled me at the time. It was my introduction to the great Ray Bradbury, who not only wrote the original story but also the screenplay for this excellent film adaptation. The movie inspired me so much that I actually wrote my first short story as a sort of pastiche of its style and story. I still have the story I wrote saved in a box to look at and laugh from time to time. It would be interesting to take a look at it now, since I have just now seen the film from beginning to end for the first time in over 20 years. Funny, isn't it, how sometimes we forget what our favorite movies are? The story this film tells is so simple as to almost qualify it for a myth. Will Halloway (Vidal Peterson) and his best friend Jim Nightshade (Shawn Carson) are the only people in their little hometown who know the terrible secrets of Mr. Dark's carnival. Will's father, Charles (Jason Robards) is full of regret because his poor health does not enable him to be the kind of father he wanted to be; Will doesn't completely trust his father, because Charles has never really demonstrated the strength to be trustworthy. Together the three must combat the malevolent intent of Mr. Dark (Jonathan Pryce) and his freakish legion of roustabouts and carnies (including gypsy Pam Grier and the sinister Angelo Rossitto, who appeared in Tod Browning's 1931 classic Freaks).I know that I'm a sucker in general for these types of films, but they are few and far between at least as far as high quality stories that are well executed. The film does bear some resemblance to one of my other favorite fantasy carnival films, George Pal's Seven Faces of Dr. Lao which was adapted for film by Bradbury's close friend Charles Beaumont (after whom perhaps the main character of this story is named?). Mr. Dark is like the evil flip side of Dr. Lao -- like Lao he seeks out the deepest desires and fantasies of the town's inhabitants, but his goal is to enslave and devour the people where Dr. Lao seeks to awaken them to their better selves. Interestingly, character actor Royal Dano appears in prominent parts in both films, over 20 years separated in time.I really connect personally also to the whole paternal theme in this film. It is one of the primary themes of fantasy, the idea of searching for a father or of a father seeking redemption. Robards' character is fascinating and he gives a really wonderful performance. In some ways he resents his own father, who was a preacher and did not display affection, but only encouraged him to be firm and sturdy as a Christian soldier. His deep regret in life is that his health prevented him from saving his son from drowning, so that the boy had to be rescued by another man's father -- not coincidentally, the absent father of Will's best friend, Mr. Nightshade. In a more general sense, this particular trauma is tied into his feeling that he is not close enough to his son and that he's simply repeating the mistakes of his own father. Through the course of the story, the father and son find their love and trust for each other by way of confronting their dark fears and regrets which are exposed to them by Mr. Dark.Jon Pryce looks magnificent in his beard and top hat, and does a great job at exuding a sinister and demonic presence with great restraint and no camp at all. The director was able to keep everyone in the film very much focused on the kind of atmosphere that he wanted to create. The supporting actors all got nice moments... I particularly liked the odd bit towards the end with Rossitto dragging off Mr. Dark. Even the child actors help up their weight in the movie, which you don't always see.I would recommend this movie to everyone who likes fantasy with a dark edge, like Harry Potter books and movies, Terry Gilliam movies like Time Bandits, Tim Burton films, and particularly to anyone like myself who appreciates a scary carnival setting. This movie will please Ray Bradbury fans and those who are into The Twilight Zone and fantasy/sci-fi storytelling of that type as well. It's a beautifully made, intelligent, scary, and compelling film full of solid characters and intense drama. "},{"Title":"By the pricking of my thumbs...","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Something Wicked This Way Comes is widely considered to be Ray Bradbury's signature piece of work. I can't say that I've had the pleasure of reading it, but I can conclude that it must be an absolute masterpiece. How can I deduce this? Because everyone who has read the novel has hated the film adaptation. And you know what, the film is pretty damn good. Therefore the book must be a perfect read. After viewing the film I immediately came here to read all the praise the movie must have garnered. Boy, was I shocked to find that hardly anyone would call it a success. So I'm going to call it an underrated gem. In this gem you'll find two adventurous young boys, a small town full of shattered dreams, and a mysterious carnival ready to twist those dreams into a shattered reality. Something Wicked is a fantastic coming of age tale with fully realized characters, a great plot with subtext and unspoken elements, and a really good cast to back it all up. I recommend this one wholeheartedly and will have to sit down with the book one evening. "},{"Title":"Something Wicked This Way Comes","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A favorite of mine when I was a child, SOMETHING WICKED THIS WAY COMES may not be the same film I seemed to cherish in my experiences as a lad, but I found much to enjoy from it. I do think Jonathan Pryce is perfect(I've always liked this actor, especially his villains)as Mr. Dark, the omnipotent source of evil who seeks souls when he grants the wishes to those in a sleepy little village in(I'm guessing)Illinois as two children, who sneak a peek while he was changing a carnival barker from an older man into a child for devilish purposes of his own, threaten his way of existence. The film(..the source I'm sure Bradbury had a more assured hand in getting into the story presented to the screen)follows the problems both children have in their little lives..Will(Vidal Peterson)whose strained relationship with his elderly father Charles(Jason Robards)stems from a near drowning in a lake and Jim Nightshade(Shawn Carson)who spins tales of his adventurous father who, in real truth, was an alcoholic bum who left he and his mother forever to never return. Dark's goal is to feed his carnival with the souls of those victims of regret, misfortune, greed, lust, and age. He preys on the weak and is quite powerful. Before the film is over Dark will square off with Charles, as you'd expect..Charles is a librarian who would like to be younger so that he could play with Will and this is a source of his misery(..while the guilt of not saving his son from the river plagues him). Dark spends a portion of the film hunting the boys as he plans to take their souls as well. He uses Jim's desire to be older and taller as a means to win him over. Dark needs to know when lightning will strike next and, holds an old street peddler(Royal Dano), with such knowledge as he sells rods as a profession, prisoner until he provides the information he seeks. Also, Dark has a powerful witch(Pam Grier, effective saying very little)who assists him in his reign of terror. Diane Ladd has a minor role as Jim's abandoned(..and lonely)mom. I thought the director does a fine job of re-creating the mood and pathos of this reflected childhood brought to life by Bradbury recollecting his youth. But, the special effects sequences, while quite well staged, seemed rather silly to me. And, to be really honest, if Dark really wanted to find those kids, it wouldn't have been nearly as hard as the film projects. Still, as far as Disney horror goes, this sure isn't half-bad. I noticed that many critics brought out that Robards' Charles and Peterson's Will do not have the magic the novel seems to vividly create regarding the father and son. Personally I had no problem with them in the movie. "}{"Title":"Bizarre and fascinating!","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most fascinating movies I have ever seen!  I saw it for the first time last week on cable and was really impressed.  Just like the little boys in the movie, I was also 12 years old in 1983, and I wish I would have seen it then so I could look at it from a child's perspective.Mr. Dark (who is the devil in disguise) comes to town w/his carnival.  Even though the carnival looks ordinary, it is inherently horrible, the work of the devil but no one seems to notice.  The only ones who pick up on the weirdness are the boys.  Go figure the children are smarter than the adults!  Several of the town's residents have quirky obsessions/desires, and each one's wish is fulfilled, complete with Mr. Dark's own sick twist to keep them from being happy, even after they were given their heart's desire (an old woman went blind after she was restored to youth/beauty and couldn't see how beautiful she is;  a lame woman wished for her leg to be mended so that she could run, and then she ran mad;  a man missing an arm/leg wanted to be made whole so that he could play professional football again - his limbs were restored but he was turned into a child again).  Really weird and freaky things! )The main part of the movie focuses in the father/son relationship of the main characters.  The emotionally 'old' father lives w/fear and regret and his son wishes his dad was stronger and more adventurous. The father's strength and courage are really tested when it is up to him to save his son and his best friend from Mr. Dark's wrath and 'emotional torture'. Does he succeed?  You'll have to watch to find out!Jason Robards is Will's (the 12 year old main character's) father.  I really liked him - I thought he was a wonderful father and was way too hard on himself.  His love for his son and his bravery are really tested when Mr. Dark offers to make him young, healthy and courageous, all of the things he's always wanted to be but never was.Vidal Peterson was very good as Will.  By this time Vidal Peterson was a well accomplished child actor who comes across as mature way beyond his years.  He is perfect in this role.I thought the little boy who played Jim Nightshade, Will's best friend, was one of the most beautiful children I have ever seen with his dark hair, gorgeous blue eyes and adorable smile.  He looked like a little angel and epitomized everything about little boys  loving adventure, mischievious, wanting to be grown-up, but still being innocent enough to stay within the boundaries of safety.The other characters were secondary - the townsfolk who succombed to Mr. Dark's temptations, the boys' mothers, Mr. Dark's entourage, but all were extremely relevent in pulling together the storyline. The bottom line is the movie is about human nature and how there is usually a string attached to something that's too good to be true, sometimes children have better intuition than adults, and the blessing of second chances and the love between parents and their children.  It's also about being yourself and accepting the people you love for who they are rather than who you wish they would be. "},{"Title":"A Unique Movie!","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie is dated by special effects, I still really enjoyed it. Jonathan Pryce gives an amazing performance as Mr. Dark and Pam Grier is stunning to look at.  It's not a perfect movie, but it is worth viewing. "},{"Title":"something good","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this for the first time at the age of nine or ten, and it scared me quite a bit. Now as an adult I have included it in my dvd collection, both for nostalgic reasons and for the fact that I still find it amusing to watch.Great story by Ray Bradbury, an evil carnival searching for souls and two young heroes facing the evil. Interesting to make into a movie. Even Spielberg considered doing it at some point(Bradbury interview). From the very beginning, in 81, it suffered from problems. Much because of creative differences between key artists. The big problems came when the test-screenings failed to impress. Due to the lack of magic the studio decided to go for re-shoots and a heavy touch up of the entire movie. The release came finally in 83.The two main characters are good(although I have never seen them since), so is Jason Robarts and Pam Grier looks good as the Dust witch. But I must say my favorite has to be Joathan Pryce as Mr Dark, Such a frightening and sinister character.Best and most memorable scenes are -The entire scene in the library. (Truly a classic) -The demise of Mr Dark as well as the destruction of the carnival.     -The spider scene (found myself looking under my bed covers)Disney went through a troublesome period with not too many successes at that time. Fascinating as it was, DRAGONSLAYER was another one failing at the box-office. I guess like SOMETHING WICKED it proved too dark for a childrens movie. "},{"Title":"Often Overlooked...","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In the collection of 80's sci-fi/fantasy films that garner much recognition, no one ever seems to mention Something Wicked This Way Comes.  But they should.  The film is a very well done film, from a technical aspect, blending moody cinematography with good f/x (for 1983,anyways) to make some truly memorable moments.  Clayton's directing focuses on grand imagery and atmosphere, and it creates a very fine tone for the film.  Bradbury's writing adds a lot to the story, his expertly sculpted dialogue bringing life to some good characters.  He, and the film, do struggle with the coming of age stuff between the two boys, as it is mostly run of the mill material, but still effective in places.  The father-son talks are also not too amazing.  But, the were some great moments, most notably the library scene with Mr. Dark and Mr. Halloway.  Great writing and directing accented by Jonathan Pryce's pitch-perfect performance.  A few of the scary scenes were rather hokey, but for the most part provided decent enough suspense. The cast was very good, the two young boys definitely worked well with each other.  Jason Robards kind of walked through his role, but Robards can do that and still make it look good.  And of course, as mentioned before, Jonathan Pryce is just uber-creepy as the bad guy, Mr. Dark.  It's a shame Hollywood never really caught on to him.All in all, the film provides some tense (for a kid's film) moments with a lot of visual flair, but also provides some more heavier (once again, for a kid's film) material about father & sons and what's it's like to grow up.7/10* * */ * * * * "},{"Title":"Best Disney Film Ever! (Spoiler Alert!)","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, this film is not for children.  My daughter, who is seven years old, saw this film and had nightmares for weeks.  But this is a terrific film for adults.  Before watching the film I read the book, which let me notice the more sudle touches, like the marching band playing the funeral march backwards.  Ray Bradbury adapted the screenplay from his novel, and the movie is just as good.  The cast is brilliant!  Jason Robards, Jr. is terrific as Dad, and Jonathan Pryce as Mr. Dark is chilling.(Spoiler Alert! Please turn back if you don't want to know about one of the most shocking moments in the film!) The scene where the merry-go-round turns Mr. Dark into a skeleton is one of the most terrifying images I have ever seen on screen.  The only bad thing about this film are the missing scenes that are in the book but not in the film, like the mute lady riding in the balloon.  Something Wicked This way comes is on top of my list of films to be remade by Tim Burton.  I really hope he does a remake. "},{"Title":"A lost 80's classic that captures the magic and sentiment of Bradbury","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I grew up with this classic Ray Bradbury adaptation (who also wrote the wonderful screenplay), and to this day am astounded by its beauty, darkness and wonder. Very few films can capture the language and the look of the mystery shrouded within the small American town and the desperation of its people in the early 1900's. The town is Green Town, Illinois. A storm is on the way, and so is a sinister carnival and its diabolical proprietor named Mr. Dark (Jonathan Pryce). They have something wicked in store for the unsuspecting citizens by seducing their deepest desires for youth and greed. Only young Will Halloway and Jim Nightshade realize the dangerous secrets held by the carnival when they witness strange events at night. The boys must convince Will's father (Jason Robards) the town librarian that Mr. Dark has evil powers, and the carnival's intentions of stealing souls and destroying Green Town in its wake.This is brilliantly directed by Jack Clayton (The Great Gatsby) with all of the charms of the forgotten American small town considered. Bradbury's screenplay shines with every nuance and detail. Jason Robards is excellent as the regretfully aging town librarian with a bad heart, and so is Royal Dano as a mysterious traveling seller of lightning rods. The two little boys embark on an adventure full of suspense, darkness and wonder, and the townspeople each fall victim to temptation and evil. This captures the creepiness of the early 1900's carnivals during the depression era and the human need to redeem that which is lost through age and the hopelessness of mundane routine. James Horner's score is well-fitting, and nice touches include hundreds of tarantulas and a backwards carousel that makes people age in reverse. The walk and talk of this movie are as timeless as the novel. Also look for Diane Ladd and Pam Grier as a creepy witch. "},{"Title":"Spooky atmosphere!!  Plus the guy from Brazil as Mr. Dark, aces!","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Maybe it is because I grew up with this movie, that I love it so. Especially watching it around this time of year. It drips Autumn and all its beauty and decay. Sure, the sets look like movie sets, but I feel this adds to the storybook like quality of the piece. I have read the book too and do see how someone in love with the book might be upset at this retelling. It doesn't bother me though and I will tell you why.The atmosphere of this movie is amazing. The director, who also made The Innocents which is another favorite horror movie of mine, knows how to craft an image. The acting is all good. Mr. Dark, Jonathan Pryce, is my favorite, stepping out as the evil carnival owner just a scant few years away from Brazil, even though I never knew him in this movie until it was pointed out to me. Ah, acting and a beard makes all the difference. I would marry Mr. Dark, but then I am a Gothic minded girl who wouldn't mind the Dust Witch in the entourage. I really think happiness is over rated too, take me with you! I suppose, this wasn't the point of the book or movie, but I digress. The child actors are good, really, no one acts horrible in this movie. It adds to the theater like quality of the movie, its dreamy and murky. I never knew Pam Grier of Coffy fame was the Dust Witch. Again, the power of acting and character actors can take it to the next level. I have no idea why this movie would get a rotten rating on Rotten Tomatoes, yet the audience rating is 63%, goes to show you how the movie is actually loved. The scene with Mr. Dark tearing out pages in a book to show Will's father's life passing by is wonderful, in fact, Jonathan Pryce, does a bit of a running monologue for the most part and makes it believable. Add the carnival and all its craziness and the Dust Witch in her shroud, setting fashion standards for the gothlings to come, it is a formula win for me.I wish the scene with the Dust Witch in her balloon could have been added. It would have been cool to see. Or Mr. Dark being killed by happiness, which we all know is the best way to kill a goth. I wonder how the original cut of this was before special effects were drizzled all over it. I almost have to see the film Hysteria now because Jonathan Pryce looks like an older Mr. Dark in it. Growl! "},{"Title":"The only Disney film to scare the hell out of me","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The only Disney element in this superbly atmospheric Stephen Kingesque horror thriller (yeah, I know its a Bradbury story but it feels like King), is that the protagonist are two kids (for the most part). A narrative introduction beautifully captures the spirit of an 1920s/30s period setting of a small town as the camera tracks 2 boys running through the town in one sweeping take. This sets the mood nicely in contrast until something wicked this way comes. And from this point, the mood accelerates to a frighteningly tense climax interspersed with some hide behind the couch scenes. The special effects were also quite impressive for its time but unfortunately some of it look very dated now for our more scrutinising generation of children today! The performance of the 2 kids were fine. Jonathan Pryce's voice made for a distinctly creepy villain. Robards added gravitas as the third protagonist. The film weaves several themes integrating moral consequences for each element including desire (both child and adult), anxiety, growing up, regrets, love, life and death. This being a children's film, albeit an effectively very scary one, (but come on, we all know kids love to be scared) the morals have to be solid and this is very well accomplished.If you want your children to satisfy their thirst to be scared out of their wits without naughtily having them watch Nightmare on Elm Street or Halloween then get this for them. It sure scared the hell out of this 12 year old back in the 80s. "},{"Title":"Bradbury; my favorite author, so difficult to film his poetic prose!","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite what you may hear, this movie of Bradbury's novel is a decent film that captures a great deal of the Bradbury novel (of which it is fairly faithful; considering Bradbury himself adapted it). However, in transference from page to screen, some of the dark awe and wonder of the novel is lost. But not all of it, however. The beautiful Vermont locations capture a bygone era's mid-western fall (my favorite time of the year) very well. Johnathan Pryce's performance as Mr. Dark was a minor weak point, as he doesn't carry the emotional weight of the better screen villains. Generic evil Brit (as only in American films). Pulled from a Villains 'R Us catalog! The late Jason Robards as the old librarian/protagonist Mr. Halloway is pitch perfect. Perhaps a tad too old to play 54, but with such a solid performance, who cares? The boys playing Will Halloway and Jim Nightshade are very game performers. They easily carry large chunks of the film. Pam Grier as the Dust Witch is somewhat different than the book's image, but she IS very alluring nonetheless. If anyone could sway small town Christian folk to the devil, SHE could! Many sequences are whole from the book, and are beautifully staged. Many of the visual effects and roto-scoping look a bit dated, but still service the story well (which is the proper role of visual fx; a lesson lost in many films to date!). Overall, the film does the job...hits most of the right buttons. But being a longtime Bradbury fan, I can't help feeling a better version could happen someday in the right hands. What Guillermo Del Toro, for example, could do with this story! Holy cow! Bradbury and Del Toro; that'd make this film geek salivate! In the meantime, this version is not bad it's just not the classic it could've been with a bit more of an innovative vision. "},{"Title":"Something Wonderful...","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the tale of Will Halloway and his best friend, Jim Nightshade. It is the story, also, of Will's father, Charles Halloway, and how, one autumn, a chance for redemption came to him from the least expected place of all.In this movie, you'll see what happens when the fondest and mostdesperate wishes of the people of a small town are granted by the denizens of Dark's Pandemonium Carnival. "}{"Title":"I enjoy This.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A film like this is somewhat rare.  Plenty of interesting characters will stick in your mind once you are finished with this film.  Fine use of music and quality acting make this Sci-Fi/Horror epic worth your time.  I like how the film is based somewhere in small town America during The Good Old Days, but that there is a great deal of wrong hiding just underneath the surface.  This film explores that wrong by means of a demonic circus that arrives to the sleepy town, and grants the wishes of many, while at the same time sucking away the very life force of the small town folk who desperately want happy things in their lives.  Film also reminds me of some twisted Norman Rockwell variation that David Lynch got his hands on.  I enjoyed this when I was small, and it still entertains me today.  Find it and watch it. "},{"Title":"Walt Disney turns to the dark-side","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes it's true, this has to be the darkest Walt Disney movie they have ever made, and unfortunately will most likely be the last.Jonathan Pryce is brilliant as Mr. Dark, and the two children are excellent.I saw this movie when I was young and I remember enjoying every moment of the movie, and now that I recently watched it, I enjoyed it even more because it made me think that Disney can make movies without cheep gimmicks and dodgy stories.I think this is the film that started me off being a big fan of adult horror films when I was a teenager (see my comments for Scanners)I recommend this film to any family who like a good scare, that's not to graphic, and with no bad language, and is more on the same level as Goose-bumps, but better.A good family film for when Halloween comes round, or you're in a mood for a good scare. "},{"Title":"Should have been a much better film","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Bradbury's Something Wicked This Way Comes is a classic, and possibly his best work. This film should have been a great success, with a good cast, and especially with Bradbury himself writing the script from his own novel, but alas, it was not. Several reviewers have suggested that it should be remade with modern special effects. This may be a good idea, but the effects were generally pretty good for the early '80's, and in my opinion the major problem lies elsewhere.Ultimately, this is a suspense film with very little suspense. This is particularly obvious in the climactic scenes in the library, which should have dripped with suspense, but actually felt flat. Which presumably points to the director and perhaps the editors. This is surprising, as Jack Clayton had a fairly high reputation and made some very good movies, but perhaps he was just no good in the suspense genre. Whatever the reason, this was a reasonably good movie which should have been much better. "},{"Title":"Fun, Not Scary","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In a small American town, a diabolical circus and its demonic proprietor (Jonathan Pryce) prey on the townsfolk.For some reason, I recall as a kid turning on the TV and this was on... and thinking it was pretty scary. Now, twenty years later, I am watching it and thinking I was a silly kid. I love horror movies and this would hardly even qualify. It has music very much like Harry Potter, and is no scarier than anything from the series.Not to say it is a bad film. It is actually rather decent, and there is never a bad time to adapt a Ray Bradbury story. How faithful it is, I have no idea. I have not read nearly enough of his work. But it is interesting some of the parallels here with the work of Stephen King, primarily It or Needful Things. "},{"Title":"By the pricking of my thumbs......","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Will and Jim hear about a strange travelling carnival from a salesman, so they decide to see what it's all about. But Will is fearful, as most carnivals end their tours after Labour Day, and it's the middle of autumn. When Mr. Dark rides into town at midnight, setting up his massive carnival in a matter of seconds, the boys are both thrilled and terrified. It seems to be just another carnival at first, but it is not long before the forces of darkness are manifesting from the haunting melodies of the carousel, which can change your age. With his collection of freaks and oddities, Dark intends to take control of the town and seize more innocent souls to damn..........With Disney going dark in the eighties with their live action movies, they hit an undeserved slump, which is highly unfair, when material like this is the outcome.Sinister from the word go, the film is dark to its core, and it revels in the fact right until the last shot, and it never pulls its punches, which some may find difficult to digest, coming from the studio that loves fun, brightness, and laughter, as this is the other end of that spectrum.But as entertaining and genius as it is, it's easy to see why it failed, and journeyed into obscurity. It's way too dark for children, it's the stuff of nightmares, literally.And on the flip side of this is the fact that many would be deterred by the Disney moniker. Many would think it would have a saccharine edge to it, but this couldn't be further from the truth. Imagine a Disney film where a man has a spell cast on him where he feels what it's like to die, or children are covered in spiders, and a man is aged, explicitly on screen, and this is your movie.Pryce is wonderful as Mr. Dark, charming, suave, but just one scene changes all that when he discovers Robards is lying to him. That's when the film goes even darker.If you ever get a chance to see this wondrous film, do so, but do it on a cold winters night,with all the lights off.You'll think twice about the carnival for a long time after...... "},{"Title":"Where do you go to? The grave.","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Disney corporation deserve some credit for their attempts in the late 1970s and early 1980s to expand their repertoire a bit and dabble in genre offerings - The Black Hole and The Watcher in the Woods as well as this Ray Bradbury adaptation, scripted by the author himself. They also go to some rather dark places with this tale, another risky move, but the film is reasonably absorbing, touching on the subject of dealing with regrets in life. We have a timeless good vs. evil theme, a number of compelling characters, and some very literate dialogue. Purists, however, may take exception to Disney's meddling, as they added new sequences and special effects in order to make this venture a more blatantly commercial, conventional one.Not to say that the film is really bad. It's just not that satisfying in the end. It does have some delicious atmosphere, a superb autumn feel (it takes place in October), and Jonathan Pryce as Mr. Dark is a dapper, highly theatrical villain.The endearing Jason Robards stars as small town librarian Charles Halloway, whose small town is visited by Mr. Darks' traveling Pandemonium Carnival. What we learn is that citizens who visit the carnival can see their fondest wishes come true - but at a heavy price. With the lives of his young son Will (Vidal Peterson) and Wills' best friend Jim Nightshade (Shawn Carson of Tobe Hoopers' The Funhouse) on the line, Charles must do battle with the fiendish Mr. Dark.It's not exactly hard to guess what Mr. Darks' big secret is, but getting there is still a fair bit of fun. Some children may be put off or disturbed by some sequences (such as the bit with the onslaught of tarantulas), but it is nice to see a somewhat mature offering from Disney. James Horners' score is very spooky, and Jack Clayton (The Innocents) does a decent job with the direction. The very fine cast includes Diane Ladd as Jims' mom, Royal Dano as the prophetic lightning rod salesman Tom Fury, Ellen Geer as Wills' mother, a highly enticing Pam Grier as the beautiful but eerie Dust Witch, James Stacy as football player turned bartender Ed, and Angelo Rossitto as one of the little people. Peterson and Carson are appealing as the kids.Had this been done with a little more subtlety and less cheese, this could have been something pretty good and interesting. Still, it remains watchable.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Needful Things","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are always things we will need in life, whether it's obtaining a certain object, going someplace, or achieving something we haven't yet achieved yet. But it's always a matter of which price your willing to pay to get it.This is another forgotten gem that is personally I feel one of Disney's best live action film but also one of my favorite fantasy film's based on a book by an author I really like the late great Ray Bradbury. This was another movie that took place when Disney was still taking chances and this film was another big chance due to how dark it is. Personally I love it if Disney tries again in chance taking, because it's a prime example that shows they can appeal to a wider audience.I really like the story it's a suttle fantasy, almost the kind from The Brother's Grimm where most of the stories are about the extraordinary circumstances would happen to the ordinary. I also feel in a way it's almost kinda a Christian story, since Mr. Dark's scheme is similar to The Devil's. Let alone a theme on Redemption.The production value is good I really like the locale they shot it in, not just capturing a small town but of a time of innocence long gone. I really like Mr. Dark's carnival, it has a aura of mystery as if their could be anything in it or anything could happen. The effects are solid though there aren't that many. My favorite is in the mirror maze sequence, which is kinda similar to the one in Enter the Dragon but I like how made to be a maze of the psyche. Music is also very good a few music tracks are memorable. I even like the suspense in the film, you really do care for the protagonists lives and are in their shoes trying to figure out what's going on before it's too late.I really like the characters and the dynamics they have. The two kids that play Will Holloway and Jim Nightshade are solid and capable actors, it's a shame they didn't do more. But both had a good back and forth, both felt like real kids not some stereotypical annoying ones. Will is a little more wiser and reserved and Jim is little more aggressive but not all the smarter.Even like the villain Mr. Dark played well by Johanthan Pryce whom does well at playing villains, to me this is my favorite one. His roles in Tommarow Never Dies and G.I. Joe Retaliation were more fun villain but Mr. Dark is one that is downright serious. He's is menacing, he seems at times kinda friendly but he can easily turn that around which is part of what makes him a little scary; kinda like anyone that has a violent mood swing. But I like how he's a devil like figure, like the devil he preys on the weak and wounded, tempts them with treasures to entice them only to make them his own.As the narrator Will says, this story is really about his father Charles Holloway (played well by Jason Robards)and in some ways it is. The story on him sort of similar with the movie Bubba Ho Tep just like the character Elvis, Charlies is a man that is in the twilight of his existence. Both him and his son are aware they may not have much time together left and worst of all isn't sure if he's lived life the way he wanted. I really like one movement which was suspenseful but I always feel a spiritual test, when Mr. Dark constantly tempts Charles to give him youth again and rips away pages of a book (which I thought was a good visual effect) as Charles doesn't comply. It was kinda a sad moment as well because it was like Mr. Dark was ripping away pages of Charlies life.There are multiple themes, for the kids it's sort of a coming of age tale, it's not so much about the journey to being an adult but journeying at the right pace. In a way there is sort of contrast parallel between some of the adult characters and the kids. Jim and even Will have a desire for things in his future to happen right now while the adults desire things lost from their past. In a way those adults didn't really grow up, people that pine too much for the past aren't really living in the present or for the future. Both the kids in a way from what they say and how they behave seem more mature, it shows that both of them are the ones that are growing up because despite their desires their not ready for them yet; as an old saying goes all good things come to those who wait.For the adults it's issues on the problem with old age and our constant struggle and desire for more time despite time running out. But also a positive theme on redemption, sure everyone of us might have a regret or two but it's not permanent it's not something we have to live with forever, do whatever it takes for as much time as you have in your life to destroy it. By trying and succeeding at atonement is what makes us truly grow but most importantly live.There truly is a time and place for everything, good and even evil.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Their Trumpets Play Out a Funeral Dirge","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As long as I've read books, I've loved Ray Bradbury. No author has influenced me more. When news of his passing reached me two years ago, I was crestfallen. If anyone could have lived forever, it would have been him. Something Wicked This Way Comes is the first novel I ever read cover to cover. It's a rare book where you can put your thumb down on any sentence on any page and find something poetic and beautiful. Bradbury's preferred format was the short story and he never adapted as well to the novel or the screenplay. He happen to write both for the 1983 feature adaptation of Something Wicked This Way Comes. It's not a great film but is one that has moments of greatness inside of it.The film follows Bradbury's novel quite closely. During a bleak October, the ideal town of Green Town, Illinois is visited by a carnival. Led by the enigmatic Mr. Dark, the carnival seems to grants the most heart-felt wishes of the lonely, sad, scared towns people but at a terrible price. Two young boys, Will Halloway and Jim Nightshade, are swept up by the mystery of the carnival, at first intrigued and then frightened. Will's father becomes an unlikely hero to both, forced to overcome his own regrets and fears into order to protect the boys from the dark dreams of the carnival.The book, Something Wicked This Way Comes, is something of an allegory, a dark fantasy struggle of good and evil painted across an American small town. I love the book very much but found Bradbury's themes overly simplistic sometimes. Perhaps the only way the film is superior is that Mr. Halloway, frequently long-winded on the page, is a more flawed, more human character on-screen. James Robards is excellent in the part, every regret and bad memory on his face. He is a warm, loving father but one wrecked by guilt for the things he didn't and should have done. If Mr. Halloway is a more realized character in the film, then Mr. Dark is perfectly captured from the page. Bradbury wanted Christopher Lee to play the part, which probably would have been incredible. Yet Jonathan Pryce might be perfect in the role. There is such a real, deep sinister intent behind his every word and action. Mr. Dark isn't quite the Devil himself but something very close. Pryce gives a star-making performance.Both actors and characters are placed against each other in two scenes that stand out over the rest of the film. The first is when the carnival marches down the town's streets. Their trumpets play out a funeral dirge. Will and Jim hide under the sidewalk. Mr. Dark confronts Will's father, searching out the boy. The father tries to mislead the man, the boys' faces tattooed on his palms. In rage at being lied at, Mr. Dark digs his fingers into his own hands, drawling blood. Blood that drips down on Will's face under the street. That's an awfully good scene.However, the second confrontation between father and devil is incredible. The boys hide in the library. Mr. Halloway lifts his head up, taking his glasses off. Suddenly, as swift as a shadow moving into the room, Mr. Dark appears behind him. The two trade barbs, Bradbury's lyrical dialogue dripping off their lips. Mr. Dark snatches Halloway's book away from him. With every page torn away, another year lifts off of the man's life, a glowing page falling to the floor. The scene builds an incredible intensity. Pryce doesn't overdo it. Instead, he spits the words with vigor, rage quivering out of him. The book and film's themes are summed in this scene, undoubtedly one of the darkest ever in a Disney film. If the rest of Something Wicked This Way Comes had been as good as this one moment, it would have been a classic for all time.It's a shame the film around those two incredible performances and two fantastic moments is so frequently a drag. The opening and closing narrations, though expressed with Bradbury's lyrical verse, paint the film's themes out too neatly. The subplot concerning Mr. Cooger is unresolved. Royal Dano is delightful as Tom Fury, the lightening rod salesman. Fury's overall importance to the plot is somewhat murky. His sudden reappearance at the end reeks of sloppy writing. A long scene where Will and Jim are attacked by spiders and a hand made of mist in their bedroom is awkwardly executed and goes on much too long. The film's climax is muddled and lacks satisfaction. Charles Halloway escaping the Mirror Maze through the power of love comes off as helplessly hokey. Mr. Dark dragged to his doom by the carousel comes off as grim and mean-spirited. Considering the book ended with Will and Dad pushing Dark with laughter and happiness, the film's ending seems murky and inconclusive. Something Wicked This Way Comes is haphazardly paced. The film is only 97 minutes long but feels much longer.Changing the Dust Witch from an old crone to a siren-like embodiment of male desire was a smart decision. Pam Grier is sensual and enchanting in the part. Jack Clayton's direction is occasionally quite striking, such as a single shot of Will and Jim running down the darkened town street. Sometimes, Clayton's direction is a bit flat. The film had a troubled post-production, with rewrites, a completely new ending shot, and a new score recorded. Georges Delerue's original score is appropriately sinister at times but drones too much. James Horner's new score works for the film a little better but it's too light at times. Something Wicked This Way Comes is a troubled adaptation of a wonderful book. It's honorable in some ways and worth checking out for Bradbury fans, despite maudlin and uneven elements. "},{"Title":"On the edge of brilliance","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There was a time when studios made a lot of darker films for children. We call this period the 1980s, a time when creativity was really alive in film. Since not everything in real life is good and beautiful, not everything in film has to be either. Disney got on this bandwagon back in the day, with some good results. The fact they took on a novel such as 'Something Wicked This Way Comes' is pretty cool. Carnival freaks, a witch who can materialize as spiders, a villain who can make blood come from his hands when he clenches them? These are just some of the sights one can find in this solid adaptation of the Ray Bradbury's great work.Pros Well acted, especially by Pryce and Robards. Sweeping, at times eerie score. Gorgeous scenery. Suspenseful. Spooky atmosphere. Effects that have held up pretty well. A few good chills.Cons Some things feel rushed. Lacks much of the novel's punch.Final thoughts There were many issues during the filming of 'Something Wicked.' Unfortunately, this shows and keeps the film from being as good as it could have been. The good news however is that it's still a very good film. Like 'Return to Oz' and the 'Boogedy' films, it's the type Disney doesn't make anymore. This is too bad because they sure were good at making darker films in addition to their lighter fare. Do yourself a favor, read the book first if you haven't already, then check out the film.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Something Non-Stephen-Kingsian This Way Comes.","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The devil-comes-to-town premise is one that Stephen King has practically built half his smelly career on. He has used it &#x96; or shall we say ripped it off &#x96; from Bradbury (and others) and turned it into countless formulaic stories and novels. Satan comes to a small town to wreck havoc, and it's always the same shticks, over and over, at least when it comes to his drivel. There are, however, worlds between how an intelligent, skillful writer such as Bradbury treated this idea and how a commercial, fluff-for-the-masses mediocrity such as King does. SWTWC is a moody, subtle, enjoyable take on the subject. King treats this type of story (his favourite story) with much more pomp, clichs, and very exaggerated and annoying small-town stereotypes &#x96; most of which reveal this left-winger's barely hidden resentment towards small-town folk (and people in general; perhaps he's just frustrated that nearly all of us are much prettier than him). King wrote these kinds of stories with the primary intention of dragging small-town America through the mud, because - as every good Marxist - he detests the success of democracy and Capitalism, and nothing annoys him more than religious folk. (I am an atheist myself, and yet I do not hate believers the way King does.) No such pathetic, sociopathic, misanthropic tendencies are to be found in SWTWC.The movie has an excellent visual quality; the photography, the look of the movie is reason enough to watch it. Most of the special effects stand up very well to today's CGI; there is very little of that miserable cheesy quality or hoakeyness that some 80s fantasy movies have. It's a Disney flick, but it strikes a fairly decent balance between a kid's movie and adult horror, although obviously leaning more toward the former. Nowadays, the Disney conglomerate would be hard-pressed to squeeze anything of quality out of its ravaged/fruitless Mickey Mouse butt, let alone make a movie that either kids (with taste) or adults (with brains) can like. (I do not count Pixar's movies as Disney produce.)The only beef I have with SWTWC centers around Jason Robards. No, not the actor himself; he is excellent, as always (one of the very few top-notch nepotists in Hollywood). I am referring first-and-foremost to the age difference between him and his wife, played by a useless nepotist that goes by the name of Ellen Geer; she was 42 at the time of filming, he was 61, which is simply ludicrous. Far from make-up reducing the difference between them, they actually look as if there's 30 years between them - though this is by no means intended as a compliment to the homely Geer. Robards looks like the kid's grandpa, not his father. The other thing that I found silly was Mr. Halloway's unlikely/exaggerated obsession with his failure to save his son from drowning a few years earlier. It would make perfect sense had his son drowned - but he didn't. Halloway (Robards) even states that he harbors ill-feelings toward the man who saved his son &#x96; which I find highly far-fetched and a bit of a leap; it would imply that the life of his son takes a backseat to his own Ego, i.e. the issue of whether he is a real man and brave father. Still, I guess the story needed some kind of inner conflict in order to make the all pieces fall together in the movie's evil-snuffs-it finale.For other film versions of Bradbury's material, I highly recommend Fahrenheit 451, and especially the lesser-known, fairly ignored gem The Illustrated Man. "}{"Title":"Meeting Of The Minds","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" by 1983 a collaboration between Disney and author Ray Bradbury was long overdue. Bradbury had admired Disney for decades and even had a few personal meetings with Disney. since both were highly respected you would think they would have been paired earlier cinematically but it was probably felt that Bradbury wouldn't make for a family film or good Disney. Disney seldom did horror or sci fi, so exploring author Bradbury would make for a whole new venture.1983 was probably when the Disney studios was mature and ready but ironically they were cutting back on Disney live action releases and were in the process of shutting down the Disney back lot in Burbank. 'Something Wicked' was one of the last live action films to be filmed on the Burbank backlot and Disney ranch using the same techniques for production as the old school live action films produced by Walt himself. it was lucky that they got to film a Bradbury movie on the original lot and the way Walt did and under the Disney production banner.not only was it a good thing that the Bradbury film got to be conceived by the Disney old school but it also turned out wonderfully and was a excellent adaptation of the book, and yes, i have read the book.knowing the book i'm sure it wasn't a easy task to bring off. the book is not only too dark for a Disney film, but it is also very descriptive with over half of it being description and literary prose. what works well in descriptive form doesn't always easily translate to quick, precise visuals that move a film along as cinema. the finished result here is so good because it manages to convey the literary importance of the book without compromising itself as quick moving cinema. the literary aspect is well preserved but the film also moves fast enough as not to be too long for cinema audiences and not too long for children and the family viewers which should be Disney's target audience. the film is beautifully atmospheric which gives homage to the literary element as well as elegantly photographed and directed. it is a class act all the way.is it scary? well yes, i think so. it's not too scary for kids or Disney, but scary enough to justify itself as horror. things also move quicker and are less subtle than the book so the Dark circus itself comes off as more homicidal and aggressive in snatching away it's woeful victims than even the book described.excellent adaptation of a difficult source as well as classic Disney and very good cinema. a must for anyone interested in the final films from the original Burbank studio and the old school staff. "},{"Title":"Stephen King sure must have liked this book...","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For some reason I had an urge to rewatch this lately so I rented the old VHS yesterday. Anyway, I had not seen it since I was a kid in 1983 when I found it to just be okay. So imagine my surprise when I end up really liking it now as an adult (I think being a gore obsessed child had something to do with my original ambivalence). While the film may have some down points (a bit too nostalgic, bad plucky kid score), I think director Jack (THE INNOCENTS) Clayton delivers great atmosphere. The best thing about it is the acting. Jason Robards is great as the father and Jonathan Pryce is excellent as the sinister carnival lead Mr. Dark. The scene in the library where he is tearing away pages of Robard's life from a book is fantastic.Two other things struck me while re-watching this. One, Frank LaLoggia really mirrored the film's style for LADY IN WHITE. The opening narration from both films sound almost identical. Two, Stephen King (who apparently wrote a screenplay for this at one point) REALLLLLLLY borrowed the narrative for his book NEEDFUL THINGS. While the story of an evil force granting wishes is nothing new, this scenario of the carnival coming to town and fulfilling resident's deepest desires is way too close to King's antique store thingy.Finally, I must say this is probably the only Disney film to feature a child's severed head. "},{"Title":"dust witch?","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  a dark, strange movie that needs less introduction, more scenes of the carnival, more history behind the carnival, and lots less father/son issues, i know its a disney movie, but come on the audience wants to have fun, not be taught morals!anways, something wicked is a really great dark movie, perfect halloween party entertainment for the 10-14 year old horror fans to be out there.i remember watching this when i was in fifth grade at a halloween party and coming home too afraid to sleep.anyways, why was pam grier's character called the dust witch? "},{"Title":"Spooky flick with something to say to youngsters","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is based on Ray Bradburys novel Something Wicked This Way Comes. From what I hear the movie is very very different from the book, which by the way, I haven't read. So I want be comparing this movie to the book. The book is said to be more frightening then the film, but I guess thats understandable considering that this was a film produced by Walt Disney Pictures. Still, I found many good things in this movie.Its story is about two young boys who are the best of friends. Will and Jim. One day a strange Carnival roles into town. This carnival seems to grant peoples most ardent wishes, but at a price. When Will and Jim discover whats really going on with this carnival they decide to try and stop it.This movie was a bit uneven. There were some good things and there were some bad. First lets start with the good. The movie managed to evoke the feeling of a spooky, old town in the 1930s. Little shops all around, everyone knows each other, they are all friends. It kind of reminded me of that little town in that 80s TV show Little House on the Prairie. Remember that one? So anyways, the sets were very well achieved, so Kudos to the art department. There's also some very very good atmosphere on this film. I loved how the wind was constantly blowing and there were dried leaves all over the place. You get this kind of autumn feel, where winter is right around the corner, but not here yet. Anyhows, all the atmosphere adds to a very spooky town and that helps the film since this is after all horror/fantasy film.Yeah its horror, but its not too horrifying. Its a Disney movie after all so you will never see anything too horrifying. Though Ill admit some of the images towards the ending of the movie scratched on too scary for kids. So what we have here is a light horror movie thats perfect for kids on the 7 to 10 year old range. I loved what the movie has to say. There's many good themes that are touched upon in this film. So in essence, even though its a dark horror tale, its a good film that will teach kids important things about life .So I applaud it for that. I can see what Bradbury was trying to transmit with this movie. Unfortunately, I inferred most of these themes on my own. The movie doesn't exactly do a good job of explaining it all and here comes my first negative point about this film.The story can sometimes become a muddled mess. For example we know that the carnival is evil. And we know that people get in trouble whenever they give in to what Mr Dark is offering. But its never really clear what it is that the Carnival people want with the towns people. Is Mr. Dark the devil himself in search of human souls? I don't know because its never fully explained. Whos this Dust Witch and why does she help Mr. Dark? Why is it wrong for the towns people to wish for what they wish for? I mean I don't understand why the movie is trying to give this message like its wrong to desire these things when in fact, I see nothing wrong in the football player wanting his leg and arm back. Or the old teacher wanting to be young again and so forth. So, the true intentions of the Carnival and Mr. Dark are not clearly explained and we are left to come to our own conclusions as to who Mr. Dark is and what he wants. So I'm going to have to say that the script was a bit weak and could have done a better job at explaining things instead of generalizing so much.The special effects are as good as can be expected for 1983 and they sometimes amazed me. All in all the effects were pretty decent for those days. But I honestly think that this movie could benefit from a remake. In fact Id go as far as to say that this movie is screaming for a remake, with better effects and a more fleshed out script.Jonathan Pryce does a good job at portraying Mr. Dark. My only beef with him was that even though he spoke a sinister sounding dialog, he himself didn't come off as pure concentrated evil. I think they could have cast someone slightly more evil looking. Slightly more menacing. But I can chalk that up to Disney not wanting this movie to be too scary. Jason Robards does the best job as Wills father. A man tormented by a mistake from his past and a man fearing death and getting old. He is a tormented soul and it shows in Robards performance. Pamela Griers role as the Dust Witch was short and I think she was wasted in this role. Honestly anyone could have done it.All in all, this film had its faults like the ones I mentioned above, but still managed to be rather good. Yeah, it was uneven; yeah it wasn't to clear in explaining certain plot points. But it still managed to evoke that sense of wonderment you have when your at that young age as the kids in this movie. If only Disney hadn't held back in showing this stories full potential. Oh well, who knows, maybe someone out there in movie land will take this movie in and remake it following more closely Bradburys story. From what I hear, its a chilling read that I will no doubt be doing sometime soon.Rating 3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Uneven mix...","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the things that Ray Bradbury did better than most was to find that delicate balance between Light and Dark in his stories (and his characters). While SOMETHING WICKED THIS WAY COMES director Jack Clayton gives it the ol' college try, he as often as not misses the mark in that regard. The cinematography is gorgeous, and the scenes are staged and directed with great skill, but the movie more often than not fails to clearly delineate between the truly Light and the unfathomable Dark that is the great motif of this movie. The Dust Witch, for instance (Pam Grier), comes across as a sexy seductress, to be sure- but scary...? Not that I saw. Likewise, Dark himself (Jonathan Pryce), although he does deliver his lines with almost serpentine sliminess, is something less than scary. The fx don't help, nor does the happy ending it would've been preferable to see the town looking like a ghost town in the end, with empty shops and maybe even the ghosts of proprietors past (and passed) moving through the dark to disappear forever from the minds of those who once knew them. "},{"Title":"A memorable kids' horror movie","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Rich, creepy and thick with autumnal atmosphere, 'Something Wicked This Way Comes' terrified me as a kid and still has an effect now. Maybe it doesn't delve deeply enough into its themes of regret, vanity and lives unlived, but still - Ray Bradbury's poetic dialogue gives the movie a surreal, somewhat nightmarish edge, while the shadowy lighting and Jack Arnold's low angles mean the movie looms over you in an unsettling way. Jonathan Pryce is impressively menacing as the sinister Mr. Dark, and Vidal Peterson and Shawn Carson are decent but a bit too passive as the kids. The undoubted highlight is the unnerving, carousel-fuelled finale. "},{"Title":"Too ambitious","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a curiosity. It struggles to find a niche for itself, and although it has some interesting imagery and effects, the overall effect seems rushed and incomplete. In a nutshell, a town is menaced by a mysterious carnival that arrives suddenly and it's up to two young boys to uncover the truth. I found Something Wicked This Way Comes interesting, but I also found it quite unsatisfying. I came to the film with no knowledge of the plot and at the end of the film I wasn't much the wiser! As it stands, what we have is (slight spoilers just here) the arrival of the carnival, the two young friends generally exploring it and seeing too much, and the rest of the townsfolk somehow falling under some strange spell and/or disappearing.The two young leads are appealing but not capable of depicting enough emotion to carry the movie, as their acting range is limited to little more than blank staring and surprise. Little better is the Jason Robards as the blond moppet's father, and all scenes between these two are pretty wooden, even the crucial climactic rescue scene, which kind of dilutes any tension. The script doesn't help at all, in fact nobody ever seems to have anything important to say. Shame, because Jonathan Pryce is excellent as the carnival head honcho.The story would probably have benefited from being turned into a TV miniseries rather than this feature film. Something more along the lines of the original Salem's Lot series would have allowed the story and characters to develop better, and we could have gradually got involved in the little mini plots around each town-person who gets wrapped up in the carnival's power, as well as explaining all the bewildering elements like the fortune teller, the big ticket seller who gets younger, the spiders, etc, etc. What the carnival is actually doing and why (and how!) should have been the most intriguing part of the film but it's so vaguely depicted that it meant I hardly got involved in the mystery at all. I mean, I thought I got what was happening when they showed the frumpy teacher who gained her beauty but lost her sight, but what about the one armed football player who just got younger with no ill-effects? And why did some of the victims turn into exhibits? As I said, I thought there were some good ideas in here but they needed more room to grow so that we could have got the hang of it all properly. "},{"Title":"From the personal perspective of my own boyhood.","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Commenting on Robert Maxwell's review (above)When I was a small boy from eight to twelve years of age, I was just such a boy as you describe. There were several of my friends and peer associates when I was twelve and thirteen (toward whom I felt varying degrees of attraction or non-attraction) who gradually--as they entered puberty--began to express a decided interest in girls. I remember how, at the time, I felt a keen sense of puzzlement and disorientation as these erstwhile friends and playmates gradually began spending less and less time with me, and concurrently showing more and more interest in females (as reflected in their conversation and banter); how I slowly began to realise (to my growing discomfort and dismay) that--despite my wishes to the contrary--I simply could not fathom what it was in girls that they found so interesting and compelling. To put it bluntly, but accurately, I slowly began to feel almost non-human--as if I was slowly morphing into an alien from another planet--so strange and foreign did these pubertal boys' shared experiences seem to me, and so unlike the boyhood we had just left (and which to me still seemed so familiar and unchanged). It was as if suddenly they now belonged to a club (open to everyone in the entire world who wanted to join it), but a club to which I no longer belonged, or felt welcomed in.It was the portrayal of this phase of pre-adolescent boy-to-boy attraction and camaraderie in the film Something Wicked This Way Comes--so beautiful, so poetic, and so archetypal, which immediately drew me to the film, and has kept me a devoted fan ever since (the many other qualities of the film notwithstanding). This fictional portrayal in the film resonated deeply with my emotions and soul, seemed so true to my memories of that time in my own life, seemed to express so beautifully and poignantly that period in my life (or even identity, which is a vastly more profound term) which was taken away from me forever by puberty, and which I had longed (unsuccessfully) to regain ever since&#151;all my boyhood desires and hopes which were left (almost literally) hanging in the air, unfulfilled.This phase of boyhood I have been discussing was described perfectly (and poetically, of course) by Shakespeare, in the oft-quoted passage from The Winter's Tale, at Act I, Scene ii, lines 63-66 and 68-75We were, fair queen,/ Two lads that thought there was no more behind/ But such a day tomorrow as today/ And to be boy eternal. ...We were as twinn'd lambs that did frisk i' the sun/ And bleat the one at th' other. What we changed/ Was innocence for innocence; we knew not/ The doctrine of ill-doing, nor dream'd/ That any did. Had we pursued that life,/ And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd/ With stronger blood, we should have answer'd heaven/ Boldly 'Not guilty'...Of course, anyone with half an opinion of Shakespeare can endlessly debate his meanings in this or that passage (and his now-archaic language definitely lends itself to this); I realize, therefore, that others' opinions of the above-quoted passage may differ significantly from my own. My own take on this passage, then, is that Shakespeare was indeed referring to this very stage of boyhood in which same-sex attractions are not only possible, but even likely. And a careful reading of the above passage indicates (to me, at any rate) that Shakespeare himself was very much aware of this. Shakespeare even uses a phrase (boy eternal) which is a literal English translation of the Latin phrase&#151;puer aeternus&#151;which would later be used by Jung to describe the archetype of the eternal boy who (for one reason or another) either refuses to, or cannot, grow up and mature into a well-grounded adult. (Perhaps myself?)Shakespeare refers (in the above passage) to best-friend boys bleating at each other like lambs (paraphrased). This is highly suggestive language indeed. To what else could it possibly refer? Would someone say that Shakespeare really was so innocent and nave as not to realize how such words would be likely construed&#151;either then or in later ages? And would not such an assessment of Shakespeare really be demeaning of his intelligence as a human being and writer? After all, don't we have pretty near universal agreement that Shakespeare was, in fact, one of the most intellectually profound writers in all the history of the English language? Shakespeare then refers to their change (what we would now call exchange) of innocence for innocence&#151;that is, what each boy brought to the relationship, as regards his intentions, was entirely innocent of any knowledge of either guilt or sin (and he strengthens this idea immediately) we knew not the doctrine of ill-doing (that is, the Judeo-Christian teaching that such relationships were either wrong or sinful). And then the strongest of all possible disclaimers, to those who might have been inclined to 'question' such boyhood relationships Had we pursued that life (i.e, as boyhood best-friends) &#133; we should have answer'd heaven boldly, Not guilty. In other words, in the absence of any Church indoctrination or brainwashing to the contrary, these boys would have indeed felt innocent enough of wrong-doing to stand up to God Himself and all His Holy Angels and proclaim with boldness their innocence in the matter of the boyish friendship. "},{"Title":"Something Wicked That Way Went","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Imagine that in adapting a James Bond novel into a movie, the filmmakers eliminated all the action and suspense in order to make it kid-friendly. Or if a television producer told Chris Rock he couldn't cuss so that his specials could be rated PG. In the same way, the director of the movie Something Wicked This Way Comes took out the excitement and gore in favor of melodrama for younger audiences. This created a monotonous plot without the complications of the book. In trying to make the story of Something Wicked This Way Comes easier for children to follow, the filmmakers eliminated the theme of good and evil both existing in everyone, and good always prevailing over evil. This is apparent in Will's character transformation, Charles Halloway's rescue of Jim, and the carnival's defeat.Will's transformation into a more adventurous boy has been muted in the movie. The scene in which the Dust Witch visits Will's house in a balloon has been cut from the film. Instead, a green mist follows Jim and Will home and gives them the same bad dream about the Witch and her spiders. The balloon attack shows us that Will has begun to conquer his fear of doing things on his own. He gets on top of a neighbor's roof and tears the balloon with a bow, defeating the Witch. Sorry, Dad, he thought, and sat up, smiling. This time it's me out, alone, Will decides as he prepares to face her (147.) Removing this scene from the movie prevents us from understanding that Will is becoming more adventuresome. The film shows us many examples of Will being afraid to follow Jim, but never growing curious like his friend. In the book, Will has both a good, quiet side and an evil, daring side like his Jim. In the movie, each boy only has one mode of thought, which destroys Bradbury's theme of both good and evil being present in each person.In the book, Will saves Jim because of their friendship, but, in the movie, Charles Halloway saves Jim to repay Jim's father. Will pulls Jim off the carousel in Bradbury's novel because he doesn't want his best friend to grow up without him. It is the good in Will, the fact that he cares about his friend, that saves Jim from the evil curse of the carnival. On the carousel, Jim gestured his other hand free to trail on the wind, the one part of him, the small, white, separate part that still remembered their friendship (269.) This shows that there was good left inside of Jim, which has the potential to still defeat evil. But when Charles Halloway saves Jim in the movie, he does it to repay the debt he owes Jim's father, who saved Will when he was a little boy. By changing the motivation for saving Jim, the filmmakers have ruined Bradbury's original idea that it takes good to win against evil.In the end of the movie, the carnival is defeated by a tornado and lightning instead of smiles and laughter. When the book ends, Mr. Dark turns himself into a little boy and Charles Halloway smiles and laughs at him so much that he can't stand it and evaporates. In Bradbury's world, evil people feed off fear and can only be defeated by happiness and love. His message is that good will always prevail over evil, but only if that goodness is expressed outwardly. Good to evil seems evil, says Charles Halloway as he holds the dying Mr. Dark. So I will do only good to you, Jed. I'll simply hold you and watch you poison yourself (275.) In the movie, Mr. Dark is the only one left on the carousel when lightning hits it, and he dies. By eliminating the weapon of laughter and smiles, the filmmakers imply that bad weather is the most effective way to defeat evil, as if lightning only strikes those who are bad. This takes away the major theme of Bradbury's book, which is that doing good toward others wards off evil.Good may always triumph over evil, but trying to make movies more kid-friendly will always force filmmakers to leave out some of the themes from the books they are based on. In the movie, Something Wicked This Way Comes, Will does not transform, Will's friendship does not save Jim, and smiles and laughter do not defeat the carnival. As a result, the filmmakers have left out too many of Bradbury's main points. The process of adapting a book to a movie too often ruins the world the author has established. In the case of this story, Bradbury's frightening world of opposing forces of good and evil has been reduced to a tamer, simpler version of itself. "},{"Title":"So much potential it hurts...","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have never read the Bradbury novel that this movie is based on but from what I've gathered, it will be interesting (when I finally do read it and I will). My comments will be based purely on the film. As soon as I saw the trailer I knew I had to see it and was so excited but when I finally did, I was so disappointed it hurt. This is because the movie itself felt so amateurish. The actors were not well cast (though Robards and Pryce are both good actors - just not here). The kid actors, it seemed, were merely asked to show up, get in the characters' clothes, say the lines and make the faces. The set and props were cheap and unrealistic. The direction was surprisingly bad. I was so surprised at the awfulness of it that I had to go online and check who directed it, just to see the kind of work he had done. The editing was cut and paste and the plot (screenplay) was just that as well (even though the author had been involved himself, irony?). The building up of the tension, fear and suspense was so mild it was ineffective when the climax finally came.I've read some of the comments on this movie and find it hard to believe people actually like it. What hurts the most is that the content is interesting and fun and intriguing. It had so much potential. Unfortunately, the film was so technically bad it takes away from the brilliance of the story. "}{"Title":"fair adaptation of a great story","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Something Wicked This Way Comes' unfortunately proves again how difficult it is to translate some writers' works to the big screen, in this case Ray Bradbury's. It didn't help that there were differences behind the scenes between Bradbury and director Jack Clayton over how 'dark' the film should be. Clayton apparently wanted a more 'audience/kid friendly'-type movie and it appears his vision largely won out. What comes across to most people is a friendly little flick with some scares here and there; it's as though the movie WANTS to spook the hell out of you but just doesn't have it in it to do so. What is supposed to be frightening is more of the 'what will happen next?' variety, and essentially, nothing ever really does. This is in keeping with the nature of a lot of Bradbury's writing, only he is much more successful at presenting it on the written page. He is a master at making us wonder if what just happened really did happen, and what it portends for the characters involved. This is very hard to put across on the screen. In 'Something Wicked This Way Comes,' too often the extraordinary is portrayed in too literal a fashion and comes across as, well, ordinary. The film has gorgeous locations and is nicely produced with Jason Robards and Jonathan Pryce giving fine performances as Charles Holloway and Mr. Dark, respectively. Pryce in particular is a good choice to play the evil carnival keeper. Probably the best (and scariest) scene is the one in the library, where Mr. Dark torments Holloway by creating the illusion of a heart attack, while standing there ripping pages from a book to illustrate Holloway's advancing age. But there is miscasting in the role of Will Halloway, played by Vidal Peterson. It is a crucial part, as Will is really the story's main character, a tousle-haired boy who uncovers the secrets of the carnival with his friend Jim Nightshade. For whatever reasons, the character of Will is portrayed as a somewhat whiny, nerdish, spoiled youngster which is completely wrong for the story and the film. In the original story, there was an air of melancholy about Will because of his father's age but somehow that has been re-interpreted, to the movie's detriment. The final scenes at the carnival don't really work because most of the plot's secrets have already been given away by this point, and because Bradbury's dialogue is too obscure to indicate what, if anything, is really happening. One bit in particular, where Will goes from crying to laughing in the space of a few seconds while his father imitates a whooping crane, doesn't work at all. But the main problem again is the nagging question- did anything really happen to anybody, and if it didn't, why have we been sitting here the last hour and a half watching it? "},{"Title":"Typical Disney work.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Written by Ray Bradbury, Directed by Jack Clayton, Something Wicked This Way Comes was far friendlier to the literary world then to that of the film industry.Bradbury used a remarkable combination of metaphor and mystery that can, at first, be confusing even frustrating when attempting to interpret what in fact has just taken place. Confusing as it may be the reader quickly came to terms with Bradbury's unique style and the reading becomes easier as well as more intense.Regardless, however, of the shear intensity of the book the movie failed in almost every field. Casting was poorly thought out with a few distinct touches that could have been done without. For instance, Ed shows up nowhere in the novel but shows up in the movie playing a handicapped Bartender. Around halfway through the film Ed appears in the parade as a young child who merely throws a football to Mr. Halloway, I fail to see the significance behind adding in this seemingly pointless character, the money could have been better spent on special effects. Ed was not the only character poorly casted, the main characters Jim and Will were equally drab and amateurish in their acting. It seems as if the only characters one can even remotely refer to as professional are Mr. Dark and Mr. Halloway. Dark, played by Jonathan Pryce, played the demonic ring leader of the carnival almost exactly as the reader would have imagined. As mentioned above, if the CG had been ever so slightly better the tattoos that cover Mr. Dark could have been the highlight of the film. Mr. Halloway, Jason Robards, is one of the few cast members that has lead a successful acting career, and its obvious why. Jason played the part of a detached father less then perfect but better then many could have. The characters dialog however comes off cheesy and poorly timed, if more effort had been put in one may have been able to relate better and there for become more attached to his character.One other major flaw in the movie that I will mention is the fact that everything that made the story an excellent read was left out. Replaced by the more touchy feely Disney that we all know and most hate. Scenes that were included were rushed through and severely understated. Mr. Dark confronts Mr. Halloway in the library where a dramatic and interesting scene unfolds in the novel, however, while the movie does include this scene it is probably about 2 to 3 min.s long and not at all as interesting as one would expect. Another example might be the scene between the Dust Witch and Mr. Halloway in which the Witch is to catch a bullet with her teeth, she is instead shot and killed. This was nowhere to be found in the movie and this would have been one of the few scenes that one would expect to be there in the first place.All in all, the book will forever be known, in my book, as a literary masterpiece. Both interesting and well thought out the novel has few if any flaws to be seen. The movie is worm ridden with neglect and void of anything one would associate with a descent film. "},{"Title":"Ray Bradbury's genius defies Disney.","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are some stories that should remain in the realm of the imagination and,along with most of Ray Bradbury's work,Something wicked this way comes belongs in that category. It is first and foremost a novel where the reader is artfully drawn into Mr Bradbury's small town by dint of some beautifully evocative writing . Every reader will look at the same words but see a different picture. This is any writer's priceless gift to his audience.A film-maker has no such treasure to bestow. SWTWC has been compromised fatally by its translation from one form to another.People familiar with the book will inevitably find the screen adaptation at odds with their vision and filmgoers seeing it blind,as it were,will find it passes through several genres without stopping long enough to pick up passengers.Mr Bradbury's stories sometimes do,and it works on the page,but rarely in the cinema. I get the feeling that on the Do you want it good or do you want it Wednesday? scale SWTWC was scheduled to wrap Tuesday night. Mr Jonathan Pryce was as good as he could have been given what he had to work with.Just the sort of character to have terrified yet fascinated a small boy.Mr Jason Robards reflected the essential decency of 1920s rural America in its fight to remain itself in the face of city slicker or devil incarnate. Had Disney Studios chosen to invest more time and resources in this production they may have made a better fist of it.As it is the Grand Old Man of S.F. remains ill-used by Hollywood.Lesser talents write hommages to his works and sell millions.If it is any consolation to him SWTWC will be read along with The October Country and The Golden Apples of the Sun for as long as human beings have the wit to turn a page. "},{"Title":"Just Pass It By...Read the Book","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First and foremost, I loved the novel by Ray Bradbury. It's the kind of horror that gets under your skin and sticks with you later. It was one of his best books, with, you know, Fahrenheit 451 and Dandelion Wine. I as just hoping that this movie would be all right. It had lots of chances, with a great cast, like Jason Robards and Jonathn Pryce. And Bradbury even wrote the script himself. And on top of all that, it has PAM GRIER!How could it fail?There may be spoilers within.First of all, it was dumbed down. Much of the horror from the book was lost as Bradbury must have been forced to keep the violence to a minimum. All the visuals from the book...gone. Everything that made you squirm...gone.And then there's the acting. Like a lot of movies that Disney threw out in the 80s, the kids in this movie cannot act. And, this bugged me a lot, neither of them looked 13 but 9 or 10. Their strong friendship wasn't addressed. It was more like they were acquaintaces. You'd think Jason Robards and Jonathan Pryce could pull this off in their roles of Mr. Halloway and Mr. Dark. But here it's like they just don't care. All they want to do is somehow pay off some mortgage or something. This is far from being some of their best performances. Pam Grier was fine as the witch, but the charecter of the Dust Witch herself wasn't well pulled off. She's a lot less evil and doesn't have the presence as she did in the book. And everything that was left out of the book. The ballon night chase, the marking of Jim's house, the real death of Mr. Dark, what happened to Mr. Coogan on the merry-go-round, the fate of the lightening rod salesman, the real death of the witch, and oh so much more. And the special effects were bad, even for the 80s. The merry-go-round of doom for one thing with the superimposed horses going around wasn't really creepy, and that weird green mist that really had nothing to do with anything. I could keep going about how this movie ripped apart the original novel, but it makes blood boil. Don't see this movie but read the book. It's a classic of Bradbury. "},{"Title":"So Many Roads","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The comment above is slightly misleading; the spider tattoo is the first time we see Dark's ink. The second occurs when, after the boys are on the run, Dark marches through the city with a parade. He engages Will's father and inquires as to the boys' whereabouts. During Dark and Mr. Halloway's conversation, Dark reveals ink of the boys' faces on the palms of his hand. After Mr. Halloway lies to him about the boys' identity, Dark makes a fist and blood begins to drip between his fingers. One of the drops streaks Will's face, as they are concealed in the storm drain just below Dark and Mr. Halloway.That scene has stuck inside my head for years, along with the school-marm who looses her sight. Yes, this is an incredibly uneven movie and a poor reflection of Bradbury's wonderful novel, but it has a few moments that work. "},{"Title":"OK, but could have been better","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't know. I think this movie has some good tension and special effects. The acting is good/descent, they do what they can towards the story. But there is something partly quite dull and muddled over the movie/story. I just don't get some things. For example I don't understand the whole purpose of this demonic carnival and what they are really after or want? Furthermore, the arrivals searched for people, sometimes knowing exactly where they were, sometimes not (?) It seems like they sometimes telepathicly can reveal peoples location.. or i don't know *haha*... They also seem to know everything about their targets... and sometimes not. This is for example illustrated by the two kids in the movie that they are after, because they have seen to much. How could Mr Dark know that they were at the library? But when he got there he seemed to not know where they were hiding anyway? Then, he seemed to know again. And if he knew why did he blackmail the father of one of the kids to get their location? One thing more, the end was a bit muddled and mossy, typical for some 80's movies. I don't understand the thing in the mirrorhouse completely. To much strange things occurred there. I don't understand why Charles did yell at his son Will when Will needed to cry when his friend laid knocked out on ground? Did he mean that boys should not cry! or what? At least for me when you're sad or horrified crying is perfectly natural... even if you don't always show it. I might sound too critic about this movie in a negative way. Over all it is an OK movie to watch. I give it 5/10, but i was close to give it just 4/10. "},{"Title":"A Few Stellar Moments But Ultimately Flawed","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It took me over 20 years (!) to finally watch this even tho it's my favorite Bradbury novel. The uber-researched cover story in Cinefantastique from 1983 told me too much about why the film would not work -- an amazing piece of movie journalism by the way, including shots of many discarded scenes, notably the computer animation segment with Dark's carnival arriving that was cut weeks before opening.So I approached the DVD with head and heart open, hoping I would find a gem of 80's sinister cinema. There are some jewels here but far too much coal. Ultimately, the film never flows or hooks you into its narrative. While Jack Clayton is a fine director he was truly the wrong person for this film. His anti-literal horror sensibility does not mesh with a period piece of Halloween Americana that begs for visceral scares, just like in the novel.However, Clayton excels in a few quiet scenes such as the sad distant attempt by Jason Robards to connect with his son on the steps. Filmed in a long master take, it's an almost Antonioni moment of filial separation. Shawn Carson is quite good here too, his cherubic face perfectly expressing his disinterest in his father's attempt at communication. Altho some here say Robards is only adequate, he's much more, filling his character with the longing of youth and regret.Jonathan Pryce as Mr. Dark is the film's highlight, altho he should have been even more malevolent. Him and Robards both shine together in their only two scenes and when Robards stands up to Dark while his son hides beneath the sewer below, Clayton's direction is truly fine and harrowing.As others have noted, the library confrontation is the film's dramatic high point as Dark tears away the pages of time, mocking Robards with angry flare. Had the narrative matched this moment, the film would have been all the better.The side characters of the townspeople doesn't really work as they'r just sketched in. Compare them to the town folk in George Pal's wonderful Seven Faces of Dr. Lao to see how much better integrated they are. As for the circus folk, Pam Grier is a beautiful and effective Dust Witch, albeit underused.It would be great if we could see Clayton's original cut, which was apparently too soft for the preview audience and Disney. This led to a 7 million dollar spfx make-over, which remains the worst element of the film. In place of a giant hand attacking the boys, we get spiders. Far too many shots are drowned in unconvincing optical effects. The computer train arrival was a brilliant conceit and tho it clearly would not have matched the live action, it could have been used as a shared nightmare of the boys. The green ectoplasm that follows them later is too cartoonish as is.James Horner's music is not effective at all, not ominous enough and too bombastic. I would love to hear the discarded Deluere score.Overall, a film worth watching but not remembering. Except for what might have been... "},{"Title":"Another Disney mis-fire from the 1980s","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Film focuses on a picture perfect American town in the 1920s and the friendship between two young boys--Will Halloway (Vidal Petersen) and Jim Nightshade (Shawn Carson).  The town is visited by Mr. Dark (Jonathan Pryce) and his carnival.  The carnival brings darkness and evil to the little town.  Will and Jim find out the secret to the carnival (which I won't give away) and Mr. Dark sets out to kill them along with his carnival...Another bad attempt by Disney to break into PG movies in the early 80s.  This was doomed from the very start--the book by Ray Bradbury has some very strong cinematic images but it's also VERY dark and extreme.  Bradbury wrote the screenplay and was forced to cut down on the darkness and violence.  For instance, the Dust Witch marking Will and Jim's house is a horrific highlight in the book--in the movie it becomes an excuse to use lame special effects.  Also Will and Jim are just about tortured in the book--here they're merely scared a few times.  Disney was NOT the studio to do this.  There was also a lot of arguments among the director, writer and studio heads.  A big special effects sequence involving Dark's carnival was totally cut out (because a preview audience didn't like it) and other pre-release cuts muddled the story completely (the fate of at least 5 characters is left hanging).   Petersen and Carson are just lousy in their roles but everybody else is pretty good.  Jason Robards is pretty good as Will's father; Pryce is just excellent (and very scary) as Mr. Dark and Pam Grier throws in some very effective moments as the Dust Witch.  The film LOOKS good too.  But all the back stage arguing shows, the special effects are lame (but were state of the art in 1983) and what was left was a very muddled, boring story with none of the power that the book had.  Read the book--you'd be much better off.A big budget bomb in 1983--it's easy to see why!  I'm giving it a 5. "},{"Title":"If It Comes Your Way Just Turn Your Back.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fair film based on one of Ray Bradbury's best novels. Two young boys (Vidal Peterson and Shawn Carson) end up making deals to have their wishes come true when a small circus comes to town during the turn-of-the-century in England. The man who runs the circus (Jonathan Pryce) is really a demonic character who will grant wishes in the hopes of getting souls. Jason Robards is adequate as Peterson's father. A film that is a little too dark for children and a little too silly for adults. No true audience and a lack of focus sinks Something Wicked This Way Comes more than anything else. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Not my kind of film","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers, maybe.I viewed this movie with my advanced creative writing class, and maybe it was the fact that it was the end of the day and I was getting restless, or maybe that people were talking throughout the entire showing and a girl with very frizzly hair was partially blocking my line of vision, or maybe that I never read Bradbury's novella and hence did not appreciate the Disney adaptation as much as someone who has (my teacher), but I did not enjoy the film.I'm still not quite sure I know what went on at certain points in the movie, but I do know the basic plotline of the story. Two young boys, Will Halloway (Vidal Peterson) and Jim Nightshade (Shawn Carson), in the 1930s, discover that the carnival that has come to town in the middle of the night is actually an evil carnival, and the owner, Mr. Dark (Jonathan Pryce) can give people what they have always desired but he adds his own sickly twist to their wishes. For example, an old woman becomes youthful again, but she goes blind and she can't see how beautiful she is; a man with one arm and one leg regains his limbs but is transformed into a little boy. The way that these things happen to the people are by them riding Mr. Dark's evil rides a carousel, a hall of mirrors, a Ferris wheel. The boys have discovered Mr. Dark's evil scheme that everyone else is oblivious to, and because of this Mr. Dark wants them dead. And so a supposed thriller ensues, complete with thunder and lightning, hoards of tarantulas, and a strange devil woman.The secondary plot is Will's struggle to get along with his father (Jason Robards), who is very old and will probably die not too far into the future. Will never really liked his father too much, partially because he is ashamed of his old age. But when Mr. Dark offers Will's father the ultimate dream, his youth again, at the cost of his son's and Jim Nightshade's lives, and the offer is rejected, Will realizes the strong bond he has between his father. The love of the father-and-son pair must join forces to battle the evil that is Mr. Dark.The special effects were horrific, but what can you expect from 1983? They were probably good for the time. The acting of the boys were awful and Pryce seemed like an unusual villain, looking quite goofy and un-evil. Robards performed well and was admirable as the boy's father.This is supposed to be a family movie, but if I watched it with my family, they'd all be asleep twenty minutes into it. It's not something I would ever watch again, due to the lack of what I consider to be suspense and excitement. It certainly does not lack what all movies should lack, however boredom. "}{"Title":"Something mediocre this way comes","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After Walt Disney died in the late '60s, the Disney company then proceeded for the next ten years or so diminishing the audience for its movies by making (mostly) mediocre and formula movies, and refusing to accept that tastes had changed. Finally realizing they had to shake things up, they spent the next few years making un-Disney-like movies to attract a wider audience. Something Wicked... is one of those movies, and it was rejected by audiences at the box office. Seeing it, it's pretty easy to see why. The Ray Bradbury story was no longer fresh, and probably seemed very familiar to audiences. Also, at least the way it's presented here, it comes more like a short story that has been incredibly padded (with stuff like dream sequences and a good amount of talk) to run an hour and a half. The characters don't come alive, even the Pryce villain character. Substandard photography and special effects not only add to the feeling of half-hearted effort by the filmmakers, but make the movie look tacky. Though I have not read the original story, I'm pretty confident that this is one time you should stick to the book. "},{"Title":"Yawn Time","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The best part(s) of this movie involve Jonathan Pryce as thedeliciously evil Mr. Dark; looking ominous and delivering ripe andcreepy lines about his mysterious Pandemonium Carnival and thenature of his macabre being.  His performance alone isexceptional.  Unfortunately, he's almost the only reason to watchthe film at all...Poor acting and a ramshackle script, some okay effects, and thefeeling that you are watching an extended episode of NightGallery made the film feel somewhat forced and altogether non- engaging.  Jason Robards is fine as the aging father CharlesHolloway, yet seems too good to be paired up with the incrediblyinsipid child-actor Vidal Peterson as his whiny young son, Will. Shawn Carson, as Jim Nightshade is equally annoying as hisbest friend.  Diane Ladd is utterly wasted as Jim's mother.  No oneelse is worth mentioning with the exception of Pam Grier, whodoes remarkably well as the Dust Witch, most noticeably becauseshe has almost NO lines (Grier is best when she isn't attemptingdialogue in any form)!  There are some lame attempts at thriller fare here and there (thetarantula scene becomes just unintentionally comical) but only theend really provides anything near horror ------------ at least forchildren.  There is also a very remarkable tornado sequence thatseemed out of place in its stunning realism within this film.I wasn't expecting sheer horror from a Disney film, but I wasdisappointed in that the picture provided little in the way of buildinga good and creepy suspense yarn as it plodded along.  Maybe ayoung child could be frightened to see this film, which is great, butit held little for anyone over the age of ten (not that it didn't try, it just  wasn't very successful in my opinion).5/10  Might be prime material for a remake; the original is a staleoffering. "},{"Title":"Something Icky Thataway Went","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Director Jack Clayton made stabs at two favorite novels (considering his present state, he's not likely to attempt a third). His first, The Great Gatsby, was probably the best anyone could make of that Great American Novel, thanks to expert casting, period-perfect production values, and a script by a truly great scenarist, Francis Ford Coppola. His second attempt, Something Wicked This Way Comes, was in trouble before he even called action! Ray Bradbury, adopting his own novel, should have backed out of the project and bought back the rights as soon as Clayton said SWTWC wasn't cinematic enough and that the screen play would have to differ from the book. Clayton must have been looking at Cliff Notes or the inside of a bottle (or both) because few books are as visually stimulating from scene to scene (no, from word to word) as is Bradbury's. The witch in the balloon is just one vivid memory which would have been visually stunning. But Bradbury succumbed and while the movie is mildly interesting, it's so far afield of what it could have been that this bafflement is grave indeed. Mr. Dark (Pryce does his best) doesn't have the necessary fear of good as he does in the novel (note the Bible tearing scene), which gives his evil an omnipotence that lacks for drama when it needs it most. The second major fault of the film is the tossing of Georges Delerue's music. This is usually a bad sign that the film makers, upon glaring at the mess of a rough cut, lack faith in their own product and hope music will save their film (in this case, NEW MUSIC!).  SWTWC is no exception and if they'd only hired someone of Delerue's talent (or realized that music wasn't the problem and kept his), they would have at least had a good score. Sadly, they chose burglarious James Horner. Horner's SWTWC has all the subtlety of a trowel knife and the appropriateness of white socks in winter. And this was in his best years.Enough time has passed that perhaps a new team can bring Bradbury's poetry prose to film life. A Burton/Elfman collaboration might just do the trick (and heck, bring back Pryce!). "}]