[{"Title":"Brain-free fun","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"43 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh boy do I ever enjoy this movie. For some reason I've managed to see it at least once a year since it was released and I never get sick of it and I really have no idea why. Mental disorder, perhaps. This movie redefines camp for post-apocalyptic scifi quest adventure 3-D crap. Peter Strauss and Molly Ringwald are both great in their stock roles--Strauss is refreshingly down-to-earth, so unlike the usual all-knowing megalomaniac space ranger with a girl in every port (his girl is a purchased robot companion, which says things about a guy); Ringwald's whine would give God aheadache, but she's got the right proportion of bravado and vulnerability to create a believable, occasionally endearing space orphan. I like the random nature of their search, designed to place them in situations where the production can use up a set or two that might have been intended for some other movie. Plenty of rubbery creatures abound. And the Thunderdome-esque stuff is actually pretty cool--I'm reminded of Leela's test in that Doctor Who episode (something people who like Spacehunter are a plausible demographic to remember). All in all this is a happily-brainless-yet-somehow-lovable piece of space junk and I'm crazy about it. Or just crazy. "},{"Title":"Like Gold To A 12-Year-Old","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Back when I was 12, renting this movie was like popping in the end-all be-all of science fiction, especially since I didn't get to see it at the theater!  The credits were funky, the heroic Elmer Bernstein score was sweeping, the dialogue was amusing and the plot was something every 12-year-old boy only wishes he could take part in.  After all, what could be more fun than taking your android companion on a simple mission to retrieve 3 female survivors from a destroyed outer space pleasure cruise ship who land on a planet nobody is supposed to go anywhere near?  I was game!As Wolfe, the man motivated to rescue the three maidens for some big time megacredits, Peter Strauss is fantastically watchable.  I don't know what it is about him as an actor, but he does try to bring some sense and sensibility to a pretty generic role.  Joining this little adventure is Niki, played by a very young Molly Ringwald.  Sure, she's annoying and a pain-in-Wolfe's rear end, but who else could you see playing her from that time period?  One of the cast members of The Facts Of Life?  Also included in the cast is Andrea Marcovicci (too bad her part wasn't a bit longer), Ernie Hudson (who always manages to bring some intensity to his roles whether in a good or not so good film) and Michael Ironside as Overdog (the opposite of Underdog?), the baddie.Yes, the film consists of a whole lotta cheese; the dialogue borders on laughable (especially by the dwellers on the planet), the special effects don't quite live up to expectations and the plot revolves around a bunch of set pieces that don't seem to make for a consistent story.Still, you know what?  This movie holds a very special place in my heart. Let's face it, folks, they don't make them like this anymore.  There's no fart jokes, no nudity, no sex and very little language.  What's more, Peter Strauss gets some very funny moments!  Upon finally rescuing the three screaming women from Overdog, a frustrated Wolfe shouts at them Will you PLEASE shut up?  I'm trying to rescue you!Haven't we all had a moment when we've wanted to say this very same thing?8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Forgotten Gem","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spacehunter is a film I saw as a child, which has remained at the back of my mind for years. Around the same time, I was watching things like Ghostbusters and Star Trek (The Wrath of Khan), and knew nothing about special effects, budgets or story lines. All I knew was that I liked these films. Having recently obtained a copy of Spacehunter, I was pleasantly surprised at how well it holds up, compared to other classics. Yes, a lot of it is hokey nonsense, but in a GOOD way. Strauss makes a likable rogue, obviously straight from the Han Solo mold, and Molly Ringwald is her usual early eighties cutie. The special effects are fair for the time (though the title sequence leaves something to be desired), and the futuristic 'Mad Max' style vehicles could easily be from a more recent movie.Michael Ironside is almost unrecogniseable underneath prosthetics, but offers a great performance, hampered only by his lack of mobility in costume. I was especially surprised to recognise Ernie Hudson as a supporting character, playing Strauss' ex-buddy.In all, a great film with a few minor flaws. I'm amazed this got no further than it did at the time. One of the few post-Star Wars movies that deserves a sequel (which i'm tempted to have a bash at myself). "},{"Title":"Might be dated, but should be celebrated!","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Been waiting for this for a long time - as cult classics go it's one of my more memorable adolescent reminiscences.I remember seeing this on the big screen when it was first released. Loved it then, for several reasons Strauss was capable but cool as the hero Wolf, Molly Ringwald was feisty, mouthy and cheeky as the elfin Nikki, and Michael Ironsides was virtually unrecognisable under his make-up, but still gave Overdog a sinister air of menace and cruelty.Now, 20 years later, I get to see it again, and there are flaws that time has exposed. The effects and the music are very dated. The dialogue is weak in places, and the acting from the minor characters leaves something to be desired. However, it still has a sense of excitement and adventure that many other sci-fi flicks of the 80s now lack. The action is fast-paced, the interaction between the leads is good, and the scenery is suitably dark and barren.7/10 - it's well worth overlooking the more dated elements in order to uncover the gem underneath. "},{"Title":"good Sci-Fi film that got overlooked","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Take star wars, mad max 1, 2, 3, running man, barbarella, and some terry gilliam films, mix them together and you have spacehunter. some of these films were made after this one so it shows some originality. I never get tired of watching this film, i think is because there are no dull moments, its just one great scene after another. Its obviously a light hearted sci-fi and the story isn't exactly complicated but it has lots of good points. there are quite a lot of chuckle moments with the strange speak from Niki and the one liners from the reluctant baby sitter Wolf.The effects are very good and still hold up especially the vehicles, no CGI here! I just like the look of it too the colour filters and locations are great to see. well worth a watch if you like any of the above films. "},{"Title":"Better than a lot of movies currently churned out by Hollywood...","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this in July, 2008 for the first time and was surprised by the amount of mechanical devices and vehicles built for this one. And the attention to detail is higher than many modern productions.A funny thing about making movies in 1983 is your choice of either using miniature models or constructing full scale behemoths. This movie goes for the latter option, which is one of its strengths, almost everything you see is right there and not some blue screened effect or shoddy computer graphics. This investment carries very well still today some 25 years later. It is like watching Road Warrior with all of the bikes, cars and trains and it all looks authentic because its actually there. Speaking of Road Warrior, it must be said that Spacehunter has an apparent look and feel of a post-apocalyptic desert world similar to that of the Mad Max films.Striking are the interesting locations which are thrown at the viewer at a fast pace where new environments show up around every corner during their hunt in the forbidden zone. While short scenes in themselves, they come together nicely in creating the feel of a good adventure movie reminiscent of the Indiana Jones movies.Not sure of the budget here, many things look really nice, some space scenes are awful but very, very short. I've mentioned two series of other films in this review, don't expect to find either one of them in Spacehunter, rather expect to find elements of all of them combined. "},{"Title":"Classic Cheese","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I make a point to catch Spacehunter every time it airs (usually after 1 a.m.).  It's classic cheese, and I submit there's a place in our moral-cinematic universe for such films.What films?  Oh, having Michael Ironside as the villain is a good clue.  If I had to define them...films so goofy (yet riddled with neat ideas that only the low-budget creative intellect can conjure) that we harken back to adolescence and think how cool these films would have been/were when we saw them with our junior high pals.Yes, this is MST3K material, but lovingly so, nostalgically so.  An ugly duckling that never becomes a swan--never even really gives such a transformation a shot--but one we can groove on precisely because it's so dorky. "},{"Title":"Good humoured space romp, slightly similar to Mad Max Thunderdome","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Humorous enough, and not as bleak as Mad Max series. Good sets, and quirky machines (like Mad Max). Very enjoyable, my pals and I would often go for a few beers, shoot some pool, and then sit back and watch this movie, almost every Friday night. So, OK, it is not particularly cerebral, but good entertainment. This is an all-time great. Dunno why everyone else rates it so low, but there you go. "},{"Title":"I really like it","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why the other commenters seem to not like it much. This is one of my favorite movies. I saw it in the theatres when it came out and several times on video since then, and the reason I came here was that I was looking around for a DVD with it. The campiness works perfectly fine for me. I very much enjoyed Molly Ringwald and Michael Ironside, and most of the other characters. Overall I can't think of anything I didn't think worked about it. Its very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Design","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I am often hard on films that do a poor job of creating a world. That's an especially  obvious flaw in science fiction movies, especially the space travel variant. So I need to  celebrate when one comes along that does do well, even if it is a cheesy project.And this is cheesy. But nearly all of this ilk is, from Star Wars on down, with the only  question being a matter of what bothers you and whether there is enough to distract you  from the annoyances. This one has four features that allow me to recommend it to you-- The first and most obvious is the squawking Molly. I have a special fondness for her.  She had just done her first film, in which she carried a key role as the Miranda in a  humanized Tempest. I distrust the values of Mazursky, so reject that project -- but its  very being involved some considerations of what film is. Molly carried her weight with  some pretty intense players.Then she did this, then some well done exploitative kiddiefare. Then, my friends, she  turned her back on the trite world of John Hughes -- though it made her a celebrity --  and joined Goddard in a version of King Lear that has to be one of the most interesting  film experiments ever. I am currently waiting to see here in Tulse Luper, by our greatest  living filmmaker.She is not a great craftswoman, but intelligent actresses are so rare you have to note  when they come around, even if as a bratty 'Liza Doolittle.-- The original release of this was in 3-D, and really was worth experiencing. The  technology is unsatisfying, even in the hands of Hitchcock, but was great fun.-- And it was fun, especially given the extraordinary design of this film. Yes, it all looks  hokey, but this is pretty wonderful art nouveau inspired hokum. Its pretty atypical for  space designs which tend to be techno. And it is different than the Mad Max ethic  which is punk, boring. This is swoopy, organic and appealing as all getout. Just like  Molly, now that you mention it.-- Finally, there is a piece of film iconography in its embryonic stage here. Film is largely  a matter of successful images that enter the world and stay forever. One of those images  is Robert Redford washing Meryl Streep's hair by a pond. That sensual image has since  taken on a life as its own meme. You can see here -- so the legend goes -- where  Pollack got the idea. A sweet bit of unlikely film ecology.Those are enough to allow me to pass over all the inadequacies in this. Except one.  Science fiction writers have the burden of making things different but similar enough for  us to grasp. Here, Niki uses the term Brainworked. We are supposed to understand it as  a notch down toward the primitive in understanding.But think about this. Primitives can talk about why something is, or why you believe what  you do. But it is a very specific sophisticated notion to impute a brain that reasons so.  That's a notch beyond where we are in everyday life folks, not below.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth w "}{"Title":"meant to be together forever","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" i'm a big fan of portions of this film - primarily the Peter Strauss/Molly Ringwald portions - despite their 21 year age difference - their incessant battling brought out the duo's chemistry just as if this were a romantic comedy - and Molly's valley-girl-in-space remains one of my favorite scifi characters ever.with their charisma - and a talented supporting cast including Ernie Hudson, Andrea Marcovicci, and Michael Ironside - along with some imaginative set design - and great dialog for Molly - this is more than a gimmicky scifi yarn - too bad the rest of the movie isn't up to that standard. "},{"Title":"Strange film yet easy to watch","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spacehunter is a strange science fiction adventure film. Wolfe, the lead character is played by Peter Strauss in a role similar to Han Solo and at times he even sounds like Han Solo. He's got to be at least 40 here and he's very handsome. The problem though is that Nikki who is played by Molly Ringwald is probably 16. Their relationship is tough to decipher. At moments it seems as if she might be trying to court him in her own strange way. She manages to snuggle up close to him while he is sleeping-twice! Her desire to be with him is never really made clear-she says she's his partner but he tries to save her from the Overlord and later hugs her as he prepares to leave the planet they are on. I'm not insinuating anything here but sometimes it is unclear what her feelings are-or his too for that matter.The special effects are splashy and slightly amateurish although the sets and lighting are actually very good. Obviously there was money available in the budget for this film-they didn't scrimp on production.I do enjoy this film and am always surprised how great it looks on film and how good the vehicles and sets are. I just think that the team who made this deliberately left the relationship between the two a bit blurry and that in itself is rather interesting to try to figure out. "},{"Title":"Cult SF flicks don't get any better","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Classic cult SF.  Mad Max in space.  Acting doesn't stink, special effects aren't absolutely awful, and the plot ...well, it's not hard to follow. Too bad Mystery Science Theater 3000 isn't around to hack this film! Spacehunter is a fun and hilarious low-budget SF film for the whole family, or a large group of drunks. "},{"Title":"Worth my time","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not one to watch a movie, read a book, or for that matter, order the same food at a restaurant more than once. There is so much more out there to be experienced; why repeat anything? But Spacehunter is an exception to my rule. I only own 5 movies and Spacehunter is one of them. Campy, silly one-liners (Us loners got to stick together --- I'll take that bet) and lots of explosions make it a fun trip worth the time to watch over and over again.To meet the 10 line rule --- In the 20 years I have owned it; I have watched it maybe 5 times and have enjoyed it just as much as the first time. My tape player is dead and I will need to find it on DVD. "},{"Title":"Fun 80's B-movie","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those movies I caught on cable TV quite a few years ago. It's not too big on brainpower but it's fun to watch. Here's the story A space liner cruises too close to a nebula and is destroyed. Three very beautiful (but not very smart)women escape and crash land on a barren planet and are captured by a group of nomads. Meanwhile a bounty hunter named Wolff intercepts a message and sets out to rescue the women,who've been taken to OverDog, the tyrant who rules the wastelands of the planet. Along the way Wolff meets up with a young girl named Nikki and his ex-partner who happens to be on the same mission.This movie has some well known character actors, Peter Strauss as Wolff, Molly Ringwald as Nicky, Ernie Hudson as Wolff's ex-partner,and Michael Ironside as OverDog. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly fun space adventure gem","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a movie I never heard of before, I was shocked to discover how much fun I had watching it. I have seen a lot of forgotten and B rated movies, but I never saw one I enjoyed so much.The cast, I believe, is fantastic. Seeing an 80s movie star like Molly Ringwald in a pretty cool and imaginative movie like this was very refreshing. Peter Strauss plays the typical space dog, aloof in what many of us would think is a cool day job, kicks-ass and looks cool doing it as he rescues three beauties from an evil tyrant after they crash land on a very cool, Mad Max themed planet.Michael Ironside plays the villain, with his usual flair for the dramatic and adds to the all-round coolness of the film. One of the best scenes, that isn't one of the great action scenes, is Strauss's character Wolff, forcing Molly Ringwald to take a bath. Truly pleasant to see Ernie Hudson in anything, and it was great to see him in this.I recommend this movie to anyone who is still young at heart and needs to see a fun sci fi adventure. "},{"Title":"very fun! it should have succeeded","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One thing most of the commentators do not point out is that this film was released, not just the same year as Return of the Jedi but the very same month! So. Of course the film was destined to tank! I don't know what the producers were thinking but they should have waited til Jedi had run it's course and then released it! Sci-fi fans wanting more might have made this a successful film! Peter Straus is not just a poor man's Harrison Ford he does a real good job in the title role of wolff, Molly Ringwald is sometimes irritating but still endearing in one of her first film roles and the android Chalmers should definitely have had a bigger role all in all, the action is well handled and the pace is smooth, see this if your in the mood for some escapest fun! "},{"Title":"Fascinating exteriors shot in desert landscapes near Moab, Utah","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have you ever wondered what it would be like to stand in the spot where a movie crew had once worked, making a film? My watching Spacehunter led, over a period of about 15 years, to that sense of wonder. Here's the story...Around 1990, I stumbled upon Spacehunter, possibly while watching TV to kill time. The acting was not especially good and plot elements were goofy. To be diplomatic, I would classify it as light entertainment. Its only redeeming social value was the presence of actress Andrea Marcovicci, who played Chalmers, the protagonist's android assistant she was a vision of beauty. Sadly, her part was brief, as she was killed off during a battle near the beginning of the story.That early-on battle scene interested me because it involved a long, sail-powered railcar (I like railroads). The thing was bizarre-looking and reminded me of the movie Mad Max. Not only was the railcar cool, the desert environment surrounding the scene was fascinating. But in short order the movie faded from my memory.The movie returned to my consciousness in 2004, during my first visit to Moab, Utah. Just north of Moab there is a railroad track that runs parallel to US Highway 191. Upon seeing it I thought of Spacehunter right away the environment looked much like that of the battle scene mentioned above. I figured that the battle scene had been filmed on that track but wasn't sure just where.Later I rented the movie to see the battle scene again and determine just where it had been filmed. Surprise! the place I saw north of Moab was not the place used in the movie. However, the site of the battle scene was recognizable because I had driven right past it a few times. The scene was filmed at Potash, Utah, which is the site of a potash mine. It is about 20 miles from Moab, at the south end of State Highway 279 (also called Potash Road). In 2006 the mine was owned and operated by Intrepid Potash. It turns out that many (most?) of the exterior scenes of the film were shot on the private property of the mine.With this knowledge I wanted to visit those sites and take pictures that attempted to duplicate camera angles used in the film. Why?---who knows? Armed with numerous poor-quality photos of TV screen shots of the movie, I returned to Moab in late 2006 and visited three places that were used in filming; this required getting permission from the mining company. Standing in those places where movie crews had once worked, I tried to imagine the presence of a lot of people and equipment and sounds like Action! and Cut! It was great fun. The result is here http//www.pbase.com/listorama/movie_spacehunter . "},{"Title":"It's campy.  It's fun.  Kick back and enjoy.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's campy. It's fun. Don't think too hard and just want some classic, cheesy scifi action. I mean you've got hot space chicks in bondage gear, mutants and a gun battles. What more can you ask for? OK so its not exactly meant for deep thinkers but neither is star wars (frankly I think people are reading way too much into what the force is). This would actually be a great movie to be on MST 3K. Why can't they bring that show back? But back to the movie at hand, there's not even that much to write about. It's not like we're talking about something with real deep meaning or subtext that needs to be closely examined. I usually tune into this movie about half way in so maybe I'm not the best person to comment on it. But the parts I saw I remember enjoying. I like shooting and stuff. It's sort of like the a scifi version of the A-Team and I think we can all agree how much fun that was. "},{"Title":"Watch it through the eyes of a 10 year old in 1983 and everything will be fine","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spacehunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone is a blend of a couple different influences on science fiction flicks of the 1980s. Imagine if a reluctant hero-for-hire in the vein of Han Solo traveled to a planet where the inhabitants live in a society that resembled the dystopian world of The Road Warrior. It comes complete with scavengers, mutants, and a makeshift city whose citizens enjoy watching people fight for their lives in a deadly maze. It all sounds a little familiar, eh? It also sounds like a lot of fun!In the year 2136, Wolff (Peter Strauss), a wily salvage pilot and intergalactic bounty hunter, answers a distress signal on Terra Eleven. Agreeing to pick up three women who've been shipwrecked, he lands on the planet only to discover they've been kidnapped. Following their trail, Wolff soon encounters Niki (Molly Ringwald), a spunky orphan who agrees to guide him across the Forbidden Zone, a vast wasteland populated by plague-infested mutants. After many battles, Wolff and Niki finally reach the lair of Overdog (Michael Ironside), the planet's half-man / half-machine ruler. Discovering the women are held captive in Overdog's slave pens, Wolff's rescue mission finally begins.Spacehunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone was originally released during the 3-D craze of the early 1980s. Jaws 3-D, Friday the 13th, Part 3-D, and Amityville 3-D are other movies which are more identifiable from this era. The film is presented in 2-D on DVD, but you can definitely tell where the 3-D would've played a part at times. The cast of Spacehunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone was made up of some familiar 1980s faces. Peter Strauss is known for his many roles in television shows and movies. Ernie Hudson is best known for his character Winston Zeddemore in Ghostbusters and Ghostbusters II. When the movie came out in 1983, Molly Ringwald's only major parts were in Diff'rent Strokes and The Facts of Life. She comes off as an annoying tag-along here until the end of the film, where she makes an attempt at redeeming herself by facing down her fear and working hard to stay alive. Michael Ironside fully embraced his role as the cyborg tyrant Overdog. Spacehunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone is rated PG. It includes mild violence and gore, profanity, and frightening / intense scenes. One of the bat creatures in the film is shown topless, but it's not known whether the monster is male or female. There's definitely nothing sexy about the scene. Newer viewers might find Spacehunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone a bit heavy on the cheese and slow in stride. The special effects are all practical as well. It's nice to see all the hard work the crew put into the visual look of the film. If you love the original Star Wars, then you'll no doubt enjoy it. Watch it through the eyes of a 10 year old in 1983 and everything will be fine. "}{"Title":"Space Romp","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another under the radar gem and it's another film from my childhood which to me has held up. When I was a kid I was a big fan of He-Man and the Masters of the Universe so I'm kinda a sucker for pulp sci-fi. Yeah this film is a B grade space opera that's not up there with Guardians of the Galaxy and TV show Firefly but it's not trying to be, it's just trying to be one thing plain fun and I feel it does it's job in that.I really like the production value, it's all practical effects. I really like the designs of the vehicles and the post apocalyptic world, and the makeup effects on some of the creatures. Even like the worn down look of the futuristic technology. The action is decent it's well choreographed, like the battle on the train boat, but my favorite is the maze.There are a few things that stand out about this film, from the theme song score by one of my favorite movie composer's Elmer Bernstin. It is just fantastic, it's one of my favorite themes of all time it has an adventurous and epic tone to it.I like that they combined both the space opera and post apocalyptic sci-fi subgeneres which I haven't really seen much except in the TV show Defiance. But despite a grit and slightly dark atmosphere the whole film doesn't take itself entirely seriously, in fact it's pretty much just a light hearted space romp is all.I like that the forbidden zone has just all different kinds of things that make it both fascinating and dangerous. From water amazons and the sea serpent, nasty blubber creatures, motail throwing mutant midgets. Yeah, it's pretty random but most pulp sci-fi has always been that way and it wouldn't be an adventure if we didn't have these random encounters. And the pacing is good, the film constantly moves, isn't too long so there are no slow points or bull crap filler.This film also has a surprising solid cast.Ernie Hudison is solid as Washington whom is kinda a friend and kinda not since he's also a merc. Michael Ironside one of my favorite actors, I thought was really good as the main villain Overdog. I really like the makeup job on him you hardly recognize him. Overdog sort of reminds me of the X-Men villain Mojo since he is immobile except for the robotic that support him and uses entertainment to help retain power. He's nasty, scheming, he's kinda funny he's got a few good lines. I really love that voice Michael uses, it's a shame the actor didn't get to play a Deceptacon for the 80's Transformers animated series; though he got to be in the animate series Transformers Prime; on a side note Ernie Hudison also stared in that show too which is kinda ironic.Peter Strauss is very good as Wolf sort of the typical, rugged, tough, down on his luck bounty hunter. One thing I really like about the guy and it's something I can emphasize with is how he doesn't really like or want to do the right thing but he does it because no one else will and deep down he does care and have a small sense of honor.Though the character I really like that is my favorite in the film if you can believe it is Niki whom is played by one of my favorite actresses Moly Ringwold. This was the first film I seen the actress in, it was way before I saw (or old enough to see)the John Hughes movies she was famous for. Seeing her in this now is really surreal and the fact this was her first film makes it even more surreal; but hey we have to start somewhere.Anyway, I just love how her character is just energetic, feisty, a bit of a spitfire as she has some really good lines, and she's a little sympathetic as she is an orphaned teen that doesn't have anyone. It's true as some people pointed out she comes off at first a bit annoying but as the film go on her character gets better and you really do warm up to her.And I really like the buddy dynamic between both Wolf and her. It's just so much fun seeing how both of them help each other but also give each other grief along the way. And to me that part of what keeps the film going for me, two people trying to do their job while at the same time trying not to kill each other.Of coruse the highlight of the film for me is seeing Niki go though the maze which to me is one of my favorite suspenseful sequences of all time. It's pretty much like the Eleminator challenge on the TV show American Gladiators, where she has to figure out how to safely get from point A to B as each obstacle is practically one death trap after the other. It was just cool seeing her go though this and made me wonder why the heck the actress wasn't considered to do suspense thrillers.The only real problem I have is that this didn't become a franchise. From the title, I thought that we were going to have more volumes since this seemed to be just volume one. I wouldn't of minded seeing both Wolf and Niki go on some other adventures may'be the next one could of been an adventure to the robot planet, attack of the space pirates, I don't know and sadly well never know.Overall it's a solid sci-fi, it's not one of the best sci-fi I've seen in my life but it's worth a space romp.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"Classic 80's scifi that reminds us that CGI isn't everything.","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, Spacehunter is a movie I watched back in the day and decided to watch again recently. You know what? It has aged rather well! As I watched it again, some thirty years after it first appeared, several things struck me.Firstly, it has a real simple story. A no frills rescue mission. There are no twists, no shocking reveals. It's just a straight up adventure.Secondly, it was more than nice to watch a movie with no CGI in it. We are talking good old fashioned practical effects, miniatures and painted backdrops for the most part. Simple stuff, but very effective.Thirdly, there was good old fashioned tongue-in-cheek humour and character interactions. Larger than life heroes and villains, and just a plain old amount of fun! Why aren't there modern movies made to this really simple formula? Everything now seems so serious and dreary in the scifi realm. Did we change so much that movies like Spacehunter no longer appeal to us?I was also pleased with the practical creature effects in Spacehunter. Men in fat suits made to look like some kind of human grubs. A snake-like dragon thing that was only on screen for a few seconds. It all speaks of the effort that went into making the film look good. Nobody here said Get the CGI guys to put something in. It was all done with silicon and puppetry and it still looked more effective than half the computer generated stuff you see nowadays.Spacehunter isn't well-written, the acting is cheesy at times, as is the dialogue, and the Mad Max-esque landscape is derivative, but damn it! It is fun to watch and enjoyable! That last comment is the highest praise I can heap on a film. That, despite its obvious limitations, it entertains you. The 80's seemed particularly chock-full of films like this. These days, not so much.Sure it is cheesy and the dialogue is hammy. But is good cheese and ham! For exampleSpace Amazon #1, confronting our hero He looks in prime breeding condition.Space Amazon #2 Breeding with us would likely kill him! Our hero I'll take that bet!And there are more. So many more! It's just chock full of it. Do yourself a favour and give it a go.SUMMARY Mad Max goes scifi! Squeaky Molly Ringwald, Grub-humans and some priceless lines of dialogue make this a must see for anyone that remembers the days before CGI took all the fun out of cinema. "},{"Title":"(For me) A little gem...","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The effects are not great, it must be said, but given the budget and the fact it was made in 3D; I'll forgive that. What it has in its favour is a half decent story and a cast that actually (for me anyway) make it work. I must say I love the performance of the, quite young, Molly Ringwald as Niki; I thought she was great! I also thought Peter Strauss did a decent job as Wolff; yes, he borrows heavily from Harrison Ford as Haan Solo, but (again) I can forgive that. Other noteworthy performances came from; Ernie Hudson as Washington, Andrea Marcovicci as Chalmers and Michael Ironside as Overdog.A film that is not available on DVD here in the UK (much to my dismay), I catch it almost every time it makes it to the TV screens. As I've already said, the production is not the best, but (for me) the story and the performances hold it together. Yes, it does try a little too hard in places and some of the dialogue is a little strange, but I'd still rather watch this than 'The Phantom Menace' any day! If you haven't seen it I urge you to give it a go&#x85; If you have (& didn't like it)&#x85; Give it another chance, it grows on you!... RECOMMENDED.My score 8.0/10IMDb Score 4.8/10 (based on 2,419 votes at the time of going to press).MetaScore No Data (Based on 0 critic reviews provided by Metacritic.com at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score 20/100 (based on 5 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score 24/100 'Want to See' (based on 2,988 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"Neat little sci-fi film.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Soon famouse Ivan Reitman (director of evolution and ghostbusters) produced this fun, creative little sci-fi flick. The film features elaborate sets and cool-looking vehicles (Witch are well-conceptualized and generally well excecuted) and has likeable characters, a fine script, and some nice twists in the plot that I didn't see coming. Well worth seeing. ***1/2 stars out of *****. "},{"Title":"Despite being a schlocky B movie with no story, I liked it!!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, there is no real story to speak of....and the effects are substandard at times....however, I like the feel of it, and the post-apocalyptic look.....the cyborg dude running the maze was very cool too......overall a funnish B movie with some decent actors...a bit of brain candy for a rainy saturday night....if you liked Mad Max, and you like sci-fi B movies, then you'll be able to appreciate this one....just don't expect too much from it when you put the tape in...that way you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"One of the better 3D movies to come out in this time.","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was made during the whole 3D craze of the early 80's.  To me it is actually one of the better ones as well.  Is it great, no, but it is fun and never boring (well to me anyway).  Notice though that in these 3D movies they are either sequels (Jaws 3D, Amityville 3D) or they have the largest titles ever conceived?  Why not just call this one Spacehunter why add the last part?  There is another one called MetalStorm The destruction of Jared Syn and one called Treasure of the Four Crowns.  The only one I can think of that didn't fall into either of these two categories is Parasite.  This one focuses on this guy who has to track down these women who have landed on this planet full of a lot of weird stuff.  They get captured by this sadistic weird looking machine guy.  During his hunt for the women he runs into this gal who helps him a bit and they run into all these strange creatures and other rival hunters.  This movie was rather entertaining and rather stood on its own.  It was good without the 3D to me and is interesting to check out. "},{"Title":"cheesy fun","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three beautiful women survive their ship's destruction on an escape shuttle. They land on a war-torn disease-plagued planet and are quickly captured. Scavenger Wolff (Peter Strauss) and his android Chalmers go on a rescue mission for the massive reward. Ruthless ruler Overdog (Michael Ironside) has taken the women to the Forbidden Zone. Niki (Molly Ringwald) is the last survivor of an Earth medical expedition. She joins Wolff as his guide. Competitor former comrade Sector Chief Washington (Ernie Hudson) turns partner.This is one of those B-movie Star Wars wannabe with a healthy dose of Mad Max and a temporary revival of 3-D during the early 80s. I have forgotten how much cheesy fun this movie has. I remember the vehicles but I honestly forgot about the hang-gliders. The movie has the fattest mutants and midgets as well. It is utterly full-on B-movie. I actually like the adorable Molly Ringwald as a loud-mouthed pixie. I would have liked Chalmers in the group but the android gets nuked extremely early. It is a shame since Chalmers seems to be set up early on to be a lead. Ironside and his get-up with his maze is ridiculous and fun. I do not recommend this movie unless one is in the mood to see silly camp. "},{"Title":"An absolute hoot.","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Strauss plays bounty hunter Wolff - a definite Han Solo type - who takes on the job of rescuing three lovely young women who crash landed on a barren planet. There, they were taken captive by the minions of vicious, omnipotent mutant villain Overdog (Michael Ironside). Wolff acquires some initially unwanted companions on his adventure. Washington (Ernie Hudson) is a former associate with whom he butts heads. And Niki (Molly Ringwald) is a feisty teen aged orphan who brags that her tracking skills can lead Wolff to the lair of Overdog and company.Minor but diverting 3-D sci-fi just gets better and better - well, so to speak - as it goes along, throwing everything *and* the kitchen sink at the viewer for the sake of a good time. The sets are the most impressive element. The makeup effects and costumes are also pretty good; get a load of the outfit that Ironside is obliged to wear. The music by old pro composer Elmer Bernstein is suitably rousing. The screenplay itself is nothing special - with overuse of goofy jargon - but director Lamont Johnson (The Last American Hero, Lipstick) handles the proceedings capably, if not stylishly.The supporting characters are really more engaging than the leads. Ironside once again proves himself a great movie villain. Andrea Marcovicci is so damn sexy and appealing in her brief screen time that you really miss her once she's written out of the story. Hudson is rock solid as always. Strauss is okay, but his character is rather smug and not terribly likable. He takes a while to grow on you, as does Ringwald, who will probably strike many viewers as being overly whiny.The best bit Niki being forced by Overdog to run through an incredibly elaborate, extremely lethal maze.Among the Ghost Busters connections Hudson, executive producer Ivan Reitman, Bernstein, and casting director Karen Rea.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hugely fun slice of 80's sci-fi action pulp","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rugged intergalactic bounty hunter Wolff (a fine and engaging performance by Peter Strauss) ventures into the dangerous forbidden zone in order to rescue three lovely young ladies from the vile clutches of the evil Overdog (robustly played with lip-smacking wicked relish by Michael Ironside). Scrappy teenage orphan Niki (a winningly perky portrayal by Molly Ringwald in her pre-fame Brat Back days) helps Wolff out with his desperate mission.Director Lamont Johnson keeps the entertaining story moving along at a zippy pace, brings a pleasingly straightforward and unpretentious mean'n'lean Grade B sensibility to the familiar, yet still enjoyable and engrossing material, makes nice use of the dingy'n'desolate desert locations, and stages the exciting action set pieces with considerable skill and flair (run-ins with grotesque subhuman blobs and a tribe of Amazonian warrior women rate as the definite thrilling highlights). Strauss and Ringwald display a highly sharp and snappy natural chemistry, Ernie Hudson lends sturdy support as Wolff's two-fisted rival Washington, Andrea Marcovicci shines in her regrettably small role as spunky (and sexy) android Chalmers, and Deborah Pratt, Aleisa Shirley, and Cali Trimmins make for extremely fetching damsels in distress. The lavish sets, grimy costumes, and gnarly old school practical effects are quite impressive. Frank Tidy's crisp cinematography provides a funky stylish look. Elmer Bernstein's spirited score hits the stirring spot. A total blast. "},{"Title":"3D that didn't take off......","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a big fan of this movie. Not just the cast but also the cheesy 3D FX. I saw this in theaters and thought, wow, this is how all films should be. But why has there not been a blu ray release. I did remember a Leonard Nimony TV special going behind the scenes on this so this would be an ideal DVD extra. Back in the 80's, low-budget sci-fi films such as Battle Beyond the Stars, Ice Pirates, Enemy Mine and The Last Starfighter were everywhere. Enter Spacehunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone then, and enjoy yet another B movie romp. The plot goes like this. Galaxy-hopping garbage man and all-round regular guy Wolff (Peter Strauss), along with his hot sexbot android companion Chalmers receive a distress signal from a crashed escape pod, which ejected from a destroyed starliner before landing on some rocky, desert planet. Touching down their starship with a view to claiming the reward for the rescue of the three earth girls inside the escape pod, the pair set off across the desert in a rather cool-looking Mad Max type jeep. A fight ensues in which Chalmers is destroyed, so Wolff takes up with a new companion, an orphaned scavenger named Nikki (Molly Ringwald). She guides Wolff through the landscape to the Forbidden Zone, a nightmarish industrial zone of death maze games and other nasties run by former scientist-turned-evil cyborg Overdog (Michael Ironside). The pair, along with sector chief Washington (Ernie Hudson) meet mutants, amazon women and other Mad Max genre locals along the way, and eventually put a plan in place to rescue the ladies. "}{"Title":"Missing limbs.....","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three women made an emergency landing on a planet plagued with a fatal disease, but are captured by dictator Overdog. Adventurer Wolff goes there to rescue them and meets Niki, the only earthling left from a medical expedition. Combining their talents, they try to rescue the women....Another one of those films that people must have fond memories of, when they saw it all those years ago. But seeing that I saw this for the first today and at the age of 34, it's a big disappointment for the first hour. It reminded me of that awful film from 1985 called 'Land of Doom' or something.The first two acts are just people walking thought the desert, pointing things at the screen because of the 3D, searching for three women. It's a chore to sit through, Molly Ringwald turns up, but she whines, and then Ernie Hudson turns up, but he isn't Winston, and you start to despair.But then all of a sudden the final act really ups the ante, and we get a cross between The Crystal Maze and Duran Durans Wild Boys video.It almost makes the rest of the film worth watching.But then you cannot see this part on it's own, as it would be really difficult to comprehend what was going on.Another case of the title being better than the film... "},{"Title":"Seen in a theater in it's original format of 3D!!!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a most interesting experience... as the 3D photography is second only to the fabulous House of Wax.  The most amazing part of the FX was that most of the weaponry was clearly occurring during filming, and not added digitally at a later time.  The acting and story were average, tho Molly Ringwald did well with the material given her.  Good action picture, but see it in 3D if at all possible.  (Any 3D festivals out there?)  "},{"Title":"Stylish hokum","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is what we had to put up with when we couldn't get proper sci-fi films.To be fair, this tale of all-purpose low budget Han solo-lite space ranger Peter Strauss and profoundly irritating wilful argumentative waif Molly Ringwald has quite a lot going for it, and I'm not counting the 3D because I've never seen it. Admittedly, everything it's got going for it has been nicked from somewhere else. The Star Wars influences don't end with Han Solo - there's the theme music to be going along with, not to mention half the other visuals. Mad Max will be calling to collect the other half, and Lon Chaney Sr would like Michael Ironside to return the Phantom makeup from the silent version of Phantom Of The Opera, please.But it's a rip-roaring swashbuckling tale of derring do - lots of action, lots of explosions, larger than life stock characters, some fun set design, lots of trucks with bits stuck on to make them look suitably alien, lots of desolate looking locations (well, one), and just enough story to hang the rest on.These days it comes across as rather more low budget than it actually was, but it isn't really as bad as you might fear from the IMDb score. "},{"Title":"Space Hunter  Adventures in the Forbidden Zone","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Believe it or not this film was released as the same time as Return of the Jedi and was shown alongside Jedi at most major movie houses across the country. The studio execs knew it didn't have a chance against Jedi so the 3D effects and the release date were primarily a marketing tool to lure you into their movie after Jedi had sold out.Another 3D sci-fi film from 1983 was also released during the Theatrical run of Jedi, it was Called MetalStorm The Destruction of Jared Syn the producers of that film to were also hoping to make a fast buck hoping that audiences who were coming to the movie house to seeJedi would see their film after Jedi had sold out - again using 3D effects as a lure.both mid-to-low budget sci-fi films(both filmed in 3D) ...SpaceHunterAdventures in the Forbidden Zone & MetalStormThe Destruction of Jared Syn were both financial flops. And they are forever linked together in their producers quest to make a fast buck hoping that audiences would stroll into their film after Jedi sold out.... However they are both fun to watch. Space Hunter is far away the better of the 2 films "},{"Title":"Space Hunter Vehicle in Knight Ridder","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wolfe's large jeep like vehicle was used as Kitt's nemisis for an 2 part episode of Knight Ridder in Season 4 called Knight of the Juggernaut. It was modified with a battering ram and larger tires. The episode took place in Chicago in late 1985.Michael and K.I.T.T.'s latest assignment, to guard a volatile new isotope in Chicago, looks as if it could be their last, when the late Wilton Knight's daughter Jennifer plans to shut down their division of FLAG, and suspends Michael. But meanwhile, international terrorist Phillip Nordstrom kidnaps Devon, and uses hi-tech laser surgery on a criminal to create an impostor, as part of Nordstrom's plot to get his hands on the valuable isotope. Even though suspended, Michael becomes suspicious of (the impostor) Devon's behaviour and investigates &#150; but Nordstrom plans to get rid of their interference, coating K.I.T.T. in a chemical to break down his molecular amour coating, before turning loose The Juggernaut &#150; a deadly mobile battering ram...  "},{"Title":"Classic cheese","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw it upon its initial release, and loved the 3-D effects. A very cheesey movie, blessed by the considerable acting talents of TV actor Peter Strauss and a very young Molly Ringwald, straight from TV, plus some tongue-in-cheek humor. The film was also my introduction to Michael Ironside, one of the best over-the-top villains in movie history. Wait until you see him in this baby!  "},{"Title":"Star Wars meets The Road Warrior","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spacehunter is a fun movie and one of my favorites.  The best part of the film is the great banter between the two main characters, although it is a decent adventure story as well.  The focus is really on the relationship of the  characters though, and in that regard it is a great film. "},{"Title":"Standard 80s Sci-Fi/Post Holocaust","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Haven't seen this movie since the late 80s when it was shown on cable far too often....your basic 80s post-holocaust flick, with the only difference being its setting, i.e. its on another planet.  The mutants come out; the evil cyborg villain blusters, Ernie Hudson continues to prove he's only been in one really successful movie, and Strauss and Ringwald have a creepy relationship the prefigures the Phantom Menace.  Unless you really love the genre avoid the movie.  If you love the post-Holocaust genre, however, you'll basically get a generic entry.  "},{"Title":"Campy fun.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is campy to say the very least. The only way to describe it, it has that Mad Max feel to it, just not as well done as the Mad Max films. I saw this movie for the first time when I was very young and I've seen at least 10 times, yes 10, and it left an impression on me. It wasn't the style, although I did like the futuristic setting, it was the main bad guy of the film, The Overdog. Michael Ironside portrays Overdog in a over the top performance, if you can be over the top and completely immobile. Some laugh that I enjoy this film, trust me, I've seen worst. "},{"Title":"A classic B movie.","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie back in 1983,it was awesome to see this movie in 3-D.I think this movie is still awesome to this day.Peter Strauss plays a bounty hunter named Wolff,who gets a transmission about 3 Earth females who's escape pod lands on a plague infested planet Terra 11.Wolff and his female android Chalmers(Andrea Marcovicci)go to Terra 11 to find the women,the 3 ladies get captured taken to the Forbidden Zone where the ruler of the planet who is an old cyborg named Overdog McNabb,played superbly by Michael Ironside(V The Final Battle,Sea Quest 2032),Overdog and his henchman,the Chemist,played by Harant Alianak,caused all the plagues on Terra 11 and all the mutations too.Chalmers gets destroyed by a laser shot,but Wolff gains a new partner,Niki,an orphan played by Molly Ringwald(The Breakfast Club,Sixteen Candles,and The Facts Of Life)who guides Wolff to the Forbidden Zone,they run into Wolff's former partner in the military named Washington,played by Ernie Hudson(Ghostbusters 1 and 2,OZ,and The Substitute)who is now Sector Chief.Wolff,Niki,and Washington run into Amazon women,mutants created by Overdog and the Chemist.They get to the Forbidden Zone and see a Death Maze that Overdog has his slaves go through and die in the obstacles they are forced to go through.The final showdown between Wolff and Overdog is so awesome and to see Wolff and Niki become close and Wolff realizing that he needs Niki.I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 10/10 stars. "}{"Title":"I like this film and it's better than snooker","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Oh good,' I thought, `I really like the film &#145;Space Hunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone'. As it's on tonight I think I'll stay up and watch it.'This is bearing in mind that I'd finally got my night vision goggles back from the Police and a new couple had moved in next door, so I could have been using my time more productively. However, I stayed up until 1235 and put on BBC 2 only to be told, `in a change to the advertised program we'll be showing the extended coverage of the Embassy World Snooker Championship.'Snooker? SNOOKER? I HATE snooker! Have you ever-watched snooker? Well if you haven't then just don't bother because it's rubbish. It's really dull and even the guy talking about it sounds bored.So why the hell do those &#145;experts' at the BBC think that people who like &#145;Space Hunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone' would like snooker? They're completely different things for god's sake! If I asked someone to buy me the DVD of &#145;Space Hunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone' and they brought me a copy of &#145;Snooker Legends' instead I'd swing for them.My Nan `I couldn't find &#145;Space Monkeys in the Fraggle Dome', so I got you &#145;Snooker Legends' instead. You do like snooker don't you?'Me `Wha&#133;? You stupid old HAG!'My Nan `No! Not the face!'Police officer `Use your tazers men!'Me `Aaaargh! My nervous system!'I was really angry that they weren't putting &#145;Space Hunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone' on, so I tried to call up BBC &#145;Points of View' to complain, but I couldn't find their number, so I called the 999 and reported Greg Dyke as a criminal. They wanted to know what the crime was and where it took place. I told them it was gross negligence and it took place on Terra 11 (because I don't know where Greg Dyke lives, yet). What happens? Police turn up at my house, and yet again I'm the &#145;criminal' for making bogus phone calls to the emergency services.  EpilogueMy nan made a complete recovery and has since moved in with my uncle and his family, but they won't let me visit her. Greg Dyke was fired from the BBC, probably because of the snooker debacle, and has most likely had to move back in with his parents. And me? Well, luckily the Police didn't press charges and I managed to watch &#145;Space Hunter Adventures in the Forbidden Zone' on Bravo a few days later. "},{"Title":"Wasteblunder Adventures in the Furstuncken Zone","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Strauss (Rich Man, Poor Man) plays Wolff, a rough and ready, if occasionally inept, bounty hunter determined to rescue three comely space bimbos from the clutches of the evil Overdog (honest, folks, we're NOT making this up!), played ballistically-over-the-top by Michael Ironside.  Along for the ride are Ernie Hudson as Chief Washington, Strauss' somewhat reluctant, I'm-only-in-this-for-the-money comrade in arms, and Molly Ringwald as Niki the Twister, an alledgedly street-smart brat/waif (yes, you really do get to see Ringwald before her career self-destructed).  Like Big Trouble in Little China, this movie never really seems to make up its mind as to what it wants to be spoof, Star Wars wannabe, or what?.  When in production, all films suffer their share of mishaps, and this one is no exception the word is that Hudson's earthgrader-like vehicle was such a constant source of trouble that, when the film wrapped, it was actually pushed over a cliff by the crew!  Initially released incorporating a 3D gimmick, the film was quickly withdrawn, reedited, and rereleased sans 3D when someone noticed that, in long shots of Strauss' grounded spaceship, a parking lot in southern California was visible in the shot!  In some prints, it's still there.  Some of the sets are cheesy, as are some of the monsters, the discharge of Strauss' handweapon is straight out of the 1950s, some of the costuming, especially those worn by the aforementioned space bimbos (who look like they're dressed in glitter Saran Wrap), and some really shaky special effects all combine to make this a must-miss.  Which is too bad, really Columbia clearly had high hopes for this $12 million dollar trainwreck;  you can almost smell their disappointment.  We can only hope that Strauss, Ironside, et al, all cashed their checks promptly.  Don't waste your time, folks; if it's a spoof you want, try the first two Austin Powers movies and let Spacehunter drift. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I dear friend of mine (my second brother in fact) recommended this film to me...and since nifty swifty thrifty is so awesome the film is bound to be awesome too. although i haven't seen the film...i would like to think that it is rather good-and shall be purchasing and watching it soon. I recommend everyone to listen to Swifty-and to get it.... apparently i have to write this review so that it fills up ten lines...so i shall babble on for a little longer in the hope that it will in fact end up being ten lines-no shorter no longer. on reflection-i can't wait to see the film...the film cover looks exciting and exhilarating all at the same time.... so...in conclusion-I think everyone should realise once and for all that Swifty's word is gospel afterall...over and out... "},{"Title":"mediocre 80ish salad bowl spoof movie","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie stitches together bits & pieces from the typical mid 80's low budget sci-fi era. You get spaceships taking ages to cross the screen ( star wars anyone? ); you get a remote planet and Madmax-like survivors kind of inhabitants; you get a loner space bada$$ (Han Solo style ) trying to rescue (for a fee) two playboy fodder girls from the evil boss of the warped surviving tribe, some sort of cyborg reminiscent of other low budget 80's movies. The score borrows heavily into the style of other classics. You get danger survival games ( Rollerball anyone? ), blubber cannibal creatures, and rather cardboard characters. It's your mid 80's junk, salad bowl, low-budget sci-fi flick. Typical cheap VHS mid 80's material. "},{"Title":"Worst I've ever seen","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my 2nd review of a film online, and ought to serve as a warning.This film is awful.  I saw it as a teenager, hoping to get a long sexy look at Molly Ringwald, which does not happen here.  I couldn't imagine a worse fate than being forced to watch this lame creation again.  the acting, direction, and effects are bad.  Those who enjoy bad films because they are made to be bad will also be bored by this effort.  It's not good as an action film, a romance, a drama, or a science fiction film.  If it doesn't seem passable to a teen, how could it appeal to anyone?  "},{"Title":"It was even worse in 3-D","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can remember seeing this one back in '83 at the movie theater when it was released in migraine producing 3-D. Little Ms. Ringworm looks positivily feral and Mike Ironside looks totally goofy. It was an embarrassment for all involved. Surely they had to know that this was an el stinko bomb while they were making it. "},{"Title":"When campy budget flicks go bad!","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It tried to be a joke; It failed. What it became was the horror that plagues second hand video stores all over the country! And directed by Lamont Johnson! I guess he decided to do something different. I hope he doesn't try it again. Plenty of words made up on the spot by the writers, because anything means anything in this movie! There's a viking long boat on train tracks, and a Wasteland Santa Claus, and Molly Rinwald <shiver> This would be perfect for MST3k. "},{"Title":"Ah yes, the campiness of 80s sci-fi","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Along with the likes of Amazon Women  on the Moon, Nightflyers and countless  others, Spacehunter proved to be one of the  cheesiest and most overdone films of that  era. Only Tankgirl of recent fame could  counter this sometimes sloppy, often times  stupid movie. And to think, Molly Ringwald  did a bunch of teen flicks after this. Why  couldn't she do something like a Cherry  2000 or something. An utterly hopeless film. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so bad that it's hardly eligible to be called a movie. It is a complete waste of time. DO NOT RENT the tape/DVD or BUY it. Don't even view it on TV, if it happens to be shown there. Spacehunter, etc., could probably qualify as the worst movie ever made.   "},{"Title":"Just Plain Bad...","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't make too many comments on the movies here. But I was thinking a while back What is the worst movie you have ever seen I thought a while and then it came to me That one with Peter Strauss in 3d. Ah... Look it up on IMDb, yeah! SPACEHUNTER!!! ARGH!!!!! Yes it IS the worst movie I have EVER SEEN. And its not even as bad as Ed Wood Movies. Which means that it is really bad. Not even funny. N.E.W. (No Entertainment Value Whatsoever). I feel sorry for Peter Strauss, because I liked Rich Man, Poor Man and thought he might make it some day. Then he made this movie and now he sells Miracle Gro on TV. "}]